
                               1 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Setback for Arizona-Style Immigration Laws

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 316 words


The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has upheld a trial
judge's ruling blocking the most egregious parts of Arizona's infamous
immigration law. The three-judge panel said that Arizona intruded onto federal
responsibility by requiring that police officers check the immigration status of
anyone they have ''reasonable suspicion'' of being in the state without
authorization, demanding that immigrants carry papers and making it a crime for
illegal immigrants to work or look for work.

In a powerful concurring opinion, Judge John Noonan paid particular attention to
the first section of the law, which enshrines the expulsion of illegal
immigrants as official state policy. ''That 50 individual states or one
individual state should have a foreign policy is absurdity too gross to be
entertained,'' Judge Noonan said. ''In matters affecting the intercourse of the
federal nation with other nations, the federal nation must speak with one
voice.''

Unfortunately, that voice has been muddled by the Obama administration. Even
though the Justice Department sued to block the Arizona law as an unwarranted
intrusion into federal power, the Department of Homeland Security under
Secretary Janet Napolitano has been doggedly expanding efforts to enlist local
help in deportations, ignoring local communities' objections about
racial-profiling and worries about civil rights violations.

We are encouraged that the Ninth Circuit explicitly rejected the pernicious
idea, put forth by the Bush administration, that the states have the ''inherent
authority'' to enforce civil provisions of immigration laws. They don't.

Arizona's immigration radicals, including Gov. Jan Brewer and State Senate
President Russell Pearce, vowed to keep fighting. But they should read the
decision and give it up. So should other states -- like Florida, Georgia and
Alabama -- that are considering copycat bills.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Governor Will Appeal to Supreme Court

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 94 words


Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, said on Monday that she would petition the United
States Supreme Court to lift an injunction blocking some portions of Arizona's
controversial immigration law. The Justice Department sued the state over the
law, known as Senate Bill 1070, and persuaded a federal judge to issue an
injunction. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld that
decision, ruling in April that immigration is predominantly a federal matter.
''When faced with injustice, Arizonans will not sit idly by,'' Ms. Brewer said
in a statement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Lawmakers Push New Round of Immigration Restrictions

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 858 words


PHOENIX -- Arizona lawmakers are proposing a sweeping package of immigration
restrictions that might make the controversial measures the state approved last
year, which the Obama administration went to court to block, look mild.

Illegal immigrants would be barred from driving in the state, enrolling in
school or receiving most public benefits. Their children would receive special
birth certificates that would make clear that the state does not consider them
Arizona citizens.

Some of the bills, like those restricting immigrants' access to schooling and
right to state citizenship, flout current federal law and are being put forward
to draw legal challenges in hopes that the Supreme Court might rule in the
state's favor.

Arizona drew considerable scorn last year when it passed legislation compelling
police officers to inquire about the immigration status of those they stopped
whom they suspected were in the country illegally. Critics said the law would
lead to racial profiling of Latinos, and a federal judge agreed that portions of
the law, known as Senate Bill 1070, were unconstitutional.

Similar legal challenges are likely to come in response to the latest round of
legislation, some of which cleared a key Senate committee early Wednesday after
a long debate that drew hundreds of protesters, some for and some against the
crackdown.

''This bill is miles beyond S.B. 1070 in terms of its potential to roll back the
rights and fundamental freedoms of both citizens and noncitizens alike,'' said
Alessandra Soler Meetze, executive director of the A.C.L.U. of Arizona. She said
the measures would create ''a 'papers, please' society'' and that a new crime --
''driving while undocumented'' -- would be added to the books.

Despite boycotts and accusations that the state has become a haven of
intolerance, Arizona won plaudits last year from immigration hardliners across
the country. On Tuesday night, the Indiana Senate voted to allow its police
officers to question people stopped for infractions on their immigration status,
one of numerous proposals inspired by Arizona's law.

''If you are ever going to stop this invasion, and it is an invasion, you have
to quit rewarding people for breaking those laws,'' said State Senator Russell
Pearce, the Senate president, who is leading Arizona's effort to try to make
life so difficult for illegal immigrants that they stop coming, or leave.

Opponents said the changes were a drastic rewriting of the core values of the
country. In Tucson, a community group was so enraged by what it called the
extremist nature of the proposals from Phoenix that it proposed severing the
state in two, creating what some call Baja Arizona.

''Denying citizenship to children because they have parents without documents is
crazy,'' said the Rev. Javier Perez, a Roman Catholic priest and immigrant from
Mexico who waited in the legislative chamber into the night Tuesday for a chance
to speak. ''Honestly, I don't think anything I say will change their minds, but
it's immoral what they're doing and we have to say this is against the values of
America.''

The measures would compel school officials to ask for proof of citizenship for
students and require hospitals to similarly ask for papers for those receiving
non-emergency care. Illegal immigrants would be blocked from obtaining any state
licenses, including those for marriage. Landlords would be forced to evict the
entire family from public housing if one illegal immigrant were found living in
a unit. Illegal immigrants found driving would face 30 days in jail and forfeit
the vehicle to the state.

The measures are not assured of passage. Although Republicans have a majority in
the Legislature, the restrictions on citizenship failed to win approval in the
Judiciary Committee this month, so they were rerouted to the Appropriations
Committee, where they won passage.

Some state lawmakers said their constituents were furious over the Obama
administration's lawsuit challenging the last immigration law and wanted the
state to continue pressing the issue. Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, said the
state would file a countersuit against the federal government accusing it of not
enforcing immigration laws.

Supporters of the crackdown include Katie Dionne, who described herself as an
''average, everyday American'' who wanted to prevent illegal immigrants from
changing her way of life. ''If their life is so wonderful why did they leave
where they're from?'' she asked senators.

Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security and a former Arizona
governor, cites statistics showing that the influx of illegal immigrants across
the Arizona border has declined markedly with significant increases in federal
resources. But that has done little to ameliorate the feeling of crisis
expressed by many Arizona politicians.

The state's business community, stung by a boycott that has reduced the number
of conventions in the state, generally opposes the new round of restrictions.
''This will put Arizona through another trial and hurt innocent businesspeople
who are just trying to get ahead,'' said Glenn Hamer of the Arizona Chamber of
Commerce and Industry.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 State Senator Russell Pearce, the Senate President, said, ''If you are ever
going to stop this invasion, and it is an invasion, you have to quit rewarding
people for breaking those laws.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abandoned On the Border

BYLINE: By LARRY A. DEVER.

Larry A. Dever is the sheriff of Cochise County, Ariz.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 855 words


Bisbee, Ariz.

THIS week President Obama toured the Southwest, in part to promote what he
claims are federal advances in border security. But he has said little about the
lawsuits by his administration and the American Civil Liberties Union against
Arizona's immigration law, passed just over a year ago but still unenforced,
thanks to a federal injunction.

The law requires law enforcement to check the immigration status of anyone
arrested for a crime if there is reasonable suspicion that the person is in this
country illegally; it also allows them to cite illegal immigrants for failing to
carry documents required under federal law, whether they've committed a crime or
not.

As the fight over the law, Senate Bill 1070, carries on -- Gov. Jan Brewer has
petitioned the Supreme Court to hear the case -- violent crime rooted in
unchecked illegal immigration continues to spread here in southern Arizona. It
makes me wonder if the lawyers, judges and politicians involved grasp what it is
like to be a law enforcement officer on the Mexican border.

As sheriff of Cochise County I am responsible, along with my 86 deputies, for
patrolling 83.5 miles of that border, as well as the 6,200 square miles of my
county to the north of it -- an area more than four times the size of Long
Island.

There is no river between Arizona and Mexico to create a natural obstacle to
illegal immigration, drug trafficking and human smuggling, and our county is a
major corridor for all these. At best, illegal aliens and smugglers trespass,
damage ranchers' land, steal water and food and start fires. At worst, people
who have come here hoping for freedom and opportunity are raped or abandoned by
smugglers and left to die in the desert.

Nor are the migrants the only victims. Just over a year ago, while officials at
the Department of Homeland Security were declaring they had secured
''operational control'' of most of the southern Arizona border, my friend Robert
N. Krentz Jr., a local rancher, was murdered, most likely by drug smugglers.

The people of Cochise County support the state's immigration law because we want
this violence to end. Understandably, we get frustrated and disheartened when
the White House, which has failed to secure the border for generations, sues us
for trying to fill the legal vacuum.

The administration's suit makes several claims. For one, it argues that only the
federal government has jurisdiction over immigration. But that's a strange
argument, given that federal agencies regularly work with state and local
governments on cross-border crimes.

Senior officials at the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security have also
argued that state and local law enforcement officers are able to make arrests
only for criminal, rather than civil, violations of immigration law. Criminal
violations include aiding illegal immigration or re-entering the country after
deportation; civil violations include overstaying a visa or simply being here
illegally.

But this places an absurd burden on my deputies and me. Under the law, if I see
people I suspect of being in the United States illegally, I already have to
decide whether there is probable cause that they are here illegally. (Contrary
to what its critics say, the law doesn't allow me to question anyone I want, and
I have no desire to do so.)

Whether illegal aliens committed a crime to enter this country, or a civil
offense to remain unlawfully, they are still breaking the law, and S.B. 1070 is
Arizona's solution to help the federal government hold them accountable without
becoming embroiled in confusion that enables individuals to fall through the
cracks. At the same time, it assures the standards of probable cause and
reasonable suspicion are applied throughout the process.

Of course, the law's critics prefer to think that any state-level effort to
control illegal immigration is racially motivated, and that the law is just an
invitation for us to racially profile Americans and legal residents of Hispanic
descent.

For example, I've had more than one person ask me, sneeringly, ''What do illegal
immigrants look like?'' In response, I tell them it's not really what they look
like as much as what they do that concerns me. Among other things, they
generally run off into the desert when they see our officers approach. Citizens
and legal residents don't normally do that.

What's more, such critics have a strange impression of what law enforcement
officers along the border actually do. In Cochise County, my deputies and I
often have to travel many miles to respond to a resident's call for assistance.
The last thing we have time to do is harass law-abiding people.

Indeed, these days we have even less time, as the law has opened up a wave of
suits against my office and other sheriff's offices along the border from
immigrant advocacy groups -- so many that other sheriffs and I formed a legal
defense fund, the Border Sheriffs Association, to help our departments counter
them.

Neither my fellow sheriffs nor I believe the law is a silver bullet, but we do
believe it is an important tool. It's up to the Supreme Court to decide whether
we can use it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK TODD)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Part of California Takes On Illegal Hiring

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 793 words


MURRIETA, Calif. -- Protests erupted across Southern California last year when
Arizona adopted its tough immigration law: immigrant rights advocates staged
rallies in cities like San Diego and Santa Barbara; Los Angeles severed economic
ties with Arizona.

But just 50 miles east of Los Angeles, a handful of cities have started
crackdowns similar to those in Arizona on businesses that hire illegal
immigrants.

In what may be the single most Democratic state in the country, with a huge,
fast-growing Latino population, the area known as the Inland Empire -- a sprawl
of suburbs, old and new -- has emerged as a pocket of ideological resistance in
a state that has grown increasingly averse to crackdowns on immigration.

Late last month, Murrieta became the fifth Inland Empire city to require all
businesses to check the legal status of new employees with E-Verify, an online
federal government system designed to confirm employment eligibility. Businesses
that do not comply could lose their licenses.

Just north of a highway immigration checkpoint, Murrieta and Temecula, where an
E-Verify ordinance took effect on Saturday, are cities with white-majority
populations, surrounded by agricultural wine-growing areas. With unemployment
near 15 percent in much of the Inland Empire, locals say illegal immigrants have
inundated industries like fast-food and construction, leaving American citizens
unable to find jobs. Their complaints echo some of those that helped lead to the
crackdown in Arizona.

''We're a conservative area, and we've had an outcry from our citizens,'' said
Mayor Jeff Comerchero of Temecula. ''Americans should be filling American
jobs.''

In most parts of the country, E-Verify is mandatory only for businesses that
have federal contracts. But Mr. Comerchero and others have embraced it as a way
to curb illegal immigration by reducing the lure of jobs.

Immigrant rights advocates question the accuracy of the system, and a law
mandating its use in Arizona has been challenged in the United States Supreme
Court.

Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights
of Los Angeles, said increasing voluntary use of E-Verify had led to a spike in
abuse of illegal workers.

''When undocumented workers are laid off, they still find employment,'' Ms.
Salas said. ''But they often end up in underground cash economies, where we see
some of the worst labor abuses.''

Efforts to require E-Verify elsewhere in California have largely failed. The
State Legislature approved a bill to prohibit making the system a requirement,
but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, vetoed it.

California has for decades been at the forefront of the churning debate on
immigration, and changes in policies and public opinion have mirrored the
state's increasingly Latino makeup.

Not long ago, California had some of the nation's toughest immigration laws. In
1994, voters approved Proposition 187, which denied illegal immigrants most
government services, including schooling and non-emergency health care. The
measure was later ruled unconstitutional.

Since then, however, the state's demographics have shifted, with Latinos now
making up 37 percent of the population.

Jane Junn, a professor of political science at the University of Southern
California, said the growth of the Latino population had made hard-line
immigration laws no longer politically viable in California. Republicans who
advocated punishment for businesses that hire illegal immigrants, like last
year's senatorial candidate, Carly Fiorina, failed in statewide races, in part,
Professor Junn said, because of their immigration policies.

''The state of California is very progressive on immigration relative to the
rest of the country, even Republicans,'' Professor Junn said. ''Attitudes have
changed tremendously since 1994, but the demographics have also changed
dramatically.''

Temecula and Murrieta have Latino populations about half as large in percentage
as the state as a whole. Still, conservatives hope they can pass a similar
E-Verify law covering all of the Inland Empire's Riverside County, whose
population is more than 40 percent Latino. If they succeed, the law could have
implications for agricultural industries that have long employed many
immigrants, legal and illegal.

Brian Nestande, the Republican assemblyman who represents Temecula and Murrieta,
said he supported use of E-Verify but would not commit to backing a requirement.

''A lot of industries here have run on illegal immigration,'' Mr. Nestande said.
''Work is here and available, and that's a magnet for illegal immigrants. But I
would like to see a more comprehensive approach, which also involves securing
our border, and dealing with people who are already here whether we like it or
not.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Are Subject Of Tough Bill In Georgia

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Robbie Brown contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 660 words


ATLANTA -- With Gov. Nathan Deal's acknowledgment that he would sign a tough
immigration law, Georgia was thrust on Friday into the center of the national
fight over how much control states have in curbing illegal immigration.

The State Legislature this week passed a bill that puts Georgia in a league with
Arizona, the first state to empower the local and state police to demand
documentation of residency and to detain people they reasonably suspect are in
the country illegally.

On Monday, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld a
trial judge's ruling blocking the most contentious parts of Arizona's law, which
raised hope among Georgia residents fighting the bill. But the bill went back
and forth between chambers until it was passed in the final hours of Georgia's
legislative session Thursday.

Lawmakers modified the Georgia bill slightly from Arizona's and softened
requirements surrounding use of the federal E-Verify program, which helps
employers confirm online whether potential employees can legally work in the
United States.

That helped appease at least some of the state's powerful agricultural and
business interests, which had lobbied against the bill, and gave Mr. Deal, a
Republican who had been noticeably silent on the issue, enough confidence to
throw his support behind the measure. He has 40 days to sign the bill but is
expected to do so much sooner.

''At the end of the day, rural legislators voted for this bill,'' said Brian
Robinson, the governor's spokesman. ''Those legislators most attuned to
agriculture and agribusiness came on board.''

The bill helps the governor fulfill a campaign promise and sends a message to
Washington, Mr. Robinson said: ''States are picking up the tab for the gigantic
cost of a problem that Washington won't fix.''

Groups that fought the bill with more than a dozen public rallies and weeks of
lobbying, as well as threats of recall and economic disruption, began discussing
a national boycott in anticipation of the governor's signature.

''We have a whole tourism industry in Atlanta that is just people visiting civil
rights sites,'' said Xochitl Bervera, a spokeswoman for Somos Georgia, an
immigrant rights group that is working on strategy with Turning the Tide, a
national group that organized a boycott in Arizona that has cost that state more
than $100 million in lost hospitality revenue, according to some estimates.

''This is going to really damage folks who want to do business with the state,''
she said of the Georgia bill. ''It's embarrassing, honestly.''

Because much of the debate centered on people from Mexico and Latin American
countries, some Hispanics in the state said the bill would open the door to more
harassment and discrimination.

''The targeting of people of color is already happening,'' said Azadeh
Shahshahani of the Georgia chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union.

Georgina Perez, 21, of Marietta, came to Georgia from Mexico City when she was 3
and is not in the country legally. The legislation has prompted her to speak
publicly about her status as a way to bring attention to the issue.

''The politicians forget that we are human beings,'' she said in a telephone
interview. ''We have our houses here in Georgia. We went to school here. We have
families here. For them to criminalize us was disgusting.''

The Georgia bill also requires the state Agriculture Department to study
creating a guest worker program. Utah, the only other state to pass a law aimed
at curbing the population of illegal immigrants, designed a guest worker program
aimed at helping businesses keep workers. But it does not supersede federal
immigration law.

In all, 30 states have considered anti-immigration legislation, most of which
are styled after Arizona's. Many measures died in the legislative sessions.
Similar bills have passed at least one chamber of state legislatures in Alabama,
Indiana, Oklahoma and South Carolina and remain in committee in several others.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Class-Action Lawsuit Says Utah Immigration Law Violates Civil Rights

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 715 words


Two national civil rights law organizations sued the State of Utah on Tuesday,
seeking to block a law that gives the police new powers to question people they
stop about immigration status.

The law, signed by Gov. Gary R. Herbert in March, was an effort by legislators
to crack down on illegal immigration while avoiding the costly legal challenges
and polarizing political furor that followed a stricter law enacted last year in
Arizona.

But the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Immigration Law Center,
based in Los Angeles, brought the class-action lawsuit claiming that the Utah
statute violates federal civil rights and immigration law in ''myriad ways,''
mainly by interfering with immigration enforcement that is generally reserved
for federal authorities. The groups are asking a federal judge to suspend the
law before it goes into effect on May 10.

The Utah legal fight is one of many battles across the country, as several of
states consider immigration crackdown bills late in the legislative season, and
Latino and immigrant groups mobilize to try to stop a repeat of the Arizona law,
known as S.B. 1070.

A tough immigration bill in Florida was changing by the hour in the State Senate
over the past two days, as business and Latino leaders argued against it and
lawmakers weighed its possible impact on the state's tourism and agriculture.

A bill similar to Arizona's is moving forward in Alabama. Georgia passed a tough
enforcement bill last month that is awaiting the signature of Gov. Nathan Deal.

The legislature in Utah, looking for a political formula that would satisfy
immigration hardliners without antagonizing the state's growing population of
Latino workers, passed three bills in March, including one that created a
guest-worker program providing legal work permits to illegal immigrants living
in the state. A third bill set up a partnership with the state of Nuevo Leon in
northern Mexico to bring in temporary farm workers under an existing federal
program.

The lawsuit challenged only Utah's enforcement bill. ''Federal immigration law
leaves no room for this kind of intrusive state legislation,'' said Linton
Joaquin, general counsel of the National Immigration Law Center.

Utah's attorney general, Mark Shurtleff, said he would vigorously defend the
law. He said he had closely studied the Arizona law as well as a ruling by a
federal judge that suspended central provisions of it. Mr. Shurtleff said Utah's
law was written to avoid racial profiling and to codify police practices that
were already routine.

Last week, Mr. Shurtleff met with Justice Department officials in Washington to
try to persuade them not to bring a lawsuit against the state. Representative
Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
has criticized the Obama administration for failing to sue Utah, as it did
Arizona.

As Florida lawmakers debated, Latino and African-American civil rights leaders
warned on Tuesday that they would consider a boycott or other measures against
the state if a harsh immigration law passed.

''Make no mistake about that: it will bring a loss of revenues, and it will do
nothing to solve the immigration problem,'' said Janet Murguia, president of the
National Council of La Raza. She estimated that a boycott led by the groups in
Arizona cost that state $490 million in lost tourism and convention business.

States have wrestled with the issue given the unlikely prospects for an overhaul
of immigration laws to move forward in a divided Congress. But President Obama,
in a meeting late Tuesday with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said he
remained committed to trying to pass some form of immigration legislation this
year, perhaps a bill limited to giving legal status to illegal immigrant
students. The meeting was the president's third in as many weeks to try to
revive some form of immigration legislation.

''The president is just absolutely dedicated to the proposition that some
legislation has to move,'' said Representative Charlie Gonzalez, Democrat of
Texas and chairman of the Hispanic caucus.

In the meantime, Mr. Gonzalez said, the Hispanic lawmakers pressed Mr. Obama to
set guidelines so that young students with no criminal records who are picked up
by immigration agents would not be deported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus left the White
House on Tuesday after a meeting with President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Utah Immigration Law Is Blocked

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 123 words



A federal judge in Utah on Tuesday temporarily barred a state law to curb
illegal immigration from taking effect, saying he wanted to give both sides in a
lawsuit more time to prepare their arguments.

The decision by the judge, Clark Waddoups of Federal District Court in Salt Lake
City, held up a law passed by the Utah Legislature in March that gave new powers
to the state and local police to question people they detained about immigration
status.

In a lawsuit, the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups claimed the
law, a variation on one passed last year in Arizona, would interfere with
federal immigration law and lead to racial profiling. The judge did not rule on
the law, but set a hearing for July 14.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Weighs Law on Illegal Workers

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 800 words


WASHINGTON -- An Arizona law that imposes harsh penalties on businesses that
hire illegal immigrants seemed likely to be sustained after Supreme Court
arguments on Wednesday, if only because of judicial arithmetic.

A coalition of business and civil liberties groups, supported by the Obama
administration, says the law should be struck down because it conflicts with
federal immigration policy.

The questioning on Wednesday suggested that the challengers face an uphill
battle in trying to capture the five votes they need to prevail. Justice Elena
Kagan, who had worked on the case as United States solicitor general, was
disqualified, and so only eight justices heard the case.

The argument was simultaneously a policy debate and an extended exegesis of a
crucial phrase in a 1986 federal law that regulates the hiring procedures.

The debate, primarily between Justices Antonin Scalia and Stephen G. Breyer,
concerned dueling conceptions of the role that federal and state governments
should play in enforcing immigration laws.

The question in the case was whether Arizona was entitled to supplement the
penalties in the 1986 law with much tougher ones.

Justice Scalia said the state law was a necessary response to federal inaction.

''Arizona and other states are in serious trouble financially and for other
reasons because of unrestrained immigration,'' he said. ''I agree this step is
massive, and one wouldn't have expected it to occur under this statute. But
expectations change when the federal government has simply not enforced the
immigration restrictions.''

Justice Breyer, on the other hand, said the federal law had struck a careful
balance between enforcing immigration laws and avoiding employment
discrimination, a balance the Arizona law could undermine.

''How can you reconcile that intent to prevent discrimination against people
because of their appearance or accent?'' he asked. ''How do you reconcile that
with Arizona's law?

''If you are a businessman, every incentive under that law is to call close
questions against hiring this person,'' he said. ''Under the federal law every
incentive is to look at it carefully.''

The 1986 law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, said it overrode ''any
state or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions.''

That would ordinarily be the end of the matter under the Constitution's
supremacy clause, which makes federal law the supreme law of the land.

But the 1986 law made one exception. States could continue to regulate
businesses, the law said, through ''licensing and similar laws.''

Much of the argument concerned the proper interpretation of that phrase.

Neal K. Katyal, the acting United States solicitor general, distinguished
between the criteria used to issue licenses from those used to revoke them. That
appeared to strike several justices as a formal and empty distinction.

''It doesn't make much sense to me,'' Justice Sonia Sotomayor said.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts repeatedly suggested, moreover, that the last
three words of the phrase ''licensing and similar laws'' provided Arizona with
yet more leeway.

Carter G. Phillips, a lawyer for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which challenged
the law along with other groups, said the very magnitude of the penalties under
the state law demonstrated the conflict with the federal one.

Under the Arizona law, ''you can essentially have the death penalty to the
business,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''And on the other side of the scale, $250
fine.''

Justice Breyer seemed to agree. Whatever else may be said about the two laws, he
said, ''we are still stuck with this enormous discrepancy in penalty.''

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg asked a lawyer for the state about ''the anomaly
that Arizona cannot impose a fine even in a modest amount, but it can revoke
someone's license to do business.''

Mary R. O'Grady, Arizona's solicitor general, said the distinction flowed from
''the structure that Congress established.''

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy's vote would most likely have been decisive had nine
justices heard the case. With an eight-member court, his vote seemed necessary
but not sufficient for a victory for the challengers, and it was in any event
hard to tell which way he was leaning.

He told Mr. Phillips that he saw ''no limitation on what the states can decide
is a license.''

But Justice Kennedy objected to a second part of the Arizona law, this one
requiring employers to use an otherwise voluntary electronic federal system
meant to verify employment status known as E-Verify.

''It seems to me that's almost a classic example of a state doing something that
is inconsistent with a federal requirement,'' he said.

Should the justices end up divided 4-to-4, the appeals court ruling that upheld
the Arizona law would be automatically affirmed without an opinion from the
Supreme Court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Utah G.O.P. Adopts Immigration Alternative

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1195 words


In the first move by a state to extend legal recognition to illegal immigrant
laborers, the Utah Legislature has passed immigration bills that include a guest
worker program that would allow unauthorized foreigners to work legally in the
state.

With the immigration package, passed in both chambers of the
Republican-controlled Legislature late Friday, Utah made a sharp break with the
hard-line trend in state immigration legislation that has been led by Arizona,
which passed a strict enforcement law last April.

Utah's package includes measures to tighten enforcement against illegal
immigrants that echo Arizona's tough stance -- like a requirement that the
police check the immigration status of anyone arrested on a felony or a serious
misdemeanor charge.

But supporters said the hybrid package offered an alternative to states,
including those controlled by Republicans, that are seeking to avoid the costly
political polarization and legal challenges that followed Arizona's law and that
also want to recognize the need of some businesses for immigrant labor in spite
of high unemployment nationally.

The guest worker bill came after intense lobbying by business and farm groups as
well as by some immigrant advocates, and it enjoyed the quiet but all-important
endorsement of the Mormon Church. It is likely to raise many of the same
constitutional questions as the Arizona law, including whether it intrudes on
areas of immigration law reserved exclusively for the federal government.
Central provisions of Arizona's law, known as S. B. 1070, were suspended by
federal courts pending a lawsuit by the Obama administration.

But in contrast to Arizona's approach, Utah lawmakers framed their bill to set
up a negotiation, rather than a confrontation, between the governor and the
federal authorities. Gov. Gary R. Herbert, a Republican who handily won election
in November, is expected to sign the bill.

''Utah is the anti-Arizona,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's
Voice, a group in Washington that favors legislation by Congress to grant legal
status to illegal immigrants. ''Instead of indulging the fantasy that you can
drive thousands of people out of your state, it combines enforcement with the
idea that those who are settled should be brought into the system.''

Under one bill approved on Friday, Utah would issue a two-year work permit to
illegal immigrants who could prove that they had been living and working in the
state. To qualify, immigrants would have to pass a criminal background check and
pay fines of up to $2,500.

The bill gives the governor until 2013 to negotiate with federal immigration
authorities for a waiver for the guest worker program. Under federal law, it is
a violation for an employer to knowingly hire an illegal immigrant. If no waiver
has been obtained by then, the guest worker program would go into effect anyway.

Under a separate bill, also approved Friday, officers would be required to check
the immigration status of anyone they arrest on a felony or serious misdemeanor
charge.

Lawmakers revised that bill to remove terms borrowed from the Arizona law that
would have allowed the police to ask immigration questions based on a
''reasonable suspicion'' that a person they stopped was an illegal immigrant.
That provision, among others, was strongly opposed by Latinos in Arizona, who
said it would lead to racial profiling.

State Representative Bill Wright, a Republican who was the sponsor of the guest
worker bill in the House, said it was intended to be a practical way to deal
with illegal immigrants in the state. ''I'm a very conservative Republican; I'm
not moderate at all,'' he said. But, he said, ''we literally do not have the
ability to remove those who are here illegally.''

The enforcement measure was sponsored by State Representative Stephen Sandstrom,
a Republican who has been an outspoken proponent of following Arizona's lead on
immigration.

Many groups in Utah hoped to avoid the expense and furor provoked by Arizona's
bill. In November, a range of groups signed a proposal called the Utah Compact,
which laid out principles that included respect for the law but also supported a
free-market business approach and opposed measures that would separate families
by deportation. It was signed by the Salt Lake Chamber, a statewide business
group; the Roman Catholic Church; the Salt Lake City Police Department and
mayor's office; and local immigration advocate groups.

The Mormon Church, which had been cautious on the issue, did not sign the
compact but immediately endorsed it.

Not everyone in Utah was happy with the new immigration measures. Several
hundred protesters from immigrant organizations demonstrated outside the Capitol
on Saturday, calling the enforcement bill racist and urging Mr. Herbert to veto
it, The Salt Lake Tribune reported.

David Leopold, the president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said Utah's bills were ''another ill-advised attempt by a state to regulate
immigration.'' He warned that the effort ''dangerously treads into a policy area
that is the sole province of the federal government.''

The Utah measures, coming from one of the most conservative states in the
nation, open an avenue for action for Republican politicians who have been
concerned that the strident tone of supporters of Arizona's law -- including
Gov. Jan Brewer and Russell Pearce, the Arizona Senate majority leader who wrote
the bill -- has alienated Latino voters.

Some Republican leaders have argued that to win the presidency in 2012, they
need to increase Latino support in states like California, Nevada, New York and
Texas. Among others, Newt Gingrich, a potential presidential candidate, and Jeb
Bush, the former governor of Florida, have pressed fellow Republicans to
moderate their speech on immigration.

''Utah thought Arizona's law would backfire,'' said Alfonso Aguilar, executive
director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, a Republican
group that has been working to draw the party toward an immigration policy with
more appeal to Hispanics. ''It was not business-friendly, and it would drive
away workers and investment. Utah has provided conservative arguments for
passing a different kind of measure.''

Arizona's immigration enforcement law drew a boycott by the nation's most
prominent Latino organizations and cost the state $86 million in lost convention
and tourism business, according to an estimate by the Center for American
Progress, a group that opposed the measure. Mr. Pearce has proposed a new
package of immigration restrictions that go far beyond last year's.

Another bill that passed the Utah House and is likely to be approved next week
in the Senate would set up a partnership with Nuevo Leon State in Mexico to
bring temporary farm workers to Utah through the existing federal guest worker
program.

Supporters of the bills in Utah said they should be a model for action on
immigration by Congress. ''It's doable,'' said Wesley Smith, director of public
policy for the Salt Lake Chamber. ''The extremes have dominated the immigration
debate for so long, it makes it so refreshing to see that a practical solution
is possible.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill Seeks to Expand Rights For New York's Immigrants

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 677 words


Three months after the defeat of the Dream Act, a Congressional bill that would
have provided a path to legal residency for young illegal immigrants, a state
senator from New York City has introduced his own version of the legislation in
Albany.

Unlike its federal counterpart, the bill would not offer those immigrants a path
to legal residency. But it would give some of them certain rights now granted
only to legal residents and citizens, including the ability to hold some state
jobs -- a provision that appears to challenge federal laws that prohibit the
hiring of undocumented workers.

The bill would allow illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses, a proposal
that will undoubtedly reprise the fiery debates that compelled Gov. Eliot
Spitzer to drop a similar plan in 2007.

State Senator Bill Perkins, a Manhattan Democrat who introduced the bill this
week, acknowledged the challenges confronting it. ''There's politics and other
types of obstacles that must be overcome,'' Mr. Perkins said in an interview on
Wednesday.

The bill is one in a recent wave of state measures -- some intended to empower
immigrants, others meant to toughen the enforcement of immigration laws -- that
have been proposed in response to inaction in Washington. A number of state
legislatures have considered versions of the Dream Act, most of them intended to
allow students who are illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates for
public colleges and universities, and to receive state financial aid.

This year, with Republicans newly in control of legislatures across the country,
many state governments have vowed to pass bills to crack down on illegal
immigrants; they include proposals resembling an Arizona law that expanded the
powers of police officers to question the immigration status of people they
stop.

State Senator Daniel L. Squadron, a Democrat who represents parts of Brooklyn
and Manhattan who is co-sponsoring the New York bill, said the legislation was
prompted by the failure of the Dream Act, which passed the House but was blocked
by the Senate in December. ''This allows New York to take the lead in a place
where the federal government hasn't yet succeeded,'' he said.

New York allows illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition, but the bill would
give them access to state financial support, including grants, loans and
scholarships. Its most ambitious proposals are those seeking to provide certain
illegal immigrants with ''state identification or driver's licenses'' and ''work
opportunities with the State of New York.''

Mr. Squadron said the bill did not seek to undermine federal laws that prohibit
employers from knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. But, he said, it ''could
potentially expand the state's options within the federal limits.'' He added
that he was still studying the potential effects of the bill on employment.

To qualify for the benefits of the legislation, an illegal immigrant would need
to have entered the United States before age 16, be younger than 35 and have
lived in New York for at least two years before the law's effective date. Among
other requirements, the immigrant would have to have completed at least two
years of a four-year degree in a college or university in the state, served at
least two years in the New York National Guard or completed 910 hours of
community service. Convicted felons would not be eligible.

Mr. Perkins said that he hoped the bill would attract support in the
Legislature, but that he had not yet surveyed his peers or sounded out Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo. ''Nobody has yet said this is ridiculous, or anything negative
in that vein,'' Mr. Perkins said.

But several officials who loudly opposed Mr. Spitzer's measure four years ago
did not hesitate to criticize the new bill on Wednesday. Homing in on the
driver's license clause, Assemblyman James N. Tedisco, a Republican from
Schenectady, said he anticipated opposition to that provision -- and, by
extension, the bill -- would be strong.

''It's just as wrong now as it was under Eliot Spitzer,'' he said. ''I think
it's a bill to nowhere.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 11, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: State Countersues Over Immigration Law

BYLINE: By NYT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 154 words


Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona said Thursday that she will raise private funds to
countersue the federal government for failing to enforce immigration laws. The
claim was filed in the Justice Department's challenge to Arizona's immigration
law, parts of which have been struck down by a federal judge. At a news
conference, Ms. Brewer and Attorney General Tom Horne said the Obama
administration had failed to prevent illegal immigrants from crossing the border
in huge numbers and stuck the state with the cost of dealing with its failed
policies. Arizona officials dispute statistics showing that crime along the
border is down significantly. In their legal challenge, the state intends to
argue that it is being ''invaded'' by illegal immigrants from Mexico. A
spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, Matt Chander said in a
statement in response, ''A meritless claim such as this does nothing to secure
the border.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Blocking Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 176 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Immigration Hardball'' (editorial, Nov. 15):

America has a wonderful tradition of welcoming newcomers. We admit more than one
million legal immigrants every year, almost as many as all other countries
combined. But immigration policy should put Americans first. Enforcing current
immigration laws does just that.

Your editorial states that an enforcement-minded approach to preventing illegal
immigration ''mocks American values,'' but the opposite is true. In fact,
enforcing the current laws against illegal immigration is consistent with the
ultimate American value -- the rule of law.

And doing so will reduce taxpayer costs for health care, education, social
services and criminal justice. And it could open up the seven million jobs
currently held by illegal immigrants for American workers and legal immigrants.

Paying less in taxes and providing additional jobs for Americans hardly ''mocks
American values.''

Lamar Smith Washington, Nov. 17, 2010

The writer, Republican of Texas, is the ranking member of the House Judiciary
Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Says Suit Against Immigration Officials in '07 Raids Can Proceed

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 936 words


A federal judge ruled late Thursday that the former chief of the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency and other senior officials could be held liable in a
lawsuit claiming that federal officers violated the constitutional rights of
suspected illegal immigrants arrested in predawn raids three years ago in New
Haven.

A trial and a final ruling are still months away, but Judge Stefan R. Underhill
of the United States District Court in Bridgeport ruled that the civil rights
lawsuit could move forward, handing a significant victory to advocates of
immigrant rights in a case that could have national implications.

The arrests drew wide attention, in part because New Haven officials had been
adopting policies to bring illegal immigrants out of the shadows. The raids
began on June 6, 2007, two days after the city's Board of Aldermen approved a
plan to offer identification cards to all city residents, including an estimated
15,000 illegal immigrants.

Judge Underhill ruled that the lawyers representing 11 of the arrested
immigrants had presented enough evidence that senior federal officials created
an environment ''under which constitutional violations occurred.'' He also ruled
that the roughly two dozen arresting officers could be held as liable as well.

The government and individual defendants, including Julie L. Myers, the former
head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, sought to have the lawsuit
dismissed on the grounds that senior officials were too far removed from the
raids to be held responsible and that immigration agents could not be sued.

Judge Underhill disagreed with most of their arguments and allowed the core
elements of the case to proceed.

In the New Haven raids, part of a national crackdown called ''Operation Return
to Sender,'' federal immigration officers split into four teams and arrested 32
immigrants in their homes. The immigrants, most of whom were Mexican, were sent
to jails in Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Maine.

The arrests shocked many in New Haven, including Mayor John DeStefano Jr., who
had supported efforts to issue city identification cards to immigrants, said he
believed the raids were retaliation. The lawsuit claims they were meant to
punish the city.

Federal officials have denied that. In his ruling, Judge Underhill mentioned the
accusations about the timing of the raids but did not say whether he thought
they had merit.

More than two dozen lawsuits have arisen from the New Haven raids, but the civil
rights case, filed by the Workers and Immigrants Rights Advocacy Clinic at Yale
Law School, has the highest profile -- largely because of its strategy of
holding senior officials responsible.

''The government has argued that ICE is immune from suits like this,'' said
Muneer Ahmad, the supervising lawyer on the case, about the immigration agency.
''This is the beginning of a process of accountability to bring ICE as a law
enforcement agency within the fold of every other federal agency.''

A spokesman for the immigration agency declined to comment because of the
pending lawsuit.

Federal officials have argued that the raids were a legitimate part of a
national effort to clear a backlog of ''fugitive aliens,'' immigrants with an
outstanding deportation order. The officials have maintained that they had
consent to enter the homes of immigrants they suspected were undocumented -- the
clinic's lawyers dispute that -- and that the operations had been conducted
properly.

The lawsuit contends that the federal agents arrested people without inquiring
into their immigration status, informing them of their rights or explaining why
they were being seized. Of the 32 immigrants arrested, five had deportation
orders, and only one or two had criminal records.

The advocacy clinic and lawyers from Cleary Gottlieb, the pro bono co-counsel,
aim to hold the arresting officers responsible, as well as Ms. Myers and John
Torres, another senior immigration official, among others. Ms. Myers left the
agency in 2008; she and the Department of Justice lawyers representing her
declined to comment. Mr. Torres did not respond to e-mails or phone messages.

The lawyers contend that Mr. Torres shifted the agency's focus from arresting
fugitives to people who were not criminals and posed no danger to the public.
They also contend that he had created a quota system that called for Fugitive
Operations Teams to make 1,000 arrests a year, half of which could be bystanders
encountered during investigations. Ms. Myers had approved the quotas.

The clinic's lawyers say the quota system encouraged officers to violate the
rights of illegal immigrants. Judge Underhill wrote that the lawyers had
provided enough evidence for holding the officials liable ''because their
actions imposing intense pressure to make arrests, allowing bystander arrests,
and providing inadequate training created a policy under which violations
occurred.''

Judge Underhill ruled that there was not enough evidence to include at least
three defendants mentioned in the lawsuit. He dismissed claims that the
immigrants were forced to sign documents that they did not fully understand and
were denied access to legal counsel.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2010



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Saturday about a judge's decision to let a lawsuit over
immigration raids in New Haven go forward referred incorrectly to the immigrants
who were arrested. While federal officials said they made the arrests because
they suspected that those arrested were illegal immigrants, their immigration
status has not been determined.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julie L. Myers, the former head of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, could be held liable in the civil rights lawsuit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Vote Leaves Policy in Disarray

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 933 words


The vote by the Senate on Saturday to block a bill to grant legal status to
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrant students was a painful setback to an
emerging movement of immigrants and also appeared to leave the immigration
policy of the Obama administration, which has supported the bill and the
movement, in disarray.

The bill, known as the Dream Act, gained 55 votes in favor with 41 against, a
tally short of the 60 votes needed to bring it to the floor for debate. Five
Democrats broke ranks to vote against the bill, while only three Republicans
voted for it. The defeat in the Senate came after the House of Representatives
passed the bill last week.

The result, although not unexpected, was still a rebuff to President Obama by
newly empowered Republicans in Congress on an issue he has called one of his
priorities. Supporters believed that the bill -- tailored to benefit only
immigrants who were brought here illegally when they were children and hoped to
attend college or enlist in the military -- was the easiest piece to pass out of
a larger overhaul of immigration laws that Mr. Obama supports.

His administration has pursued a two-sided policy, coupling tough enforcement --
producing a record number of about 390,000 deportations this year -- with an
effort to pass the overhaul, which would open a path to legal status for an
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. Now, with less hope for any
legalization measures once Republicans take over the House in January, the
administration is left with just the stick.

Part of the administration's strategy has been to ramp up border and workplace
enforcement to attract Republican votes for the overhaul. The vote on Saturday
made it clear that strategy has not succeeded so far.

Mr. Obama will now face growing pressure from immigrant and Latino groups to
temper the crackdown and perhaps find ways to use executive powers to bring some
illegal immigrants out of the shadows. Latino voters turned out in strength for
the Democrats in the midterm elections, arguably saving their majority in the
Senate.

The Republicans in the new Congress are especially keen on tough enforcement.
The presumed incoming chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's subcommittee
on immigration is Representative Steve King of Iowa, a vigorous opponent of
legalization measures, which he rejects as amnesty for lawbreakers.
Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, who will be chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, is also an outspoken and well-versed opponent of such proposals.

Groups favoring reduced immigration cheered Saturday's vote as a watershed
victory marking the end of a period when they have been on the defensive. Roy
Beck, president of NumbersUSA, which lobbied hard against the bill, said the new
Congress ''has the strongest pro-enforcement membership'' in at least 15 years.

''Now, we look forward to moving aggressively to offense,'' Mr. Beck said.

During the last year, administration officials considered proposals to allow
immigration authorities to use administrative powers to halt deportations of
illegal immigrants who might have been eligible for legal status under the
student bill. They also sought ways to ease deportations for other illegal
immigrants with no criminal record.

Republican lawmakers criticized those proposals as ''backdoor amnesty'' and
pledged to stop the administration from carrying them out.

The administration's efforts to manage its policy dilemma played out this week.
Speaking on Friday before the vote, John Morton, the head of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, said the agency would continue the brisk pace of
deportations, focusing on immigrants convicted of crimes. On the same day, the
agency released from detention an 18-year-old Guatemalan student from Ohio,
Bernard Pastor, granting him a one-year reprieve from deportation to continue
his education.

Despite the defeat, Democrats who supported the bill said they would continue to
push for it. ''As long as these young people are determined to be part of this
great nation, I am determined to fight for them to call America home,'' said
Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the bill's main champion.

Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, another sponsor, said Latinos would
remember in the elections in 2012 how senators had voted.

''This is a vote that will not soon be forgotten by a community that is growing
not just in size, but also in power and political awareness,'' Mr. Menendez
said.

Yet much pressure on the administration may come from immigrant organizations.
Despite their illegal status, several hundred immigrant students watched the
vote in the Senate gallery. Afterward, they held a somber prayer vigil in the
basement of the Capitol, but moved on to a news conference that turned into a
pep rally.

''They did not defeat us, they ignited our fire,'' said Alina Cortes, a
19-year-old Mexican-born immigrant from Texas who lacks legal status. A
self-described conservative Republican, she campaigned for the student bill,
saying she hoped to join the Marine Corps.

The movement has been driven by thousands of students who ''came out'' to reveal
that they did not have legal status, and to recount their academic achievements
and the barriers they faced. Now that their status is public, they have nowhere
to hide. Meanwhile, an estimated 65,000 illegal immigrants are graduating from
high school each year.

''We have woken up,'' said Carlos Saavedra, national coordinator of the United
We Dream Network, a student group. ''We are going to go around the country
letting everybody know who stands with us and who stood against us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of the ''Dream Act'' measure consoled each other
Saturday after senators blocked it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 31, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paterson and Federal Officials Reach Pact on Immigration

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 542 words


Gov. David A. Paterson, seeking to assuage critics of a new government program
to strengthen immigration enforcement, said Thursday that he had negotiated a
pact with federal officials to help protect illegal immigrants in New York
without criminal records.

But the pact is unlikely to mollify the program's opponents. It does little more
than reiterate the long-stated position of the Department of Homeland Security,
which has said it intends to use the program primarily to detain and deport
immigrants who are considered a threat to public safety and national security.

Under the enforcement program, called Secure Communities, fingerprints collected
by local police departments are automatically shared with federal immigration
officials. Mr. Paterson signed an agreement in May to cooperate with the
program, which is going into effect state by state and is scheduled to start in
New York by 2013.

In recent months, critics of the plan, including immigrant advocates and some
elected officials, have urged the governor to withdraw from the program, saying
it would mostly ensnare illegal immigrants with low-level convictions or no
criminal history at all.

The pact, which Mr. Paterson signed this week, added language explaining the
enforcement priorities of the Department of Homeland Security and clarifying
that the agency will focus on deportable immigrants considered a threat to
public safety and national security, as well as those who have been convicted of
crimes or have illegally re-entered the United States after being deported.

''This new agreement balances the homeland security and civil liberties issues
that have surrounded the Secure Communities initiative,'' Mr. Paterson said in a
statement.

Homeland Security officials said the agreement, however, did not alter the
mechanisms of the Secure Communities program or hinder putting it into effect.

It also does not preclude immigration officials from detaining and deporting
immigrants without criminal histories.

Under the program, the fingerprints of everyone booked into a local or county
jail will be sent to the Homeland Security Department and compared with prints
in the agency's databases. If officials discover that a suspect is in the
country illegally, or is a noncitizen with a criminal record, they may seek to
deport him.

Federal officials said a state could refuse to cooperate, but it would lose
access to criminal databases of other states and the federal government,
hampering crime-fighting efforts.

In his statement, Mr. Paterson said, ''It is appropriate and important for New
York State to share information with the federal government that could protect
us from terrorist attacks.''

But some reacted to the new agreement with skepticism.

''My sense is that the governor caved to federal officials, and that's
unfortunate,'' said Scott M. Stringer, Manhattan's borough president and one of
more than 40 elected officials who signed a letter last week urging Mr. Paterson
to block the program in New York State.

Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, said
the governor had lost an opportunity to curb immigration officials from
''ramping up deportations of immigrants who are only the victims of our
dysfunctional immigration system.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Way Out, a Governor Takes a Controversial Step

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 416 words


A week before leaving office, Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. announced Tuesday that
Colorado would participate in a federal background check program devised to
catch illegal immigrants who have committed crimes.

The announcement comes after months of debate in Colorado over the program --
known as Secure Communities -- which allows local law enforcement officials to
check the immigration history of those they arrest in a government database.

Officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency that runs
Secure Communities in 35 other states, have said the program plugs holes in a
system that allows illegal immigrants with criminal records to escape
deportation.

A coalition of immigrant rights and civil liberties groups in Colorado had
pressed Mr. Ritter, a Democrat, to reject the program, fearing it would drive a
wedge between immigrants and law enforcement, and discourage witnesses from
reporting crimes.

Mr. Ritter had considered putting Secure Communities in place since a task force
recommended the program after a deadly car accident in Aurora in 2008. In that
accident, an illegal immigrant, who had eluded deportation despite more than a
dozen arrests, drove his S.U.V. into a truck, killing three people.

Some political allies, like Representative Jared Polis, a fellow Democrat, had
urged Mr. Ritter not to institute Secure Communities, while state Republicans
and local law enforcement associations supported it.

''As the last act of Governor Ritter, it sends a terrible message to the people
of Colorado that our civil liberties and our civil rights can be violated,''
said Jessie Ulibarri, public policy director for the A.C.L.U. of Colorado at a
news conference after the announcement. ''It incentivizes racial profiling by
allowing police officers to stop people they suspect of being undocumented.''

State Republican leaders applauded the decision, calling it an important step
toward battling illegal immigration.

In a statement, Mr. Ritter noted that Colorado's program would contain
modifications to ensure it operated effectively. They include receiving
quarterly reports from the immigration agency so Secure Communities can be
evaluated, as well as an acknowledgment that domestic-violence victims and
witnesses warrant unique treatment under the program.

''My office has worked closely with stakeholders and the federal government over
the past few months to address Colorado-specific concerns and modify the
standard Secure Communities agreement,'' Mr. Ritter said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. said Colorado would join a program devised
to catch illegal immigrants who have committed crimes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED
ANDRIESKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday

Senate Democrats Reintroduce Dream Act

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 371 words



HIGHLIGHT: Senate Democrats are reintroducing an immigration bill that would
give legal status to some illegal immigrants who came into the United States as
children.


On the heels of President Obama's renewed call to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws in Texas on Tuesday, Senate Democrats are reintroducing a bill
that would give legal status to some illegal immigrants who came into the United
States as children.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, along with Senators Dick
Durbin of Illinois and Robert Menendez of New Jersey, said the Senate will
revive the Dream Act, one of the few signature pieces of Democratic legislation
that failed during the lame-duck session of the last Congress, when Democrats
controlled both chambers.

The bill would provide legal status and a path to citizenship to young people
who were brought to the United States illegally as children and receive a
college education or want to enter the military. Under the bill, students who
who came to the United States when they were 15 or under, have been in the
country continually at least five years, present "good moral character,"
graduate from high school or obtain a G.E.D., and complete two years of college
or military service in good standing would qualify.

Backers of the measure - which has failed to gain the support of Republicans -
say that the bill would provide a path for more educated young people into the
military and work force, and give a break to young people who did not have
agency in their illegal entry into the country.

Opponents argue that the bill constitutes amnesty, and that Congress should
focus on border security before considering paths to legal status for illegal
immigrants.

The bill has been the subject of legislative passion for Mr. Reid and Mr.
Durbin, the Senate's No. 2 Democrat, who has said he would try to pass the Dream
Act as long as he is a senator.

"It didn't pass in the Senate last year when they had 59 Democrats," said Don
Stewart, a spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell, the minority leader from
Kentucky, who has said repeatedly that he does not support the bill.  "There are
some questions about its chances this year."


     ·    Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
     ·    In Budget Bill, a Dispute Over Border Security
     ·    We Can Finish By Christmas, Reid Says
     ·    Making Sense of the 111th Congress as the End Nears
     ·    Senate Democrats Put 'Dream Act' on Hold


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Obama Calls Immigration Reform a 'Moral Imperative'

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 449 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama continued his political outreach on immigration
reform at the National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast.


President Obama's political outreach on immigration reform continues: Two days
aftera speech in El Paso within sight of the Mexican border, the president on
Wednesday urged Latino pastors at a prayer breakfast in Washington to help
mobilize "a new movement" for change to benefit the millions of men, women and
children in the country illegally.

Having emphasized his administration's increased security measures against
illegal immigration in Texas on Tuesday, Mr. Obama on Thursday focused on the
"moral imperative" of a comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws that would
include paths for citizenship for an estimated 11 million illegal residents,
many of them here for years.

"As it is written in the Book of Deuteronomy, 'Love ye therefore the stranger:
for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt,'" Mr. Obama said at the biannual
National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast.

"What this verse reminds us to do," he added, "is to look at that migrant farmer
and see our own grandfather disembarking at Ellis Island, or Angel Island in San
Francisco Bay; and to look at that young mother, newly arrived in this country,
and see our own grandmothers leaving Italy or Ireland or Eastern Europe in
search of something better."

The prayer breakfast was Mr. Obama's sixth immigration-themed event in the last
four weeks -- a flurry of activity responding to growing frustration among
Latino voters at his failure to win new immigration laws, though passage of any
significant legislation is virtually impossible now that Republicans control the
House. Later Thursday he was scheduled to do interviews with competing
Spanish-language television networks, Telemundo and Univision, which have large
audiences in swing states like Arizona, Florida, Nevada and New Mexico, where
Latino voters are a significant share of the electorate.

Mr. Obama noted that other national religious groups, including those
representing evangelical Christians, Catholic bishops and an interfaith
coalition, are advocating for immigration changes, and he compared their efforts
to those of activist church groups from the American Revolution to the civil
rights movement.

"And it's in the Catholic and Evangelical and mainline churches of our Southwest
and across our entire continent that a new movement for immigration reform is
taking shape today," he said. "So I'll keep doing my part.  I'll keep pushing
and working with Congress.  But the only way we are going to get this done is by
building a widespread movement for reform."


     ·    Senate Democrats Reintroduce Dream Act
     ·    Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
     ·    The Early Word: Fighting Words
     ·    In Budget Bill, a Dispute Over Border Security
     ·    Surprise Choice for Immigration Panel


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              May 27, 2011 Friday

The Early Word: Setting a Precedent

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 493 words



HIGHLIGHT: Arizona may impose harsh penalties on employers of illegal
immigrants, the Supreme Court ruled Thursday.


From Today's Times:

The Supreme Court upheld      Arizona's harsh punishments for businesses that
hire illegal immigrants Thursday, a law that businesses and civil liberties
groups contended      violated federal immigration policy. The decision may pave
the way for      more anti-immigration efforts in states, which could be
successful based      on the fact that 13 states supported Arizona in this case,
The Times's      Adam Liptak reports. As Congress and the White      House
hurried to renew the so-called Patriot Act on Thursday before its      midnight
expiration, two senators accused      the Justice Department of twisting the law
to allow surveillance beyond      the understanding of members of Congress. The
Times's Charlie      Savage reports the Obama administration declined to clarify
what the      senators meant when they said the public would be "alarmed" if it
came out      how the law was being used. Though President Obama started out by
saying the NATO campaign against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was      intended to
protect civilians, his stance has      subtly shifted in support of ousting the
Libyan leader. But the problem      now is the pressure on the NATO allies to
deliver on an operation now in      its third month, The Times's Eric Schmitt
and David E. Sanger say. Is Sarah Palin running for      president? The former
Alaska governor and vice -presidential nominee embarks      on an East Coast bus
tour with her family this weekend, stoking growing      speculation about
whether she'll throw her hat in the ring of Republican      contenders. The
Times's Michael D. Shear reports Ms. Palin is likely to      make a stop in the
critical early primary state of New Hampshire.

Gov. Chris Christie,      Republican of New Jersey, is no climate      skeptic,
Politico reports. "I'm certainly not a scientist   But when      you have over
90 percent of the world's scientists who have studied this      stating that
climate change is occurring and that humans play a      contributing role, it's
time to defer to the experts," Mr. Christie said      on Thursday.Washington
Happenings:

On Friday morning, the National Association of Realtors shares its pending home
sales index for April, its monthly update on the housing market. Its last report
showed pending home sales rose in March. After meeting with the leaders of other
industrialized nations at the Group of 8 summit, Mr. Obama will travel to Warsaw
on Friday to play host to Central and Eastern European leaders at a state dinner
with President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland. Friday marks the start of the
first Stars & Stripes      & Spokes festival, a four-day motorcycle rally on the
festival      grounds of RFK Stadium. Activities include a police rodeo, a stunt
show      and a blessing of the bikes accompanying a prayer service.

     ·    The Early Word: Heated
     ·    The Early Word: Running?
     ·    The Early Word: Tension
     ·    The Weekend Word: Nonnegotiable
     ·    The Early Word: Scandal


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration Laws

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 198 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Napolitano Accuses Critics of Politicizing Border Issues'' (news article,
Feb. 1), about the 287(g) program:

Your article cites a report claiming that the program is problematic because it
results in the arrest and deportation of illegal immigrants with little or no
criminal record. Such a view is misguided and dangerous.

The 287(g) program allows state and local law enforcement agencies to enter into
an agreement with the Department of Homeland Security to help enforce federal
immigration laws. When the program began, there was no intent to limit it to
criminal illegal immigrants or to those who commit serious offenses. I should
know because I wrote the law that established the program.

Waiting until illegal immigrants commit criminal offenses before deporting them
places American citizens and legal immigrants in danger.

America's immigration laws apply to all illegal immigrants, not just those who
have committed crimes. The Obama administration is responsible for enforcing
those laws, and the 287(g) program is a useful tool to help do so.

Lamar Smith Washington, Feb. 1, 2011

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 273 words


To the Editor:

''Dreaming of Having an American Life in Full,'' by Michael Winerip (On
Education column, Feb. 21), tells only one side of the story.

I am sympathetic to illegal immigrant children like Isabel Castillo who were
brought here by their parents. Because their parents disregarded America's
immigration laws, they are in a difficult position. But by granting citizenship,
the United States would actually reward their illegal immigrant parents, who
knowingly violated our laws. It would perpetuate the problem the bill claims to
solve.

It would also penalize the children of American citizens and those who
immigrated here legally.

Once they become citizens, illegal immigrants could petition for their parents
to be legalized; the parents could then bring in others in an endless chain.

If the United States grants amnesty to those who were brought to the United
States illegally by their parents without first enforcing our immigration laws,
we will undoubtedly have to deal with this problem again in the future.

The American people want Congress to focus on creating jobs and getting
Americans back to work. Currently, an estimated eight million illegal immigrants
hold American jobs. Amnesty will give illegal immigrants a legal right to those
jobs and encourage more illegal immigrants who are hoping for yet another round
of amnesty. That's not fair to children of American citizens and legal
residents, who have a right to those already scarce American jobs.

Elton Gallegly Washington, Feb. 24, 2011

The writer, a California Republican, is chairman of the Judiciary Committee's
Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Angry Arizona, Again

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 440 words


Many states are doing urgent business: jobs, the economy, broken budgets.
Arizona's legislators are trying to give government new powers to strip away
individual rights, to extend immigration enforcement into schools, public
housing, hospitals and doctor's offices.

Arizona made itself ground zero for a new nativism last year with a radical
policing law that encouraged racial profiling and declared the mass expulsion of
undocumented immigrants to be official state policy. This led to boycotts,
slumping tourism and convention business, and lawsuits, including one by the
Obama administration. Yet Arizona's current legislative session is overstuffed
with nativist bills, several of which passed through committee on Tuesday in an
''omnibus'' measure.

They include:

A bill to chop up the 14th Amendment to deny citizenship to children born in
Arizona to undocumented mothers. A bill requiring hospitals to check every
patient's citizenship status, turning doctors and nurses into the immigration
police. A bill to deny education to undocumented children by requiring proof of
citizenship to enroll in any public or private school. A bill to criminalize
driving by illegal immigrants, and to evict them from public housing. This will
fix nothing, and do real harm.

The birthright citizenship bill interprets the 14th Amendment in a way no
federal court or Congress ever has. The state would issue a different type of
birth certificate to babies whose parents lack papers. It's a nonexistent
problem; women are not sneaking over the border to have babies who -- when they
turn 21 -- may be able to sponsor them for green cards. The plan will not drive
away illegal immigrants, but it would turn generations of young Americans into
deportable criminals.

The Supreme Court has ruled that undocumented children have a right to primary
education, because the country is not served by perpetuating an illiterate
underclass. And yet Arizona's elected leaders persist in their assault on that
principle. The bills' sponsors don't seem to care about the damage they do. They
are bent on inflaming the anxieties in a changing country, even when crime is
down in border cities and immigration has tapered off. New Census data shows
America's population growing more slowly than it has since the 1930s -- another
era of rampant bigotry and racial scapegoating.

We hope the angry Arizonans, and the rest of the country, will soon return to
their values. Citizenship by birth and assimilation of newcomers are central to
the American experiment. All that separates our newest immigrants from previous
waves is the lack of a working system to assimilate them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 176 words


To the Editor:

''The Anti-Arizonans'' (editorial, March 5) accuses advocates of the enforcement
of illegal immigration laws of being extreme.

Pro-rule-of-law policies are not extreme or nativist; they are the foundation of
the United States. We have the most generous legal immigration system in the
world, admitting one million immigrants each year. Illegal immigration amplifies
the law enforcement challenges of local officials, who must deal with the
federal government's failure to enforce the law.

The solutions mayors, governors and sheriffs found are generated from
desperation, not extremism. Congress should at least find a bipartisan solution
to the challenges of criminal illegal immigrants. That's why I have introduced
H.R. 100, the Clear Act, which would establish federal resources for the
detention and deportation of criminal illegal entrants.

We are a nation of immigrants. To sustain the high levels of legal immigration
we have, immigration laws must be enforced.

Marsha Blackburn Member of Congress, 7th Dist., Tenn. Washington, March 8, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 14, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lack of Consensus in Legislatures Slows Tough Measures on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Dan Frosch contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1061 words


Under newly fortified Republican control, many state governments started the
year pledging forceful action to crack down on illegal immigration, saying they
would fill a void left by the stalemate in Washington over the issue.

Now, with some legislatures winding down their sessions, the lack of consensus
that has immobilized Congress has shown up in the legislatures as well, and has
slowed -- but not stopped -- the advance of bills to penalize illegal
immigrants.

No state has passed a law that replicates the one adopted last April in Arizona,
which greatly expanded the powers of police officers to question the immigration
status of people they stop.

Still, immigrant advocates in many states say the debate has clearly shifted in
favor of tougher enforcement. They say they have had to fight just to hold the
line on immigration issues that they thought were long settled.

Bills similar to Arizona's are advancing in Florida, Kansas, Oklahoma and South
Carolina. In Kansas and Oklahoma, even though Republicans control the
legislatures and the executive branch, immigration proposals have encountered
unusually vocal opposition from business.

Arizona-style bills died early in Colorado, and Nebraska decided this month to
end its debate on one. Arizona's law requires state and local police officers to
inquire about the immigration status of anyone they stop if they have a
''reasonable suspicion'' the person is an illegal immigrant.

States also wrestled with other kinds of immigration initiatives. In New Mexico
and Washington, Democrats backed by immigrant advocates defeated efforts to
repeal laws granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. Those two states
and Utah are the only ones that give licenses to illegal immigrants.

In New Mexico, the repeal effort was championed by Gov. Susana Martinez, a
Republican and a Hispanic, who had promised such a move in her campaign last
year. A bill she supported was defeated by the Democratic-controlled State
Senate on Wednesday. Instead, it approved a bill that added requirements,
including fingerprinting, for immigrants without a Social Security number who
apply for licenses.

If that bill wins final approval and the governor's signature, it will create a
two-tiered system in which licenses issued to people without proof of legal
residence will be distinctively marked. According to license authorities, about
83,000 illegal immigrants are driving in New Mexico.

Ms. Martinez vowed to continue to fight for the repeal, although this is the
final week of the legislative session. She called the current law ''dangerous''
and accused Democrats of ''partisan political gamesmanship'' for blocking its
repeal.

Marcela Diaz, executive director of Somos Un Pueblo Unido, a group that led the
license fight, said, ''It's a good sign that we will be able to maintain
licenses for folks who are living, working and paying taxes in our state,
regardless of their immigration status.''

But, she said, ''We don't take anything for granted.''

In Washington State, the debate over driver's license rules polarized a state
that has been relatively tolerant of illegal immigrants, an important part of
the work force that picks apples. Several Democrats joined Republicans in
supporting a repeal of the license law.

State fiscal authorities estimated that the repeal would cost about $1.5 million
a year in new verification technology and monitoring expenses. That swayed some
budget-minded lawmakers, and the bill was killed Monday.

''We saw tremendous momentum against us,'' said Pramila Jayapal, executive
director of OneAmerica, an immigrant advocate group. ''But there was a
realization that the debate was very divisive, and it was not going to solve the
immigration problem.''

In Utah, where the Legislature finished its session on Thursday, lawmakers
passed a novel package of three immigration laws. One was a revised version of
the Arizona bill, without the most controversial parts. It requires the police
to verify the immigration status of people they arrest on suspicion of
committing a felony or serious misdemeanor. It allows, but does not require, the
police to inquire about the status of people booked for lesser crimes.

''My bill is quite different than Arizona's,'' said State Representative Stephen
Sandstrom, a Republican who was the main author of the measure.

Another law authorized the creation of a state guest worker program by 2013, and
instructed the governor and the state attorney general to negotiate with federal
authorities for a waiver to allow Utah employers to hire illegal immigrants.

Mr. Sandstrom said he was ''completely against'' the guest worker bill, which he
called ''a tragedy for the state.'' He said that the law was unconstitutional
and unlikely to take effect, but that it would still lure illegal immigrants to
Utah.

Utah's attorney general, Mark Shurtleff, acknowledged that the proposed waiver
does not exist in federal immigration law.

''It's a federal crime to employ an illegal alien,'' he said in an interview.
''I don't know how you get a waiver for a federal crime. I'm going to try. But
it's definitely an uphill battle.''

Those two measures venture into terrain generally reserved for federal
immigration authorities and are likely to draw legal challenges from advocacy
groups, although they appear less likely to be challenged by the Obama
administration.

Utah's third new immigration law creates a labor commission to work with Nuevo
Leon State in Mexico to bring laborers to Utah through existing federal guest
worker programs. Mr. Shurtleff, who is a Republican, was the force behind that
law.

The initiatives had the support of Utah businesses and law enforcement agencies.

In a national meeting of attorneys general last week, Mr. Shurtleff unveiled a
proposal for a ''national compact'' to serve as a model for immigration
legislation in Congress, based on Utah's approach of enforcement measures paired
with an opening to legal status for illegal workers.

In Texas, the biggest news from the immigration debate was a bill by State
Representative Debbie Riddle, a Republican. Her legislation would penalize
employers hiring illegal immigrants, with an exception for family households
employing baby sitters or gardeners.

Immigrant groups and Democrats accused Ms. Riddle of hypocrisy, saying she
wanted to deport illegal immigrants, except for her friends' nannies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Susana Martinez of New Mexico says she will continue to
push for a repeal of a state law that grants driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants. The State Senate defeated a bill she supported. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MORGAN PETROSKI/ALBUQUERQUE JOURNAL, VIA A.P)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Flinches

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 387 words


Arizona, the nation's leader in over-the-top immigration laws, has pulled back.
Its Republican-controlled Senate rejected five anti-immigration bills in one day
last week. It was a startling rebuke to the Senate president, the architect of
the state's go-it-alone approach to enforcement. Other states weighing similar
crackdowns should take note.

The reversal has to do with money, of course. The bills were dead once the
state's business lobby weighed in against them. Sixty chief executives signed a
letter to the Legislature saying the harsh immigration measures were having
''unintended consequences'' -- boycotts, lost jobs, canceled contracts,
publicity so bad that businesses with Arizona in their names were suffering --
even one based in Brooklyn. The chief executive of the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, Glenn Hamer, said the reaction to Arizona's extremism had already cost
the state $15 million to $150 million in lost tourism revenue.

For the record, the new bills sought to end automatic citizenship for illegal
immigrants' newborns. They would have required hospitals and schools to collect
records on undocumented patients and students. They would have made it a crime
for illegal immigrants to drive and prevented them from going to college.

The bills were the product of one overreaching politician, the Senate president,
Russell Pearce, who has made it his mission to rid his state of illegal
immigrants by ever-more-aggressive means. He was the sponsor of the one bill
that started it all, SB1070, requiring police officers to check papers of anyone
they suspected of being unauthorized. That bill last year made Mr. Pearce a
national figure, and his success prompted this year's follow-up flurry. One of
the bills, SB1611, was a mashup of 16 enforcement measures he had offered
repeatedly in sessions past. It died with the others last week.

While it is a relief to see Arizona realizing that bigotry is bad for business,
it is not the end of harsh, shortsighted laws. Other legislatures were already
striving to follow Arizona's model. There is still a federal vacuum on
immigration reform that allows state mischief to thrive. And it's important to
note that none of the objections by Arizona's businesses had anything to do with
the strong moral arguments against xenophobic anti-immigration bills.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Georgia: Rally for Immigrants' Rights

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 98 words


Thousands of people gathered at the Capitol in Atlanta on Thursday to protest
legislation aimed at illegal immigrants. The folk rock duo the Indigo Girls
performed their song ''Shame on You'' with lyrics adapted for the rally.
Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat who was a leader in the civil
rights movement of the 1960s, urged the crowd to fight. ''I was beaten, left
bloody, but I didn't give up, and you must not give up,'' he said. Sponsors of
the legislation say the bills are necessary to fight illegal immigration because
the federal government has not solved the problem.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 26, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Southern Lawmakers Focus on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Robbie Brown contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 872 words


Some of the toughest bills in the nation aimed at illegal immigrants are making
their way through legislatures in the South.

Proposed legislation in Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina, where Republicans
control the legislatures and the governors' mansions, have moved further than
similar proposals in many other states, where concerns about the legality and
financial impact of aggressive immigration legislation have stopped lawmakers.

Dozens of immigration-related bills showed up early in legislative sessions
across the South. Some were aimed at keeping illegal immigrants from college or
from marrying American citizens. Most died quickly, but three proposals designed
to give police broader powers to identify and report illegal immigrants are
moving forward.

The conservative political landscape, and a relatively recent and large addition
of Latinos, both new immigrants and legal residents from other states, have
contributed to the batch of legislation, say supporters and opponents of the
proposed laws.

''The South has become a new gateway for immigrants,'' said Wendy Sefsaf of the
Immigration Policy Center, a research organization. ''People see the culture
shift, and they are a little bit freaked out.''

The Hispanic population in Alabama, for example, has increased by 144 percent
since 2000, according to new census figures. In Mississippi, the numbers jumped
by 106 percent, and in North Carolina by 111 percent. Over all, however, numbers
remain small. Only about 4 percent of the population in Alabama is Hispanic. In
South Carolina, the figure is 5 percent.

But Georgia has the seventh-largest population of illegal immigrants in the
country, according to a report by the Pew Hispanic Center. There, a version of a
law pioneered in Arizona would allow local police officers to inquire about the
immigration status of people they suspect of committing crimes, including
traffic violations.

It allows people to sue local agencies if they believe the law is not being
enforced and also requires that some businesses use E-Verify, a free federal
employment eligibility database.

Backers of the bill and opponents, including the American Civil Liberties Union
and the Southern Poverty Law Center, say it stands a good chance of making it to
Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican who has not yet said whether he will sign it,
despite voicing support for strong immigration controls during his campaign last
year.

The Georgia Senate also passed a bill this month that would charge an
undocumented resident caught driving drunk with a felony. American citizens face
only a misdemeanor charge.

At a rally at the Georgia State Capitol on Thursday, several thousand people
showed up to protest the legislation. Many were Hispanic workers from around the
state who had taken the day off to attend.

Six Georgia lawmakers who are pushing the House version of the bill issued a
statement after the march saying, ''There are millions of Georgia citizens
working and raising their families who no longer are willing to accept the loss
of job opportunities to the nearly 500,000 illegal aliens in our state or to
subsidize their presence with their hard-earned tax dollars.''

State Senator Jack Murphy, a Republican who sponsored another version of the
legislation, said his bill was written carefully to avoid some the problems that
backers of the Arizona law have encountered, including accusations of racial
profiling.

''I don't want to cost business and jobs by having some image problem,'' he
said. ''My bill specifically says you will not profile.''

A similar bill is heading through the legislature in South Carolina. It would
also make it illegal to transport immigrants anywhere, including a hospital or a
church.

In Alabama, legislators are working on similar bills in the House and the
Senate, which would also make it a crime to knowingly rent to an illegal
immigrant.

Legislators leading the efforts say their bills are not based in racism, nor are
they anti-immigration. They simply want to better control the flow of people
into the United States and be fair to those who have arrived through proper
channels. Without federal action, the states have a responsibility to step in.

''The bill is intended to make South Carolina a very hostile place for those who
are in this country illegally,'' said State Senator Lawrence K. Grooms. ''Our
hope is that they leave the country or go to a state where they are more
welcome.''

That might be happening. The pending legislation in Georgia is regularly
discussed among customers at the little taqueria in the back of Mercado
Acupulco, an Atlanta grocery store.

For four years, business at the store was good, said Maira Garcia, 25, whose
father owns the business. But lately, Ms. Garcia and other business owners who
cater to a Latino clientele have seen fewer customers. People are planning to
leave Georgia to go back to their home countries or to other states where the
perception is that life will be easier, she and her customers said.

''I'm hearing rumors that things are going to change real bad,'' said Raul
Martinez Soto, 23, who moved to the United States from Morelia, Mexico, about
four years ago. ''Everyone is scared,'' he said. ''They ask what is the point to
kicking us out of here?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Maira Garcia says her Latino clientele has dwindled as
Georgia's legislation has advanced. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latinos and Democrats Press Obama to Curb Deportations

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 882 words


With prospects for an immigration overhaul looking dim, President Obama is
facing increasing pressure from Latinos, Democratic lawmakers and immigrant
groups to use his executive powers to offer relief from deportation to broad
groups of illegal immigrants.

Demands for immediate action by Mr. Obama to slow the pace of the immigration
crackdown in Latino communities have not eased since a White House meeting on
Tuesday in which the president gathered political, business and religious
leaders to brainstorm about how to revive the overhaul legislation, which is
stalled in Congress.

Latinos and Democrats praised Mr. Obama for trying to jump-start efforts to pass
the bill, which would grant legal status to millions of illegal immigrants. But
with many leaders of the Republican majority in the House of Representatives
strongly opposed to the measure, the bill's supporters remain skeptical that it
will go anywhere before the presidential election next year.

They are calling on Mr. Obama to use authorities they say he already has under
current immigration law to defer deportations of illegal immigrant students who
would be eligible for legal status under a bill known as the Dream Act.

''We know that immigration reform is doable, but it is just rather difficult
given the makeup of Congress,'' said Representative Charlie Gonzalez, Democrat
of Texas, who is chairman of the Hispanic Caucus in the House. ''We are asking
the president if he could provide some sort of relief to innocent people who are
the most impacted by the inequities of the immigration system.''

Religious and civil rights groups have asked Mr. Obama to expand waivers that
would make it easier for illegal immigrants who are immediate relatives of
American citizens to fix their legal status without having to leave the United
States.

Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and 11 other lawmakers sent a
letter asking the Obama administration to postpone deportations of immigrants in
same-sex marriages with American citizens. The administration recently decided
that it would no longer defend in the courts a law barring the federal
government from recognizing those marriages.

Some Hispanic lawmakers, in the most ambitious demands, have said the president
should halt deportations of illegal immigrants whose children are American
citizens. An estimated four million young citizens have at least one parent who
is an illegal immigrant.

Democrats are leaning on the White House as they look to the elections next
year, when Latino voters could play pivotal roles in several crucial states.
Under the Obama administration, immigration authorities have carried out record
numbers of deportations, with nearly 400,000 immigrants removed in each of the
last two years. The deportations are drawing increasingly irate protests from
Latino communities.

But Republicans in Congress say the administration has not done enough to remove
illegal immigrants, and they oppose any action by Mr. Obama that would offer
what they call a ''stealth amnesty.''

Mr. Obama ''should not selectively enforce the law,'' said Elton Gallegly,
Republican of California, who is chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee. ''Amnesty -- whether universal or selective -- only encourages
illegal immigration.''

Administration officials said Mr. Obama had rejected any move that would appear
to circumvent Congress, which could alienate the handful of Republicans who
might be persuaded to join an effort to pass the overhaul legislation. The
president told the White House meeting on Tuesday that he did not believe there
were any shortcuts he could use to help illegal immigrants.

''At the end of the day, the president cannot fix administratively what is
broken in the immigration system,'' said a senior White House official, who was
not authorized to speak publicly on the issue. The official said the White House
had made a strategic decision to focus all its efforts on passing the overhaul
rather than acting unilaterally to make smaller changes.

Mr. Obama first rejected executive action to suspend deportations during a
town-hall-style meeting broadcast in late March on Univision, the
Spanish-language television network.

But calls for him to change his mind have only multiplied since then. In a
letter on April 13, the top two Democrats in the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada
and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, and 20 other Democrats sent a letter asking
the president to defer deportations of illegal immigrant students. The Dream Act
bill passed the House but failed in the Senate last year.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, denounced the Democrats' letter
in a speech on the floor. ''I'm just appalled that members of this body think an
executive order to grant amnesty behind our backs is not an assault on the
democratic process,'' Mr. Grassley said.

Acting case by case, the immigration authorities suspended deportations of
34,448 immigrants last year, according to figures sent to Mr. Grassley by the
Department of Homeland Security.

Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, a critic of the
administration on immigration, is touring the country holding town-hall-style
meetings in Latino communities to demand the suspension of deportation for
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rev. Al Sharpton, left
Councilman Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles
Charles Ramsey, Philadelphia's police chief
 and William J. Bratton, former Los Angeles police chief, at the White House.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida Struggles With Arizona's Immigration Plan

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 819 words


MIAMI -- With no debate, the Florida Senate on Wednesday approved a watered-down
bill to curb illegal immigration, an issue that has divided Republicans in the
state, pitting pro-business and Hispanic lawmakers against the party's more
populist wing.

The bill would require the police to make ''a reasonable effort'' to determine
the immigration status of people they arrest and jail, a provision that
opponents say is an Arizona-style attack on legal and illegal immigrants. The
proposal would also require that illegal immigrants who are convicted of
nonviolent crimes be referred to federal officials for deportation.

The vote was a surprise because lawmakers had presumed the bill was dead after
the Senate voted down a pivotal amendment on Tuesday that had been pushed by
Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, and Tea Party activists. That measure would have
essentially required businesses in Florida to check a worker's immigration
status in a federal verification database, known as E-Verify, or risk fines if a
worker was found to be illegal.

''It's easy to talk about this down at the post office, but when you start
looking in people's eyes, people who live and breathe like us, we need to think
long and hard,'' said State Senator J. D. Alexander, a Republican who is a
citrus grower and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''We are being put in
the middle of the most difficult position.''

With the bill stripped of the amendment, more Republicans were willing to vote
for the overall legislation. But the bill's prospects in the House are
uncertain. The Legislature is expected to recess for the year on Friday, and
House Republican leaders prefer their own version of the bill, which takes a
considerably tougher line.

During his campaign last year, Mr. Scott vowed to bring an Arizona-style
immigration law to Florida, and he supported the idea of having the police check
a person's immigration status. He repeatedly brought up the issue and ran radio
ads that challenged Florida lawmakers to get tougher on illegal immigrants. But
he seldom talks about it now.

Asked on Wednesday whether there should be a special session to deal with
immigration, a suggestion he made in a campaign advertisement, Mr. Scott said,
''I'm hopeful that between now and Friday night, we'll do the right things with
regards to immigration.''

Advocates for immigrants said they were watching closely because anything is
possible in the final days of the legislative session. Immigrants, legal and
illegal, have thronged the Capitol to protest the bills, which they say are
unconstitutional and racist and an effort to blame immigrants for the state's
economic morass.

They say the Senate bill will inevitably lead to racial profiling and have vowed
to challenge it in court. Arizona-style laws across the country have faced a
string of lawsuits, and the original has been deemed unconstitutional, a ruling
that is being appealed.

''If the Senate really wanted to enforce the rule of law, it would have
sanctioned employers, and not just immigrants, many of whom have long
contributed their labor and tax dollars to this state,'' said Cheryl Little, the
executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.

It was clear from the start that several Republican senators had little appetite
for wading into the complex and politically risky issue in a state known for the
political power of its immigrants and for its reliance on them to work in its
fields, hotels and restaurants. The list of influential opponents of the
verification measure is long: the Florida Chamber of Commerce, Disney, the
agricultural industry and law enforcement groups, as well as immigrant
advocates.

''We're trying to thread a very difficult needle here,'' said the State Senate's
president, Mike Haridopolos, who is running for the United States Senate.

As a result, Republican allegiances were torn. All three Republican Hispanics in
the Senate voted against the measure. So did Senator Alexander, an unusual twist
since he had been asked by the Senate president at the last minute to take over
the bill, toughen it up and shepherd it through.

On the floor Tuesday, he placed blame squarely on the federal government and
said that E-Verify was flawed. He also said that most American citizens do not
want many of the jobs that immigrants fill.

''Floridians don't want to do it: they don't want to go out and pick
blueberries,'' Mr. Alexander said. ''You can't get anybody to come do this
stuff. The same thing if it's construction or hotels. Americans don't want to do
it.''

But others disagreed, saying illegal immigration was a pressing problem that
required action. Another Republican state senator, John Thrasher, went so far as
to say that had E-Verify been in place in 2001, the 9/11 hijackers would have
been caught before the attacks.

''We might have saved the lives of 3,000 Americans,'' said Mr. Thrasher, who
sponsored the E-Verify amendment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: When he ran for office last year, Gov. Rick Scott vowed to bring
an Arizona-style immigration law to Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT COOPER/THE
NEWS HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Border City Talk, Obama Urges G.O.P. to Help Overhaul Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Julia Preston contributed reporting from Tucson, and
Michael D. Shear from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1136 words


EL PASO -- President Obama came to this border city on Tuesday to argue that he
is doing his part to crack down on illegal immigration, and that Republicans
must now join him in overhauling the nation's immigration laws for the millions
of workers already here illegally.

Mr. Obama's speech at a park within sight of the border with Mexico -- and a
billowing 162-foot-by-93-foot Mexican flag -- was heavy with political overtones
for 2012 and beyond, given the growing ranks of Latino voters in a number of
swing states. He sought to reassure those increasingly frustrated voters of his
commitment to liberalizing immigration laws as a moral and economic imperative,
and to blame ''border security first'' Republicans in Congress for his inability
to deliver on that promise.

''We have strengthened border security beyond what many believed was possible,''
Mr. Obama said, citing increases since the George W. Bush administration in the
amount of fencing and aerial surveillance and the number of border agents,
National Guard troops, intelligence analysts and deportations of illegal
immigrants.

His first stop here was at an inspection facility on the Rio Grande, one of the
busiest of the 327 official ports of entry to the United States for cargo,
vehicles and even walkers entering from Ciudad Juarez, a sprawling city
afflicted by Mexico's drug wars.

''We have gone above and beyond what was requested by the very Republicans who
said they supported broader reform as long as we got serious about
enforcement,'' he added. ''All the stuff they asked for, we've done. But even
though we've answered these concerns, I've got to say I suspect there are still
going to be some who are trying to move the goal posts on us one more time'' --
to the point of seeking a moat and alligators, he joked. ''That's politics.''

Mr. Obama's own politics were central to the trip, his first to the border since
he was elected with 67 percent of the Latino vote, which makes up a significant
and expanding portion of the electorate in battleground states like Arizona,
Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico and North Carolina.

In Texas, where Republicans have dominated since the 1980s, Democrats likewise
look to one day regain power through the state's expanding Latino electorate --
though not likely in 2012. Even so, broadcasts of Mr. Obama's trip reached next
door into New Mexico.

The visit, however, underscored a tension over Mr. Obama's immigration record
that colors his re-election prospects: his boasts of strengthening border
security win him no credit among Republican lawmakers and only alienate many
Latinos so long as he cannot deliver on his campaign promise to them -- a path
to citizenship for the estimated 11 million immigrants already here illegally,
many of them for years.

''If they think that this is going to be the thing that mobilizes an
increasingly disappointed Latino electorate, I think they're wrong,'' said Frank
Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a group advocating for
liberalized immigration. ''They are going to have to make some big
administrative action to make up for the fact that he promised something big.''

Mr. Obama did not push comprehensive immigration legislation in his term's first
two years, when Democrats controlled Congress, and it has virtually no chance of
passage now that Republicans have a House majority. And he does not plan to
introduce such legislation now, to the disappointment of some advocates.

But in his speech, Mr. Obama reiterated his goals: a path to citizenship for
illegal immigrants that would require them to come forward, pay taxes and a
penalty, and learn English; legal status for foreigners who graduate from
colleges here and want to remain and start businesses; and the so-called Dream
Act, providing citizenship to young people who were brought to the United States
as children and receive an education or want to enter the military.

Back in Washington, Congressional Republicans dismissed his proposals.

''Providing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, as the president
called for again today, without requiring illegal immigrants to return to their
countries of origin and apply for legal status, is amnesty,'' said
Representative Elton Gallegly of California, the chairman of a House
subcommittee on immigration. ''Amnesty will not pass Congress, Mr. President.''

Without much chance of immigration changes becoming law, pro-immigration
advocates are pushing Mr. Obama to take executive actions at least. Chief among
them, they want the administration to quit deporting illegal immigrants and
residents without criminal records. But Mr. Obama refuses to do that -- as he
acknowledged here.

His administration is not acting ''haphazardly,'' he told the crowd, but ''as
long as the current laws are on the books, it's not just hardened felons who are
subject to removal, but sometimes families who are just trying to earn a living,
or bright, eager students, or decent people with the best of intentions.''

The president's trip to Texas was his fifth event in four weeks to promote
comprehensive immigration changes. He previously hosted three meetings at the
White House with a wide range of groups, including Republicans, business leaders
and Latino celebrities like the actress Eva Longoria of ''Desperate
Housewives.'' And Mr. Obama gave the commencement address at Miami-Dade
Community College in Florida, where his lines on immigration were among the most
applauded.

Through the increased activities, including those involving cabinet members, the
White House is seeking to show that Mr. Obama is not just checking a political
box with an occasional speech or rally, but is actively pressing the issue --
and making sure people know Republicans are standing in the way.

''For the president's message to take hold, he must show that this is not a
Hispanic issue, this is an American issue,'' said Lillian Rodriguez-Lopez,
chairwoman of the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, a coalition of the 30
leading Hispanic organizations in the United States.

''With a struggling economy and weakened labor force,'' Ms. Rodriguez-Lopez
added, ''we cannot afford to prohibit the millions currently living in the
shadows from fully contributing to our economy.''

Mr. Obama similarly put his case in economic terms. ''One way to strengthen the
middle class in America is to reform the immigration system so that there is no
longer a massive underground economy that exploits a cheap source of labor while
depressing wages for everybody else,'' he said.

As with many trips lately, Mr. Obama combined the immigration policy speech with
Democratic fund-raising. From El Paso, he flew to Austin, the state's liberal
capital, for two such events, one a larger rally with lower-priced tickets and
the other a smaller private dinner for high-dollar donors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, in El Paso on Tuesday to speak on immigration
policy, looked toward the border with Mexico as he toured the Bridge of America
Cargo Facility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Georgia Gives Police Added Power to Seek Out Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 447 words


ATLANTA -- Gov. Nathan Deal of Georgia on Friday signed into law one of the
nation's toughest immigration measures, empowering local police officers to
question certain suspects about their immigration status.

The law is similar to measures in Arizona and Utah that have drawn legal
challenges and economic boycotts. Mr. Deal, a Republican, said he would have
preferred a comprehensive immigration overhaul from the federal government.

''Illegal immigration is a complex and troublesome issue, and no state alone can
fix it,'' he said. ''We will continue to have a broken system until we have a
federal solution. In the meantime, states must act to defend their taxpayers.''

The law takes effect July 1. Already, civil rights groups, including the
American Civil Liberties Union and the Southern Poverty Law Center, say they are
considering lawsuits against Georgia. Business groups, including the state
Chamber of Commerce, have raised fears that the law will diminish tourism. In
Arizona and Utah, court injunctions have delayed carrying out the laws while
their constitutionality is determined.

One of the Georgia law's authors, Matthew L. Ramsey, a Republican state
legislator, said the measure was written to withstand legal challenges.
Lawmakers set clear guidelines on when the police are allowed to request a
suspect's immigration status, he said. The law allows state and local police
officers to request immigration documentation from criminal suspects and, if
they do not receive it, to take the suspects to jails, where federal officials
could begin the deportation process.

''States don't have the legal authority to deport. We don't have the legal
authority to secure our borders,'' Mr. Ramsey said. ''But our goal is, within a
constitutional framework, to eliminate incentives for illegal aliens to cross
into our state.''

The law also creates stricter requirements for businesses hiring workers and
harsher punishments for anyone who harbors or employs an illegal immigrant.
There are 425,000 illegal immigrants in Georgia, the seventh most of any state,
the Pew Hispanic Center estimates. Two other Southern states, Alabama and South
Carolina, are also considering similar immigration bills that are expected by
many experts to pass this year.

Tom Smith, a finance professor at Emory University, said Georgia businesses were
bracing for the impact. Some studies suggest that that Arizona's law has cost
the state as much as $250 million in convention business, he said.

''People are looking at the history in Arizona and thinking, 'Could a law in
Georgia could have the same impact?' '' Professor Smith said. ''We're waiting to
see whether that will happen in Georgia now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Nathan Deal took questions after signing the bill.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Upholds Penalties for Employers of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1071 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld an Arizona law that imposes
harsh penalties on businesses that hire illegal immigrants.

The 5-to-3 decision appeared to endorse vigorous state efforts to punish
employers who intentionally hire illegal workers. The majority opinion, written
by Chief Justice John G. Roberts on behalf of the court's five more conservative
members, said that Colorado, Mississippi, Missouri, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia had recently enacted laws
similar to the one at issue in the case.

The decision did not directly address a more recent Arizona law that gives the
police greater authority to check the immigration status of people they stop.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit blocked enforcement of
that law in April, and the case may reach the Supreme Court soon.

The challenge to the Arizona law that was the subject of Thursday's decision was
brought by a coalition of business and civil liberties groups, with support from
the Obama administration.

They said the law in question, the Legal Arizona Workers Act, conflicted with
federal immigration policy.

The act was signed into law in 2007 by Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who was then
the state's governor. Ms. Napolitano is now secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security.

The decision on Thursday turned mostly on the meaning of a provision of a 1986
federal law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which said that it overrode
''any state or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than
through licensing and similar laws) upon those who'' recruit or hire
''unauthorized aliens.''

The question was whether Arizona was entitled to supplement the penalties in the
1986 federal law with much tougher ones of its own. The state argued that the
phrase in parentheses -- ''other than through licensing and similar laws'' --
allowed it to suspend or revoke the business licenses of repeat offenders.
Critics called that provision of the state law a ''business death penalty.''

Chief Justice Roberts wrote that the word ''licensing'' should be read broadly
to allow states to supplement federal efforts to prevent the hiring of illegal
workers. His decision was joined by Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy,
Samuel A. Alito Jr. and, for the most part, Clarence Thomas.

Peter J. Spiro, who teaches immigration law at Temple University, said the
majority's broad reading would be consequential. ''In some ways, this becomes an
exception through which states can drive a truck,'' he said. ''It's definitely
going to embolden anti-immigration constituencies to work through state
capitals.''

There is reason to think that those constituencies will meet with some success,
judging from the fact that 13 states filed a brief supporting Arizona.

But Robin S. Conrad, a lawyer with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's litigation
unit, said in a statement that ''the decision does not give states or local
governments a blank check to pass any and every immigration law'' and that only
state laws consistent with the federal one were permissible. The Chamber of
Commerce was a plaintiff in the suit.

Ms. Conrad added that ''businesses from Main Street to Wall Street are
overwhelmed by a cacophony of conflicting state and local immigration
legislation'' and that Congress should bring order to the area.

Cecillia D. Wang, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants'
Rights Project, also urged a cautious reading of the decision, saying that it
was narrowly tied to the Arizona law. The A.C.L.U. was part of the
odd-bedfellows coalition that had challenged the law.

Jay Sekulow, a lawyer with the American Center for Law and Justice, a
conservative public interest law firm that filed a brief urging the court to
uphold the law, said the ruling was ''a victory for Arizona and other states''
that ''provides a realistic roadmap'' for enacting legislation that does not run
afoul of the federal law.

Justice Stephen G. Breyer, in a dissent joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg,
said the word ''licensing'' in the federal law should be read narrowly to mean
''employment-related licensing systems'' and not all licenses. ''Why not an auto
licensing law?'' he asked of the majority's interpretation. ''Why not a dog
licensing law?''

Chief Justice Roberts responded that Congress could easily have limited the
phrase had it wanted to. ''If we are asking questions,'' he added, ''a more
telling one may be why, if Congress had intended such limited exceptions to its
prohibition on state sanctions, it did not simply say so, instead of excepting
'licensing and similar laws' generally?''

Chief Justice Roberts wrote that the Arizona law was a measured response to real
problems and that ''licensing sanctions are imposed only when an employer's
conduct fully justifies them.''

He added that there was no reason to fear that the state law would lead to
discrimination against Hispanics who were in the United States lawfully.

''The most rational path for employers,'' the chief justice wrote, ''is to obey
the law -- both the law barring the employment of unauthorized aliens and the
law prohibiting discrimination -- and there is no reason to suppose that Arizona
employers will choose not to do so.''

But Justice Breyer said the state law disrupted a carefully calculated balance
between competing Congressional goals and that it ''seriously threatens the
federal act's antidiscrimination objectives.'' The state law increased penalties
for hiring illegal workers, he said, but it left ''the other side of the
punishment balance -- the antidiscrimination side -- unchanged.''

The decision, Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting, No. 09-115, also upheld a second
aspect of the Arizona law, this one making mandatory an otherwise voluntary
federal program, E-Verify, that allows employers to validate whether potential
employees are authorized to work.

In his dissent, Justice Breyer said it was a mistake to require use of a ''pilot
program'' that was ''prone to error.''

Justice Sonia Sotomayor wrote a separate dissent. Justice Elena Kagan recused
herself from the case because she had worked on it as United States solicitor
general.

''I cannot believe,'' she wrote, ''that Congress intended for the 50 states and
countless localities to implement their own distinct enforcement and
adjudication procedures for deciding whether employers have employed
unauthorized aliens.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices' Arizona Ruling On Illegal Immigration May Embolden States

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 900 words


The decision by the Supreme Court this week upholding an Arizona law punishing
employers for hiring illegal immigrants was an energy boost for state lawmakers
across the country who have proposed bills this year to curb illegal
immigration. As if they needed it.

According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, state lawmakers set
a new record in the first three months of the year, proposing 1,538 bills
related to immigration, with 141 measures in 26 states passed into law. While
some of those laws extended new opportunities to illegal immigrants, like
permitting them to pay lower in-state tuition rates at public colleges, most of
the laws imposed restrictions on them.

With its decision on the hiring law that Arizona passed in 2007, the Supreme
Court indicated that it would not flat out disallow any action by states on
immigration enforcement, even though federal law generally pre-empts state
measures in that area. State lawmakers now know for certain that there is some
firm legal ground for the recent round of bills that seek to drive illegal
immigrants out of the country by preventing them from taking jobs and even
living here.

But it remains unclear just how large the playing field is that the Supreme
Court has opened. Arizona's employer law was carefully tailored to conform to
specific, narrow terms in federal immigration law, and it was never suspended by
any federal court. To date, only a handful of states have passed laws with
requirements and penalties for employers similar to Arizona's.

Instead, this year many more states weighed whether to emulate the more sweeping
and politically polarizing law that Arizona passed last year, known as S.B.
1070, which expanded the powers of the state and local police to ask about the
immigration status of people they detain. The Supreme Court has not yet
considered that law, which has been largely suspended by federal courts.

By now, however, with the legislative season either winding down or over in most
states, it seems clear that lawmakers' decisions on whether to follow Arizona's
lead on police enforcement ultimately had more to do with state politics than
with concerns about potential legal challenges and Supreme Court rulings.

Kris Kobach, the constitutional lawyer who has been the intellectual if not the
actual author of many of the state immigration enforcement laws, was elated by
the court's recent decision. The ruling ''has vindicated our position that
states are not pre-empted by federal law from these actions,'' said Mr. Kobach,
who is now secretary of state of Kansas.

He predicted that many more states would soon ''jump on the bandwagon'' to
impose new responsibilities on employers.

Arizona's statute includes the most severe penalties of any state hiring law,
imposing what employers call a ''business death penalty'': on the second offense
of knowingly hiring an illegal immigrant, the business loses its license
permanently. Arizona also mandated the use by all employers of a federal
electronic program for verifying the work authorization of new hires, known as
E-Verify.

Only Mississippi and South Carolina followed Arizona in requiring all employers
to use the verification system. In the storm of lawmaking this year, Georgia and
Utah passed laws requiring larger businesses to use the system (in Georgia, by
July 2013). Virginia required employers to use it, but only for state contracts.

Far larger is the number of states where Arizona-style enforcement laws were
debated, voted, praised and protested. According to the National Immigration
Forum, which opposes such laws, bills like Arizona's failed after sometimes
furious debate in 15 states.

Georgia was the first state to pass a law close to Arizona S.B. 1070, and Gov.
Nathan Deal, a Republican, signed it into law this month. Georgia growers raised
an outcry against the law, saying it would cripple their labor force. But
Republicans who control the legislature strongly supported the law, which built
on an earlier set of measures against illegal immigration Georgia passed in
2006.

In March, Utah passed an enforcement law that echoed Arizona's, but tempered it
politically with a measure that would create a temporary guest worker program. A
federal court has temporarily held up the enforcement law.

With their session in its last days, Alabama lawmakers are close to passing a
broad measure that could be even tougher than Arizona's. In addition to
requiring most employers to use the verification system, Alabama's bill would
ban illegal immigrant students in public schools from participating in band,
cheerleading and any other extracurricular activity. The bill has faced little
organized opposition.

An enforcement measure is also close to passage in South Carolina.

Several states stood down at the last minute. After intense opposition by
Florida growers and the tourism industry, legislators let an enforcement measure
die in the final hours of their session. On Thursday, Democrats in the Texas
Senate blocked a measure that would have stepped up immigration enforcement in
cities. Texas police chiefs turned out forcefully against the measure, although
Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, had made it a priority.

Finally, Maryland and Connecticut, with small but rapidly growing Latino
populations, went a different way entirely, passing laws to allow illegal
immigrant students to attend public colleges at in-state rates.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Maryland: Bill Giving Tuition Breaks To Immigrants Is Sent to Governor

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MID-ATLANTIC; Pg.
19

LENGTH: 119 words


The General Assembly has approved legislation to grant in-state tuition to
students who are illegal immigrants, opening new possibilities to them as other
states consider legislation to restrict the rights of illegal immigrants. The
bill would grant in-state tuition to students in four-year universities who had
first graduated from high school in Maryland and then attended a community
college for two years. They must also show that they or their parents have filed
Maryland tax returns for all of those years. Gov. Martin O'Malley, a Democrat,
is expected to sign the bill into law this month, making Maryland the 12th state
to have such a provision, according to Casa de Maryland, an advocacy group for
Hispanics.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Detentions Draw International Fire

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 687 words


Immigration enforcement in the United States is plagued by unjust treatment of
detainees, including inadequate access to lawyers and insufficient medical care,
and by the excessive use of prison-style detention, the human rights arm of the
Organization of American States said Thursday.

The group, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, issued those findings
in a report that also took aim at a federal program that allows county and state
law enforcement officials to enforce federal immigration laws. The report said
the government had failed to ensure that local police were not singling out
people by race or detaining illegal immigrants on the pretext of investigating
crimes.

The commission recommended that the federal government cancel the program, known
as 287(g).

While many of the findings reiterated criticisms that have been made before by
immigrant advocates and others, the report appeared to be the first
comprehensive review of American immigration enforcement in recent years by an
international body of the organization's stature.

The commission, based in Washington, has no enforcement powers, but it has
considerable moral authority and a record of cooperation by member countries,
including the United States.

The 155-page report was based on hearings and research that began in 2008,
including visits in July 2009 by a team of investigators to six American
detention centers in Arizona and Texas.

Since much of the research was completed, however, the Obama administration has
begun a major overhaul of the detention system. A month after the commission's
visits, immigration officials announced a sweeping plan to establish more
centralized authority over the system and to renovate centers designed for penal
detention to make them more appropriate for detainees facing deportation,
particularly those accused of administrative violations.

The administration said it would also close centers that were rarely used or
failed to meet its standards, and would consolidate the nation's patchwork of
detention centers to meet increasing demand in specific areas, especially near
big cities. It also said it would explore alternatives to detention.

Felipe Gonzalez, president of the commission, acknowledged those plans but said
the commission would withhold judgment on the efficacy of the reforms.
''According to the information that we have so far, it's not clear that it's
been implemented or will satisfy the international standards'' of human rights,
he said in an interview.

The commission will continue monitoring immigration enforcement to ensure that
its grievances were addressed, Mr. Gonzalez added.

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees enforcement,
said Thursday that the department would review the report, and made no further
comment.

Earlier, however, the Obama administration was given a draft. In their response,
according to the report, administration officials pointed out that they had
conducted their own comprehensive review of immigration enforcement and made
''important changes.''

Still, the commission said it was ''deeply troubled by the continual and
widespread use of detention in immigration cases,'' the report said.

''The Inter-American Commission is convinced that in many if not the majority of
cases, detention is a disproportionate measure and the alternatives to detention
programs would be a more balanced means of serving the State's legitimate
interest in ensuring compliance with immigration laws,'' the report said.

Mr. Gonzalez also expressed skepticism that the administration would provide
less penal settings for immigrants held on administrative, rather than criminal,
charges. ''It's not clear to us whether the new system will really mean that the
facility will provide migrants in detention with a system that is fully
respectful of human rights,'' he said.

Mr. Gonzalez said his commission was inspired to investigate the system after
receiving numerous requests from human rights advocates and civil society
organizations. The group, he added, is now planning to investigate other
immigration detention systems in the hemisphere.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Felipe Gonzalez, president of the Inter-American Commission.
Right, a cell that held a family in Texas in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ORGANIZATION
OF AMERICAN STATES
 POOL PHOTO BY LM OTERO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2011 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Women, Children and Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 442 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Immigrant Detentions Draw International Fire'' (news article, March 18):

We were pleased to read that the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights has
issued harsh criticism of United States immigration policies, specifically
immigrant detention and 287(g), the dangerous program that puts immigration
enforcement in the hands of local police.

We hope that international condemnation will finally compel lawmakers to halt
287(g) and end immigrant detention, a policy that has led to gross human rights
violations in for-profit prisons run by corporations.

In particular, we urge the United States government to end human rights abuses
of immigrant women and children. Our grantees, advocacy groups nationwide, tell
us that women are especially vulnerable.

Women in detention are subjected to a litany of horrors, including rape and
physical assault, being forced to give birth in shackles and losing their young
children to foster care or an abusive partner.

Across the country, 287(g) programs instill such fear of local police that
women, afraid of deportation, do not report domestic violence or other crimes,
placing women, families and entire communities at risk.

Our current immigration policies are an international disgrace. It's long past
time that women and children's well-being, and women's solutions for change,
drive federal immigration reform. Anika Rahman President and Chief Executive Ms.
Foundation for Women Brooklyn, March 18, 2011

To the Editor:

The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights is right to call out the United
States on its treatment of immigrants in its custody. One group that is
particularly vulnerable and often overlooked but desperately needs and deserves
fair treatment is children who come alone to the United States.

Unaccompanied children brave dangerous journeys to come here to seek safe haven
from severe abuse or persecution; some have been trafficked, others have been
abandoned in their home country or are escaping life-threatening poverty.

The commission notes that these children are not provided lawyers to help them
make their claim for United States protection in immigration proceedings, an
incredibly complex process. Without counsel, it is much more likely that these
children will be returned to their home country where their well-being, or even
their lives, may be in danger.

As a leader in the protection of the most vulnerable, how can the United States
allow children here alone to face a judge in a courtroom without a lawyer, in a
case that could affect the course of their lives forever? Wendy Young Executive
Director Kids in Need of Defense (KIND) Washington, March 21, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Detention of Immigrants in New York City

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 251 words


To the Editor:

''Unfair to Immigrants, Costly for Taxpayers,'' by Scott M. Stringer, the
Manhattan borough president, and Andrew Friedman, an immigrant advocate (Op-Ed,
April 5), argues that New York City wrongly cooperates with federal immigration
authorities by sharing information and holding immigrants who have been arrested
for crimes for 48-hour detention orders issued by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. What they don't seem to realize is that detention of immigrants at
Rikers Island is primarily a public safety issue, not an immigration issue.

The mayor's Executive Order 41 allows immigrants to gain access to city services
and report crimes with no fear of being questioned about immigration status. But
when it comes to immigrants arrested for criminal activity, the executive order
ensures cooperation with federal authorities.

We would be jeopardizing the safety of all New Yorkers by doing any less when we
know that half the defendants in Rikers with ICE holds have been convicted of
prior crimes -- over half, of felonies -- and more than half of the defendants
have been charged with new felonies.

New York City is not alone: every major city in the country honors ICE detention
orders. As our country has learned tragically, when government agencies fail to
cooperate and share information, not only is public safety compromised, so is
national security.

JOHN FEINBLATT New York, April 6, 2011

The writer is Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's chief policy adviser and criminal
justice coordinator.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Of Coyotes, Crossings and Cellphones

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 123 words



HIGHLIGHT: How are people using cellphones for attempted illegal border
crossings?


WHO is using cellphones to issue and receive alerts about illegal border
crossings?

WHAT are "coyotes"?

WHERE along the United States border are Mexicans attempting to cross into the
United States?

WHEN was a rancher killed along the border?

WHY is the use of cellphones to both aid and detect illegal border crossing
attempts limited?

HOW are people using cellphones for attempted border crossings?

Related: Our collection "Learning About U.S. Immigration With The New York
Times" and the lesson plan "Crossing Borders, Crossing Boundaries?".


     ·    100 Years Later: Examining the Impact of the Triangle Shirtwaist
          Factory Fire
     ·    A Dream Deferred
     ·    Are Your Tech Habits Hurting Your Grades?
     ·    'Obsessed With the Internet'
     ·    Test Yourself | History, Nov. 12, 2010


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Hardens Its Stance On an Immigrant Policy

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 855 words


After months of internal wrangling and confusion over an ambitious nationwide
program allowing state and local police agencies to identify immigrants with
criminal records, Obama administration immigration officials have decided to
take a hard line against communities that try to delay or cancel their
participation in the program, according to documents made public late Wednesday.

The program, Secure Communities, was initiated in late 2008 and is a centerpiece
of the Obama administration's strategy for enforcing immigration laws. The
documents include e-mails and other materials showing deliberations among
officials of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which runs the program.

The documents show that well into the second year of the program, as officials
were moving forcefully to extend it to hundreds of law enforcement agencies
across the country, the officials remained deeply confused over whether state
and local governments could decline to join it. The internal discussions
intensified as cities and states -- including Arlington County, Va., San
Francisco, Santa Clara County, Calif., Washington, and the states of Colorado,
New York, Oregon and Washington -- were considering whether to opt out.

But late last year, the documents show, officials from ICE, as the federal
agency is known, reaffirmed its policy that every local jurisdiction in the
country would be required to join the program by 2013. The officials developed a
plan to isolate and pressure communities that did not want to participate.

One document, dated Jan. 2, 2011, suggests a ''tactical approach to sensitive
jurisdictions'' for local immigration officers working to expand the program. It
recommends that they bring nearby communities into the program, to create a
''ring'' around the ''resistant site.''

The Secure Communities program connects the state and local police to Department
of Homeland Security databases, allowing them to use fingerprints to check the
immigration history, as well as the criminal record, of anyone booked after
arrest. If a fingerprint match shows that the suspect is subject to deportation,
both the immigration agency and the police are notified. As of this week, the
program had been activated in 1,049 local law enforcement agencies in 39 states.

Agency officials said the program has led to the deportation of about 58,300
immigrants with criminal convictions since it was started in 2008.

Immigrant advocacy groups strongly oppose the program, saying it has led to
deportations of thousands of illegal immigrants who had no criminal records,
separating established families. Immigrants' groups have held protests to
dissuade local governments from signing on.

About 15,000 pages of agency documents were released through a Freedom of
Information Act request by the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, the
Center for Constitutional Rights and immigration lawyers at the Benjamin N.
Cardozo School of Law in New York. The Associated Press obtained the documents
separately and reported on them on Wednesday.

Several dozen documents were culled for release by the groups, which oppose the
Secure Communities program.

Sarahi Uribe of the laborers' group accused the agency of misleading communities
by sending mixed signals about whether they could opt out of the program. ''The
amount of dishonesty revealed in this process would make anyone question whether
ICE recognizes it's operating in a democracy,'' Ms. Uribe said.

Immigration officials said they could not respond directly because a court case
over the release of the documents remained open. But Brian Hale, an agency
spokesman, said in a statement that ''deliberative, internal correspondence
should not be confused for final policy.''

He said that while communities could not opt out of the program, the police
could choose not to receive the results of immigration checks performed when
suspects are booked.

A Homeland Security official added that a state could legally refuse to
participate in the program, but he said immigration officials were confident
that no state would give up its access to national criminal databases.

The documents show that as inquiries arrived from states, immigration officials
scrambled in mid-2010 to determine whether the program was voluntary. From May
to July, Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, who was then
chairman of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, peppered agency
officials with queries on that issue.

''I'm totally confused now,'' one official wrote in a June 23 e-mail. ''It seems
like we have different language for different purposes and it's confusing,''
wrote the official, whose name was redacted.

In a flurry of e-mails, officials clarified that their plan was to extend the
program nationwide by 2013, with no exceptions. By September, they were weighing
ways to penalize states or police departments that did not participate, like
cutting off their access to all criminal fingerprint databases.

Ms. Lofgren said Thursday that it remained unclear to many communities whether
they had to participate. ''I don't see how the government has the authority to
do this,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Napolitano Drums for Dream Act

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
21

LENGTH: 136 words


Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano called on Congress on Thursday to
pass a bill granting legal status to thousands of illegal immigrant students,
saying it would help immigration authorities focus their resources on deporting
dangerous criminals. In a telephone call organized by the White House, Ms.
Napolitano told reporters that the students who would benefit ''have no fault
for being here in the United States'' because they were brought here as
children. ''No one who poses a threat to public safety will be able to adjust
their immigration status,'' she said, under a revised version of the bill, known
as the Dream Act, which was introduced Tuesday. Senator Jeff Sessions of
Alabama, a Republican who is a leading opponent, said he would resist it ''with
every strength and every ability that I have.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Utah Compact

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 515 words


Not all the political news this year involves the rise of partisan extremism and
government by rage. There has been lots of that. But maybe there is a limit, a
point when people of good sense and good will band together to say no. As they
have just done in Utah.

Political, business, law-enforcement and religious leaders there have endorsed
what they call the Utah Compact. It is a statement of principles meant to
address, with moderation and civility, ''the complex challenges associated with
a broken national immigration system.'' What a welcome contrast it draws with
the xenophobic radicalism of places like Arizona.

The signers, who hope to influence the shape of state immigration policy,
include the mayors of Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County, the state attorney
general, two Republican former governors, a former United States senator, and
the Roman Catholic Diocese of Salt Lake City, the Chamber of Commerce and a host
of other civic groups and citizens. The prominent and powerful Mormon Church did
not sign on but issued a ''statement of support'' calling the compact ''a
responsible approach to the urgent challenge of immigration reform.''

A clearer expression of good sense and sanity than Utah's would be hard to find.
It says immigration is an issue between the federal government and other
countries -- ''not Utah and other countries.'' It says local police agencies
should focus on fighting crime, ''not civil violations of federal code.''
Because ''strong families are the foundation of successful communities,'' it
opposes policies that unnecessarily separate them. It recognizes immigrants'
value as workers and taxpayers.

It ends by urging a humane approach to the reality of immigration: ''Utah should
always be a place that welcomes people of good will.''

South of Utah in Arizona, the political establishment, top law-enforcement
officers and voters have lined up behind a radical go-it-alone strategy to
uproot and terrorize unwanted immigrants. That hard-line fever is spreading,
with lawmakers in other states scrambling to pass their versions of the infamous
Arizona law that empowers the police to demand people's papers.

Immigration hard-liners are used to using the harshest words possible for
newcomers, and condemning calls for restraint and humane behavior -- as the Utah
Minutemen already have -- as the same old liberal, pro-amnesty mush. But
red-state Utah is nobody's idea of an open-borders fantasyland. The architects
of the compact are conservative Republicans who have simply decided not to toe
the simplistic party line.

This page has always insisted that reform can be -- must be -- pro-immigrant,
pro-business, pro-family, pro-law-enforcement, all at the same time. These
values are complementary. Law enforcement is strengthened by bolstering
immigrants' rights. Assimilation is more American than mass expulsion. It is
also cheaper: a new study by the liberal Center for American Progress calculated
that Arizona had lost hundreds of millions of dollars in convention and other
business, thanks to the notoriety from its immigration crackdown.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 10, 2011 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Sheriff Who's Ready To Express His Opinions

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 579 words


TUCSON -- Sheriff Clarence W. Dupnik has never shied away from making his views
known -- sometimes loudly.

When Arizona passed its controversial strict immigration law last year, he
repeatedly referred to it as stupid and racist. When he spoke before a United
States Senate hearing on immigration in the spring of 2009, he did not hesitate
to make it clear that he believed that schools should check the immigration
status of all of their students.

''It's wrong for the taxpayers in this country to spend the millions and
millions and millions of dollars that we do catering'' to illegal immigrants,''
Sheriff Dupnik said.

So when he made it clear over the weekend that he believed that divisive
political language had contributed to Saturday's shootings, few here were
surprised. Those who have worked with him for years said his comments were
simply the latest example of him saying precisely what he thinks.

''This is a man who has always spoken his mind, regardless of who agrees with
him at the time -- and more often than not he's ahead of popular sentiment,''
said Chuck Huckleberry, the chief administrator for Pima County, who has worked
with Sheriff Dupnik for nearly 20 years. ''He's not the kind of man who spends a
lot of time thinking about what is popular, and that's what makes him so
effective.''

At the same time, his supporters said, Sheriff Dupnik has never been one to fan
political fires. After his comments about schools incensed several political
leaders, the issue quickly and quietly died down, in part because Sheriff Dupnik
did not repeat his remarks.

''We both agreed that everything had become much more hateful over the last
several years and we didn't want to contribute to that,'' said Eva Dong, a local
school board member who criticized the sheriff at the time. ''We had a lot of
violent talk, and we didn't want to contribute to that. We figured we could show
that we could have different opinions and leave it at that.''

Sheriff Dupnik, who entered law enforcement five decades ago, was recruited from
the Tucson Police Department in 1977 to work as a top officer to advise the
sheriff at the time. Since being elected sheriff in 1980, he has won re-election
eight times -- an achievement for any county official, and one that is more
remarkable since he is a Democrat in a largely conservative part of the country.

Most describe him as a conservative Democrat, not all that different from
Representative Gabrielle Giffords, for whom he appeared in a campaign commercial
in 2008.

Sheriff Dupnik has been widely praised by local leaders for avoiding political
grandstanding, but he certainly does not shy from the spotlight. As he stood
next to the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III, at a news conference on
Sunday, he did not appear the least bit uncomfortable.

At one point, Sheriff Dupnik cut off questions to Mr. Mueller, saying that other
officials were still available to speak.

Asked whether Arizona's rather soft gun laws had contributed to the attack,
Sheriff Dupnik replied, ''I have never been a proponent of letting everyone in
this state carry guns under almost any situation, and that's almost where we
are.''

Senator John Kyl of Arizona, a Republican, said Sunday on ''Face the Nation'' on
CBS that Sheriff Dupnik's comments about the state of politics were out of line.

''I didn't really think that that had any part in a law enforcement briefing,''
Mr. Kyl said. ''It was speculation, and I don't think we should rush to
speculate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2011



CORRECTION: An article on Monday about Clarence W. Dupnik, the sheriff of Pima
County, site of the recent shootings in Arizona, misspelled the given name of
one of the state's United States senators who said that comments by the sheriff
about the state of politics in Arizona were out of line. He is Senator Jon Kyl,
not John. (Go to Article)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Those who know Sheriff Clarence W. Dupnik of Pima County, Ariz.,
say he does not shy away from saying exactly what he thinks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
SAMANTHA SAIS/FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Perry Puts Immigration Atop Session's Agenda

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY.

rramsey@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 776 words


Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column.

Three reasons Gov. Rick Perry declared sanctuary cities an ''emergency item''
for the Texas Legislature: A nativist electorate, a reluctance to mimic Arizona
on immigration law and the closing commercial in his campaign for re-election
last year.

Here's one more: The first 60 days of a legislative session offer the governor a
moment of control over the agenda, and he has decided to point the spotlight,
for now, on immigration and property rights, the second issue he declared to be
an emergency. He hasn't done it yet, but passing voter photo ID is a good bet
for the next act in the center ring.

The governor is, in effect, alone on the stage. Lawmakers can't deliberate on
bills for the first 60 days of the 140-day session unless he says so, by
declaring emergencies. They don't have to be emergencies, necessarily, but the
process allows lawmakers to handle pressing business, while letting the governor
drive the agenda during the session's first weeks. For Mr. Perry, it's a chance
to deal with immigration matters before the budget, redistricting and other
issues claim the limelight.

Mr. Perry's focus on sanctuary cities -- those that do not allow their police
officers to enforce federal immigration laws -- could offer him safe passage
through the contentious immigration debate. Arizona wants its police to question
the immigration status of anyone they suspect is in the country illegally. Mr.
Perry wouldn't require police to ask, but would allow it.

It's a fine distinction for a Republican Party trying to win favor with
Hispanics while quelling a rebellion from nativist conservatives. Mr. Perry
wants to answer the anger of the second group without stoking it in the first.

In the governor's race, he and Bill White battled over whether Houston was a
sanctuary city while Mr. White was mayor. Houston never had an official edict
from its City Council or mayor, but the police followed a general order against
asking about the citizenship of people who hadn't been arrested (they did run
immigration checks after arrests).

Some, including many police chiefs, argue that asking for papers all the time
gets in the way of regular police work and makes it harder for officers to win
the trust of citizens whose help is needed to fight crime. Mr. Perry hit that
note in a statement last April, rejecting the Arizona standard because ''some
aspects of the law turn law enforcement officers into immigration officials by
requiring them to determine immigration status during any lawful contact with a
suspected alien, taking them away from their existing law enforcement duties,
which are critical to keeping citizens safe.'' The Texas Department of Public
Safety's policy under Mr. Perry is remarkably similar to Houston's and other big
cities in the state.

The argument stopped there, for a while. Then Mr. Perry closed his campaign with
a television ad featuring Sgt. Joslyn Johnson, a Houston police officer whose
husband, Rodney, also a police officer, was killed by an illegal immigrant
during a traffic stop. This being a political ad, it blamed Mr. White's policies
as mayor for that death.

While Mr. Perry doesn't want to copy Arizona's immigration law, he said during
the campaign that he understood the sentiment that led to it, and that Texas
should step in and protect its borders if the federal government won't. So the
policy and the politics don't exactly match up. He has got to do something -- he
campaigned on it -- but doesn't want to do what Arizona did.

If he doesn't jump in, the Legislature surely will. By the end of the week,
lawmakers had already filed 30 bills with the word ''immigration'' in them,
including legislation that would require police officers to inquire into the
immigration status of people they've arrested. That's before you get to the
goodies like anchor babies, state services for non-citizens, immigration records
of public school students and sanctuary cities; this, along with the budget and
redistricting, is front and center this session.

Mr. Perry and his aides can't or won't name any sanctuary cities, but the
governor said he was going to make it illegal to be one. He said last week that
there were cities that had ''made decisions to be havens for those who are
either in conflict with federal immigration laws, or state laws, and we're going
to prohibit that.

''We'll have a good and open discussion about what we're going to prohibit,'' he
said, ''and if the shoe is fitting you, then you might not want to be wearing
it.''

It's a potentially treacherous issue, and for now, that's as specific as he's
going to get.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Perry in Austin on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC
GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Sees Success in Immigration Program for Haitians

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 819 words


A year after the devastating earthquake in Haiti, the American government has
received more than 53,000 applications from Haitians seeking temporary legal
status in the United States, and it has approved the vast majority, a top
immigration official said Wednesday.

The official, Alejandro Mayorkas, director of United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, said his agency's response to the disaster showed that it
could handle a much larger immigrant legalization program like the proposal
known as the Dream Act, which would provide a path to citizenship for hundreds
of thousands of young illegal immigrants.

Tuesday was the deadline for Haitians to apply for the designation, called
temporary protected status. The program gives most Haitians who were in the
United States on the day of the earthquake the right to stay and work legally
for 18 months while Haiti tries to recover.

''I think our performance and our execution of the T.P.S. program serves as a
model of our ability to execute immigration reform programs,'' Mr. Mayorkas said
in an interview. ''How quickly, effectively and efficiently we responded to the
disaster is a standard for us to adhere to.''

The special designation is scheduled to expire on July 22, but advocates for
Haitian immigrants say they expect that the government will extend the status,
as it has for immigrants from other countries crippled by war or natural
disaster.

At least 46,000 Haitians have been granted the special designation. Immigration
officials said that they were still processing applications that arrived before
the deadline, and that they expected the total number of approvals to exceed
49,000. That is still lower than the number of people federal officials
initially expected might be eligible for the temporary protection.

Immigration officials said they had purposely chosen high estimates of the
number of Haitians who might have been eligible, to ensure that they had
budgeted enough money and manpower to handle the application process. Within
several weeks of the announcement, officials said, they revised down to 70,000
to 100,000 their initial estimate of 100,000 to 200,000, after consulting with
academics, immigrant advocates and others familiar with the Haitian diaspora.

Even now, officials said, since there is no way to count the illegal immigrant
population, they do not know how many potentially eligible Haitians decided not
to file for the special status.

The federal government's offer was accompanied by a robust outreach effort that
included more than 200 public forums, and conference calls between immigration
officials and advocacy groups working with Haitians, officials said. Mr.
Mayorkas himself led meetings with community leaders and others in New York,
Miami and Boston, where large Haitian populations have taken root, and he sent
deputies to other locations to explain the program.

Officials at Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of the Department
of Homeland Security, also say that improvements to the agency's paperwork
processing, background screening and public information systems have made it
more efficient at handling applications.

Mr. Mayorkas acknowledged that sweeping immigration legislation like the Dream
Act would apply to a much larger population: by some estimates, more than
700,000 young illegal immigrants would be eligible under the act. But he said
that the difference was ''an issue of scale'' and that his agency was prepared
to handle the increase in applications that an immigration overhaul would spur.

Immigrant advocates and federal officials said that news of the special status
seemed to penetrate into the furthest reaches of the diaspora, but some Haitians
living in the United States illegally may have decided not to apply because they
still feared deportation and did not want to alert the authorities to their
whereabouts.

Those who did not apply may now be eligible for deportation. The Obama
administration suspended deportations to Haiti immediately after the earthquake
and even released many Haitians, including some with criminal convictions.

Last month, however, immigration officials announced that they would resume
deportations of Haitians in mid-January. But they also said they intended to
focus their deportation efforts only on those who had been convicted of crimes
or who posed a threat to public safety.

Haitian leaders in the United States and some public officials have asked the
administration to reverse course. On Wednesday, six New York City Council
members sent a letter to Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary,
urging her to suspend deportations once again while Haiti wrestles with its
halting reconstruction effort and with fresh political and social unrest.

''Removing Haitians at this time would not only put those removed at risk,'' the
letter said, ''but also hamper efforts of Haitians to rebuild their country,
homes and lives.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Haitian immigrant, back to camera, being helped last January
in a clinic to apply for temporary legal status. Most of the 53,000 Haitians who
applied by the deadline Tuesday gained the status. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JB REED FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words


International

FOREIGNERS EVACUATE LIBYA

As Unrest Continues

Thousands of foreign citizens -- including hundreds of Americans -- were
scrambling to find a way out of Libya as forces loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi
fought pitched battles to maintain control of a shrinking portion of the
oil-rich country. PAGE A4

Search for Quake Survivors A6

National

ARIZONA LAWMAKERS PUSH

New Immigration Rules

Arizona lawmakers are proposing a sweeping package of immigration restrictions
that would bar immigrants from enrolling in school, from driving anywhere in the
state and from receiving most public benefits. The offspring of illegal
immigrants would receive special birth certificates that would make it clear
that the state does not consider them Arizona citizens. PAGE A16

POLITICAL TUMULT IN CHICAGO

When Rahm Emanuel, the former chief of staff to President Obama, takes over as
Chicago's mayor in May, it is expected to upend the politics of this city -- not
only because things have been mostly the same there for so long, but also
because of Mr. Emanuel's harsh style, his relationships and rivals, and because
of the enormous challenges facing the nation's third-largest city. PAGE A19

New York

GOVERNORS DON'T AGREE

That Christie Is Their Model

This week, Gov. Chris Christie billed himself as a different kind of national
leader. When other states close budget deficits and curb rising costs, he said
in unveiling his budget plan, they are using New Jersey's playbook. But other
governors say they are not modeling their policies after Gov. Christie, but
adhering to austerity plans necessitated by the lagging economy. PAGE A23

Business

OPPOSITION ARISES

To Charities' Merger

The announcement last week of a merger between Smile Train and Operation Smile
-- two long-estranged charity organizations that work to repair cleft lips and
palates of children in poor countries -- has prompted some board members from
one group to complain about the deal's unusual financial structure. PAGE B1

Sports

LABOR DISPUTE UPENDS

N.F.L.'s Staid World

If N.F.L. team owners and the players union do not agree on a new labor
agreement by March 3, there will be no football activity of any kind, other than
preparations for the draft in April, until one gets done. PAGE B13

Arts

COMING OF AGE

With a Sharp Eye

On the surface, Alison Espach's novel, ''The Adults,'' is the coming-of-age
story of a disaffected girl in wealthy, leafy Connecticut. But Janet Maslin
writes that its sweep is larger than might be expected by that premise, and the
girl, Emily Vidal, is a lot more interesting than the sum of her spoiled
suburban parts. PAGE C1

Dance Review: 'Esplanade' C1

Home

TRIMMING LIVING ESSENTIALS

To a Bed and a Roof

Derek Diedricksen makes playful micro-homes out of junk -- most of them only
several feet wide and high. PAGE D1

Thursday Styles

A VIOLINIST STRADDLES

Classical Music and Fashion

Despite sharing a lease at Lincoln Center, the classical-music and fashion
industries tend to be mutually exclusive. But for Hahn-Bin, a 22-year-old
protege of the eminent violinist Itzhak Perlman who holds Mozart and Warhol in
equal esteem, they are complementary. PAGE E1

Op-ed

NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A27

GAIL COLLINS PAGE A27

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Chiefs Wary of Immigration Role

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 655 words


As many state legislatures consider laws to expand the role of local police
departments in immigration control, police chiefs across the country say they
are reluctant to take on these tasks and want clear lines drawn between local
crime-fighting and federal immigration enforcement, according to a new report by
a police research group.

Dozens of police department commanders who participated in the report
recommended that local officers should be explicitly prohibited from arresting
people solely because of their immigration status, and should have orders to
protect victims and witnesses regardless of that status.

The report, issued on Thursday by the Police Executive Research Forum, cites
worries among police chiefs that if they are pulled into immigration
enforcement, a job that was limited until recently to federal agents, their ties
to immigrant communities will be eroded, with the result that crimes would not
be reported and witnesses would be afraid to cooperate in investigations.

While police chiefs have spoken out against efforts to increase their
immigration role in cities like Phoenix and Los Angeles, which have been
embroiled in debates on the issue, the report makes clear how widespread the
concerns are among commanders. Top officers from Salt Lake City, Topeka, Kan.,
Elgin and Peoria, Ill., Framingham, Mass., and Miami were among the chiefs and
sheriffs supporting the recommendations in the report.

Arizona has gone furthest among the states to authorize local police departments
to participate in an immigration crackdown, with a law passed last April. It
ordered officers to question anyone they stopped about immigration status based
on a ''reasonable suspicion'' that the person was an illegal immigrant. The
Obama administration sued Arizona over the statute and federal courts have
suspended its central provisions.

Despite the federal challenge in Arizona, similar bills have been introduced
this year in at least 19 state legislatures. They have advanced through some
stage of approval in Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, South Carolina and
Nebraska.

The Police Executive Research Forum, based in Washington, provides policy
research to the chiefs of the country's largest law enforcement agencies. Its
report started with recommendations that police chiefs initially made at a
meeting in Phoenix in July 2009. The researchers then looked more closely at six
cities where police chiefs became embattled because of immigration disputes in
their communities.

While local police officers generally have not been authorized to enforce
federal immigration law, the chiefs recommended that arrests based only on
immigration status be prohibited by order. They said departments should
reinforce policies that civil rights must be protected regardless of a person's
immigration status.

The chiefs called on federal immigration authorities to separate out criminal
warrants from civil immigration warrants, which are not based on crimes, in law
enforcement databases that police routinely use to check backgrounds of people
they arrest.

''I'm trying to avoid my police officers getting into the immigration
enforcement business,'' J. Thomas Manger, the police chief of Montgomery County,
Md., said in an interview Thursday. ''It's counter to my mission,'' said Chief
Manger, one of the commanders whose role in an immigration debate was
highlighted in the report.

He said one of his biggest efforts was to gain the trust of immigrant
communities in the county. ''If folks think for one second that if I report I
was assaulted, the police will deport me, there will be an increase in
unreported crime and people won't testify,'' he said.

Chief Manger said he would not advocate any policy that would lessen enforcement
against immigrants who committed crimes. Montgomery County ''is not a sanctuary
jurisdiction by any means,'' he said. ''If there are criminal warrants, we lock
them up as quick as we find them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Anti-Arizonans

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 505 words


Washington's inaction on immigration reform has left the states feeling
abandoned and wondering what to do. When the frustration boils over, as it has
most scarily in Arizona, Republicans have been pushing what amounts to
vigilantism -- states taking on federal enforcement, shouldering aside civil
rights and the Constitution and spending whatever it takes to get rid of illegal
immigrants. It's a seductively simple vision, and lawmakers across the country
are grasping at it, pushing Arizona-style copycat laws.

Thank goodness for the pushback. In dozens of states considering such crackdowns
-- including Nebraska, Indiana, Oklahoma, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, South
Carolina and Texas -- elected officials, law enforcers, business owners,
religious leaders and regular citizens are providing the calm voices and cool
judgment that are lacking in the shimmering heat of Phoenix.

They are reminding their representatives that replacing federal immigration
policy with a crazy quilt of state-led enforcement schemes is only a recipe for
more lawlessness and social disruption, for expensive lawsuits and busted
budgets, lost jobs and boycotts. And all without fixing the problem.

This isn't just an immigrants' cause. Business owners in places like Kansas and
Texas, the attorney general in Indiana, Catholic and Protestant bishops in
Mississippi -- these and hundreds of other community leaders have been sending a
contrary message.

The businesses say bills to force employers to check workers' legal status are
redundant, costly and anticompetitive. The clergy members have denounced bills
to criminalize acts of charity, like driving an undocumented immigrant to church
or the doctor. Lawyers have said new layers of enforcement paperwork would
heavily burden legitimate business and overwhelm state bureaucracies.

Police chiefs and sheriffs are leading the skeptical resistance to the bills,
which frequently involve having local police checking the immigration status of
people they stop. A report released on Thursday by a national police research
group looked at cities where police officials had been drawn into heated
immigration debates. Its conclusions: federal enforcement is no job for local
officers, who should be forbidden to arrest or detain people solely because of
their immigration status.

The reasons: it costs too much, prompts false-arrest lawsuits and frightens
law-abiding immigrants. ''I have a responsibility to provide service to the
entire community -- no matter how they got here,'' said Chief Charlie Deane of
the Prince William County Police Department in Virginia. ''It is in the best
interest of our community to trust the police.''

The chiefs of Nebraska's two largest police departments -- in Lincoln and Omaha
-- recently told the State Legislature basically the same thing.

A peculiar mix of nativism and immigration panic has pushed the immigration
debate far out into the desert of extremism. It's going to take a serious effort
by saner voices to ensure that what happens in Arizona stays there.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

D.I.Y. Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 548 words


Political, business, labor and religious leaders in Utah were widely praised
last year for signing the Utah Compact, agreeing to seek practical solutions to
the problems of illegal immigration while avoiding the extremist oratory and
harsh enforcement schemes that have given its neighbor Arizona such a toxic
reputation.

The state has now adopted a series of laws to put those goals into practice.
They amount to one state's effort to enact its own comprehensive immigration
reform, given Washington's continuing failure to do so.

We understand the frustration, but going solo on immigration is not a good idea,
even with good intentions.

On the enforcement side, Utah's new laws have some aspects that are sensible in
principle, including stricter procedures for verifying immigrants' eligibility
to work. We are concerned about the effort to draw local police agencies into
federal immigration enforcement.

Arizona's immigration law, which orders its police officers to check the
immigration status of anyone they suspect of being here illegally, is a
wide-open invitation to racial profiling and an intrusion onto federal
authority. The Obama administration sued to block it, and a federal judge has
declared much of it unconstitutional.

Though Utah's bill seeks to temper Arizona's approach -- it would, for example,
require officers to check immigration status only when people are arrested for
serious crimes -- it is still too open to abuse.

Utah's planned guest-worker program would issue permits to immigrants, even
undocumented ones, allowing them to work in Utah after they pass a background
check and pay a fine. This is magnanimous, practical and respectful of federal
authority -- it would go into effect only after Washington granted a waiver --
but even so, it is troubling. Illegal immigrants cannot legally be hired, and it
is hard to see how any state could carve out its own exception to that rule --
or why the federal government would allow it. It should not.

Another new law allows the governor to enter into a pilot program with the
Mexican state of Nuevo Leon to supply legal workers through existing federal
guest-worker programs. Those programs are cumbersome and offer too few
protections to workers. We certainly applaud efforts to streamline legal
immigration. Utah will need to commit to defending the workers it recruits and
to detect and root out employer abuse.

Utah's legislators deserve credit for trying. But the country cannot have 50
separate immigration systems, 50 separate foreign policies, 50 states following,
leading or stumbling around one another.

The states still have a major role to play. They can increase oversight and
workplace protections for all low-wage workers, native-born and immigrant. They
can push back at the Obama administration's misguided efforts like Secure
Communities, which muddies the line between local policing and federal
enforcement -- straining local resources and making it much less likely that
immigrant communities will cooperate with the police.

They can work harder to integrate immigrants into their communities, increase
support for citizenship and English language education, and issue driving
privilege cards. And they can keep the pressure on Congress and the president to
fix things the right way, in Washington.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia: 160 Immigrants Arrested

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 55 words


More than 160 foreign citizens, most of them illegal immigrants with criminal
records, were arrested in Northern Virginia over a three-day enforcement surge.
The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency announced the arrests in
Manassas, where political leaders have faulted it for failing to aggressively
enforce immigration laws.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Documents Reveal Pressure to Comply With Program to Deport Immigrants

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN.

klydersen@chicagonewscoop.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1015 words


Federal immigration officials, frustrated by the refusal of Chicago and Cook
County to join a controversial program aimed at deporting immigrants with
criminal records, pressed Mayor Richard M. Daley and Sheriff Tom Dart in an
aggressive campaign to obtain participation from reluctant police authorities,
according to internal documents.

Last spring, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials tried to put the
program, Secure Communities, in effect in Cook County without clear consent from
the sheriff's office. Their advisers proposed asking Rahm Emanuel, then White
House chief of staff, to use his Chicago connections to intervene with
unresponsive local leaders.

Chicago and Cook County were among several localities nationwide that refused to
enroll in the program, which involves sharing fingerprints of anyone arrested
with the Department of Homeland Security. Chicago and Cook County cited
so-called sanctuary ordinances that prohibit local officials from involvement in
immigration enforcement.

The Secure Communities program is in effect in more than 1,000 jurisdictions in
40 states, including Illinois. The federal agency plans to take it nationwide by
2013 and says it does not need local approval to do so.

E-mails and other documents -- obtained through a Freedom of Information Act
request by the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, an immigrant-rights
group -- show that immigration officials saw Chicago and Cook County among the
cities to be test cases for whether localities are allowed to opt out of the
program.

Secure Communities is meant to find and deport illegal immigrants found guilty
of serious crimes. But the immigration agency's statistics through February 2011
show that 32 percent of immigrants put into deportation proceedings in Illinois
had no criminal convictions. Nationwide, 28 percent had no criminal record.

''The original concept was to get the really bad people out of the country, but
are those the only ones you're getting?'' Mr. Dart said. ''I could never get a
straight answer. If it's getting murderers and rapists, we're all for that, but
if you're talking about people pulled over because their license plate isn't up
to date -- my staff kept coming back to me saying we never got clarification.''

Brian Hale, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement said in an
e-mail that the agency did not need permission from state or local authorities
to carry out Secure Communities. The idea to involve Mr. Emanuel, he said, came
from contractors working for the agency and did not reach top ICE officials. He
said that ICE was not aware of any contact with Mr. Emanuel.

The e-mails show disagreement within the agency over whether state and local
governments can refuse to participate. Local sanctuary ordinances do not bar
participation, some argued, because Secure Communities requires local officials
only to share fingerprints but does not require them to question or detain
suspected illegal immigrants.

The internal documents are dated between August 2009 and October 2010. A
February 2010 draft report, prepared by the Secure Communities office in
Washington, suggested appealing to Mr. Emanuel to intervene if local officials
''continue to refuse to attend briefings or join in a dialogue about the
benefits of S.C.''

A spokesman for Mr. Emanuel would not comment on whether ICE contacted him while
he was at the White House. As mayor, the spokesman said, Mr. Emanuel will adhere
to Chicago's sanctuary ordinance.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement signs agreements with state police agencies,
then seeks to enroll that state's county and city law enforcement agencies in
Secure Communities.

The Illinois State Police joined the program in November 2009, and since then
the program has been put in effect in 26 of 102 Illinois counties, including all
the counties bordering Cook. The internal documents describe this strategy as
forming a ''ring'' around a ''resistant site.''

On April 28, 2010, Immigration and Customs Enforcement sent an e-mail to Mr.
Dart's office saying the Secure Communities program would be activated May 5.

Mr. Dart's chief of staff at the time, Bill Cunningham, acknowledged the
request, by e-mail. He mentioned the sanctuary ordinance but cited federal law
that prevented local governments from interfering with immigration enforcement.
''The system can be activated without our approval,'' he wrote.

Even after John Morton, assistant secretary of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, traveled to Chicago on May 19 to meet with Mr. Dart and Mr. Daley
in an apparent effort to secure their cooperation, Chicago and Cook County did
not adopt the program.

Then, on May 27, the Illinois State Police told the federal agency to back off.
The state police's legal department did not view Mr. Cunningham's comment as
consent, according to an e-mail.

''This is not good, not good at all!'' the Secure Communities regional
coordinator, an agency contractor named Dan Cadman, wrote in an internal e-mail.
''Time perhaps for a full court press?'' Mr. Hale said Mr. Cadman's contract was
terminated on Friday.

Immigration and F.B.I. officials met Aug. 27 and decided the F.B.I. would
''reach out to personal contacts'' in Chicago and Cook County about Secure
Communities. But in November, the office of Gov. Pat Quinn ordered the state
police not to allow any more counties to enroll, pending a review of how the
program was being carried out. Mr. Hale said the agency was still planning to
put the program in effect here.

Immigration-rights advocates say the agency overstepped its bounds. ''They were
basically conspiring to make it appear Cook County had no choice,'' said Joshua
Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights, which obtained the documents from the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network.

Alderman Roberto Maldonado (26th Ward), who spearheaded the county sanctuary
ordinance during his time as county commissioner, said Secure Communities
''would violate the spirit'' of the sanctuary ordinance.

''They just come in here like Rambos and do what they want,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Confusion Over Policy on Married Gay Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 924 words


An announcement by immigration officials in Washington on Monday that they were
delaying decisions on some immigration cases involving gay couples led to a
surge of expectations among gay advocates that the Obama administration had
taken a small but significant step toward recognizing same-sex marriage.

But on Tuesday, immigration officials moved swiftly to clarify their position
and dampen those hopes, saying they have not made any policy changes that would
provide an opening to gay couples. The episode added to the legal confusion that
has followed the administration's determination last month that the law that
bars the federal government from recognizing gay marriages, the Defense of
Marriage Act, is unconstitutional.

In this case, the misunderstandings and soaring hopes arose from an effort in
recent days by officials at Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal
agency that awards immigration status, to clarify their policy on granting
permanent residency green cards to immigrants legally married to American
citizens who are gay. While it is routine for American citizens in heterosexual
couples to obtain green cards for their foreign spouses, the Defense of Marriage
Act has barred such status for immigrants in same-sex marriages.

That situation has long been a focus of criticism by gay rights groups, who
argue that the law is particularly discriminatory against immigrants. ''If you
are in a bi-national couple that is heterosexual, you get to stay here and work
here,'' said Richard Socarides, a lawyer who is president of Equality Matters, a
gay rights advocacy group. ''If you are gay, you get deported.''

In February, President Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced
that the administration would no longer defend the Defense of Marriage Act in
the courts, although it would continue to enforce the law, which was adopted in
1996, until it is changed by the courts or by Congress.

The position has led to a host of dilemmas for federal agencies that continue to
enforce the law. This month, Immigration Equality, a group that advocates for
immigrants in gay couples, wrote to immigration officials urging them to suspend
deportations of immigrants in same-sex marriages and suspend other cases
involving gay couples until the courts render a final decision on the
constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act.

The most recent crossed signals started at meetings last week between
immigration lawyers and officials from Citizenship and Immigration Services. The
officials said that some cases involving gay married couples had been suspended
while the agency sought guidance from its lawyers about issues related to the
marriage act.

On Monday, Christopher S. Bentley, the chief spokesman for the immigration
agency, confirmed in a statement that cases nationwide involving married gay
couples had been suspended. What Mr. Bentley did not say was how long that hold
might last and what issues the agency was seeking to clarify.

But the elated reaction among gay advocates and couples was immediate.
Describing Mr. Bentley's statement as ''a darn big deal,'' Rachel B. Tiven, the
executive director of Immigration Equality, called it ''the first domino to
fall'' for gay American citizens with foreign spouses.

Ms. Tiven said she understood that immigrants in married gay couples could now
apply for green cards and instead of being automatically denied, their cases
would be suspended until the courts decided the validity of the marriage act.

Word also went out across the country. In Princeton, N.J., Josh Vandiver and
Henry Velandia, in the middle of a public forum on immigration issues, embraced
and cheered. They said they had heard from their immigration lawyer that the
agency's announcement might mean at least a temporary reprieve from deportation
for Mr. Velandia.

Mr. Vandiver, 29, is an American citizen and a political science graduate
student at Princeton. He and Mr. Velandia, 27, who is from Venezuela, were
married last August in Connecticut, one of the states that recognize same-sex
marriages. Their application for a green card for Mr. Velandia was recently
denied, and he is facing deportation as early as May.

But on Tuesday, Mr. Bentley issued a new statement, saying that Citizenship and
Immigration Services ''has not implemented any change in policy and intends to
follow the president's directive to continue enforcing the law.''

Mr. Bentley said the agency's field offices had suspended cases for a short
period, perhaps a week or two, while lawyers clarified a ''narrow legal issue''
concerning the marriage act. He said the agency would probably resume action on
same-sex marriage cases in coming days and would continue to deny immigration
status to foreigners based on those marriages.

Immigration lawyers tried on Tuesday to sort out the meaning of the events.

''We have to be very cautious,'' said Lavi S. Soloway, a lawyer who represents
Mr. Velandia and Mr. Vandiver. He said gay couples should continue to understand
that ''if they file for immigration status, they may be putting themselves at
considerable risk of deportation.''

Mr. Velandia, a dancer, formed a dance company in Princeton, HotSalsaHot, and
teaches salsa classes there.

Mr. Vandiver said he and Mr. Velandia do not see an alternative to living in the
United States.

''The prospect of Henry's deportation is extremely frightening,'' he said. ''We
are committed to staying together, but the world is really closed to us. We both
think it's dangerous to return to Venezuela as a same-sex married couple.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Velandia, left, and Josh Vandiver in Princeton, N.J. ,
were married in Connecticut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LORI WASELCHUK FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Haitian Deportations to Resume

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
18

LENGTH: 151 words


After a two-month pause, immigration authorities will resume the deportations of
Haitians who have been convicted of crimes in the United States. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement began deporting Haitians in January, removing 27 that month,
but stopped after one deportee died of choleralike symptoms shortly after
arriving in Haiti and others fell ill. In new guidelines issued last Friday, the
agency said it would limit deportations mainly to Haitians convicted of violent
crimes and repeat offenders, who had also been ordered removed by an immigration
court. Agency officials said they would not place a priority on deporting
Haitian criminals who require medical treatment in this country. Catholic
advocates said many of the first deportees had served their sentences and had
been living without incident for years. The agency suspended the deportations
after a Jan. 12, 2010, earthquake in Haiti.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Is Lead Topic As Leaders Are Gathered

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 479 words


President Obama told a gathering of business, labor, religious and political
leaders at the White House on Tuesday that he remains committed to an overhaul
of the nation's immigration laws and wants to try again in the coming months to
push Congress to pass a bill.

With his re-election campaign launched this month and Latino communities growing
increasingly frustrated with his immigration policies, Mr. Obama summoned more
than 60 high-profile supporters of the stalled overhaul legislation to a
strategy session, looking for ways to revive it. Among those attending were
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, an independent; Mayor Julian Castro of
San Antonio, a Democrat; and former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a
Republican.

Two big-city police chiefs, Raymond W. Kelly of New York and Charles Ramsey of
Philadelphia, were there, as was Sheryl Sandberg, a top executive at Facebook,
and Leith Anderson, president of the National Association of Evangelicals, the
largest group of evangelical Christians.

Prospects for the proposed policy, which would grant legal status to millions of
illegal immigrants and revamp the immigration system, seem bleak in this
Congress, with staunch Republican opponents of the bill controlling pivotal
committee positions in the House of Representatives. Recently Latino leaders
have stepped up their criticism of Mr. Obama, as deportations have reached
record numbers under his administration and he has offered no relief from the
crackdown on immigrant communities.

Latino voters helped several Democrats, including Senator Harry Reid of Nevada,
the majority leader, survive the Republican shift in the midterm elections last
fall, and they are expected to be a major force in the presidential vote next
year.

In the closed meeting, Mr. Obama argued that the overhaul would bring immigrant
entrepreneurs to the United States and was a crucial piece of the economic
recovery, according to several people who attended. He sought views on whether
to try to pass smaller pieces of the massive overhaul, such as a bill that would
give legal status to illegal immigrant students, or one that would increase
visas for highly skilled foreign workers.

The president asked for help to ''change the debate'' to attract Republicans to
support the bill. He said he could not pass the overhaul ''if I am leading the
debate alone,'' according to a White House statement.

Mr. Bloomberg suggested recasting the acrimonious discussion over the proposed
policy to stress that it would not take jobs from Americans but would help the
economy, said John Feinblatt, the chief policy adviser to the mayor, who was in
the room.

''We need an immigration policy that attracts the best, brightest and hardest
working to our shores to help create jobs and spur growth,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
He has started a national campaign in support of the immigration bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Halted for Some Students as Lawmakers Seek New Policy

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 788 words


Olga Zanella, a Mexican-born college student in Texas, should have started
months ago trying to figure out how she could make a life in Mexico, since
American immigration authorities were working resolutely to deport her there.

But Ms. Zanella, 20, could not bring herself to make plans. She was paralyzed by
fear of a violent country she could not remember, where she had no close family.

Ms. Zanella, who has been living illegally in the United States since her
parents brought her here when she was 5, had been trying to fight her
deportation for more than two years. She was pulled over by the local police in
February 2009 as she was driving in her hometown, Irving, Tex., and did not have
a driver's license. The police handed her over to immigration agents.

Her case looked bleak, but in recent days everything changed. Last Thursday, an
Immigration and Customs Enforcement official in Dallas summoned Ms. Zanella and
told her she could remain in this country, under the agency's supervision, if
she stayed in school and out of trouble.

Encouraged by the surprising turnaround, Ms. Zanella's parents and two siblings,
who also had been living in the United States illegally, presented papers late
Monday to ICE, as the agency is known, turning themselves in and requesting some
form of legal immigration status.

''It's an opportunity we are going to take,'' Ms. Zanella said in a telephone
interview from Dallas. ''It's better than being in the shadows.''

The about-face by ICE in Ms. Zanella's case is an example of the kind of action
Democratic lawmakers and Latino and immigrant groups have been demanding from
the Obama administration to slow deportations of illegal immigrants who have not
been convicted of crimes. In particular, pressure is increasing on President
Obama to offer protection from deportation to illegal immigrant college students
who might have been eligible for legal status under a bill in Congress known as
the Dream Act.

In an April 13 letter, the top two Democrats in the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada
and Richard Durbin of Illinois, asked the president to suspend deportations for
those students. But short of that, the senators asked Mr. Obama to set
guidelines by which those students could come forward individually to ask to be
spared deportation and to obtain some authorization to remain in the United
States. The letter was signed by 20 other Senate Democrats. The Dream Act passed
the House but failed in the Senate in December.

Homeland Security officials have said their focus is increasingly on removing
immigrants who are convicted criminals. That, in fact, is what an ICE official
told Ms. Zanella in explaining the new decision in her case.

The agent said ICE ''was supposed to be concentrating on criminals, not on Dream
students,'' said Ralph Isenberg, a Dallas businessman who advocates for
immigrants and made it his cause to prevent Ms. Zanella from being deported. Mr.
Isenberg's challenges to ICE had kept Ms. Zanella in the country even after the
final date for her deportation in February.

''As long as I do well in school and stay out of trouble, I will be out of
trouble with ICE,'' Ms. Zanella said she was told. She has to report to ICE
every month.

ICE officials declined to comment on the case, citing privacy policies.

ICE officials in central Florida recently invited immigration lawyers to bring
forward illegal immigrants facing deportation who did not have criminal records,
offering provisional authorization for them to remain here and work legally.

On Tuesday, immigration authorities suspended the deportation of Mariano
Cardoso, 23, a Mexican student at Capital Community College in Connecticut,
according to Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat, who had pressed Mr.
Cardoso's cause. ICE's decision ended a two-year battle against deportation for
Mr. Cardoso.

But nationwide the administration's deportations policy remains confused and
erratically implemented, immigration lawyers said, with many students and
immigrants without criminal records being deported.

''The administration needs to make it clear to the public and to the rank and
file within ICE that it has a firm and clear policy of enforcing the law within
its priorities and discouraging going after cases that are not within its
priorities,'' said Gregory Chen, director of advocacy for the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. ''But that is just not happening
consistently.''

Ms. Zanella is studying at North Lake College in Irving to become a dentist. The
police in Irving never explained why they stopped her and never issued any
traffic ticket, Mr. Isenberg said.

ICE agents made no promises to Ms. Zanella's family. Her father, Jose Victor
Zanella, said: ''We are ready to trust in the system.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Olga Zanella, seated at right, with her mother, Oliva, her
brother Victor and an immigration activist, Ralph Isenberg, back right. Mr.
Isenberg pressed Olga Zanella's case with the authorities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REX C.
CURRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

States Resisting Program Central to Obama's Immigration Strategy

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1170 words


A program that is central to President Obama's strategy to toughen enforcement
of immigration laws is facing growing resistance from state governments and
police officials across the country.

Late Wednesday, Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois said he was pulling his state out of
the program, known as Secure Communities, the first time a state has sought to
withdraw entirely. In California, where the program is already under way
throughout the state, the Legislature is considering a bill that would allow
counties or police agencies to choose whether to participate.

In Massachusetts, Gov. Deval Patrick has held a series of heavily attended and
sometimes raucous meetings on the program in an effort to vent criticism and
build support for the administration's approach. In Maryland, Montgomery County
considered withdrawing, then concluded reluctantly that it had to take part.

Under the program, the fingerprints of every person booked by the police are
checked against Department of Homeland Security databases for immigration
violations. That is in addition to routine checks against the F.B.I.'s criminal
databases.

State officials and federal lawmakers have questioned the program, saying that
Homeland Security officials conveyed misleading information about whether
participation was mandatory or whether states could opt out. Some state
officials, led by Governor Quinn, said the program was not accomplishing its
stated goal of deporting convicted criminals, but had swept up many immigrants
who were here illegally but had not been convicted of any crime.

Mr. Obama has begun an effort, seen on both sides of the aisle in Congress as an
uphill fight, to win support for some kind of immigration legislation this year.

But the resistance to Secure Communities has exposed tensions in the president's
immigration strategy, which has led to record numbers of deportations -- almost
800,000 -- in the past two years. The deportations have antagonized Latino
immigrant communities that want Mr. Obama to press for legislation offering
legal status to illegal immigrants, and that strongly supported Democrats in
recent elections. Yet the deportations have not convinced many Republicans that
the administration is strong enough on enforcement.

The states' objections are setting up a confrontation with the Department of
Homeland Security, whose secretary, Janet Napolitano, has said that Secure
Communities is mandatory and will be extended to all jurisdictions in the
country by 2013. The program, started in Texas in 2008, is currently operating
in more than 1,200 local jurisdictions.

At a Congressional hearing this week, Ms. Napolitano said that the program was
crucial to the department's goal of finding criminal immigrants in state and
local jails and deporting them.

Governor Quinn, in a letter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency
that runs the Secure Communities program, said the Illinois State Police were
withdrawing because the program had not met the terms of a 2009 agreement with
the state. Under that memorandum, the program's purpose was to identify and
deport immigrants ''who have been convicted of serious criminal offenses.''

Statistics from the immigration agency showed that nearly one-third of
immigrants deported from Illinois under the program had no criminal convictions.
It is a civil violation for an immigrant to be in the United States illegally;
it is not a crime.

''Illinois signed up to help I.C.E. remove criminals convicted of serious
crimes, but based on the statistics from I.C.E., that's not what was
happening,'' said Brie Callahan, the governor's spokeswoman.

Governor Quinn, a Democrat, suspended the program in November and entered
negotiations with homeland security officials. Illinois officials decided to
withdraw after concluding that the immigration agency's operation of the program
was ''flawed,'' the governor's office said.

So far, 26 out of 102 local jurisdictions in Illinois had begun participating.
Governor Quinn asked the agency to ''deactivate'' those places.

Immigration agency officials said that John Morton, the head of the agency,
would go to Springfield, Ill., on Friday to meet with officials there. In a
statement, the agency said it was conducting a full review of the program ''to
identify any irregularities that could indicate misconduct in particular
jurisdictions'' and to tighten its focus on criminals.

Most criticism of the program has come from Democratic allies of Mr. Obama. The
Congressional Hispanic Caucus has asked him to suspend the program and
re-organize it to focus more closely on deporting violent criminals, drug
traffickers and other serious offenders. The American Immigration Lawyers
Association also called on Mr. Obama this week to suspend the program.

Republicans in Congress, seeking even tougher enforcement of immigration laws,
would like to see more of the program.

''All too often, illegal immigrants who have committed crimes go on to commit
more,'' said Lamar Smith of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee. ''To make our streets safer, state and local governments
should embrace Secure Communities,'' he said. ''Opposition to this program
endangers Americans.''

California's concerns were first raised by several local law enforcement
officials, including Michael Hennessey, the longtime sheriff of San Francisco.
They argued that engaging local police in immigration enforcement would erode
hard-earned trust with Latino and other immigrant communities. Representative
Zoe Lofgren of California, the top-ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary
immigration subcommittee, began questioning immigration agency officials on
whether local police and governments could opt out.

This year, the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, an immigrant advocate
organization, obtained a trove of e-mails and other internal documents
concerning Secure Communities from the immigration agency through a Freedom of
Information request.

After examining those documents, Ms. Lofgren and Senator Robert Menendez of New
Jersey, also a Democrat, demanded that the homeland security inspector general
open an investigation. Ms. Lofgren said officials had deliberately misled local
governments into thinking they could choose to opt out of the program.

''I believe that some false and misleading statements may have been made
intentionally, while others were made recklessly,'' Mr. Lofgren wrote the
inspector general.

In an apologetic response, Mr. Morton, the head of the immigration agency, said
the agency ''takes full responsibility for the confusion and inconsistent
statements'' about participation. But he said expanding Secure Communities
remained a top priority.

In Massachusetts, Governor Patrick said late last year that he would accept the
program statewide, then paused after an outcry from immigrant organizations, who
said it was bound to catch many illegal immigrant workers with no criminal
history. The town meetings he organized have drawn both opponents and very vocal
supporters of the program.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Pat Quinn aims to take Illinois out of the program.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)(A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Warns Schools Against Checking Immigration Status

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 613 words


Federal officials issued a memorandum to the nation's school districts on Friday
saying it was against the law for education officials to seek information that
might reveal the immigration status of children applying for enrollment.

Civil liberties advocates and others have complained in recent months that many
school districts are seeking children's immigration papers as a prerequisite for
enrollment. Some state and local officials have also considered bills to require
prospective students to reveal their citizenship or immigration status.

''We have become aware of student enrollment practices that may chill or
discourage the participation, or lead to the exclusion, of students based on
their or their parents' or guardians' actual or perceived citizenship or
immigration status,'' said the memo, from Justice and Education Department
officials. ''These practices contravene federal law.''

The letter cited a 1982 Supreme Court decision that recognized the right of all
children, regardless of immigration status, to attend public school as long as
they met the age and residency requirements set by state law.

''The undocumented or noncitizen status of a student (or his or her parent or
guardian) is irrelevant to that student's entitlement to an elementary and
secondary public school education,'' said the memo, signed by Thomas E. Perez,
assistant attorney general for the civil rights division of the Justice
Department; Russlynn H. Ali, assistant secretary for civil rights in the
Education Department; and Charles P. Rose, that department's general counsel.

Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said it was the first time
her agency had issued guidance to school districts on the 1982 decision. The
Education Department did not return calls seeking comment.

Civil liberties advocates, who had been asking President Obama's administration
to clarify the law, hailed the memo. ''We're gratified that the Department of
Justice has seen fit to do the right thing, to clarify any ambiguities,'' said
Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union,
calling the guidance ''a really big deal.''

Last year, Ms. Lieberman's group found that 139 districts in New York State --
about 20 percent of the total -- were requiring children's immigration papers as
a prerequisite to enrollment, or asking parents for information that only lawful
immigrants could provide.

While the group did not find any cases in which children had been turned away
for lack of immigration paperwork, it warned that the requirements could deter
illegal immigrant families from enrolling children for fear that their status
might be reported to federal authorities.

After months of pressure from the civil liberties group, the state's Education
Department sent school districts a memo strongly recommending that they not ask
for information that might reveal the immigration status of enrolling students.
State education officials in Maryland, New Jersey, Illinois and Nebraska have
taken steps in recent years to halt similar practices, immigrant advocates said.

Despite the New York memo, some school districts there continued to press for
the right to ask about immigration status, said Udi Ofer, advocacy director of
the New York Civil Liberties Union.

In Arizona, state lawmakers have considered a bill that would require the
state's Education Department to determine the number of public school students
who are unable to prove lawful presence in the United States, officials said.
Last year, a legislative committee in Oklahoma favored a bill to require public
schools to determine, at the time of enrollment, whether a child was born
outside the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Gives Immigrant in Same-Sex Marriage a Reprieve From Deportation

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 814 words


An immigration judge in Newark on Friday suspended the deportation of a
Venezuelan man who is married to an American man, responding to an unusual
signal this week from the Obama administration that it is exploring legal
avenues for recognizing same-sex marriages in immigration cases.

The Venezuelan, Henry Velandia, had been awaiting the hearing with dread, since
immigration authorities had said it was the last step before his deportation.
Mr. Velandia, a dancer, was legally married last year in Connecticut to Josh
Vandiver, a graduate student at Princeton. Mr. Velandia was denied legal
residency as Mr. Vandiver's spouse because under a federal law, the Defense of
Marriage Act, immigration authorities do not recognize same-sex marriage.

On Thursday, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. intervened in a different
immigration case involving a same-sex couple, suspending the deportation of a
man from Ireland and sending his case back to the immigration appeals court,
asking it to consider several possible grounds on which the Irishman might
qualify for legal residency.

Citing the move by the attorney general, Judge Alberto J. Riefkohl of
immigration court in Newark postponed Mr. Velandia's deportation until December
at the earliest. The judge said he wanted to allow time for the attorney general
and the appeals court to work out whether a gay partner might be eligible under
some circumstances for residency.

Gay rights advocates said the back-to-back developments were an important sign
that the Obama administration was working to bring consistency to its policy on
same-sex marriage. The administration determined in February that the Defense of
Marriage Act discriminates unconstitutionally against gay people.

Mr. Holder said then that the administration would no longer defend the act,
also known as DOMA, in the courts, but would continue to enforce it until the
courts reached a decision on whether it was constitutional.

Rachel B. Tiven, the executive director of Immigration Equality, a legal group
that advocates for gay immigrants, said the change of course in the two cases
had sent ''a signal of openness'' from the administration.

''Something is shifting and opening, and change is on the horizon,'' Ms. Tiven
said.

Supporters of the Defense of Marriage Act, which defines marriage for the
purposes of federal law as between a man and a woman, reacted strongly to Mr.
Holder's action.

Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the Republican who is chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, said the attorney general had ''instructed an immigration
court to ignore DOMA in future rulings.''

Mr. Smith said the administration was ''coming dangerously close to giving the
impression they don't care what the law says.''

In Newark, Mr. Velandia and Mr. Vandiver were mainly relieved that they had
avoided separation. ''We know this is just a reprieve,'' Mr. Vandiver said.
''But every day we can have together is invaluable.''

Mr. Velandia, 27, is a salsa dancer who came to the United States in 2002 and
failed in his effort to gain an employment visa. He has become a poster case for
gay immigrants across the country, as he and Mr. Vandiver, 29, gathered
thousands of signatures on an online petition asking Janet Napolitano, the
secretary of homeland security, to suspend deportations for all same-sex
spouses.

Before the hearing, dozens of gay protesters demonstrated on the sidewalk in
front of the federal building in Newark where the immigration court is housed.

Judge Riefkohl noted in the hearing that Mr. Velandia and Mr. Vandiver were a
married couple, and he said he wanted to wait for the outcome of the immigration
appeals court's reconsideration of the case of the Irish immigrant.

''We won the victory we were looking for,'' said Lavi Soloway, the lawyer for
Mr. Velandia and Mr. Vandiver. ''The government acknowledged that Henry's
removal was no longer a foregone conclusion.''

The Irishman, Paul Wilson Dorman, came to the United States in 1996 and stayed
beyond the term of his visa. But in a potentially important wrinkle, Mr. Dorman
joined with an American citizen in June 2009 in a civil union -- not a marriage
-- in New Jersey. That state does not offer same-sex marriage.

His lawyer, Nicholas J. Mundy, said the courts had denied his partner's petition
for a permanent resident visa for Mr. Dorman. But Mr. Holder asked the
immigration appeals court to re-examine the case to determine whether Mr. Dorman
might qualify for the visa by virtue of his civil union.

Mr. Mundy said he was optimistic about the significance for gay immigrants of
Mr. Holder's action. ''It is an extraordinary measure,'' he said, ''and it sends
a clear message that the Obama administration intends to do away with DOMA in
its entirety.''

Ms. Tiven, of Immigration Equality, was more cautious. ''This is not yet the
solution that thousands of families clearly need,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Josh Vandiver, left, and his husband, Henry Velandia, outside
the immigration court in Newark on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. to Continue Policy Against Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 349 words


After two instances in which deportations were suspended in immigration cases
involving same-sex couples, the Justice Department has cautioned that it will
continue to enforce a law that bars the federal government from recognizing
same-sex marriages.

A Justice Department official said Saturday that Attorney General Eric H. Holder
Jr. had made no change in the administration's approach to the law, the Defense
of Marriage Act, suggesting that deportations could continue in other
immigration cases involving married gay couples.

On Friday, an immigration judge in Newark suspended the deportation of Henry
Velandia, a Venezuelan man who was legally married last year in Connecticut to
an American citizen, Josh Vandiver. The judge cited an unusual action by Mr.
Holder in a different case.

On Thursday, Mr. Holder postponed the deportation of an Irish immigrant involved
in a same-sex union, sending the case back to the immigration appeals court. The
Irish man, Paul Wilson Dorman, was joined in a civil union in 2009 with an
American citizen in New Jersey.

The Board of Immigration Appeals had denied Mr. Dorman residency, citing the
Defense of Marriage Act, known as DOMA. Among other issues, Mr. Holder asked the
appeals court to consider whether the civil union might qualify Mr. Dorman as a
spouse eligible for residency.

Tracy Schmaler, a spokeswoman for Mr. Holder, said he had interceded in Mr.
Dorman's case only because he wanted the immigration appeals court to decide
issues he felt had been overlooked. ''As we have made clear, we will continue to
enforce DOMA,'' Ms. Schmaler said.

In February, Mr. Holder announced that the administration viewed the marriage
act as unconstitutional and would not defend it in the courts, although the
administration would continue to enforce the law.

Gay rights advocates have asked the administration to postpone all deportations
for same-sex married couples until the courts decide whether the marriage act is
constitutional. Under immigration law, an American citizen can petition for
legal residency for a spouse, if the spouse is not the same sex.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

President Obama at the Border: A strong vow to move forward on immigration
reform, but no plan

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 600 words


President Obama went to the border in El Paso on Tuesday and delivered a speech
on immigration reform. He didn't present a bill or issue any executive orders or
set deadlines for action. Aides say his goal was to ''create a pathway'' and ''a
sense of urgency'' to ''move forward.'' That is a start but not nearly enough.

The speech was right on its merits. The immigration system is a shambles.
Millions live here outside the law. Visa policies are too restrictive, cruelly
separating families and driving away talented university graduates to other
countries. As Mr. Obama dryly noted, ''We train them to create jobs for our
competition.''

He said our current laws stifle opportunity for exactly the people for whom this
economy needs to recover: entrepreneurs, students and low-wage workers.
Illegality feeds ''a massive underground economy that exploits a cheap source of
labor,'' Mr. Obama said. This isn't fair to American workers, or to the
undocumented -- ''the overwhelming majority'' of whom, he said, ''are just
trying to earn a living and provide for their families.''

Mr. Obama was also right when he said that the country has heard ''a lot of
blame and a lot of politics and a lot of ugly rhetoric around immigration.''
After listing the many ways his administration has ''gone above and beyond''
what Republicans had demanded as their price for reform -- flooding the border
with troops and technology to seal it tighter than ever -- he noted that the
Republicans were still not satisfied. ''Maybe they'll need a moat,'' he joked.
''Maybe they'll want alligators in the moat.''

Mr. Obama's description of the problem was accurate, and his prescription the
right one: a ''good-faith effort'' by both parties to pass comprehensive
measures that combine border security with assimilation, not mass expulsion, for
illegal immigrants who qualify.

To move things forward, Mr. Obama will have to do a lot more. He needs to
outline legislation, push Congressional leaders -- including those in his own
party -- to back it and make the case repeatedly to Americans.

The president also needs to get his own policies in order. For all his talk of
supporting the hopes of the undocumented, his administration has been doubling
down on the failed strategy of mass expulsion. It is pressing state and local
police to join in an ill-conceived program called Secure Communities, which
sends arrested people's fingerprints through federal immigration databases,
turning all local officers and jails into arms of the Department of Homeland
Security.

Many lawmakers and police agencies say it erodes public safety by making
immigrants, especially victims of domestic violence, afraid to report crimes.
They worry about giving rogue officers a convenient tool for racial profiling.
And they feel betrayed because what the administration once billed as a
transparent, voluntary program aimed only at dangerous convicted criminals turns
out to be none of those things. The Homeland Security Department's own data show
that more than half of those deported under the program have no criminal records
or committed only minor crimes.

Mr. Obama and the homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, should heed the
growing calls by lawmakers in California, Illinois, New York and other places to
abandon Secure Communities to preserve public safety.

As for the broader issue of immigration reform, Mr. Obama's aides insisted on
Tuesday that he did, indeed, have a plan that interested Americans could read on
the White House Web site. If Mr. Obama is really committed to this issue it's
going to take a lot more than that.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama and Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 806 words


To the Editor:

Re ''In Border City Talk, Obama Urges G.O.P. to Help Overhaul Immigration Law''
(news article, May 11):

Many of the reports of President Obama's recent speech on immigration in El Paso
have suggested that the president's focus on immigration is an attempt to pacify
Hispanic voters.

No doubt, the issue of immigration is of utmost importance for many Hispanics,
but as the president said, it is also a crucial issue for all Americans because
economic growth depends upon a rational immigration system.

Indeed, a recent Pew Research Center report found that fully 72 percent of the
American public, including a majority of Republicans, support the principles of
comprehensive immigration reform as advocated by President Obama in his speech
on Tuesday and by President George W. Bush before him. Most Americans, of all
political ideologies, ethnicities and religious traditions, realize that neither
mass deportation nor amnesty is a good solution to our present predicament and
that comprehensive immigration reform is the only reasonable solution.

MATTHEW SOERENS Glen Ellyn, Ill., May 11, 2011

The writer is co-author of ''Welcoming the Stranger: Justice, Compassion and
Truth in the Immigration Debate.''

To the Editor:

President Obama's statements about how his administration is carrying out
immigration enforcement may well undermine the urgency he is hoping to generate
to reform the system.

The president said that ''we are focusing our limited resources on violent
offenders and people convicted of crimes.'' The reality on the ground, however,
is that the majority of people being deported are people with no criminal record
at all.

Later in his speech, the president said: ''I don't believe the United States of
America should be in the business of separating families. That's not right.
That's not who we are.'' I agree, but the president should therefore acknowledge
clearly that this is exactly what his administration is doing.

If more people understood that our government is very much in the business of
separating families, they would feel greater urgency to reform the system.

JORGE L. BARON Seattle, May 11, 2011

The writer is executive director of the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project.

To the Editor:

Re ''President Obama at the Border'' (editorial, May 11):

You were right to praise President Obama's call for immigration reform, but your
criticism of the administration's expansion of the Secure Communities program is
a wrongheaded attack on a valuable law enforcement program.

Secure Communities represents an important way for the federal government to
focus its immigration enforcement resources on people whose illegal presence
most represents a risk to public safety. This is a common-sense approach to take
when the government has limited resources and is still obligated to carry out
the laws passed by Congress.

The program has helped lead to important and unambiguous successes in public
safety. In the last fiscal year, more than half of those removed from the
country -- around 195,000 -- were convicted criminals. Despite the hesitancy in
the few quarters that you mention, Secure Communities continues to be embraced
by our nation's police, who have rapidly expanded the number of jurisdictions
that have adopted the program.

JON ADLER National President, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association
Washington, May 11, 2011

To the Editor:

It's not surprising that Secure Communities, a deeply flawed federal deportation
program from the start, is finally facing growing criticism from states and
immigrant rights advocates: it simply doesn't work (''States Resisting Program
Central to Obama's Immigration Strategy,'' news article, May 6).

As Cardozo School of Law found, the vast majority of people deported because of
Secure Communities -- 79 percent -- were either noncriminals or picked up for
low-level offenses, like traffic offenses. Rather than focusing on dangerous
criminals, gang members or smugglers, Secure Communities is mostly deporting
hard-working people.

By targeting the wrong immigrants and pushing them into the shadows, and
distracting police from their real job, Secure Communities is a misuse of
taxpayer dollars. Furthermore, rather than making us safer, Secure Communities
undermines the trust-based police-community relationship our neighborhoods need.

This is just another example of the failed Bush-era enforcement-only measures
that do nothing to secure our borders while worsening conditions across the
country.

Rounding up the people who clean offices, take care of the sick, baby-sit and do
a host of important jobs does not make us any more secure or help our struggling
economy, and it runs counter to everything we aspire to as a community.

HECTOR FIGUEROA New York, May 11, 2011

The writer is secretary-treasurer, Local 32BJ S.E.I.U., representing building
service workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FELIPE LUBLINER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Extend Haitians' Post-Quake Immigration Status

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 311 words


Haitians who received a special American immigration status after last year's
earthquake will be allowed an additional year and a half to live and work in the
United States while their country struggles to recover, the Obama administration
announced on Tuesday.

The special designation, called temporary protected status, had been available
to Haitians who had lived continuously in the United States since Jan. 12, 2010,
the date of the earthquake. Under this new extension, Haitians who arrived in
the country as late as Jan. 12, 2011, and had lived here continuously since then
will be eligible to apply.

Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, said in a statement that
she was expanding and extending the program out of concern that Haitian
immigrants' ''personal safety would be endangered by returning to Haiti.''

But Homeland Security Department officials said they would continue to deport
Haitians who had been convicted of violent crimes or were repeat offenders and
had also been ordered removed by an immigration judge. Deportations of Haitians
were suspended after the earthquake but resumed in January. After a two-month
pause after a deportee died of choleralike symptoms shortly after arriving in
Haiti, immigration officials once again resumed the deportations in April.

The extension will not be granted to people who have been convicted of a felony
or at least two misdemeanors. It will expire on Jan. 22, 2013, officials said.

About 48,000 Haitians living in the United States have secured temporary
protected status since the earthquake, and an estimated 10,000 more would be
eligible under the extension, officials said Tuesday, adding that application
guidelines would be issued this week.

Immigrant advocates who had lobbied for the extension applauded the decision,
though some also urged the administration to halt all deportations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Small, Poor, Successful School Waits for Obama, in Vain

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BRIDGEPORT JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 930 words


BRIDGEPORT, Wash. -- President Obama stood near the Mexican border last week and
challenged Republicans to join him in reforming federal immigration policy.
Among the people he said were unfairly at risk under current laws: ''bright,
eager students.''

That same day, five high school seniors gathered in the principal's office of
tiny Bridgeport High School here among the orchards that line the Columbia
River. While Mr. Obama was flying to Texas, the five students, all children of
Hispanic farm workers, were waiting to hear whether he would soon be addressing
their graduating class. They were not just dreaming.

Bridgeport was one of three finalists in the White House's 2011 Race to the Top
High School Commencement Challenge, a contest that rewards improving schools
with a graduation speech delivered by the president himself. Nearly all of the
37 students who graduate next month plan to go to college even as immigration
issues have forced some of their parents back to Mexico.

''All that week, we were told he was talking about immigration, so we were like,
maybe that's a hint that he's coming to our school,'' said Nadia Gonzalez, one
of the five seniors in the office that day.

Bridgeport High is small, remote and poor, with all but a handful of students
qualifying for free lunches. But if it seemed a long shot to win, its students
also knew their families represented an important constituency in the 2012
election. Perhaps, this time, politics would be on their side.

''Then all of a sudden it was like, 'I'm going to Memphis,' '' Ms. Gonzalez
recalled.

Sure enough, the president went to Memphis on Monday, first visiting with
victims of the nearby Mississippi River flooding, then delivering the
commencement address at the school that was ultimately chosen, Booker T.
Washington High School, which had raised its graduation rate to 82 percent last
year from 55 percent in 2007.

A White House official said the decision, made by the president himself, was
based solely on the terms of the Commencement Challenge. Yet here in Bridgeport,
while there was genuine admiration for the students at Booker T. Washington,
people also wondered whether the complicated politics of immigration had once
again reached into the remote river towns here that have been remade by migrant
workers who pick and pack much of America's apples and cherries. And that those
politics might not be working in Bridgeport's favor, given the commentary that
some residents had seen on the Internet.

''You wouldn't believe the nasty stuff out there,'' said Nancine Hawkins, who
runs Nell's Diner, a popular restaurant here that has been supportive of the
high school, which is more than 90 percent Hispanic. ''It was like, 'Don't send
the president, send I.N.S.' '' (Those initials stand for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the former enforcement agency whose duties now are
mostly handled by the Department of Homeland Security.)

Bridgeport, which has about 2,000 people, sits on the same arid bend of the
Columbia River where the Obama administration conducted one of its largest
so-called silent raids in 2009, in the neighboring town of Brewster. The federal
authorities conducted an extensive immigration audit of Gebbers Farms, a huge
fruit grower that employs the parents of some of the Bridgeport students (and
some of the students themselves in the summer). More than 500 workers lost their
jobs because of their documentation suggested that they were here illegally;
many left town or the country, though they were not deported.

''They had to leave pretty fast,'' Ms. Hawkins said. ''We had our laundromat
open 24 hours a day.''

Mario Camacho, a student advocate at Brewster High School, which routinely beats
Bridgeport in athletic events but does not have its academic reputation, said
Hispanic families in the area, in some ways, felt safer after the audits because
of the nonconfrontational way they were conducted. But the notion that Mr. Obama
would come to town so soon afterward was hard for him to fathom.

''I knew from Day 1 that he wasn't going to come over here,'' said Mr. Camacho,
alluding to the immigration debate. ''I would have been really, really amazed.''

Government has long had muddy ties to the region. Huge orchards opened here in
part because government-built dams provided water for irrigation. The
government-enabled orchards could not operate without immigrant labor. The
immigrants, in turn, can afford to live in Bridgeport in part because
electricity, provided by a dam, is particularly cheap.

Yet immigrants hold no elective office locally, and there are relatively few
Hispanic school employees in either Bridgeport or Brewster. Some graduating
seniors say they want to return as doctors and nurses to help their community.
Other say they want to leave for good -- and their parents want them to, as
well.

Norma Camacho, 18, said her mother had made her work with her in a warehouse,
sorting cherries.

''I said, 'I don't want to do this, Mom,' '' Ms. Camacho said. ''She said,
'That's why I'm bringing you here.' ''

Asked why Bridgeport's entry in the Commencement Challenge had received so much
attention -- Time magazine did a feature on the school -- Jasmine Mogollan, a
senior, said, ''because we're doing above what is expected from us.''

''With the poverty level and the amount of Hispanics here, everybody would
expect that our test scores wouldn't be so good,'' said Ms. Mogollan, 18, who
plans to study international business at Central Washington University.
''Everybody just thinks the same way, that we're not going to achieve
anything.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at Bridgeport High School in Washington earlier this
month. The school has shown marked academic improvement.
Principal Tamra Jackson and students awaiting a call from the White House to see
if President Obama would speak there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHANNON DININNY/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)
 Some students, hearing that their school had not been chosen, were
disappointed, though they had figured it was a long shot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHRYN
STEVENS/THE WENATCHEE WORLD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona's Immigration Law: A View From the A.C.L.U.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 195 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Abandoned on the Border'' (Op-Ed, May 13):

Larry A. Dever, the sheriff of Cochise County, Ariz., is spreading fear to
bolster support for Arizona's extreme racial profiling law, Senate Bill 1070.
But many local officials in border areas, including the mayor of Nogales, have
criticized these tactics and report that crime is not increasing. In fact,
sheriffs and police chiefs throughout Arizona did not support the law's passage.

In reality, S.B. 1070 is not about border enforcement and does not promote
public safety. Instead, the law undermines the autonomy of all by giving police
unchecked authority to harass anyone who looks or sounds foreign, and subjects
everyone, including United States citizens and legal residents, to unjustified
detention and arrest.

The law also discourages reporting of criminal activity and victimization to
local law enforcement, making everyone less safe.

Mr. Dever and others may try to convince the public about the law's supposed
salutary effects, but federal district and appellate courts have found this law
to be unconstitutional.

ALESSANDRA SOLER MEETZE Executive Director A.C.L.U. of Arizona Phoenix, May 17,
2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Laws To Control Immigration Pass in Utah

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 299 words


SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -- The Utah Legislature has approved an immigration package
that includes an enforcement law reminiscent of Arizona's but is tempered by a
bill for a guest worker program for illegal immigrants.

The measures, approved by the State Senate and House on Friday night, would
allow illegal immigrants to get a permit to work in the state. They also include
a requirement that the police check the immigrant status of anyone stopped for a
felony or serious misdemeanor.

Supporters said that the package balanced economic needs and compassion;
opponents argued that it would probably encourage more illegal immigration.

State lawmakers initially balked at the enforcement measure because of a likely
backlash feared by some. But State Representative Stephen Sandstrom, a
Republican, garnered enough support after amending it to focus on more serious
crimes.

An Arizona law approved last year drew nationwide attention over provisions
requiring the police, while enforcing other laws, to question a person's
immigration status if they had reasonable suspicion they were here illegally. A
federal judge ordered that aspect of the law put on hold.

Representative Bill Wright, a Republican who sponsored the Utah bill creating
the guest worker program, said that if the state could secure a federal waiver,
the program could become a model for the rest of the country.

The bill would allow illegal immigrants to get a permit to live and work in Utah
with their families.

The most vocal critic of that provision, Representative Chris Herrod, a
Republican, said that a guest worker program would draw more illegal immigrants
to the state.

''People think we'll be seen as compassionate,'' Mr. Herrod said. ''People will
actually see us as weak. They will see we don't care about the rule of law.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

Aware of Its Dependence, Napa Takes Care of Migrant Workers

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES.

Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in
San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 855 words


Scott James writes a column for The Bay Citizen.

Nearly every drop of Napa County's world-class wine is produced by migrant
labor.

This time of year, that means the workers are suckering vines -- pulling off, by
hand, tiny sprouts that might hinder the growth of healthy grapes.

Just as painstakingly, civic and business leaders in the county have been
working on another key element of the harvest: cultivating their own immigration
policy.

Federal laws prevent foreigners from residing or working in the United States
without permission, and a sweeping national crackdown has been under way in
recent years. A record one million illegal immigrants have been deported since
President Obama took office. Some states are more stringent. An Arizona law
against hiring undocumented laborers was upheld Thursday by the United States
Supreme Court.

But Napa is taking a different approach, providing affordable basic necessities
for migrant workers -- food, shelter and support -- regardless of whether they
are here legally or not.

The effort was born of compassion and practicality. Without migrant labor, most
of it from Mexico, the wine producers in Napa would be hard pressed to fill a
carafe, much less the valley's nine million annual cases.

Experts estimate that 8,000 to 12,000 illegal migrants reside (often seasonally)
in Napa, although the number is impossible to confirm. Ten years ago, they could
be found living in the woods in makeshift camps, sleeping on fetid mattresses
and drinking from dirty streams. Today they receive subsidized housing, or can
reside in three tidy dormitory complexes near St. Helena and Yountville where up
to 180 workers pay $12 a day for room and board.

Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democratic congressman from Illinois and an advocate for
immigration reform who visited St. Helena last month, called Napa's approach
''unique.''

''They're being proactive in providing housing, providing counseling to the
workers there,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''The immigrant community had a very strong
fellowship with those around them.''

There is no federal financing for thumbing one's nose at Washington policy, so
Napa pays for its own efforts.

Vineyard owners pay an assessment of $10 per acre to help house and feed migrant
fieldworkers, a program that costs more than $1 million a year. Financing and
donations, including food, also come from county and municipal governments,
churches, businesses, charities and concerned citizens -- all contributing to a
larger safety net that includes health care and job placement.

None of those involved appeared worried about running afoul of laws. Instead,
they see a moral obligation.

Moises Sanchez, 58, has come from Jalisco, Mexico, for the past 37 years to work
in Napa's vineyards, and he now has legal status. He leaves behind his wife and
three children for up to 10 months at a time.

''It's very hard,'' Mr. Sanchez said.

But thanks to his labors, his family in Mexico has a house with a mango tree, 20
cows, 4 goats and 30 chickens, he said with a smile.

While in Napa, he lives frugally at River Ranch, one of the subsidized
dormitories, under strict, almost monastic conditions: work six days a week, men
only, two per room, no alcohol. Mr. Sanchez said he loved it, especially
compared to the past when he paid more to live with six others in just one room.

Angel Calderon, manager of River Ranch, said migrant farm workers in other parts
of California were routinely exploited -- paid little and charged exorbitant
living expenses.

''Some guys say, 'I work 10 hours and at the end of the day I only have $10 in
my pocket,' '' Mr. Calderon said.

In Napa, workers are paid about $10 an hour; taxes are frequently withheld from
their wages, including Social Security, even though many of them will never be
able to collect the benefits.

Thirty-five years ago, only one-third of the county's economy was tied to wine,
but today it is the predominant industry, said Terence Mulligan, president of
the Napa Valley Community Foundation, a philanthropic organization that is
currently conducting a study of migrant workers.

''People in Napa really understand how the economy works,'' Mr. Mulligan said.

Many migrant workers who were first lured by the vineyards have stayed, and that
has changed the makeup of Napa, he said. Legal or not, Hispanics represented 13
percent of the county's population 20 years ago, but are at least 33 percent
today, and will most likely be the majority by 2025, Mr. Mulligan said.

Not everyone likes this shift, and some have denounced Napa's efforts to help
migrant workers.

''A vocal minority has opposed any type of change,'' Mr. Mulligan said. Indeed,
when local newspapers report on migrant workers, they are often flooded online
with virulent anti-immigrant comments.

Yet without migrant farm workers, it's not clear that any Cabernet Sauvignon
would ever make it to the glass.

Mr. Calderon said that in his 27 years of working in Napa he only once
encountered a nonmigrant laboring in the vineyards: a white college student who
did it for a class project. He lasted two months.

''He said he'd never complain about his life again,'' Mr. Calderon said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers, almost all migrants from Mexico, trimmed excess
branches and leaves of vines on Wednesday at the Garvey Family Vineyards in St.
Helena. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE BAY CITIZEN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Injunction On Arizona Is Upheld

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Julia Preston contributed reporting from Princeton, N.J.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 639 words


PHOENIX -- The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled
against the State of Arizona on Monday and let stand a lower court decision
blocking the most contentious parts of the state's immigration law from going
into effect.

The decision calling the provisions unconstitutional was a victory for the Obama
administration, which argued that the law interfered with the federal
government's authority over immigration. Two judges ruled against Arizona, and
one dissented in part from them.

Last July, just days before the law was to take effect, Judge Susan Bolton of
Federal District Court issued an injunction blocking parts of it. Gov. Jan
Brewer, a Republican who supports the crackdown on immigrants, filed an appeal
seeking to have the injunction lifted.

After the appeals court rejected the state's request on Monday and issued a
lengthy decision indicating that it believed the state had overstepped its
authority, State Senator Russell K. Pearce, a Republican who is the principal
sponsor of the law, remained defiant, saying the issue would ultimately be
decided by the Supreme Court.

''This battle is a battle of epic proportions,'' Mr. Pearce said in a statement
suggesting he was not surprised by the ruling. ''It is about a state's right to
enforce the laws of this land and protect its citizens from those who break our
laws.''

Ms. Brewer and the Arizona attorney general, Tom Horne, also vowed to keep
fighting for the law. ''I believe the Ninth Circuit decision will be overturned
by the United States Supreme Court, and I pledge to make every possible effort
to achieve that result,'' Mr. Horne said.

Critics of the law, who have held protests and filed lawsuits to strike it down,
were thrilled with the ruling.

''One of the reasons we have a judiciary is so that mobs don't rule, so that
when the Legislature oversteps its bounds there is someone to stop them,'' said
Omar Jadwat of the A.C.L.U. Immigrants' Rights Project.

It was not immediately clear how the state would proceed. It could appeal the
decision to the full Ninth Circuit, or it could immediately appeal to the
Supreme Court. The state could also hold off on appealing and return to the
Federal District Court in Phoenix, where Judge Bolton continues to oversee
challenges to the law.

''In upholding Judge Bolton's decision, the Ninth Circuit has signaled, in a
loud and clear voice, that Arizona's effort to regulate immigration law and
policy directly violates the Constitution and will not stand,'' said David
Leopold, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

The decision will be closely watched in several states that are considering
similar laws of their own. The Georgia Senate was set to debate the matter on
Monday, and another bill appeared on the move in Alabama.

Other states, including Mississippi and Kansas, watered down or abandoned tough
bills to avoid the litigation and protests that Arizona faced. After lawmakers
in Utah concluded that the administration's challenge to Arizona was likely to
prevail, they took a different tack. They voted for a milder enforcement bill,
but also voted to create a guest worker program for illegal immigrants.

Backers of the Arizona law said they were pleased with disagreements among the
appeals court judges. Judge Carlos Bea issued a partial dissent in which he
criticized the majority's argument by quoting from Lewis Carroll's ''Alice in
Wonderland.''

The law would have required the police to question people about their
immigration status if they had been stopped for other matters and if the
officers found reasonable suspicion that they were illegal immigrants. Critics
said that was an invitation to racial profiling.

Also challenged were provisions requiring immigrants to carry their papers and
making it a violation for illegal immigrants to work or look for work.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

How Some Nazis Found a Haven in the U.S.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 219 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Secret Papers Detail U.S. Aid for Ex-Nazis'' (front page, Nov. 14)

That American intelligence officials created a ''safe haven'' for Nazis in the
United States should come as no surprise. The ground was prepared by Congress in
the McCarran-Walter Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, which defined
Communism as a totalitarian system but ignored Nazism entirely.

The I.N.A. is usually discussed in terms of its loosening of racial quotas. Of
equal importance was the reordering of United States political priorities that
it represented.

While neither Nazis nor Communists were explicitly excluded from the United
States under this law, consular practice was to require all visa applicants to
swear an oath of non-allegiance to Communism, setting the stage for an
individual's exclusion and deportation by way of fraud in the event a person was
subsequently identified as a Communist.

Seven years after the conclusion of the war against Germany, no such oath
regarding nonparticipation in Nazi activity was required. There can be no doubt
that many individuals who were involved in Nazi atrocities were freely admitted
to the United States, because immigration law did not exclude them.

Judith Laikin Elkin Ann Arbor, Mich., Nov. 14, 2010

The writer was United States vice consul in London, 1954-56.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Fraud Case Against Lawyer Remains Stalled

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ.

aglantz@baycitizen.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 538 words


In November, the San Francisco city attorney, Dennis Herrera, filed a lawsuit
against a disbarred immigration lawyer, calling him ''one of San Francisco's
most notorious predators'' who had defrauded ''tens of thousands of vulnerable
individuals out of millions of dollars'' over 35 years.

Three months later, however, the city has not been able to serve the lawyer,
Martin Guajardo. There is no record of Mr. Guajardo's securing legal
representation to defend himself in Superior Court, and he has not appeared in
court.

''We've made extensive efforts to try to find him,'' said Joshua White, the
deputy city attorney trying the case. ''So far as we know, he's skipped town.''

In the meantime, Mr. Guajardo's wife, Debra, has moved to sell two condominiums
she owns across the street from the Transamerica Pyramid in addition to 555 Clay
Street, the downtown office building that held Mr. Guajardo's law practice. The
three have a combined estimated value of more than $7 million. All are in the
early stages of foreclosure.

Public records show Mr. Guajardo has no properties in his own name in
California. ''We don't think that's a coincidence,'' said Michael Aparicio, a
lawyer with Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, a firm that has filed a separate pro
bono class-action suit on behalf of immigrants who say they were defrauded.

Both the city attorney, Dennis Herrera, and the Orrick firm are also suing
Christopher Stender, an immigration lawyer based in San Diego who began to work
out of Mr. Guajardo's law office after Mr. Guajardo was disbarred in 2008. The
plaintiffs say that beginning in 2008, Mr. Stender and Mr. Guajardo worked
together to defraud immigrants.

Mr. Stender has retained counsel.

In a court filing Feb. 8, Mr. Stender denied accusations of illegally profiting
from his clients. ''I have a good reputation,'' he said.

In the filing, Mr. Stender also said his ''association and employment'' with Mr.
Guajardo ended last fall, when ''I was informed by Mr. Guajardo that he had
separated from his wife and had moved out of San Francisco as of Oct. 12,
2010.''

Neither Mr. Stender nor his lawyers responded to e-mail and telephone requests
for an interview. Mr. Stender continues to practice immigration law out of a
Market Street office.

In an interview, Mrs. Guajardo's real estate agent, Cesar Contreras of Pacific
Union Realty, said he represented ''Martin Guajardo's ex-wife'' although The Bay
Citizen could not find a record of Mrs. Guajardo's filing for divorce.

On Feb. 3, the class-action suit expanded its complaint to include Mrs.
Guajardo, who, it said, ''has financially benefited'' from Mr. Guajardo's
''schemes and unlawful acts,'' resulting in her possession of ''substantial real
estate holdings.'' The suit was also expanded to include the couple's two adult
children, Alexis and Dulcinea, who both worked for Mr. Guajardo's firm.

The Guajardo family's home on Mendosa Avenue in San Francisco's Forest Hill
section, which is also in Mrs. Guajardo's name, is not on the market.

After trying to reach Mr. Guajardo by phone, this reporter stopped by the
cream-colored home, which, atypically for San Francisco, is surrounded by a
concrete wall.

Inside, the lights were on, but no one answered the doorbell.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Danbury Settles Lawsuit In Arrests of Day Laborers

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 582 words


The City of Danbury, Conn., has agreed to pay $400,000 to settle a federal
lawsuit brought by eight day laborers who complained that their 2006 arrest in a
local police sting operation was illegal and amounted to racial profiling,
lawyers for the laborers announced on Wednesday.

The case made Danbury a flash point in a national debate over how suburban towns
deal with day laborers and whether local authorities should engage in
immigration enforcement.

The plaintiffs' lawyers hailed the settlement as a major victory, calling it the
largest amount ever obtained by day laborers and a harsh rebuke to Mayor Mark D.
Boughton, who has taken a combative stance on immigration issues and strongly
supported the actions of the Police Department.

''We're thrilled,'' said Helen O'Reilly, a law student intern with the Worker
and Immigrant Rights Advocacy Clinic at Yale University, which represented the
laborers, along with lawyers from Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. ''The message that
this sends,'' Ms. O'Reilly said, ''is that if a city does what Danbury did, and
they harass and target Latino day laborers, there are consequences and
substantial costs.''

But Mr. Boughton dismissed the settlement as a modest sum and said it would not
affect how the local police enforced the law. ''It's very clear that we
specifically did not do anything wrong, and we are not changing any of our
policies, practices or customs,'' he said in an interview.

Under the terms of the settlement, which must still be signed by both sides, the
federal government would pay the plaintiffs an additional $250,000 to settle
claims against six federal immigration agents who were also named as defendants.

The case stems from a sting operation conducted on Sept. 19, 2006, by an
undercover Danbury police officer posing as a contractor. The lawsuit said the
officer drove an unmarked van to a park where day laborers had gathered to await
employers looking for workers. The officer told the laborers he would hire them
to demolish a fence for $11 an hour, but instead drove them to a lot where they
were arrested and handed over to federal agents.

The workers were placed in deportation proceedings, which are continuing, Ms.
O'Reilly said.

Advocates for day laborers have denounced the arrests as gross civil rights
violations. The suit said that the plaintiffs had been arrested without probable
cause, and that the arrests kept workers from exercising free speech -- the
right to signal their availability for jobs.

Juan Barrera, one of the men arrested, said he was celebrating the settlement.
''We hope that the rights of each individual and each day laborer who arrives at
Kennedy Park to look for work will now be respected,'' he said.

Mayor Boughton said he would have liked the case to go to trial, but his insurer
advised the city to settle. ''At the end of the day, this became a discussion
about money and legal fees,'' he said. ''It had nothing to do with civil
rights.''

Mr. Boughton has long embraced local collaboration with federal immigration
authorities. In 2005, he pushed to have Connecticut deputize state police
officers as federal immigration agents, but Gov. Jodi M. Rell, a fellow
Republican, rejected the proposal. The Justice Department and the Danbury Police
Department declined to comment on the case.

Barbara Gonzales, of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the agency
''prioritizes efforts first on those serious criminal aliens who present the
greatest risk to the security of our communities.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuban Exile's Jury May See Secret Fax

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 470 words


EL PASO -- A federal judge ruled Thursday that a secret fax, which a witness
said was written by an anti-Castro militant and links him to a campaign of
bombings in Havana in 1997, can be viewed by jurors at his perjury trial.

The witness, Ann Louise Bardach, a journalist who is a former contract writer
for The New York Times, testified on Thursday that Luis Posada Carriles admitted
during interviews in 1998 that he had sent the fax to associates. Ms. Bardach
said that the fax was meant to convey Mr. Posada's frustration that the Havana
bombings were not garnering more press attention.

Mr. Posada, 83, who worked for the C.I.A. during the 1960s and '70s, is
suspected of orchestrating the wave of bombings in Havana, which killed an
Italian tourist. He is also wanted by the Cuban and Venezuelan governments in
connection with blowing up a Cubana airliner in 1976, killing 73 people -- a
charge he has long denied.

Federal prosecutors say Mr. Posada lied during immigration hearings more than
five years ago about how he entered the United States and about his role in the
Cuban bombings. He faces charges of perjury, obstruction of federal proceedings
and making false statements during a naturalization hearing

The fax is crucial to the prosecution's case because it would support its
contention that Mr. Posada lied outright to immigration officials after
allegedly sneaking into the country in 2005.

District Judge Kathleen Cardone had previously ruled the document inadmissible
because it was unclear from prior testimony that Mr. Posada was indeed its
author.

But Ms. Bardach's appearance at the trial changes things. As part of her
reporting for articles about Mr. Posada in The Times in 1998, she said she
obtained a copy of the fax and discussed it at length with Mr. Posada during
interviews.

The document, which was displayed for the jury, was sent to Guatemala on Aug.
25, 1997, in the midst of the bombings in Havana.

''As I explained to you, if there is no publicity the work is useless,'' it
reads. ''The American newspapers don't publish anything that hasn't been
confirmed.''

The fax is signed 'Solo.'

The lead prosecutor, Timothy J. Reardon, played tapes of Ms. Bardach's
discussions with Mr. Posada about the fax. On the tapes, Ms. Bardach is heard
asking Mr. Posada if he signed it, 'Solo,' his nom de guerre taken from a 1960s
television series about secret agents, ''The Man From U.N.C.L.E.''

Mr. Posada responded with a chuckle: ''Yeah.''

He can also be heard on the tapes expressing concern about how the document was
intercepted and whether it would cause him trouble with the authorities.

His defense lawyer, Arturo V. Hernandez, sought unsuccessfully to keep the fax
from being ruled admissible on Thursday, arguing that Mr. Posada is never heard
on the tapes explicitly stating he sent the document.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ann Louise Bardach, a journalist, testified about interviews she
did with Luis Posada Carriles, an anti-Castro militant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN
CARLOS LLORCA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jury Clears Cuban Exile of Charges That He Lied to U.S.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 644 words


EL PASO (AP) -- A Cuban former C.I.A. operative who was accused of lying during
an immigration hearing was acquitted of all charges Friday, with jurors taking
just three hours to reach a verdict after 13 weeks of often-delayed testimony.

The abrupt decision ends four years of attempts by the United States to convict
Luis Posada Carriles, now 83, and means he no longer faces the prospect of
spending the final years of his life in prison, at least in the United States.

For decades, Mr. Posada, an anti-Castro militant, worked to destabilize
communist governments throughout Latin America and was often supported by
Washington.

After hearing that he had been acquitted on all 11 counts of perjury,
obstruction and immigration fraud, Mr. Posada grinned widely and hugged his
three lawyers simultaneously. Two of the lawyers broke out in tears.

Across the aisle, three federal prosecutors, who painstakingly built their case
by calling 23 witnesses over 11 weeks, sat dejectedly.

''Any time a jury has a case, there's no telling what they might do. But we
respect the jury's decision,'' said the assistant United States attorney Timothy
Reardon.

Mr. Posada, who has slurred his words since being shot in the face and losing
part of his tongue during a 1990 assassination attempt in Guatemala, joked
softly with his defense team, then left the courthouse a free man.

Mr. Posada sneaked into the United States in 2005 and sought political asylum,
and later citizenship, for which he went through immigration hearings in El
Paso. Prosecutors accused him of lying while under oath during those proceedings
about how he made it into the country and by denying he masterminded hotel
bombings in Cuba in 1997 that killed an Italian tourist and wounded 12 other
people.

Mr. Posada said in a 1998 interview with The New York Times that he planned the
attacks, but later recanted that. During the trial, jurors heard more than two
hours of recordings from those interviews, but apparently were not swayed by
them.

The defense maintained that Mr. Posada should have been allowed to retire a hero
in Miami, where he had been living since his 2007 release from an immigration
detention center, for his service to the country during the cold war.

He participated in the failed Bay of Pigs invasion, served as a lieutenant in
the United States Army and was an operative for the Central Intelligence Agency
until 1976. He then moved to Venezuela and served as head of that country's
intelligence service.

Also in 1976, he was arrested after the bombing of a Cuban airliner that killed
73 people. Mr. Posada was acquitted by a military tribunal, but escaped from
prison while facing a civilian trial.

He helped the United States funnel support to Nicaraguan contra rebels in the
1980s and in 2000, was arrested in Panama amid a plot to kill President Fidel
Castro of Cuba there. He was pardoned by Panama's president in 2004 and turned
up in the United States the following March.

Cuba and Venezuela would like to try him for the 1997 hotel bombings or the
airliner bombing, but a United States immigration judge has ruled that he cannot
be sent to either country, for fear he could be tortured.

Jose Pertierra, a lawyer representing Venezuela against Mr. Posada, sat through
every day of the trial and was crestfallen after the verdict.

''The evidence was strong. We heard the voice of Luis Posada saying he was the
mastermind of the bombings,'' Mr. Pertierra said. He said Venezuela would renew
its efforts for extradition.

Pepe Hernandez, who heads the Cuban American National Foundation in Miami and
trained with Mr. Posada ahead of the Bay of Pigs invasion, applauded the
verdict.

''The U.S. government had a very scant case. Obviously, it didn't have any
evidence beyond that of Ann Louise Bardach,'' Mr. Hernandez said, referring to
the contract writer who interviewed Mr. Posada for The Times.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Luis Posada Carriles, speaking in November. He was acquitted
Thursday in El Paso of lying during an immigration hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN
DIAZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Database Was Entered Illegally

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 141 words


WASHINGTON -- A former State Department contractor pleaded guilty Friday to
illegally gaining access to a database containing the names, addresses and
Social Security numbers of more than 250,000 federal workers.

According to documents filed in Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., the
former contractor, Kuang Hao Chou, worked until last year in the State
Department's Office of Medical Services, where the data is stored.

The documents say Mr. Chou took one of the office's laptops home without
permission and accessed the database. The police found the computer in November
at Mr. Chou's home in Herndon, Va., during their investigation of an immigration
fraud ring.

Mr. Chou and his wife, Ling Yu Hsieh, also pleaded guilty on Friday to buying
fake green cards and naturalization certificates after entering the United
States on tourist visas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: General's Deportation Hearing Ends

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 70 words


After three days of testimony in immigration court in Orlando, a hearing ended
in the deportation trial of Eugenio Vides Casanova, a retired general from El
Salvador accused of participating in torture there during the civil war in the
1980s. General Vides, who as defense minister was a close American ally,
testified on Thursday. Judge James Grim said he would decide whether to order
General Vides deported in January.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Napolitano Accuses Critics of Politicizing Border Issues

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 630 words


Sharpening a confrontation with Republicans over Southwest border enforcement,
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said on Monday that crime and
illegal crossings had dropped sharply along the border, and she accused
lawmakers who say violence is out of control there of trying to ''score
political points.''

One week after Republicans in the House of Representatives held the first of a
series of hearings to criticize the Obama administration's record on immigration
enforcement, Ms. Napolitano fought back in a speech at the University of Texas
at El Paso. She said that arrests by the Border Patrol, an indication of illegal
crossings, had fallen 36 percent in two years and that crime rates in many
border cities remained low despite surging drug violence in Mexico.

''None of us can stand silent when the public dialogue dishonors the memory and
service'' of Border Patrol agents, including one agent who was killed in
December, ''by misstating the facts and unfairly politicizing border issues,''
Ms. Napolitano said.

Her speech came as Homeland Security Department officials were also fending off
criticism that they were too tough on illegal immigrants. In a report, the
Migration Policy Institute, a research organization in Washington, found that a
national program of cooperation with state and local police was not meeting
priorities set by the department to focus primarily on deporting immigrants who
committed serious crimes.

The report, the first broad study by an independent group of a federal program
known as 287(g), found that about half of the immigrants detained for
deportation under the program had committed minor crimes or traffic violations.
The official goal of the program is to identify and deport immigrants who commit
the most serious felonies.

The report found that local sheriffs and county officials who signed up for the
program were determining in practice whether immigrants would be detained
selectively, according to the Department of Homeland Security's priorities, or
whether virtually every immigrant arrested by the local police would be
questioned under the program. While Immigration and Customs Enforcement is in
charge of ensuring that the program is carried out uniformly across the country,
the institute's report found wide variations.

''States and local authorities are setting the priorities for 287(g),'' said
Marc Rosenblum, a Migration Policy Institute researcher.

Obama administration immigration officials have struggled to find a balance
between lawmakers in some states who argue that federal authorities have failed
to secure the border, and immigrant groups who say the administration has
carried out a tougher crackdown on illegal immigration than President George W.
Bush's.

Immigrant advocate organizations have strongly opposed the 287(g) program,
arguing that illegal immigrants without criminal records are being deported for
traffic and other minor violations, breaking up families long rooted in the
United States.

Under the 287(g) program, which is named for the immigration statute that
created it, immigrants are questioned about their legal status when they are
booked into jails, and in a few places immigrants can also be detained by the
police during street patrols.

In Cobb County, Ga., only 21 percent of immigrants detained for deportation
under the program were suspected of serious or violent crimes. By contrast, in
the Las Vegas metropolitan area, more than 70 percent of those detained had
committed the most serious offenses.

The report found that Hispanic immigrants were particular targets of the 287(g)
program. In Frederick County, Md., the Hispanic population declined by 61
percent after the county adopted the 287(g) program, while neighboring counties
experienced an increase in Hispanics.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A report found fault with the carrying out of the 287(g) program
on deporting illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

11.2 Million Illegal Immigrants in U.S. in 2010, Report Says; No Change From '09

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 597 words


About 11.2 million illegal immigrants were living in the United States in 2010,
a number essentially unchanged from the previous year, according to a report
published Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research
organization in Washington.

Despite continuing high unemployment among American workers, record deportations
by the Obama administration and expanding efforts by states to crack down, the
number of unauthorized immigrants in the work force -- about eight million --
was also unchanged, the Pew report found. Those workers were about 5 percent of
the American work force.

The population of illegal immigrants leveled off after peaking in 2007 at 12
million, then dropping sharply over two years to 11.1 million in 2009, according
to the report, which is based on census data. The declines occurred primarily
because fewer people from Mexico and Central America came illegally to the
United States, Pew concluded.

The report found no evidence of an exodus of illegal immigrants from the
country. In particular there is no sign that Mexicans, who are the largest group
-- 58 percent -- of illegal immigrants, are leaving in larger numbers, the
report finds.

The Pew report suggests that the high numbers of unauthorized immigrants are
confounding enforcement efforts by the Obama administration and also a recent
spate of measures by state legislatures to crack down locally on illegal
immigration. Federal immigration authorities deported about 400,000 immigrants
in each of the last two years, the highest numbers in the country's history,
according to Department of Homeland Security officials.

''We just don't see indications that enforcement is pushing people to leave the
U.S.,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer and co-author, with D'Vera Cohn,
of the Pew report.

The report's findings appeared to bring bad news for groups advocating for a
strategy called attrition through enforcement, which inspired many of the
tougher state measures, including a law Arizona enacted last year that caused a
furor. According to supporters, those laws are intended to make life so
difficult for illegal immigrants that they will opt to go home. Although much of
Arizona's law was held up by federal courts, other states, including Georgia,
Oklahoma and South Carolina, have also adopted tough laws in recent years.

But some advocates for that approach said the Obama administration's decision to
end high-profile raids in workplaces might have contributed to illegal
immigrants' remaining here.

''It could be that the shift away from work-site enforcement is making it more
attractive for illegal immigrants to stay here, since they do not feel as
threatened at work,'' said Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies at the
Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks reduced immigration to the United
States.

The Pew report found that about 350,000 babies were born in 2009 to families
with at least one illegal immigrant parent, a number also unchanged from the
previous year, representing about 8 percent of all newborns.

Conservative lawmakers in Congress and state legislatures have announced
initiatives to cancel automatic United States citizenship for children born here
of illegal immigrant parents. They argue that birthright citizenship, which is
described in the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, encourages illegal
immigrants to sneak in to have babies here in order to gain American citizenship
for them.

The Pew report found that about two-thirds of the illegal immigrant parents of
the newborns had been living in the United States for at least five years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After False Dawn, Anxiety for Students Who Are Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1294 words


MILWAUKEE -- It was exhilarating for Maricela Aguilar to stand on the steps of
the federal courthouse here one day last summer and reveal for the first time in
public that she is an illegal immigrant.

''It's all about losing that shame of who you are,'' Ms. Aguilar, a college
student who was born in Mexico but has lived in the United States without legal
documents since she was 3 years old, said of her ''coming out'' at a rally in
June.

Those were heady times for thousands of immigrant students who declared their
illegal status during a nationwide campaign for a bill in Congress that would
have put them on a path to legal residence. In December that bill, known as the
Dream Act, passed the House, then failed in the Senate.

President Obama insisted in his State of the Union address and in interviews
that he wanted to try again on the bill this year. But with Republicans who
vehemently oppose the legislation holding crucial committee positions in the new
House, even optimists like Ms. Aguilar believe its chances are poor to none in
the next two years.

That leaves students like her who might have benefited from the bill -- an
estimated 1.2 million nationwide -- in a legal twilight.

The president says he supports their cause, and immigration officials say
illegal immigrant students with no criminal record are not among their
priorities for deportation. But federal immigration authorities removed a record
number of immigrants from the country last year, nearly 393,000, while the local
police are rapidly expanding their role in immigration enforcement. Students
often get caught.

Illegal immigrants also face new restrictions many states are imposing on their
access to public education, driver's licenses and jobs. And for those like Ms.
Aguilar who came out last year to proclaim their illegal status, there is no
going back to the shadows.

Republicans who will lead their party in the House on immigration issues say
illegal immigrant students should not be spared from deportation. Representative
Lamar Smith of Texas, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, led the opposition to
the Dream Act, calling it ''an American nightmare'' that would allow illegal
immigrants to displace American students from public colleges.

Mr. Smith and other Republicans on the Judiciary Committee have pledged to block
any legislation giving legal status to illegal immigrants, which they reject as
amnesty for lawbreakers. Still, as Politico first reported on Monday, Senators
Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democrat, and Lindsey Graham of South
Carolina, a Republican, have begun preliminary talks to see whether there is
enough support in Congress to try to pass a comprehensive immigration overhaul
in coming months.

In the weeks since the Senate vote, many young illegal immigrants are grappling
with the letdown after a campaign that mobilized thousands of them for sit-in
protests and text message blitzes of Congressional lawmakers.

''Many have become extremely frustrated, sad, confused and without a lot of
answers as to how to move forward,'' said Roberto G. Gonzales, a sociologist at
the University of Washington who has surveyed young illegal immigrants. ''They
had a lot of hope that their activities were going to change the minds of the
country. Having the door slammed in their face hit many of them really hard.''

A moment of truth, Mr. Gonzales said, comes when the students graduate from
college. Many excel academically, but without work authorization, they cannot be
legally employed. Some immigrants with bachelor's degrees end up busing
restaurant dishes and cleaning offices, falling back on the jobs of their less
educated parents, who often struggled to put them through college.

Hostility toward illegal immigrants has grown in many states. Lawmakers in
Georgia and Virginia are considering measures to ban illegal immigrants from all
public colleges. Bills to deny state resident tuition rates to illegal
immigrants are under consideration here in Wisconsin, as well as in Arkansas,
Kansas, Nebraska and Indiana. Only a few states, like Colorado and Maryland, are
going the opposite direction, debating measures to allow illegal immigrants to
pay the lower in-state tuition rates.

In the absence of a student bill in Congress, Obama administration officials are
doing little to assist illegal immigrants who might be eligible for legal status
if it passed. Department of Homeland Security officials said they would continue
to reject any broad moratorium on deportations for those students.

Immigration agents have been instructed to focus on arresting immigrants who are
convicted criminals, implicitly steering away from students without criminal
records. When students do get caught, officials are using executive powers to
postpone or cancel their deportations, they said.

Brian P. Hale, the senior spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
said the agency ''uses discretion on a case by case basis, as appropriate.''

But senior administration officials said they did not want to make wider use of
those powers for fear of deepening the conflict with Mr. Smith and other
Republicans, who might try to limit the authority granted by immigration law and
further stiffen their opposition to measures like the Dream Act. The officials
spoke anonymously, saying they could discuss policy more freely that way.

The strategizing in Washington is doing little for Ms. Aguilar, 19, a junior at
Marquette University here.

''If your name is out there immediately attached with 'undocumented,' then there
is always this fear of being deported,'' she said.

But Ms. Aguilar said she was not as dispirited as many other students like her
because she still felt the elation that came after she revealed her illegal
status, then traveled to Washington to watch the December vote from the Senate
gallery.

''I think losing the shame overshadows the fear,'' she said. ''I'd much rather
clarify to the public that being undocumented is just a circumstance I find
myself in. I'd much rather have that out in the public than just living in
fear.''

Immigrant activists say that coming out may have given some protection to
student leaders like Ms. Aguilar, since administration officials would prefer to
avoid the furor that would follow if one of them was detained. Ms. Aguilar also
admits she has not yet had to face some of the hardest consequences of her
status. An honors student in her Milwaukee high school, she was accepted to
Marquette, a private Jesuit university, on a full tuition scholarship.

After the Senate vote, she said, she is working with an immigrant organization
here to build new support for the student bill.

''It failed and we were all like super bummed out,'' she said. ''So we came out
of there crying, but defiant. We were like, one day we're going to pass this,
don't even worry about it.''

That pluck is not shared by Jose Varible, 19, another illegal immigrant from
Mexico, who was brought to the United States at age 9 by his parents. A student
in business management at Gateway Technical College, a community college in
Kenosha, Wis., Mr. Varible also held a formal coming out ceremony last summer.

Since he is not eligible for any financial aid, Mr. Varible struggles to pay his
tuition. He cannot drive, since Wisconsin does not issue licenses without proof
of legal United States residence. With a knack for technology hardware, he
taught himself to repair computers. But without a Social Security number, he can
take only odd jobs doing that work.

Combined with his new exposure as an illegal immigrant, he said, those
limitations sometimes sink him into depression. He has even considered moving to
Australia.

''You know, the thing is, I just don't feel welcome here,'' he said. ''You
cannot live as an undocumented immigrant.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jose Varible, an illegal immigrant, is a college student in
Kenosha, Wis. (A15)
 Maricela Aguilar, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, at home in Milwaukee. She
is a junior at Marquette University in the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Groups Make Late Push to Salvage Bill Aiding Illegal Immigrant Students

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 854 words


Immigrant advocate groups have mobilized across the country in what they call a
last-ditch effort to persuade Congress to pass a bill that would grant legal
status to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrant students, pressing for
action in the remaining weeks when Democrats control both houses of Congress.

The groups held marches, hunger strikes, prayer vigils and protests at
lawmakers' offices on Monday and Tuesday in support of the bill, which they call
the Dream Act. Opponents are also in high gear, swamping some senators who have
not disclosed their positions with faxes and phone calls.

A vote on the bill has not been scheduled, but Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the
majority leader, has said he could bring it up as early as this week. While its
prospects do not look strong, both sides expect that any measure to legalize
illegal immigrants would have far slimmer chances in Congress next year, when
Republicans will have a majority in the House and increased strength in the
Senate.

''We see this as our best opportunity now to get something done,'' said Frank
Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a group that favors the bill.

''Since they are giving it everything, so are we,'' said Roy Beck, executive
director of NumbersUSA, which seeks reduced immigration and opposes the student
bill. He said his group had delivered more than 650,000 faxes to lawmakers in
recent days.

''We think if we beat this one we won't have to deal with amnesty for many years
to come,'' Mr. Beck said, referring to legalization legislation.

At the San Antonio offices of Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, 15 protesters
supporting the bill were arrested Monday night, charged with trespassing. In a
statement, Ms. Hutchison, a Republican, said that she had asked that the
students be escorted from her office without arrests, but that they had
resisted.

Ms. Hutchison does not support the student bill in its current form, the
statement said.

In California on Tuesday, caravans of students, immigrants and labor union
members stopped at offices across the state of eight Republican and four
Democratic House members, demanding that they declare support for the
legislation. An estimated 550,000 illegal immigrant students in California could
be eligible for legal status under the bill, according to the Migration Policy
Institute, a nonpartisan research group.

In Washington State, immigrant and farm worker groups demonstrated outside the
offices of Republican House members. In Washington, D.C., illegal immigrant
students marched into an Army recruiting station and asked to enlist. Immigrants
who lack legal status are currently prohibited from joining the armed forces.

University presidents in the Northeast and Illinois signed letters of support or
attended campus rallies, including leaders at Brown, Harvard, M.I.T. and
Northwestern. A coalition of immigrant groups and unions announced a radio and
print advertising campaign this week focused on undecided senators from five
states.

In the past the bill has enjoyed broader support than other immigration measures
because it would benefit young people who were brought to this country illegally
by their parents and have generally performed well in school. It would open a
path to legal status for illegal immigrant high school graduates who came to the
United States before they were 16 years old, have been here for at least five
years and have no criminal record, provided they complete two years of college
or military service.

But prayers and demonstrations did not appear to be attracting any swell of
support to the bill. One of its firmest adversaries, Senator Jeff Sessions,
Republican of Alabama, took the lead in marshaling opposition, sending out
action alerts detailing a 10-point critique of the bill. He said it would give
safe harbor to some immigrants with criminal records and could benefit illegal
immigrants who were no longer youths.

Senator Reid is fulfilling a promise from his recent re-election campaign by
bringing up the student bill for a vote. His re-election victory came in large
part from Latino votes. President Obama has said he wants to see the bill passed
now, and Arne Duncan, his secretary of education, has been promoting it in
public appearances.

''I think we are fundamentally wrong on this as a nation,'' Mr. Duncan said in a
call Monday with reporters. Illegal immigrant students ''have played by all the
rules, gone to school, worked hard, full attendance. Then they graduate and the
doors of opportunity basically slam shut,'' he said.

But Republican lawmakers seemed in no hurry to give the Democrats a triumph
during the lame-duck session. Some of the protests in support of the bill took
place at the Utah offices of Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Republican who was one of
the first sponsors of the bill, early in the decade.

''Knowing full well it won't become law, Democrats are cynically using this
legislation for political purposes to curry favor with a political
constituency,'' said Antonia Ferrier, his spokeswoman. She said Mr. Hatch wanted
to focus in the current session on tax-cut legislation and other economic
issues.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters marched into an Army recruiting station in
Washington on Tuesday. Below, demonstrations in Times Square, left, and in
Carlsbad, Calif., on Monday in support of legislation that would grant legal
status to hundreds of thousands of students. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE
NEW YORK TIMES
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LENNY IGNELZI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 8, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Students Await Votes on Legal Status

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 863 words


With both houses of Congress set to vote this week on a bill that would give
legal status to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrant students, one of
those students will wait for news of the outcome at an immigration detention
center in Arizona.

The student, Hector Lopez, 21, was deported to Mexico in August after having
lived with his family in Oregon since he was an infant. After two months of
trying to find his bearings and a job in Mexico City, Mr. Lopez, who does not
speak Spanish, traveled to the border last month and turned himself in to the
immigration authorities, requesting asylum in the United States.

Mr. Lopez's deportation and effort to return offer a look at one prospect
awaiting illegal immigrant students if the bill, known as the Dream Act, fails.

Votes on the measure were expected in the Senate and the House on Wednesday,
Congressional leaders said. It stands a slim chance of passage in the House,
where Democrats are in the final days of their majority. In the Senate, although
its champion is the Democratic majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, the bill
appears unlikely to succeed.

Many Republican senators, led by Jeff Sessions of Alabama, have denounced the
bill as a ''nightmare act'' that would give amnesty to millions of illegal
immigrants and provide safe harbor for some with criminal records. Other
Republicans, including several who supported the bill in the past, said they
would not vote for it this time because they believe Democrats are pushing it to
please Latino voters.

In demonstrations this year in support of the bill, hundreds of immigrant
students declared their illegal status and thousands joined street protests.
Young illegal immigrants like Mr. Lopez are regularly caught in sweeps by
immigration agents.

The Obama administration, which supports the measure, said it has steered away
from arresting illegal immigrants who might be eligible for legal status under
its terms, with officials saying their focus was on deporting convicted
criminals. Still, Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, said that
immigration authorities would deport any illegal immigrant they detected.

''Our job is to enforce the law, and we are going to continue to do our job,''
Ms. Napolitano told reporters last week.

On Sept. 1, Mr. Lopez was flown by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to the
Texas border and deported to Matamoros, Mexico. He and his parents were arrested
on Aug. 23 near their home in Milwaukie, Ore., by agents with a court order for
their deportation issued in April 1999, when Mr. Lopez was 9. Mr. Lopez and his
parents, who are also illegal immigrants from Mexico, said in court papers that
they did not receive the notice to attend an immigration hearing the previous
month.

When they failed to appear, the judge ordered them deported. The lawyer who
represented them was later suspended from practice for three years, in part for
failing to notify clients of immigration hearings, according to a 2002 ruling by
the State Bar Court of California.

Mr. Lopez's parents brought him to the United States when he was 6 weeks old. In
his senior year at Rex Putnam High School, he was student body president,
graduating in 2008. Mr. Lopez would have been eligible for legal status under
the student bill, since he was a child when he was ordered deported, his lawyer,
Siovhan Sheridan-Ayala, said.

With no immediate relatives in Mexico, Mr. Lopez traveled by bus from the border
to Mexico City, to stay in the home of distant family friends in Iztapalapa, a
working-class district.

Speaking by telephone from the detention center in Florence, Ariz., Mr. Lopez
said he always felt out of place in Mexico.

''I felt like everything was far from home, just a completely new world for
me,'' he said. ''Not knowing the language well, I wasn't ready for it all. It
was almost too much to handle.''

He said that a local gang of drug dealers harassed him, trying to drive him out
of the neighborhood. For several weeks he did not leave his residence, until he
decided to try to return to the United States. Ms. Sheridan-Ayala has initiated
an asylum petition and asked to re-open his deportation case.

The student bill would provide conditional legal status to illegal immigrant
high school graduates who came to the country before they were 16 years old,
have lived here for five years and have no criminal records, if they attend
college or serve in the military for two years.

In a final-hour press by the administration, Clifford L. Stanley, the under
secretary of defense for personnel and readiness, said Tuesday in a call with
reporters that the bill would help the Pentagon by ''increasing the pool of
high-quality people who are going to be enlisting.''

The lead sponsor of the Senate bill, Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois,
made changes to it in an effort to attract more votes, lowering the maximum age
for eligibility to 29 from 35, and tightening the exclusion of immigrants with
criminal records.

But Mr. Sessions, in a speech on the Senate floor, said that the bill remained
''poorly drafted, filled with loopholes and, by rewarding illegal behavior, will
without doubt encourage future illegal immigration.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hector Lopez, in a 2008 Oregon school photo, was deported to
Mexico in August and is seeking asylum in the U.S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unlicensed Drivers Who Risk More Than a Fine

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and ROBERT GEBELOFF; Julia Preston reported from
Lawrenceville, Ga., and Robert Gebeloff from New York. Robbie Brown contributed
reporting from Lawrenceville.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2642 words



LAWRENCEVILLE, Ga. -- It was just another suburban fender-bender. A car zoomed
into an intersection and braked too late to stop at a red light. The Georgia
woman driving it, an American citizen, left with a wrecked auto, a sore neck and
a traffic fine.

But for Felipa Leonor Valencia, the Mexican woman who was driving the Jeep that
was hit that day in March, the damage went far beyond a battered bumper. The
crash led Ms. Valencia, an illegal immigrant who did not have a valid driver's
license, to 12 days in detention and the start of deportation proceedings --
after 17 years of living in Georgia.

Like Ms. Valencia, an estimated 4.5 million illegal immigrants nationwide are
driving regularly, most without licenses, according to an analysis by The New
York Times. Only three states -- New Mexico, Utah and Washington -- currently
issue licenses without proof of legal residence in the United States.

Many states have adopted tough new laws to prevent illegal immigrants from
driving, while expanding immigration enforcement by the state and local police.
As a result, at least 30,000 illegal immigrants who were stopped for common
traffic violations in the last three years have ended up in deportation,
Department of Homeland Security figures show. The numbers are rapidly
increasing, aggravating tensions in the national debate over immigration.

The tensions seem likely to persist. The Senate may take up a bill next week
that would give legal status to some illegal immigrant students. Its fate is
uncertain, and prospects appear dim for a controversial overhaul, supported by
President Obama, that would give legal status to 11 million illegal immigrants.
In the absence of federal action, states are stepping in, trying their own
solutions.

In Georgia, voters have been worried about unlicensed illegal immigrants whose
driving skills are untested and who often lack insurance, including some who
caused well-publicized accidents. Lawmakers have tightened requirements to keep
illegal immigrants from obtaining licenses and license plates, and have
increased penalties for driving without them.

''There are certain things you can't do in the state of Georgia if you are an
illegal immigrant,'' said State Senator Chip Rogers, a Republican who was a
prime mover behind some of the traffic measures. ''One of them is, you can't
drive.''

Many Georgia counties have begun to cooperate formally with the Department of
Homeland Security, so that illegal immigrants detained by the local police are
turned over more consistently to federal immigration authorities.

Still, according to The Times's analysis, 200,000 illegal immigrants in Georgia
are driving to work daily. For them, the new laws mean that any police stop,
whether for a violation that caused an accident, or for a broken taillight or
another driver's mistake, can lead to deportation. Since 2006, thousands of
immigrants, mostly from Latin America, have been deported from Georgia after
traffic violations, often shaking up long-settled families.

The stepped-up enforcement has been applauded by many citizens. It has also
antagonized the fast-growing Hispanic communities in and near Atlanta, where
residents say the police are singling them out for traffic stops.

Illegal immigrants say they continue to risk driving without a license in order
to keep their jobs.

''We have to work to support our kids, so we have to drive,'' Ms. Valencia said
in Spanish, after she was released on a $7,500 bond in late October from an
immigration detention center in Alabama to begin her legal fight against
deportation. ''If we drive, we get stopped by the police. The first thing they
ask is, 'Can I see your license?' 'Don't have one? Go to jail.' And from jail to
deportation.''

A Sheriff Cracks Down

Not a few unlicensed Hispanic drivers are traveling the chronically congested
roads here in Gwinnett County, a commuter destination northeast of Atlanta.
Years of growth resulted in spreading subdivisions and state highways that
converge at vast intersections. Public bus routes are few. To get around the
county, you have to go by car.

After several high-profile crimes committed by illegal immigrants, the sheriff,
Butch Conway, a blunt-spoken lawman who rides motorcycles and breeds horses in
his spare time, made it his goal to reduce their population in his jail and his
county.

''Just the fact that these people committed serious crimes when they should not
have been in the country to begin with,'' Sheriff Conway said, ''I think that
was an insult to the people of Gwinnett.''

He enrolled the detention center here in Lawrenceville, the county seat, in a
program with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency known as
ICE. Under the program, known as 287 (g), 18 of his deputies were trained to
question suspects about their immigration status when they arrive at the jail.
The deputies place holds, known as detainers, on immigrants they determine to be
here illegally, so when the inmates are released from the jail they can be
turned over directly to ICE.

The agreement with ICE specifies that Sheriff Conway is to focus on removing
''criminal aliens who pose a threat to public safety or a danger to the
community.'' The sheriff says that should include those stopped for driving
without a license.

''I find it offensive that they just thumb their nose at our laws and operate
vehicles they are not licensed to operate,'' he said, ''on top of the fact that
they are here illegally.''

String of Violations

When some Gwinnett County residents explain why they support a crackdown on
illegal immigrants, one case they cite is that of Celso Campos Duartes. Mr.
Campos, a Mexican, accumulated at least five moving violations in five years,
including a hit-and-run accident, before he was turned over to ICE for
deportation last month through the county jail 287(g) program.

One afternoon in October 2005, Mr. Campos was driving his Ford compact down a
county road just as Aubrey Sosebee, an 82-year-old retiree, reached the black
mailbox at the end of his driveway.

''The house sits way off the road, and that was his exercise every day, to walk
up to get the mail and then walk back,'' said Rusty Sosebee, 59, one of Mr.
Sosebee's sons.

Mr. Campos struck Mr. Sosebee, knocking him to the pavement. Witnesses told the
police that Mr. Campos tried to turn his vehicle and leave but several drivers
blocked his path. Mr. Campos sprinted into nearby woods, where police search
dogs found him hours later.

Three of Mr. Sosebee's children, who gathered recently to recount the accident,
could not recall the events without breaking down.

''He knows all of the illegal actions that he has taken,'' Rhonda Neely, 49, Mr.
Sosebee's daughter, said of Mr. Campos. ''He's more concerned with getting away
and not getting caught than with my dad's life, laying there on the road, the
person he just ran over.''

Mr. Campos, though sober, was driving without a license and with plates from
another vehicle. Although insurance is mandatory in Georgia, he had none. Mr.
Sosebee received no compensation from Mr. Campos for his medical care.

Mr. Sosebee never recovered from the head injury he suffered in the fall, his
son Rusty said. He remained disoriented, his son said, and four months later he
died.

Convicted of leaving the scene of an accident, Mr. Campos served 26 months in
the county jail. But at the end of his sentence, he walked away. He was arrested
two more times for traffic offenses.

After the Sosebees learned in May, to their disbelief, that Mr. Campos was still
in the country, they contacted the news media. The furor ensured that ICE would
not let Mr. Campos slip away again.

In an interview in October in the Gwinnett County Detention Center, Mr. Campos,
now 37, was impassive and unapologetic. ''I ran to protect my life,'' he said,
speaking in Spanish at a jailhouse visiting booth. ''The accident had already
happened, there was nothing I could do to avoid it.''

But Mr. Campos did not dispute his eventual deportation. The residents of
Georgia ''have every right to object to people who drive without a license.''

Making Their Arguments

While traffic deaths involving illegal immigrants like Mr. Campos have
galvanized public opinion, it is not clear that they are increasing, even as the
illegal immigrant population has surged during the last decade.

There has been no surge in the percentage of Hispanic drivers killed in
accidents in recent years, federal highway safety data show. What the data do
show is that Hispanics who are involved in fatal crashes are far less likely
than other drivers to have a valid license.

About 80 percent of illegal immigrants are Hispanic, according to the Pew
Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group.

Looming over cases like Mr. Campos's is the question of whether illegal
immigrants should be allowed to have driver's licenses in the first place.

Highway safety and auto insurance experts argue that licensing requires drivers
to pass tests and creates an official record of their performance on the road.
Licensed drivers can also be made to buy insurance.

''When you are licensed, you have proven you have some ability to drive and know
the basic safety rules,'' said David Snyder, vice president of the American
Insurance Association.

Opponents focus on a different set of issues, arguing that a license is an
identity document that allows unauthorized immigrants to move about the country
freely and to gain public benefits.

''Giving someone here illegally a driver's license is much more than giving them
the privilege of driving,'' said D. A. King, president of the Dustin Inman
Society, a group created in the name of a Georgia teenager who was killed in
2000 by an illegal immigrant driver. ''It is giving them the keys to the
kingdom.''

Mr. King's side is winning. Since 2006, six states that once allowed illegal
immigrants to obtain licenses have changed their laws, leaving only three.
Susana Martinez, the Republican governor-elect of New Mexico, has pledged to
revise license laws there to deny licenses to illegal immigrants.

Georgia has never given licenses to immigrants who are here illegally. In 2008,
state legislators increased the penalties for driving without a license,
starting with 48 hours of mandatory jail time for a first offense and fines
amounting to $700.

Now, many more unlicensed immigrants are going to jail -- and from there are
being detained by immigration authorities. Some are offenders like Mr. Campos.
Many others are average drivers like Ms. Valencia.

Wrong Place, Wrong Time

''I would like to be able to get a license, but I am unable to do so,'' Ms.
Valencia told a state judge, speaking through an interpreter in Spanish, when
she appeared on Oct. 6 in a Lawrenceville courtroom for the no-license citation
she received at the accident scene.

On March 11, the day the speeding Chevy hit Ms. Valencia's vehicle, she was
barely a mile from the home she owns in a Gwinnett County development. She was
on her way to pick up her daughter, Crystal, 16, at high school to take her to a
doctor's appointment.

Ms. Valencia's 2000 Jeep Cherokee was legally registered, inspected and insured.
She had a driver's license she had obtained in North Carolina in 2003, when that
state still granted them without proof of United States residency. It expired in
2008.

After coming to Georgia from an ox-and-plow farming village in Mexico, Ms.
Valencia had a 12-year career at a fast-food restaurant in a suburban mall,
rising from hamburger flipper to cashier to assistant manager. Among her most
carefully preserved possessions are two diplomas for the company's management
training courses.

Ms. Valencia, a single mother, has raised Crystal, an American citizen born in
Atlanta, and an American niece, now 7, whose mother died in childbirth.

With the help of a lawyer, Ms. Valencia navigated the court hearing and was
ready to pay her fine and go home. But at the last minute, the judge ordered her
to be fingerprinted at the Gwinnett County Detention Center.

''Oh, no, my God, that's it,'' she thought. ''I'm going to jail.''

When she arrived to give her fingerprints, a 287(g) deputy asked for her
immigration papers. When she had none to offer, she was sent to immigration
detention in Gadsden, Ala.

Crystal was distraught, frantically texting her mother and scouring the county
court Web site for information.

''She is the only person that's been there for me,'' Crystal said, dazed, at a
relative's house one night while her mother was in the county jail. ''She shows
me what decisions to make, like keep going to school, do good in school, don't
drop out.''

Crystal has been preparing to go to college to study medicine, and she could not
conceive of moving to Mexico. ''To begin with,'' she said, ''I really don't know
that much Spanish.''

The Repercussions

''I think there's some sad stories out there, no doubt,'' Sheriff Conway said.
''But my job is not taking action on sad stories.''

To date, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has signed agreements for 287(g)
programs with 72 communities across the country. It is also rolling out a more
ambitious program called Secure Communities, giving local police nationwide
access to the Department of Homeland Security's database of fingerprints.
Immigrants are checked for their legal status when they are booked.

Senior ICE officials have established priorities for these programs, with the
highest being deportation of criminals convicted of major drug offenses and
violent acts. Traffic violations are not among the top priorities.

Sheriff Conway takes a different position: ''If they're here illegally in the
United States, they should be deported regardless of the charge.''

The results of the Gwinnett County 287(g) program reflect the sheriff's view.
During its first year, which ended Nov. 16, immigration detainers were placed on
3,034 inmates, 93 percent of them Latino. Of a total of 6,662 charges those
inmates faced, 21 percent were for ICE's high-priority crimes, like aggravated
assault and child molestation. But 45 percent were for traffic violations other
than driving under the influence, including 469 detainees held only for driving
without a license.

The impact in this area has been deep. Vanessa Kosky, the defense lawyer who
represented Ms. Valencia, said her young practice has been overwhelmed with
cases of Hispanic immigrants arrested for driving without a license. To avoid
deportation, they have clogged the courts to fight charges they once would have
dispatched by paying a fine.

''These are not horrific drivers,'' Ms. Kosky said. ''These are not D.U.I.'s.
These are not people who are putting people in danger.''

Hispanic leaders said immigrants are learning to avoid the police. Latino
restaurants have lost business as their patrons choose to stay home. Attendance
at Catholic churches dropped when police set up traffic checkpoints nearby.

''It's like a persecution,'' said Bishop Luis Rafael Zarama, the auxiliary
bishop of Atlanta. ''These laws only affect one group: the Latino community.''

Law enforcement officials point to a sharp drop this year in arrests for driving
without a license. Some unlicensed immigrants are car-pooling, and some are
moving elsewhere in Georgia.

''I mean, that's success,'' Sheriff Conway said. ''That's the point of the
program, to remove illegal aliens from Gwinnett County.''

Correction: December 17, 2010, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A map last
Friday with an article about the tensions arising nationwide because of illegal
immigrants who drive without licenses erroneously labeled West Virginia as
Maryland and omitted the percentage of Hispanic drivers killed in crashes in
West Virginia from 2000-2009 who did not have licenses. It was 21 percent.
(Though the map did not label Maryland, it correctly noted that the figure there
was 23 percent .)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENFORCER: After some crimes by illegal immigrants caused an
outcry, Sheriff Butch Conway of Gwinnett County, Ga., made it a goal to reduce
their numbers and enrolled the jail in an Immigration and Customs Enforcement
program.
DETAINED: Felipa Leonor Valencia, a Gwinnett County homeowner from Mexico facing
deportation, was reunited in October with her daughter, Crystal, 16, left, and
niece Stephanie, 7. Celso Campos Duartes was held for deportation. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) MAP: Unlicensed Drivers and
Fatal Crashes: There are no precise statistics on illegal immigrants who drive.
But the government compiles information on the license status and ethnicity of
drivers killed in accidents. According to that data, Hispanic drivers killed in
crashes are disproportionately unlicensed, particularly in Southern states where
illegal immigration surged in the last decade. About 80 percent of illegal
immigrants are Hispanic. (Sources: National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration (unlicensed drivers involved in fatal crashes)
Gwinnett County Sheriff's Office)
 GRAPHICS: A Gwinnett County Snapshot: In Gwinnett County, Ga., immigrants
arrested for unlicensed driving are being detained for deportation. A
disproportionate share of those detained under a federal immigration program in
the last year were Hispanic, and nearly half the charges they faced were for
traffic violations. (GRAPHICS BY HAEYOUN PARK AND ROBERT GEBELOFF/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill to Grant Legal Status to Immigrant Students Heads to a Vote in the Senate

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 815 words


The Obama administration joined with Latino leaders and immigrant advocates on
Friday in a full-court press on behalf of a bill to grant legal status to
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrant students, which faces a decisive vote
on Saturday in the Senate.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, scheduled the vote on the
student measure, which is known as the Dream Act, late on Thursday. The Senate
will vote on a version of the bill that passed the House of Representatives on
Dec. 8.

The bill gained some momentum after passing the House by 20 votes, including 8
Republicans, a wider margin than its supporters had expected. But on Friday the
Senate count appeared to be short of the 60 votes Democrats need to bring the
bill to the floor for debate. Its sponsors, including Senator Reid and Senator
Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second highest Democratic leader,
acknowledged they faced an uphill climb.

President Obama made telephone calls this week to Republican and Democratic
senators. Five cabinet secretaries have made calls, held news conferences or
blogged on the issue.

On a call organized by the White House on Friday, David Aguilar, the deputy
commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, said that strict eligibility
requirements in the bill for young immigrants who are here would dissuade others
outside the country from trying coming to the country illegally. Addressing
concerns from lawmakers who say they want more border security before voting for
the legislation, Mr. Aguilar said, ''At no point in history has the border been
as secure as it is today.''

Latino leaders also turned up the pressure on senators, saying support for the
student measure would be a litmus test for Latino voters in the 2012 elections.

''This will be a watershed vote that Latinos will not forget,'' Janet Murguia,
president of the National Council of La Raza, one of the largest national
Hispanic organizations, said on a conference call with reporters Friday. ''There
will be members who choose to stand for innocent children and members who do
not,'' she said, using some of the stark terms Latino leaders have adopted in
the debate.

Latinos, the nation's largest and fastest-growing minority, registered more than
one million voters in the past two election cycles. Democratic lawmakers,
including Senator Reid, have said their party was able to keep its Senate
majority due in large part to Latino voters.

The immigrant student measure has awakened powerful passions and led to national
mobilizations on both sides of the debate. Republican opponents said the measure
would encourage a new wave of illegal immigration.

In this round of the fight, the supporters, led by illegal immigrant students,
most of them Latinos, have been more visible than opponents. This week immigrant
students, including many without legal status, lobbied in Senate offices in
Washington. Univision and other Latino television networks have actively
advocated for the student measure. Catholic, Jewish and evangelical Christian
clergy members gathered on Capitol Hill this week to pray for passage of the
bill.

Latino evangelical pastors, who are politically conservative on social issues,
joined the campaign to pressure Republicans.

''Republican conservatives have a chance to demonstrate they truly embrace the
party of Lincoln,'' the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, the president of the National
Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, said on a conference call Thursday.
''To continue to punish these children is nothing less than anti-Christian,
anti-Hispanic and anti-American.''

Several Republicans face strong opposition from Republican voters in their
states to measures that could be seen as rewarding immigrants who broke the law
to remain in this country.

Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, was one target of the
advocates' campaign, with student protesters holding a month-long hunger strike
at one of her Texas offices. Senator Hutchison said on Friday that she would not
vote for the bill.

''While she is sympathetic with their situation, she will not support the Dream
Act legislation brought before the Senate because it expands the scope of the
bill beyond the intended individuals who were brought here as children and grew
up and were educated in the United States,'' a statement from her office said.

Senator Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts, another Republican who has been on call
lists of Latino and immigrant groups, said this week that he would not vote for
the bill, calling it a ''backdoor amnesty.'' Senator George LeMieux of Florida
also said he would vote against the bill.

The bill would grant conditional legal status to illegal immigrant high school
graduates if they came to the United States before they were 16 years old, have
been here for more than five years and have no criminal records, if they attend
college or serve in the military for two years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A prayer circle gathered at the Senate Hart Office Building in
Washington. Catholic, Jewish and evangelical Christian leaders visited Capitol
Hill this week to pray for passage of the Dream Act. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

POLITICAL BATTLE ON IMMIGRATION SHIFTS TO STATES

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words


Legislative leaders in at least half a dozen states say they will propose bills
similar to a controversial law to fight illegal immigration that was adopted by
Arizona last spring, even though a federal court has suspended central
provisions of that statute.

The efforts, led by Republicans, are part of a wave of state measures coming
this year aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration.

Legislators have also announced measures to limit access to public colleges and
other benefits for illegal immigrants and to punish employers who hire them.

Next week, at least five states plan to begin an unusual coordinated effort to
cancel automatic United States citizenship for children born in this country to
illegal immigrant parents.

Opponents say that effort would be unconstitutional, arguing that the power to
grant citizenship resides with the federal government, not with the states.
Still, the chances of passing many of these measures appear better than at any
time since 2006, when many states, frustrated with inaction in Washington, began
proposing initiatives to curb illegal immigration.

Republicans gained more than 690 seats in state legislatures nationwide in the
November midterms, winning their strongest representation at the state level in
more than 80 years.

Few people expect movement on immigration issues when Congress reconvenes next
week in a divided Washington. Republicans, who will control the House of
Representatives, do not support an overhaul of immigration laws that President
Obama has promised to continue to push. State lawmakers say it has fallen to
them to act.

''The federal government's failure to enforce our border has functionally turned
every state into a border state,'' said Randy Terrill, a Republican
representative in Oklahoma who has led the drive for anti-illegal immigration
laws there. ''This is federalism in action,'' he said. ''The states are stepping
in and filling the void left by the federal government.''

But the proposals have already drawn opposition from some business groups. And
they are forcing strategic soul-searching within the Republican Party
nationwide, with a rising populist base on one side demanding tough immigration
measures, and, on the other side, traditional Republican supporters in business
and a fast-growing Latino electorate strongly opposing those measures.

In Utah, a state dominated by Republicans, leaders from business, law
enforcement, several churches and the Latino community sought to bridge the
divide by joining together in November in a compact urging moderation on
immigration issues.

Some of the more contentious measures may not go into effect immediately,
including Arizona-style bills and those intended to eliminate birthright
citizenship for American-born children of illegal immigrants. Latino and
immigrant advocate legal organizations are gearing up for a host of court
challenges.

Among the states expected to introduce bills similar to Arizona's are Georgia,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and South Carolina.

The Arizona law authorized the state and local police to ask about the
immigration status of anyone they detained for other reasons, if they had a
''reasonable suspicion'' that the person was an illegal immigrant.

Acting on a lawsuit filed by the Obama administration, a federal judge stayed
central provisions of the law. In November, the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit heard arguments on an appeal of that stay by Arizona.

''States will push ahead regardless of the Ninth Circuit,'' said Kris Kobach, a
law professor and politician from Kansas who helped many states devise
immigration laws -- including Arizona's. ''A lot of people recognize that the
district judge's decision is very much open to dispute.''

In Oklahoma, where Republicans won big majorities in both houses of the
Legislature and the governor's office, Mr. Terrill said he would introduce a
bill he called ''Arizona plus.'' In addition to the terms of Arizona's law, it
would allow for the seizure of vehicles and property used to transport or harbor
illegal immigrants.

In Georgia, an all-Republican commission of legislators plans to propose
measures to enhance enforcement of tough laws already on the books. Georgia will
also consider a bill to bar illegal immigrant students from all public
universities.

The newly elected governor, Nathan Deal, a Republican, is expected to sign those
bills. But the Georgia Farm Bureau, which represents the state's powerful
growers, voted to oppose any measures that would affect immigrant farm workers,
most of whom do not have legal status.

In Kansas, Republicans won big majorities in both legislative houses and Sam
Brownback, who just retired as a United States senator, was elected governor.
Mr. Kobach, the law professor, was elected secretary of state after a campaign
in which he vowed to pass a law requiring proof of citizenship for voters.

But the Kansas Chamber of Commerce has voiced its opposition, and Mr. Brownback
has said he will focus on reducing unemployment.

The newest initiative is a joint effort among lawmakers from states including
Arizona, Oklahoma, Missouri and Pennsylvania to pass laws based on a single
model that would deny American citizenship to children born in those states to
illegal immigrants. The legislators were to announce the campaign in Washington
on Wednesday.

A leader of that effort is Daryl Metcalfe, a Republican state representative
from Pennsylvania. At a recent news conference, Mr. Metcalfe said his goal was
to eliminate ''an anchor baby status, in which an illegal alien invader comes
into our country and has a child on our soil that is granted citizenship
automatically.''

The campaign is certain to run into legal obstacles. Courts have interpreted the
14th Amendment as guaranteeing birthright citizenship. Even among those who seek
its repeal, debate has hinged on whether that would require a constitutional
amendment, an act of Congress or a decision by the Supreme Court.

Some Republicans argue that the party is risking losing its appeal to Latino
voters, the fastest-growing minority voter bloc.

''The Republican Party is divided between those who see that Hispanics are an
essential constituency going forward, and those who don't see that,'' said Tamar
Jacoby, a Republican who is the president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a business
coalition that supports legalization for illegal immigrants.

Latino and immigrant advocate groups are resigned to being on the defensive for
the next two years. ''These laws are creating resentment within the Latino
community that is going to last for decades,'' said Tony Yapias, director of
Proyecto Latino de Utah in Salt Lake City, an immigrant advocacy group.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Lawmakers Outline Plans to End Birthright Citizenship, Drawing Outcry

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1038 words


WASHINGTON -- Conservative legislators from five states opened a national
campaign on Wednesday to end the automatic granting of American citizenship to
children born in the United States of illegal immigrants.

At a news conference here timed to coincide with the start of a new Congress,
Republican state lawmakers introduced two model measures curtailing citizenship
rights for children of illegal immigrants. The legislators said the measures
would be introduced in at least 14 states.

They acknowledged that the state bills were not likely to have a practical
effect anytime soon, since they will quickly be challenged as unconstitutional.
But the legislators -- from Arizona, Georgia, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and South
Carolina -- said they chose the first day of a new Republican-controlled House
of Representatives to start an effort that they hope will end with a Supreme
Court decision on birthright citizenship, and spur legislative action in
Washington.

In a separate effort, Representative Steve King of Iowa, a Republican who will
be chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said Wednesday
that as soon as the new House members were sworn in, he would introduce a bill
to eliminate birthright citizenship for children when both parents were illegal
immigrants.

But it was the state lawmakers' initiative that moved the highly emotional issue
of birthright citizenship, which had long been marginal in the immigration
debate, to the front of the Republicans' immigration agenda in the 112th
Congress.

''We are here to send a very public message to Congress,'' said Daryl Metcalfe,
a Republican state representative from Pennsylvania. ''We want to bring an end
to the illegal alien invasion that is having such a negative impact on our
states.''

The states' campaign brought an outcry from immigrant, Latino and
African-American civil rights organizations. Several of them announced they had
formed a coalition to bring court challenges to any birthright citizenship laws
that passed state legislatures.

''For the first time since the end of the Civil War, these legislators want to
pass state laws that would create two tiers of citizens, a modern-day caste
system,'' said Wade Henderson, president of the Leadership Conference on Human
and Civil Rights, which includes many African-American groups.

His group is in the new coalition, along with the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and the National Council of La Raza, among others.

The lawmakers were challenged even before they finished speaking. The news
conference, held at the National Press Club, was interrupted four times by
protesters who stood one by one to brandish posters and accuse the lawmakers of
intolerance and racism. One protester cited welcoming words for immigrants
inscribed at the site of the Statue of Liberty.

A brief scuffle erupted when a man who was a supporter of the state initiatives
seized one protester by the arm and tried to march him out of the room. Also
present were supporters of the lawmakers, who clapped and cheered.

One model measure the lawmakers presented was a bill creating a new definition
of state citizenship, in addition to national citizenship, which would exclude
babies born in the state with two illegal immigrant parents.

The second measure was a compact between states, in which they would agree to
issue distinctive birth certificates to babies whose parents could not show
legal immigration status.

The state bills would also deny citizenship to newborn children of hundreds of
thousands of legal immigrants who live in the United States on temporary visas.

The right to United States citizenship for everyone born on American soil is
described in the 14th Amendment. The state legislators argued that one phrase in
the amendment -- which guarantees citizenship to everyone born or naturalized in
this country ''and subject to the jurisdiction thereof'' -- signals that it was
not intended to apply to children of immigrants who do not have lawful status.

The 14th Amendment was adopted in the wake of the Civil War to guarantee
citizenship to the American-born children of freed slaves. In the debate on
Wednesday, there were frequent references to the Civil War.

Daniel B. Verdin, a senior Republican state senator from South Carolina, called
illegal immigration ''a malady of epic proportions,'' which he said compared
with ''the malady of slavery.''

The state lawmakers said illegal immigrants had a dire effect on state budgets.
Mr. Metcalfe said that Pennsylvania was facing ''nothing less than an
invasion,'' and that Congress had a constitutional responsibility to protect
states from foreign invasion.

Kris Kobach, a constitutional lawyer who was recently elected secretary of state
of Kansas, said the proposed laws were carefully written to avoid usurping
federal authority, but to ''revive the concept of state citizenship.''

But opponents of the proposals said that determining American citizenship was
clearly a federal matter in which states had no legal role.

''We believe these laws cannot survive constitutional scrutiny,'' said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the immigrants' rights project of the American Civil
Liberties Union, another group in the new coalition.

Mr. King, the Iowa congressman, said the birthright citizenship bill he would
introduce might not be his first priority for passage. He said he would focus
first on legislation to crack down on employers who hire unauthorized immigrant
workers.

Several House lawmakers said Mr. King's citizenship bill could pass, although it
was likely to be defeated in the Senate, where Democrats hold a majority.

''I would have said a year ago that Republicans would not embrace anything so
drastic,'' said Representative Charlie Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat who is
chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ''But anything is possible now.''

Some Latino Republicans expressed dismay that the party was making birthright
citizenship a central element of its immigration policy.

''Rather than attacking babies born in the United States and the Constitution,
we demand they target our suffering economy,'' said Deedee Garcia Blase, a
spokeswoman for Somos Republicans, a Texas-based organization of Latino
Republicans.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday

A Dream Deferred

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 138 words



HIGHLIGHT: Six Q's About the News | What opportunities would the Dream Act, if
passed, bring to undocumented students?


WHAT is the Dream Act?
WHAT happened in December that made many people conclude that its chances for
passage in the next two years are "poor to none"?

HOW many people, according to estimates, would benefit from the Dream Act, if it
were passed?

WHO are they?

WHERE are lawmakers considering measures to ban illegal immigrants from public
universities?
WHERE do such students receive in-state tuition discounts?

WHY do those opposed to the Dream Act call it "an American nightmare"?

WHEN did sit-in protests and text message blitzes to Congressional lawmakers
begin?



     ·    How Students Can Take Charge of Their Education
     ·    Oct. 28, 1886 | Statue of Liberty Is Unveiled
     ·    Are Children of Illegal Immigrants Entitled to a Public Education?
     ·    Of Coyotes, Crossings and Cellphones
     ·    100 Years Later: Examining the Impact of the Triangle Shirtwaist
          Factory Fire


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday

X-Ray Scan Reveals 513 Mexican Migrants in 2 Trucks

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN

LENGTH: 496 words



HIGHLIGHT: A backscatter x-ray scanner produced a haunting, powerful image of a
crowd of migrants crammed in a cargo truck.


When police ran x-ray scanners over two cargo trucks at a checkpoint in
southeastern Mexico on Tuesday, they made a surprising discovery: Inside the
trailer were the ghostly shadows of 513 migrants  - some suffering from
dehydration - packed together in near-suffocating conditions.

The police released an image of the harrowing scan, which shows how migrants sat
in tight bundles or stood clutching cargo straps for hours of clandestine travel
from beyond Mexico's border with Guatemala.

Their capture thwarted what appeared to be one of the largest single shipments
of illegal migrants found in recent years, The Associated Press reported. And it
drew attention to the increasing use of x-ray scanners by border security and
police officers to inspect vehicles on the road - not to mention the power of
these machines to create frightful, captivating images.

Scanners of the type used to inspect the trucks in Mexico, known as backscatter
scanners, are widely employed to check cargo for weapons and drugs, and also to
catch human smuggling. They are similar to the ones now frequently used at
airports around the United States to screen passengers. Critics have objected
that the images created by these machines - which penetrate normal clothing and
can be highly detailed - are a violation of travelers' privacy. (Remember the
failed protest against the scanners last year?)

No similar controversy attends their use on cargo, though. Fixed and mobile
scanners have been used for years everywhere from Europe to the war in Iraq for
that purpose.

Here's a video of one type of scanner inspecting trucks in Chile (the audio has
been removed):

As Andy Greenberg wrote on Forbes.com last year, "the same technology, capable
of seeing through clothes and walls, has also been rolling out on U.S. streets."
He continues:American Science & Engineering, a company based in Billerica,
Massachusetts, has sold U.S. and foreign government agencies more than 500
backscatter x-ray scanners mounted in vans that can be driven past neighboring
vehicles to see their contents, Joe Reiss, a vice president of marketing at the
company told me in an interview. While the biggest buyer of AS&E's machines over
the last seven years has been the Department of Defense operations in
Afghanistan and Iraq, Reiss says law enforcement agencies have also deployed the
vans to search for vehicle-based bombs in the U.S.Still, the image captured on
Tuesday is among the starkest to surface publicly so far. It opens an eerie
black-and-white window into a world where $7,000 buys a small patch of space in
a cramped truck with breathing holes punched in the roof, but no guarantee of
making it all the way to the United States.

     ·    Young Mother Named Police Chief in Mexican Town Terrorized by Drug
          Cartels
     ·    Video Updates on Flood Damage in the Mexican State of Oaxaca
     ·    Celebrated Spanish Matador Survives Goring
     ·    The Tet Offensive of Mexico's Drug War?
     ·    Readers in Mexico Share Their Experiences of the Swine Flu Outbreak


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanics Are Surging In Arizona

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 488 words


PHOENIX -- In Arizona, fervor against illegal immigration is so intense that
politicians have pushed some of the nation's toughest laws and citizen activists
have patrolled the border themselves. But census data released Thursday show
another side of the population story: Arizonans are increasingly becoming
Hispanic.

Still, the increase in Hispanics, to just under 30 percent of the population
last year from 25 percent in 2000, has been slower than some studies predicted.
Tough economic times coupled with restrictions on illegal immigrant workers are
probably responsible for driving many Hispanics away, analysts say.

''The Hispanic population has gone up, but it didn't go up as much as people
thought,'' said Tom Rex, associate director of the Center for Competitiveness
and Prosperity Research at the W. P. Carey School of Business at Arizona State
University. ''Or maybe it did go up and then dropped when those who got here
couldn't find jobs.''

Over all, Arizona's population has boomed to 6.4 million from 5.1 million over
the last decade, at a rate second only to Nevada's, and much of the growth is a
result of a 46 percent increase in the Hispanic population, said Bill Schooling,
the state demographer.

Significant increases in Hispanics were reported across the state: in the
Phoenix metropolitan area, where the bulk of the state's residents live, as well
as in the border counties of Yuma, Pima and Santa Cruz and in remote
northwestern Mohave County, bordering California and Nevada, where the Hispanic
population grew 72 percent.

The most popular names in the state reflect the diversity: Isabella, Sophia,
Emma and Olivia are the most popular girls' names in Arizona while Jacob,
Anthony, Daniel, Alexander and Angel top the boy's list.

''Without a doubt, wherever you turn, there are Latin people,'' said Luis Lim, a
political columnist for Prensa Hispana, the state's largest Spanish-language
publication.

The popular image of Arizona as a state of white retirees has always been a
caricature, experts say. ''We're not an old, white person's state,'' Mr. Rex
said. ''Our age distribution is not all that different from the national
average. It's quite a mixed state, despite the legislation that is passed
here.''

There may be demographic reasons for the conservative politics as well. Despite
the size of the Hispanic population, nearly 40 percent of it is under age 18 and
an untold number of others are not legally able to vote, meaning the numbers do
not translate into political clout.

On top of that, Latino community activists here suspect that there was probably
a significant undercount of the state's Hispanic population, with many not
participating to make a political point.

''They did not want to participate because they did not want the additional
money that the state could get to be utilized by law enforcement and the
persecution of people that are brown,'' said Salvador Reza, a community
activist.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: Big Gains for Hispanics in Phoenix Area . . .: From 2000 to
2010, the Hispanic population increased by 48 percent in Maricopa County, which
includes much of the Phoenix-Mesa metropolitan area. Hispanics make up 30
percent of the entire population in the area.
. . . But Not For Whites: The white population in Maricopa County increased by
10 percent, growing at a much slower pace than Hispanics. The overall share of
whites in the area decreased to 59 percent in 2010 from two-thirds in 2000.
(Sources: Census Bureau
 Social Explorer) (GRAPHICS BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Senate Rejects 5 Bills On Immigration

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 226 words


PHOENIX (AP) -- The Arizona Senate soundly defeated five bills aimed at illegal
immigration on Thursday in a marked departure from last year, when enactment of
a tough local enforcement measure put the state at the heart of a fierce
national debate over the issue.

Majority Republicans were split over the bills, which included two measures
intended to force a United States Supreme Court ruling against automatic
citizenship for American-born children of illegal immigrants.

Business leaders had been urging lawmakers to put the issue aside to avoid
damaging the ailing economy.

''It's time for us to take a timeout,'' said Senator John McComish, a Phoenix
Republican. ''It's something that the people don't want us to be focusing on.''

Critics also said the bills were overreaching and flawed. Supporters voiced
frustration and said there could be political fallout for lawmakers who voted
against them.

''The lack of political courage'' is the only impediment to step up pressure on
illegal immigration, said Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican who sponsored the
2010 law.

One of the bills would have required hospitals to report people who lack
insurance and cannot demonstrate legal status. Another would require schools to
report on enrollments of illegal immigrant students. The fifth would have made
it a crime for illegal immigrants to drive in Arizona.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona, Bowing to Business, Softens Stand on Immigration

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 933 words


Arizona established itself over the past year as the most aggressive state in
cracking down on illegal immigrants, gaining so much momentum with its efforts
that several other states vowed to follow suit. But now the harsh realities of
economics appear to have intruded, and Arizona may be looking to shed the image
of hard-line anti-immigration pioneer.

In an abrupt change of course, Arizona lawmakers rejected new anti-immigration
measures on Thursday, in what was widely seen as capitulation to pressure from
business executives and an admission that the state's tough stance had resulted
in a chilling of the normally robust tourism and convention industry.

The State Senate voted down five bills that among other things sought to require
hospitals to inform law enforcement officials when treating patients suspected
of being in the country illegally and to prod the Supreme Court to rule against
automatic citizenship for American-born children of illegal immigrants.

The Senate move was a victory for the Arizona business lobby, which on many
issues is more moderate than state lawmakers. And it was a rebuke for the State
Senate president, Russell Pearce, a Republican and the driving force behind
tough immigration measures, including the law passed last April requiring police
to question the status of anyone they stop if they have a ''reasonable
suspicion'' that the person might be an illegal immigrant.

Opponents of the five bills said that the state's image had been hit hard, and
that it did not make sense to pass new measures while the state had already put
itself so far out in front of other states and the federal government on the
issue -- at a cost to tourism and other industries.

They said that previous immigration bills were still being reviewed by the
courts, and that it was not smart to pass new legislation that plainly
conflicted with the 14th Amendment of the Constitution.

''I don't believe that anyone, including myself, foresaw the national and
international reaction'' to April's bill, said Glenn Hamer, chief executive of
the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who said estimates of lost tourism
business ranged from $15 million to $150 million. ''Now we have that experience
under our belts. We know these measures can cause economic damage; it's just a
matter of degree.''

A letter signed by 60 state business leaders this week blamed last year's bill
for boycotts, canceled contracts, declining sales and other economic setbacks.

''Arizona's lawmakers and citizens are right to be concerned about illegal
immigration,'' the letter said. ''But we must acknowledge that when Arizona goes
it alone on this issue, unintended consequences inevitably occur.''

While Mr. Hamer said he doubted the bills could have been defeated on Thursday
without broad-based business opposition, he cautioned that support for tighter
restrictions on immigration remained strong in a number of quarters. But, he
added, ''Our hope is that these types of measures have crested and we could
spend our time on efforts that could rebuild our economy.''

Indeed, state politicians and other officials interviewed after the bills'
defeat said it was too soon to tell whether the turnabout represented a
long-term change, or merely a breather until the economy rebounds. Concerns
about illegal immigration remain a significant issue, and many state leaders are
angry with what they describe as the federal government's unwillingness to take
firm action.

But for now, ''enough is enough,'' said State Senator John McComish, a
Republican who voted no on all five bills.

Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, did not take a position on the five bills that
were voted down Thursday -- her normal practice on legislation that has not
reached her desk, a spokesman said on Friday.

An aide said Senator Pearce was unavailable for comment.

Crucial to changing the discussion was a clearly articulated and executed
strategy by the state business lobby, which made concerns over negative economic
effects a far more significant factor than in the debate last year.

State Senator Kyrsten Sinema, a Democrat, said business opposition -- in
contrast to what she called the tepid and delayed efforts of its leaders last
year -- gave Republicans the political protection they needed to vote no.

''They have been working since January to provide people cover against these
bills,'' Senator Sinema said. Twenty-one of 30 state senators are Republicans,
and none of the bills would have been defeated without many of them voting in
opposition.

The effect on the state's convention and tourism industry after the April vote
was immediate. Convention bookings plunged in Phoenix, one of the top
destinations in the United States, with large organizations citing the
immigration bill when canceling their reservations.

''It was definitely a drastic decline,'' said Kristen Jarnagin, vice president
of communications for the Arizona Hotel and Lodging Association. She and other
business officials pointed to data on bookings showing Phoenix's ranking, on
some measures, had dropped from the top four destinations nationwide to 23rd.

So far, Arizona-style anti-immigration bills have not lived up to their advance
billing in other states, which despite strengthened Republican legislative
majorities have failed to pass any identical bills. Similar proposals are still
advancing in some states, but they, too, have encountered strong business
opposition.

''Our legislature and our state are suffering from immigration fatigue,''
Senator McComish said. ''We've been at the forefront of this issue, and I think
it is time for a timeout.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Russell Pearce, left, and Steve Gallardo during debate
on the anti-immigration measures in the Senate on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Calls for an Economic Cure for Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 603 words



SAN SALVADOR -- President Obama ended his three-nation Latin American tour on
Tuesday with a visit to El Salvador, a source of one of the largest immigrant
groups in the United States, and agreed with its president that ''the best
strategy'' for curbing illegal immigration was to create economic growth in the
region.

Mr. Obama, in a private meeting and a subsequent news conference with El
Salvador's president, Mauricio Funes, said he remained committed to seeking a
comprehensive overhaul of immigration law that both enhances American border
security and provides a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who have
lived for years in the United States and have jobs and families.

But that legislative goal, which Mr. Obama shelved in his first two years in
office as he focused on the economy and overhauling the health-insurance system,
is moribund now that Republicans, who oppose a citizenship process, have taken
control of the House. In the news conference, Mr. Obama noted that some
Republicans, including his 2008 presidential rival, Senator John McCain of
Arizona, previously supported a comprehensive approach.

''My hope,'' he said, ''is that they begin to recognize over the next year that
we can't solve this problem without taking a broad, comprehensive approach'' --
a prospect that is not considered at all likely as the 2012 elections approach.
''The politics of this are difficult,'' Mr. Obama conceded, ''but ultimately I
am confident that we are going to get it done.''

Mr. Obama, summarizing the leaders' private meeting, said, ''President Funes is
committed to creating more economic opportunities here in El Salvador so that
people don't feel like they have to head north to provide for their families,''
or ''join a criminal drug network'' in order to stay in the country.

But unlike in Brazil and Chile, Mr. Obama's first two stops and countries with
growing economies, El Salvador has had low rates of economic growth in the past
decade and drug-related crime has flourished. The two presidents outlined ways
in which El Salvador and the United States were working as partners with other
nations in the hemisphere -- from Canada to Chile -- to address drug trafficking
and economic development, including by involving the private sector in
job-creation efforts.

It is estimated that more than two million people from El Salvador are now in
the United States, legally and illegally. That is equal to about a third of this
country's current population, underscoring the scale of migration north in the
three decades since the civil war of the 1980s began here, a conflict in which
the United States backed the rightist government against the leftist rebels.

Before an official dinner, Mr. Obama visited the Metropolitan Cathedral, which
holds the tomb of Archbishop Oscar Romero, who was assassinated in 1980 and is
now a national hero.

Mr. Obama had planned to visit the crypt on Wednesday, the eve of the
anniversary of the assassination, but moved it up so he could return to
Washington a couple of hours earlier. He will return to the United States after
a conference call with his national security team about the conflict in Libya,
which has overshadowed the trip to Latin America.

Online Correction: March 23, 2011, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated the date of the anniversary of Archbishop
Oscar Romero's assassination. The anniversary is March 24; President Obama's
planned visit to the crypt on Wednesday would have fallen on the eve of the
anniversary, not the anniversary itself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama was greeted Tuesday by schoolchildren in San
Salvador, where he ended a three-nation Latin American tour. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 282 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Southern Lawmakers Focus on Illegal Immigrants'' (news article, March 26):

The overreaching attempts of lawmakers in several states to ''fix'' perceived
immigration problems are shortsighted and dangerous. Many proposals, including
those that would bar undocumented people from attending college or marrying
United States citizens, are alarmingly reminiscent of the segregation laws that
plagued our country and set an embarrassingly recent precedent for
institutionalized discrimination.

South Carolina's proposed bill, which would make it illegal to transport
immigrants anywhere, including to a hospital, is particularly egregious because
it could effectively deny critically needed medical care to thousands of people.
This not only threatens the health of individuals, but also the public health of
the entire state.

Additionally, it would place emergency medical technicians in the untenable
position of having to act as immigration enforcement officers rather than
healers. Health professionals' first duty is to provide their patients with the
best care possible; they cannot do that if the state forces them into an
enforcement role.

CHRISTY FUJIO Asylum Program Director Physicians for Human Rights Cambridge,
Mass., March 26, 2011

To the Editor:

To the immigrants referred to by State Senator Lawrence K. Grooms of South
Carolina when he says, ''Our hope is that they leave the country or go to a
state where they are more welcome'' -- please come to New York City.

Immigrants are the lifeblood of this great place. They make New York the
exciting, vibrant, dynamic city that it is, where everyone wants to come. You
are welcome here.

ELLEN S. HIRSCH New York, March 26, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2011 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Smugglers Guide Illegal Immigrants With Cues via Cellphone

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words


NOGALES, Ariz. -- A group of migrants was hustling north through the southern
Arizona desert the other night when one of their cellphones vibrated with a text
message. ''Watch out,'' it warned. ''Things are hot up ahead. Take cover in the
bushes.''

The message, signaling the presence of the Border Patrol, was sent by a smuggler
watching the group's progress through binoculars from a hillside on the Mexican
side of the border, members of the group said later. It was part of what border
officials and immigrant activists say is an emerging trend in illegal border
crossing -- the use of what is being called the cybercoyote.

''I've crossed eight times, and this is the first time they've directed me with
my cellphone,'' said Sandra Silva, 30, a native of Guadalajara, Mexico, who was
on her way to Phoenix. ''It's like a guide through the desert.''

Increased enforcement has made it difficult to sneak into the United States,
officials say. And repeat offenders caught in the act are more often receiving
stiff prison terms, making smugglers more cautious about risking arrest
themselves.

Guides still accompany the bulk of the migrants crossing the border, activists
and Border Patrol agents say. Those guides are in regular radio contact with
confederates, who warn of trouble ahead. But the Border Patrol has been noticing
cases of migrants crossing alone but in cell contact with guides, said Mario
Escalante, a spokesman for the Tucson office of the Border Patrol.

Mobile phones are ubiquitous in Mexico; many migrants consider them essential
when crossing, right up there with sturdy shoes and jugs of water.

Now, though, in addition to using cellphones to keep relatives up to date on
their progress, some illegal immigrants rely on them to keep out of the reach of
the authorities. Ms. Silva said that her group had no coyote with them but had
received directions by text.

The messages typically come during a migrant's first hour or so of hiking north,
those who used the new system said. If they make it that far, the illegal
immigrants then meet up with guides on the United States side, who help them
trek further north to awaiting vehicles.

Aiding the process are numerous spotters, who monitor the southern Arizona
desert from lookout points and help steer the migrants, as well as drug
shipments, away from the authorities.

Smugglers are constantly innovating to elude the authorities, veteran Border
Patrol agents say. ''They always come up with new, clever ways of trying to
avoid us,'' said T. J. Bonner, past president of the National Border Patrol
Council, the union for agents. ''This way minimizes the risk to smugglers, and
you're using a technology that is relatively cheap.''

Migrants like the group of 13 that set out for Arizona on Tuesday night found
that the system has serious limitations.

The group was led to a remote stretch of border in Pima County by a guide, who
had jotted down their cellphone numbers and instructed them on how to configure
their phones so they would switch from Telcel, the dominant Mexican carrier, to
AT&T.

The migrants said the cost for crossing was anywhere from $2,000 to $3,500, with
some of them paying ahead of time and others putting down a deposit and agreeing
to pay the balance once they crossed.

A guide assisted them in climbing the border fence, somewhere a few miles west
of Nogales, and then directed them north on a well-worn path toward Sierra
Vista, Ariz., the migrants said. Periodically over the next hour, text messages
would arrive directing their course.

''They tell you to turn right or left or to watch out for the perrera,'' Ms.
Silva said, using Spanish slang for the Border Patrol vehicle used to transport
detainees.

But shortly after the last text arrived warning them of trouble ahead, they were
spotted by Border Patrol agents, who took them into custody and deported them.

''We felt all alone out there,'' said Maria Martinez, 51, who said she had been
receiving the texts and whispering the directions to others in the group but
would have preferred actually having a guide with them. ''We felt like we were
in God's hands.''

Cellphone coverage is notoriously spotty along the border, and Ms. Martinez's
battery was nearly dead when she was interviewed a few hours after her
detention, which she said made her feel vulnerable. ''If you're without power or
credit on your phone, you're dead,'' said Ms. Martinez, who is from outside
Mexico City and was en route to Oregon, where she has relatives.

To reduce the number of fatalities among border crossers, a University of San
Diego professor, Ricardo Dominguez, has been developing a cellphone application
to help guide illegal immigrants to water stations and other points of safety.

His project outraged three Republican members of Congress, who wrote to
university officials last year condemning the research and suggesting that he
may be violating the law by encouraging illegal immigration.

Already, migrants who find themselves in trouble use their phones to call for
help. In one case from last year, the Border Patrol's search-and-rescue team
responded to a 911 call received from a mountainous area in Southern California.
From a helicopter, the authorities saw a faint light from a cellphone and were
able to reach the ailing migrant, who was suffering from hypothermia and unable
to walk.

Similarly, last Sunday, a woman who had been abandoned by her guide in the
Arizona desert called 911 to report that she had lost track of her 9-year-old
daughter. The Border Patrol first found the woman in a remote area of Pima
County and then, six miles away, the girl.

Cellphones help not just migrants trying to slip across the border but also
those trying to stop them.

Border Patrol agents have complained that a lack of coverage complicates their
ability to communicate. On some stretches where coverage is not a problem, the
Border Patrol has urged residents to report suspicious activity via text
message.

After a rancher was killed along the border in 2010 in a high-profile case that
remains unsolved, Representative Gabrielle Giffords pushed to improve cellphone
coverage in the region. After Ms. Giffords, a Democrat, was shot on Jan. 8, a
Republican colleague from Texas, Representative Ted Poe, introduced legislation
she had supported to use federal grants to help beef up communications along the
border.

''It was very obvious to me during my recent visit to Southern Arizona that
there are too many areas where cellphones simply do not work,'' Mr. Poe said in
a statement in March.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2011



CORRECTION: An article on Monday about the use of cellphones and other digital
devices to guide illegal immigrants across the Mexican border misstated the
university affiliation of a professor who has been developing a cellphone
application to guide border crossers to water stations and other points of
safety. Ricardo Dominguez teaches at the University of California, San Diego,
not the University of San Diego.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A member of the Arizona National Guard on duty at the border.
So-called coyotes are using technology to help avoid patrols. (A1)
 Patrols, like those in Arizona, are used to deter illegal immigrants. But some
border crossers are getting help from smugglers who track patrols from afar and
send texts on how to avoid them. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tracking Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 98 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Smugglers Guide Illegal Immigrants With Cues via Cellphone'' (front page,
May 9):

A question comes to mind. You state that while cellphones are essential for
northbound immigrants, this technology can also be used by the authorities to
track illegals. Why not simply add cell towers in the areas, use those points to
triangulate the position of the phone and then send the patrol?

It would be a cost-effective dispatch system for the Border Patrol and
simultaneously save lives that are lost each year during the northward trek.

ZAK BURKONS Shaker Heights, Ohio, May 9, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants' Underground Lives Hobble Their U.S.-Born Children, Study
Says

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 944 words


Eulogia was scared and adrift. At 25, she was poor, pregnant and an illegal
immigrant. She worried about how she would pay for medical care and raise her
baby, and even whether a trip to the hospital might prompt her deportation to
Mexico.

But when she plunged into a postpartum depression in 2003 after the birth of her
daughter, the first of three children, a hospital social worker referred her and
her husband to an East Harlem social service agency that has counseled them and
helped them get care for their family and get the government assistance their
children were eligible for as American citizens.

''I think I very am lucky,'' Eulogia said in an interview this week, asking that
her last name not be used because she still fears deportation. She said most
illegal immigrant parents felt tremendously isolated and did not have ''the
confidence to ask for help.''

Indeed, a recently published study of the early development of children born to
illegal immigrants in New York City suggests that most stories that begin like
Eulogia's do not end as well.

Even though the children have citizenship and live in an immigrant-friendly city
that offers them a wide array of services, many are still hobbled by serious
developmental and educational deficits resulting from their parents' lives in
the shadows, according to the study, whose author says it is the most
comprehensive look to date at the effects of parents' immigration status on
young children.

''The undocumented are viewed in current policy debates as lawbreakers, laborers
or victims -- seldom as parents raising citizen children,'' wrote the author,
Hirokazu Yoshikawa, a Harvard education professor who has published the study as
a book, ''Immigrants Raising Citizens'' (Russell Sage Foundation, 2011).

Professor Yoshikawa found that by the time the children of illegal immigrants
reached age 2, they showed significantly lower levels of language and cognitive
development than the children of legal immigrants and native-born parents.

''Millions of the youngest citizens in the United States, simply by virtue of
being born to a parent with a particular legal status, have less access to the
learning opportunities that are the building blocks of adult productivity,'' he
wrote.

The implications for the nation are potentially far-reaching and long-lasting,
he said, considering that of all preschool children of illegal immigrant parents
in the United States, an estimated 91 percent -- four million children -- are
American citizens.

Poor cognitive development can lead to lower school performance, which in turn
can lead to higher dropout rates, an undertrained work force and lower economic
productivity. ''Ignoring these children has costs for society,'' Professor
Yoshikawa warned.

He and his team began their research by visiting maternity wards at public
hospitals around New York in 2004 and getting permission to study nearly 400
babies newly born to Chinese, Dominican and Mexican parents, as well as to
native-born African American parents. The researchers, who were affiliated with
the Center for Research on Culture, Development and Education at New York
University, followed the children for three years.

The researchers found that poor immigrants cannot afford learning materials or
stimulating programs in child care centers. Fear of deportation or ignorance
about how the city works often prevents those parents from seeking help from
government agencies that provide child care subsidies or food stamps.

Many illegal immigrants, particularly those belonging to newer immigrant groups,
like Mexicans in New York, have smaller extended families or less-developed
social networks than others, and therefore fewer people around to help raise
children.

The psychological stress suffered by illegal immigrants -- many of whom work
long hours for low wages and live in crowded, poorly maintained apartments --
can be transmitted to young children, the study says.

''Greater hardship among parents, both economic and psychological,'' Professor
Yoshikawa wrote, ''can harm children's learning by lowering parents' active
engagement with their children, the quantity or quality of their language or
their warmth and responsiveness.''

In an interview, he pointed out that illegal immigrants' anxieties about seeking
help -- and those anxieties' effects on children -- could be even worse in
places with ''harsher'' immigration policies.

Eulogia, the East Harlem mother, said she was brought to the United States by
her parents when she was 11 and lived in a succession of cramped apartments in
New York. She helped her parents sell flowers on the street to make ends meet.
Though she graduated from high school, she remained an illegal immigrant, and
imagined that her own children would live the same kind of existence.

Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Service -- a community-based
organization in East Harlem that provides counseling and other assistance to
poor people, especially immigrants -- helped Eulogia and her husband get food
stamps and enroll in the federal Women, Infants and Children assistance program.
Her eldest daughter, now 7, receives after-school tutoring at the center, while
her second child, a 2-year-old boy, is getting speech therapy. And the family
has secured better housing.

In his book, Professor Yoshikawa extols the work of groups like Family Health
Service.

''By bringing these families out of the shadows and providing them with access
to better work conditions and learning opportunities,'' he wrote, ''we can
ensure that the nation's most vulnerable young citizens have an equal chance to
succeed in their early development, later schooling and adulthood.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giovanna Baca, a speech-language pathologist, works with Miguel
Angel Arista Juarez at Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Service.
It helps illegal immigrants and their children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Man Looks to Law in Bid to Retrieve Ranch

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 705 words


PHOENIX -- An Arizona border activist is seeking to take advantage of a new
state law restricting court awards to illegal immigrants to avoid paying nearly
a million dollars that a Texas judge ruled he owes two Salvadoran migrants he
detained in 2003.

The activist, Casey J. Nethercott, a former leader of the border-watching group
Ranch Rescue, has already been forced to turn over his border ranch to the
migrants, Edwin Alfredo Mancia Gonzales and Fatima del Socorro Leiva Medina.
They sold the 60-acre property near Douglas, Ariz., for $45,000, and their
lawyers at the Southern Poverty Law Center continue to seek the rest of the
$850,000 judgment against Mr. Nethercott.

Mr. Nethercott, a onetime bounty hunter who is acting as his own lawyer, is
seeking the return of the ranch, where he had a shooting range, observation
tower and armored vehicles, and he indicated in court papers that he wants the
entire judgment against him thrown out.

''It is now, in 2011, a crime and a violation of the canons and ethics of the
court to take such action against an American citizen of Arizona, and to allow
this type of conduct in court,'' said Mr. Nethercott, who was released in 2009
from a Texas prison where he served a sentence for being a felon in possession
of a firearm.

Mr. Nethercott has a string of assault and weapons convictions, and was once
mentioned in Congressional testimony on abuses by bounty hunters for detaining
at gunpoint two Southern California high school students on their way home from
a football game.

Arizona voters, outraged that illegal immigrants were winning court judgments
against American citizens, approved a constitutional amendment in 2006 banning
undocumented immigrants from collecting punitive damages in the state. The
ballot measure was written explicitly to aid another rancher, Roger Barnett, who
was compelled to give $60,000 to 16 illegal immigrants he detained on his ranch
in 2004. But the amendment was not retroactive and did nothing to aid either Mr.
Barnett or Mr. Nethercott.

So the Legislature, citing the cases of the two ranchers, introduced a measure
this year intended to make the ban on punitive judgments for illegal immigrants
retroactive to 2004. In April, Gov. Jan Brewer signed the provision into law,
indicating at the time that it was ''outrageous'' that a rancher could be forced
to pay for detaining someone trespassing on private property.

But whether the law, which Democratic lawmakers in Arizona complained was
unconstitutional, will aid the two ranchers remains to be seen. Mr. Barnett's
case came through the federal courts and the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit has already refused an effort by Mr. Barnett's lawyer to
overturn the verdict.

And on Friday, lawyers for the two migrants in the Nethercott case argued in
court papers filed in Cochise County that the new state law violated both the
state and federal Constitutions and did not apply to the judgment against Mr.
Nethercott because it was ordered by a Texas court.

''However much certain members of the Legislature of Arizona may be interested
in assisting Mr. Nethercott, Arizona may not make law for the State of Texas and
is bound to give full faith and credit to the judgment of its sister state,''
the lawyers argue.

The lawyers also said that the state law banned punitive damages to illegal
immigrants while the judgment against Mr. Nethercott was for compensatory
damages. Arizona's law also applies to causes of action that took place after
Jan. 1, 2004, but Mr. Nethercott was found to have detained the migrants in his
case the year before.

''This is a vigilante thug who beat up people and sicced his Rottweiler on them
and the Arizona Legislature is trying to help him,'' said Mary Bauer, the legal
director for the Southern Poverty Law Center, which is based in Montgomery, Ala.

Mr. Nethercott denied that he struck one of the migrants with his pistol when he
detained them on a ranch in Hebbronville, Tex., in March 2003. A Texas jury
deadlocked on that charge. Besides the $850,000 judgment that the two migrants
received from Mr. Nethercott, they settled for $100,000 from another man who was
present, and received a $500,000 judgment from the owner of the Texas ranch.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker in 2005 on the former Nethercott ranch said the old
windmill tower had been used to look out for illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAVID BOWSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Fatima del Socorro Leiva Medina and Edwin Alfredo Mancia Gonzales were awarded
the ranch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERMAN GARCIA/THE MONITOR, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Casey J. Nethercott is trying to regain his Arizona ranch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GERMAN GARCIA/THE MONITOR, VIA A.P.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Human-Trafficking Suspect Is Arrested While Gambling

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 586 words


A Queens woman suspected of involvement in a human-trafficking ring that
smuggled young Korean women into the United States and forced them into
prostitution in New York and elsewhere on the East Coast was arrested while
gambling at a casino in Connecticut, immigration officials said Monday.

The woman, An Soon Kim, 52, had been sought by the authorities since at least
August 2006, when she was named in a federal complaint describing an elaborate
scheme that brought Korean women into the country using false documents and made
them work as prostitutes in brothels that masqueraded as massage parlors, health
spas and acupuncture clinics, officials said.

Security workers at the Mohegan Sun, a gambling and entertainment resort in
Uncasville, Conn., had been on the lookout for Ms. Kim since early December,
when she was featured on the television program ''America's Most Wanted'' and
was recognized by a casino employee, according to the Web site of The Hartford
Courant, which quoted the Connecticut State Police.

On Friday, Ms. Kim returned to the resort and was arrested by immigration agents
on the casino's gambling floor, said a statement by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland Security. She was found with
$17,045, officials said.

Mohegan Sun officials referred all inquiries to the State Police, which declined
to comment on the case.

Ms. Kim will be transferred to New York to face numerous charges outlined in the
2006 complaint, including conspiracy to engage in human trafficking, interstate
transportation of women for the purpose of prostitution, and conspiracy to
operate an unlicensed money-transmitting business. She is a legal permanent
resident of the United States and has South Korean citizenship, federal
officials said.

Ms. Kim was one of 41 defendants named in the complaint, and was described as a
''brothel owner/manager'' who called herself ''Big Sister Kim.'' Others were
listed as ''middlemen/transporters'' and ''money transmitters.''

The complaint described several cellphone conversations that Ms. Kim is believed
to have had with a driver who is accused of shuttling women between brothels. In
a conversation on March 25, 2006, Ms. Kim told the driver that ''she was calling
from Connecticut and needed girls,'' the complaint said; the next day, the
driver ''told Kim he found a girl, but Kim said she already had gotten a girl.''

Federal investigators first revealed details of the trafficking ring on Aug. 16,
2006, when they announced the arrest of 31 defendants. The suspects were accused
of running a network of at least 19 Korean-owned brothels stretching from
Washington, D.C., to Rhode Island. Among them were unnamed brothels on 59th
Street and West 26th Street in Manhattan, and a spa called the ''Hong Kong'' in
Flushing, Queens, officials said.

The businesses catered primarily to an Asian clientele, officials said, and some
made tens of thousands of dollars a month.

The women were recruited in South Korea, then provided with fake travel and visa
documents or smuggled across the border from Mexico or Canada, officials said.
Once they arrived at the brothels, the women were usually stripped of their
identifications and compelled to work as prostitutes to pay off tens of
thousands of dollars in debt to the recruiters and smugglers, according to the
complaint.

They were told that if they disobeyed or tried to flee, they would be turned
over to the immigration authorities or their relatives back home would be hurt,
the complaint said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 1, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Outsourcers Are Criticized On Visa Use

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 688 words


Major outsourcing companies from India have been the biggest recipients of visas
in recent years under a program intended to allow American companies to bring
highly skilled foreign workers temporarily to the United States, an immigration
scholar testified Thursday before a House of Representatives judiciary panel.

Loopholes in the visa program have made it easy for the outsourcers ''to bring
in cheaper foreign workers, with ordinary skills, who directly substitute for,
rather than complement, workers in America,'' the scholar, Ronil Hira, a
professor at Rochester Institute of Technology who has studied the program, told
the House Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement.

Four of the five biggest users of the program from 2007 to 2009 were Indian
outsourcing companies: Infosys, Wipro, Mahindra Satyam and Tata, Mr. Hira said.
Microsoft was the only company with headquarters in the United States among the
top five users, he said. Among them, the Indian companies sent 22,766 workers to
the United States on temporary visas during the two deepest years of the
recession.

The hearing marked a new round in a rancorous tug of war over the visas, known
as H-1B visas. Granted to foreign workers with at least a bachelor's degree to
work in the United States for up to three years, they have been used by computer
companies to bring in technology experts.

American companies are requesting an increase in the annual national limit of
65,000 temporary visas, saying it is too low and inflexible to meet their needs
for engineers and scientists during unpredictable variations in the economy. But
numerous cases have come to light of American workers who were ousted from jobs
and replaced by workers from Indian outsourcing companies, often at lower wages.

As a measure of the frustration among American technology businesses and
workers, a representative from an engineers' association urged lawmakers to set
aside the H-1B debate entirely and to focus instead on providing permanent
residence visas, known as green cards, to foreign students graduating with
advanced degrees in science and mathematics from American universities.

''We are asking this subcommittee to change the subject, from H-1B to green
cards,'' said the representative, Bruce Morrison of the Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers. He urged the legislators to change the law quickly to
make green cards available to students who will get their degrees in June.

His plea was supported in a letter from the Semiconductor Industry Association,
which represents many large technology employers. Thousands of foreign students
who get advanced science degrees in the United States do not remain because
permanent work visas are not available.

Donald Neufeld, a Citizenship and Immigration Services official, testified that
auditors had found fraud in about 7 percent of visa petitions, down from 21
percent in 2008. But Mr. Hira said that because of low wage requirements in the
program, employers were using it to legally hire foreign workers at
significantly lower pay than Americans.

Brendan Kavanagh, who runs a small technology consulting company in Miami Lakes,
Fla., said that he had experienced the competition directly, after his contract
with a major pharmaceutical company in Illinois was abruptly terminated last
September. He was replaced by three Wipro employees on temporary visas, he said
in an interview.

Mr. Kavanagh, who attended the hearing to press his case with lawmakers, said
that he had been hired by the company to overhaul a major software system, and
that many of the workers he managed were Indians with H-1B visas. ''They
absolutely misrepresented their skills,'' he said. ''They are working with very
critical software, and they don't understand the nature of it -- these are
patients' lives.''

He said the time he took to train the temporary workers had slowed the project
and led to disputes with the company, which finally terminated his contract. He
said he could not name the company because of a contractual confidentiality
clause.

''Employers are using these visas to give away our knowledge,'' Mr. Kavanagh
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Standing Up for Guest Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 305 words


Slavery and human trafficking are alive and well in the United States, according
to lawsuits filed by the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on
behalf of farm laborers in Hawaii and Washington State and shipyard workers on
the Gulf Coast.

The suits allege that labor recruiters and employers lured, trapped and abused
foreign workers hired through federal guest-worker programs. The government
charges that more than 500 Indian men hired by Signal International of Alabama
for rebuilding after Hurricane Katrina were confined in squalid camps, illegally
charged for lodging and food, and subject to discrimination and abuse. When they
complained, the suit says, Signal agents tried to intimidate workers' families
in India. Two lawsuits filed in Hawaii and Washington against other employers
make similar charges about 200 men brought from Thailand.

The United States urgently needs to strengthen protections for guest workers who
are lied to by recruiters and tied to employers with too much power to exploit
them. Today's shackles are the threats of deportation and financial ruin. They
might as well be iron.

A recent agreement by the federal Labor and Homeland Security Departments to
work together on immigration and labor enforcement at work sites is encouraging,
though there are serious concerns about Homeland Security's past behavior. Sworn
testimony in a separate civil lawsuit against Signal International charged that
rather than protecting the Indian workers, immigration officials coached the
company on how to silence and deport them.

Workers in the new lawsuits may win some money and be eligible for special visas
for trafficking victims. But they are only a handful of workers -- both
documented and undocumented -- stranded in a system that accepts their labor but
fails to prevent their exploitation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawyers for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 251 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Improving Immigrant Access to Lawyers'' (news article, May 4):

I applaud Judge Robert A. Katzmann's efforts to raise awareness about the dire
need for improved access to legal counsel for immigrants, particularly those who
are detained by the Department of Homeland Security.

His group's findings that 80 percent of people sent to isolated detention
centers in Texas and Louisiana are unrepresented in their deportation
proceedings closely match the National Immigrant Justice Center's findings in
2010 that 90 percent of people detained nationwide are held in immigration
detention centers with almost no access to legal aid services.

While increasing awareness and training among the immigration bar is an
important step to remedy this lapse, the Department of Homeland Security must
also reduce the size of the detention system and the number of people held in
isolated places hundreds of miles from lawyers.

Representing immigrants in detention -- even those near cities -- is
resource-intensive. Add in a hundred-mile drive to a facility holding hundreds
of people, and providing adequate legal representation becomes unsustainable.

The government should not jail and try people for whom it cannot guarantee basic
due-process rights like access to counsel. Cost-effective alternatives to
detention would allow immigrants improved access to counsel and uphold America's
commitment to justice for all.

MARY MEG McCARTHY Executive Director National Immigrant Justice Center Chicago,
May 4, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration to U.S., After Dip, Is Back Up

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 438 words


The flow of immigrants to the United States has resumed, after falling to the
lowest level in decades during the recession, a new study finds.

The number of immigrants in the United States was estimated to have risen by
about half a million in the year that ended in 2009, a jump from the previous
year, when immigration stopped almost completely during the recession, according
the study, which was conducted by the Brookings Institution and is being
released on Thursday.

The rise pointed to an increase in demand for immigrant labor in the economy,
said Audrey Singer, a demographer and co-author of the report. However, the
number is still far below the increases of more than a million a year that took
place earlier in the decade. The flow reached a peak in 2006, with a 1.8 million
increase in the foreign born population.

''It's an uptick in opportunity,'' Ms. Singer said. ''Immigrants are very mobile
in responding to economic changes.''

In 1980, the foreign-born population in the United States was about 4.5 million.
By 2000, it had reached 11.3 million, bringing the foreign-born population to
about 13 percent of the total. In the early 20th century, after the last big
wave of immigration to the United States, immigrants had reached 15 percent of
the population.

In 2008, immigration came to a standstill, the first big slowdown in decades of
surging numbers, according to the report, which was based on estimates by the
Census Bureau. Last year, the foreign born population stood at 7.4 million.

''After three decades of nonstop growth, immigration seems to have paused,'' the
report says.

The biggest losses were in cities that had boomed in recent years, particularly
in the housing industry, including Phoenix, Riverside and San Bernardino in
California and Tampa, Fla.

Cities where the recession had less of an effect, including Austin, Tex.,
Houston, Raleigh, N.C., and Seattle, continued to gain immigrants.

The biggest increases came in smaller metropolitan areas that had little or no
immigrant populations before. Among them were Jackson, Miss., whose foreign-born
population grew by half in the two years ending in 2009, Birmingham, Ala., where
immigrants increased by a quarter, and Worcester, Mass., and Omaha, which both
experienced growth of about 20 percent, according to the report.

There was a slight rise in the portion of immigrants without a high school
education, though the report noted that it was unclear whether this was because
of low-skilled immigrants already in the United States, or because of less
educated ones arriving. Immigrants with a bachelor's degree did not change, the
report said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1001 words



HIGHLIGHT: Many Latino voters, who went heavily for President Obama in 2008, are
disappointed that he has not done more on immigration.


As a candidate, President Obama promised Latino voters that he would
aggressively push for passage of a comprehensive immigration bill during his
first year in office.

"What I can guarantee is that we will have in the first year an immigration bill
that I strongly support and that I'm promoting," Mr. Obama said in an interview
with the Spanish-language broadcaster Univision in 2008.

Now, facing a reelection campaign next year, the White House is embarking on a
public relations effort to reassure Latino supporters who say they are
frustrated by the president's failure to deliver on his immigration promise.

On Tuesday, Mr. Obama will travel to the United States border with Mexico to
kick off a series of community conversations about the need for immigration
reform. In a speech in El Paso, Mr. Obama will urge Congress to act, though
officials said he will not unveil legislation nor demand a specific timeline.

"He's trying to lead a constructive and civil debate on America's broken
immigration system," a senior White House official said, speaking on background
ahead of the president's speech. "What the president is hoping to do is to drive
momentum."

Latino voters sided overwhelmingly for Mr. Obama in the 2008 election, with 67
percent picking the Democratic presidential ticket, according to exit polls.
Rapid growth in the Hispanic population, especially in critical states in the
Southwest, make the Latino population important for the president next year as
he seeks another term.

In his speech, Mr. Obama plans to issue what officials said will be a "call to
action" in which he urges Americans to pressure Republicans in Congress. The
officials said the president will lay out his administration's efforts to secure
the border and will promote the economic benefits of a comprehensive immigration
overhaul.

The president, officials said, wants to "create a sense of urgency around the
country that matches his sense of urgency."

But liberal and conservative Latino activists in Washington say the president
will need to do more than that if he hopes to persuade Latinos that he deserves
their support in 2012.

"If they think that this is going to be the thing that mobilizes an increasingly
disappointed Latino electorate, I think they're wrong," Frank Sharry, executive
director of America's Voice Education Fund, a pro-immigration reform group, said
in an interview Monday.

Mr. Sharry said the likelihood of a grand immigration bargain with Congressional
Republicans is all but dead. But he said Mr. Obama needs to offer his Latino
supporters bold executive action - such as limiting the numbers of people being
deported - to prove that he is trying to accomplish something.

"They are going to have to have to make some big administrative action to make
up for the fact that he promised big," Mr. Sharry said.

Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative
Principles, called Mr. Obama's speech "purely political" and said Latino voters
will not be moved by words alone.

Mr. Aguilar, who served as the chief of the office of citizenship in George W.
Bush's administration, said Mr. Obama needs to propose specific legislation and
begin discussions with House Speaker John Boehner and the Republican leadership
in the Senate.

"He's talking to everyone except those people who really count," Mr. Aguilar
said. "At the end, you can do all the events that you want, but if Latinos don't
see any serious action on immigration it won't matter. We need to see a White
House plan."

Mr. Obama has said repeatedly that he needs to see some indication from
Republicans that they are willing to seriously consider a comprehensive approach
to immigration before the issue can move forward. In a speech in July of 2010,
Mr. Obama blamed the other party for keeping the issue in gridlock.

"I'm ready to move forward. The majority of Democrats are ready to move forward,
and I believe the majority of Americans are ready to move forward," Mr. Obama
said at American University. "But the fact is, without bipartisan support, as we
had just a few years ago, we cannot solve this problem."

But Republican leaders who once supported such efforts, including Senator John
McCain of Arizona, have signaled they have little interest in working with Mr.
Obama. After pushing the issue during his primary campaign in 2007, Mr. McCain
has dropped his support for comprehensive immigration reform, stressing the need
for increased border security first.

In the short term, a stalemate could be challenging for Mr. Obama as he tries to
explain to his once-committed supporters why he was able to make progress on
health care and other issues, but not on immigration.

But White House officials have said they believe the long-term issue favors
Democrats as the growth in the Latino population coincides with the increasingly
aggressive tone from Republican politicians. Last year's debate over an Arizona
immigration law highlighted Republican rhetoric that angered many Latinos.

Mr. Aguilar conceded that Latino disappointment with Mr. Obama could be offset
by anger at the harsh rhetoric coming from some Republicans.

"What we are telling Republicans is that if you follow the strategy of four
years ago, you are not going to win enough Latino voters to win the White
House," Mr. Aguilar said. "Republicans have an opportunity. But it all depends
at the end if the president acts and what the reaction of Republicans is."

"If they pull a McCain," Mr. Aguilar said, "then they are not going anywhere."

White House officials said Mr. Obama will offer on Tuesday a "blueprint" for
making progress toward an immigration overhaul and said it would look similar to
the statements he has made over the past year.

"The president is leaning in and asking others to lean in with him," one
official said.


     ·    The Case for Obama Campaigning as a Foreign Policy President
     ·    Best Political Quotations of the Weekend
     ·    2008: Iowa Remains a Destination
     ·    2008: Immigration Fallout
     ·    In Bin Laden Announcement, Echoes of 2007 Obama Speech


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Immigration Game Draws Fire

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
14

LENGTH: 115 words


A game developed by a Boston company that allows users to drive a truck full of
immigrants through the desert and try not to have them tossed out is drawing
fire. Smuggle Truck: Operation Immigration, a proposed iPhone and iPad app by
Owlchemy Labs set for release in March, lets players navigate across what
appears to be the United States-Mexico border. Scores are calculated by the
number of immigrants helped crossing the border. The developer, Alex Schwartz,
said the idea came out of frustration that his friends had faced while trying to
immigrate to the United States. But some advocates for immigrants say the game
is in poor taste and trivializes the seriousness of the crossings.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Traveling Along The Immigrants' Road

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS NEW JERSEY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 460 words


WHEN Tim Raphael, director of the Center for Migration and the Global City at
Rutgers-Newark, compares his campus to a highway -- specifically, to Queens
Boulevard in New York -- the connection between the two things might not be
immediately obvious. It is diversity.

Queens Boulevard inspired the art exhibition ''Crossing the BLVD,'' which opened
Thursday at the Paul Robeson Galleries at Rutgers-Newark and runs through April
6. The exhibit, which tells the stories of immigrants and refugees, kicks off
the center's three-month series of free public programs titled ''The United
States of Migration.''

''Queens Boulevard is the most diverse stretch of highway in the U.S., and what
I'm hoping to do is use the exhibit as a way of possibly opening up a similar
project on the most diverse campus in the U.S.,'' said Dr. Raphael, 49, who has
a Ph.D. in Performance Studies from Northwestern University and lives in
Montclair, N.J. The Rutgers-Newark campus has been accorded that designation for
14 years running by U.S. News & World Report, Dr. Raphael said.

The exhibition ''Crossing the BLVD'' was created by Warren Lehrer, a
photographer and a professor of art at the School of Art + Design at Purchase
College, and Judith Sloan, an actress and writer. They interviewed and
photographed immigrants along Queens Boulevard over a three-year period for the
exhibition, which has been touring the country and is part of a
multidisciplinary project including a book, audio CD and performance.

''The United States of Migration'' series will also include films:
''Farmingville,'' about tensions spawned by immigration in a suburban Long
Island town, to be screened March 9 at the Dana Library on the Rutgers campus in
Newark; and ''Welcome to Shelbyville,'' which follows the residents of a rural
Tennessee town as they adjust to an influx of Somali-born refugees, to be shown
on April 26 at the Newark Museum.

Other events include a March 23 solo performance at the Bradley Hall Theater in
Newark by Ms. Sloan, who will channel the experiences of several of the
immigrants she encountered during the making of ''Crossing the BLVD,'' and a
March 24 performance, ''Coming to America: Music by Contemporary American
Immigrant Composers and Dvorak's 'American' Quartet,'' by the Momenta Quartet,
of New York, at the Paul Robeson Galleries.

Though many universities in the United States are exploring the issue of
changing demographics, ''in New Jersey the change is very dramatic,'' Dr.
Raphael said. ''We at Rutgers-Newark have a unique opportunity, because of our
diverse student body, to really understand how these demographic trends are
going to be affecting the country.''

For information on ''The United States of Migration'': cmgc.newark.rutgers.edu
or (973) 353-3699.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DIVERSE: Dinu and Christine Ghezzo in 'Crossing the BLVD.'
(PHOTOGRAPH BY WARREN LEHRER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Caught Unawares by an Anti-Immigrant Mood

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1106 words



FALLS CHURCH, Va. -- When Mohamed Mejri, a Tunisian immigrant with a limousine
business here, first learned that the State Department of Motor Vehicles had
refused to issue him a new driver's license, he thought it was a mistake. After
all, he had been a licensed driver in Virginia for years.

But last fall, the department stopped accepting his federally issued work
permit, a document that was his main proof that he was in the country legally,
because he does not have a green card.

Now, five months later, his business is collapsing, and bill collectors are
calling.

Virginia changed its policy in September after an illegal immigrant from Bolivia
was charged with hitting and killing a nun while driving drunk in Prince William
County.

Her death hardened what was already a strong anti-immigrant mood in the state.
Virginia's governor, Bob McDonnell, announced that work permits would no longer
be accepted as proof of legal residence because they could be held by people
who, like the Bolivian immigrant, are in deportation proceedings. The governor
said other documents would still be accepted.

The permit, called the employment authorization document, allows foreign
nationals to work in the United States. Asylum seekers, refugees and students
are among those who have one.

For Mr. Mejri, who is 54, the permit is all he has. He fled Tunisia in 1992, and
after living in Canada, where he had been granted political asylum, he came to
the United States in 2000. American immigration authorities rejected his
application for asylum, over an unpaid fine in Canada. By the time it was paid
and processed, several years had passed, and he received notice that it was too
late to reapply. He then received an administrative order to leave the country,
but a federal judge ruled in his favor that he not be deported. Now he is in
limbo, in the country legally but without any path to citizenship.

Melanie Stokes, a spokeswoman for Virginia's Department of Motor Vehicles, said
she could not comment on Mr. Mejri's status because state law prevented her from
discussing individual cases.

The precise number of people affected by the change is unknown. Jorge Figueredo
of the American Civil Liberties Union of Virginia said he was personally
handling 38 cases, and estimated that the total number of stranded immigrants
could be in the hundreds.

The authorities said the numbers were much smaller. In a letter to a group of
lawyers and immigrant advocacy organizations in January, the commissioner of
motor vehicles, Richard D. Holcomb, said that in the 11 weeks after the policy
was implemented, about 4,000 applicants entered an ''elevated review process,''
a reference to people who used to rely on the employment card. Of those, only
819 did not immediately get a license, the letter said.

By early December, more than 60 percent of those people had received a license
using other documents, he wrote, and an additional 3 percent were rejected,
mostly because they were in deportation proceedings.

Mr. Figueredo, the state A.C.L.U.'s director of racial justice and immigrants'
rights, said he was not satisfied with the response, adding that the letter did
not explain what became of the more than 200 applicants who were neither
rejected outright nor given licenses.

''What about the rest?'' he said in his small office in Falls Church last week.
A plea for help from a Kenyan man dropped into his e-mail inbox during the
interview.

Ms. Stokes reiterated that only 3 percent had been rejected and said that the
others had not returned to obtain a license by the time the records were checked
in December. She said the department had no way of knowing what happened to
them.

''We can only surmise that they moved to another state or decided not to get a
credential,'' she said.

After Mr. Mejri was first refused a new license, he went to five other
Department of Motor Vehicles offices, hoping his documents would be accepted.

At one, a clerk requested the original court order granting his petition against
deportation. It took eight weeks, but he produced it. A copy was faxed to
Richmond, but it had no effect. He was never rejected outright, he said, and was
asked repeatedly for additional proof of legal residence.

''This should not be happening,'' Mr. Figueredo said. ''This man is legally
present. He has a decision by a federal judge. Why isn't that good enough?''

Mr. Mejri soon fell behind on his bills, and his insurance company canceled his
liability coverage. That triggered the cancellation of his business license.
Meanwhile, credit card companies continued to charge him for use of their
services for his cars, souring his credit rating.

He felt particularly helpless when he discovered that he could not even buy the
syringes he needed to treat his diabetes without presenting a valid driver's
license and had to work through a social worker to get them.

''I am demoralized,'' Mr. Mejri said, tears rolling under his glasses onto his
sweater. ''I see no door open in front of me. Nobody wants to listen.''

Ms. Stokes said there was a special center in Richmond to review such claims
that could contact federal immigration authorities directly to ascertain an
applicant's status.

She could not say whether this had been done in Mr. Mejri's case. She said there
was a clearly defined list of documents, posted online, that are accepted. She
said she did not know the number of applicants who failed to get licenses since
December.

Mr. Figueredo said that clerks have not been consistent in accepting certain
alternative documents.

Some immigrants have had success presenting a document called an I-797,
essentially a receipt for a visa application, but others have not. To address
that problem, a bill was presented in Virginia's House in January that would
have required the department to spell out its procedure, Mr. Figueredo said, but
it did not pass.

A month ago, Mr. Mejri rented a room in Rockville, Md., and got a driver's
license in that state. But his monthly insurance payments have tripled, and for
now, he has put his business aside. He lives off money he has borrowed from his
friend Aziz Balaid, an American citizen, who is finding it more difficult to be
optimistic about his friend's prospects.

''When he says, 'What am I going to do?' I have no answer for him,'' Mr. Balaid
said.

Online Correction: February 17, 2011, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated the role of Jorge Figueredo in the American
Civil Liberties Union of Virginia. He is the organization's director of racial
justice and immigrants' rights, not a lawyer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With all his troubles, Mohamed Mejri has had to put his
limousine business aside. ''I am demoralized,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW
ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Immigration Tango,' International Love

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW
'IMMIGRATION TANGO'; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 304 words


It's fine to employ a plot device that's been used repeatedly. But you run into
trouble when you use a familiar plot and do only the familiar with it.

''Immigration Tango,'' a pale romantic comedy, has this problem. An immigrant
couple (he's from Colombia, she's from Russia) in Florida strike a deal with
their best friends, an American couple: the woman from one will marry the man
from the other, and vice versa, so the foreigners can remain in the United
States. The stuff of sitcoms. Complications, of course, ensue, but they're
exactly the complications you expect, with exactly the results.

Even so, the film might have been a diverting romp with better acting. Of the
four principals, only Elika Portnoy (as the Russian; she is also the lead
producer) generates interest. As for the other roles -- relatives, immigration
officials and such -- the director, David Burton Morris, can't seem to decide
between caricature and playing it straight, which leaves the film unable to
settle on a tone. It's not outlandish enough to work as slapstick, not
intelligent enough to make a comment on the fickleness of immigration policy.

''Immigration Tango'' is rated R (under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian) for strong language and a few bare backsides.

IMMIGRATION TANGO

Opens on Friday in Manhattan.

Directed by David Burton Morris; written by Martin L. Kelley, Mr. Morris and
Todd Norwood; directors of photography, Angel Barroeta and Taylor Gentry; edited
by Lee Cippola and Misha Tenenbaum; music by Dan Wool; production design by Jea
De Voe and Nichole Ruiz; costumes by Silvio Valdez; produced by Elika Portnoy;
released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

WITH: McCaleb Burnett (Mike White), Carlos Leon (Carlos Sanchez), Elika Portnoy
(Elena Dubrovnik) and Ashley Wolfe (Betty Bristol).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Proving Torture, to Help Win Asylum

BYLINE: By ALISON BOWEN

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words


A MAN from Mauritania sat stone-faced, cradling his head, which bore a scar that
marked the spot where his master had gouged him with a piece of firewood, he
told the doctor. A Congolese businessman showed a deformed knee that, to the
doctor's trained eye, indicated a forced fracture. And a man from Southeast Asia
was sure that a mark on his lower torso was evidence of a beating with a bat,
though a medical examination showed that it was a sign of a fungal infection.

All three were sharing their scars and their stories with Dr. Ramin Asgary,
director of the human rights program at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine,
whose testimony and affidavits have played a crucial role in convincing
immigration judges that people seeking asylum were victims of torture in their
home countries.

Dr. Asgary, 42, and his students have examined about 130 refugees, many over the
past three years in an unused playroom at Mount Sinai, sifting through stories
of baton blows, glass slashes and cigarette burns for evidence of abuse -- or
signs of fraud. ''Every story is a new story,'' he said in an interview. ''It
never gets routine.''

In the 2009-10 fiscal year, the New York asylum office of the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services received 7,975 applications for asylum --
an increase from 6,769 in 2009.

Dr. Asgary, an assistant professor of medicine at Mount Sinai who previously
worked for Doctors Without Borders, runs one of several clinics across the city
evaluating people who claim to have been tortured. Lawyers and immigrants'
advocates refer asylum seekers to him; he does the evaluations, provides
affidavits and testifies, if needed, without charge. The legal standard for
being granted asylum is a well-founded fear of persecution if the person is sent
back. Past torture may be evidence that such a fear is real.

Young, educated men from Africa are the majority of Dr. Asgary's patients. He
has found that 87 percent of them have been victims of more than one form of
torture. Theirs are harrowing tales of surviving an underworld where men have
many ways to ruin one another. They've told stories of having gun barrels
pressed to their heads; of having their eyeglasses stomped and being unable to
see their tormentors; of being suspended from ceilings; of having their teeth
cracked by kicks; of sputtering while their heads were submerged in buckets of
water. Many fly to the United States and then seek asylum, which can lead to
permanent residency and eventually citizenship.

Then there is psychological torture. Dr. Asgary hears reports of people who
witnessed murder or rape, or who had to share a prison cell with a corpse. He
has learned that torture has its own macabre geography: victims from Liberia and
Sierra Leone often have been branded with a red-hot rod; those from Cameroon or
Chad are more likely to have been beaten with a baton.

Not all of their stories are straightforward, and not all of the scars are
clear.

Some patients are too traumatized to recount each detail of their ill-treatment.
''The imminence of your death is very powerful,'' Dr. Asgary said. ''They don't
specifically remember how many blows they got or the position, exactly.''
Others, of course, are so desperate that they make things up, perhaps conflating
things that happened to others.

Dr. Asgary sees himself as something of a detective. ''If it really doesn't make
sense, then I tell them, 'I want you to tell me; if you don't remember, tell me
you don't remember,' '' he said. '' 'And if you think that it could be due to
anything else, could you think about it and tell me?' ''

Dr. Asgary recalled one patient, years ago at a different hospital, whose story
seemed too rehearsed; he stopped the interview and suggested to the man's lawyer
that they try another doctor.

He said he had never submitted affidavits opposing torture claims -- that is not
how he sees his job. He said that ''it is not the court that asks our opinion;
it is the client,'' and that ''torture is a legal term and does not need to
always have'' physical or psychological aftereffects.

Asylum seekers are often fearful that without visceral scars or pristine
details, they will be deported. ''Obviously, this is an important thing in their
life, so they're scared,'' Dr. Asgary said. ''They think they should know'' what
happened to them, he added, ''and if they don't know, they think it hurts their
credibility. They think you're going to say, 'You don't have anything. Go home.'
''

That was the case of the man from Southeast Asia, who kept pointing to the scar
on his lower torso. ''It really looked like a fungal infection, but he persisted
that he was beaten by a bat,'' Dr. Asgary recalled. ''He really thinks that if
he doesn't have a scar, he hasn't been tortured.'' Ultimately, he confirmed that
the scar was, indeed, from an infection -- but he also found other scars that he
said provided clear evidence of beatings with blunt objects.

Dr. Asgary's students can be skeptical. Recently, some questioned how a
Salvadoran man's groin pain could result from torture. But when the examination
began, Dr. Asgary said, ''this guy had probably 15 other scars on his body,''
including marks on his kneecaps where he had hit the ground and marks on his
arms showing he had tried to defend himself from a gang.

Some students wondered why the man could not remember a medicine he received
when he was first treated for the wounds, but Dr. Asgary was sympathetic,
saying, ''He was running for his life,'' fleeing to the United States.

The man from Mauritania, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because his
asylum proceeding was unresolved, told his story one recent evening in a
monotone, recounting his slave master swinging a piece of firewood at him. Dr.
Asgary kept prodding for details, asking, ''Bigger than this?'' while wobbling
his pen.

The man paused often, carefully searching for words to explain how prison guards
had tied his arm to a bar, forcing him to stand upright overnight.

On another day, the Congolese businessman, who also spoke on the condition that
he not be named for fear of being found by his countrymen in New York, told of
being attacked during a political protest in July 2009. He was kicked by men
wearing military boots and was unable to see through the blood pooling on his
face. To keep him from marching again, he said, police officers slammed his knee
with a baton; the next day, he woke up in a hospital, with broken knees. He left
his wife and children and escaped to New York, where he told his story to Dr.
Asgary in September.

A man from Cameroon, who was granted asylum but was fearful of having his name
published because his wife and children were still in Africa, spoke to one of
Dr. Asgary's classes, telling of being tied ''like a crucifix'' after attending
a political rally.

In prison, he said, officers hit him with a rifle. His voice broke as he
described losing his glasses over the tip of his nose, patting the floor for
them, then standing up, only to be knocked down again. Outside the hospital
building, he proudly shared pictures of his daughters. He is safe now, but
lonely. After fighting for three years to obtain asylum, he has just started the
process to bring them here.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MUTE EVIDENCE: Dr. Ramin Asgary examining a West African
immigrant's scars for evidence of torture, which could help him gain asylum.
(MB1)
 SCAR TISSUE: Some immigrants, like the man above, who is from Cameroon, remain
fearful of the governments they fled even after they win asylum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
MASHID MOHADJERIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 560 words


International

ATTACKS MAR EFFORTS

To Train Afghan Troops

The Americans and their NATO allies have made the training of the Afghan
security forces a centerpiece of their strategy to hand over security to the
Afghans. But the intensified training has been marred by at least six cases in
the last 13 months in which soldiers or police officers have turned their guns
on their Western partners. PAGE A13

National

COLLEGE CAMPUSES PRODUCE

New Style of AIDS Activist

Roughly a quarter-century after gay men rose up to demand better access to
H.I.V. medicines, a new breed of AIDS advocate is appearing on college campuses.
They are mostly heterosexuals who have not lost friends or family members to the
disease, but have witnessed the epidemic's toll during summers or semesters
abroad. PAGE A14

PUSH ON IMMIGRANT BILL

Immigrant advocate groups have mobilized across the country in what they call a
last-ditch effort to persuade Congress to pass a bill, which they call the Dream
Act, that would grant legal status to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrant
students, pressing for action in the remaining weeks when Democrats control both
houses of Congress. PAGE A23

Court Hears Case on Prisons A22

New York

NEW INQUIRY TOPPLES

A City Principal

A Manhattan principal placed on probation after a student drowned on a field
trip last summer was removed after an investigation found he had used a school
employee, with whom he later became romantically involved, as a baby-sitter, and
allowed her to live rent-free in his apartment, education officials said. PAGE
A26

Business

G.M. TO HIRE 1,000 WORKERS

To Engineer Electric Cars

General Motors is adding 1,000 jobs in Michigan to develop more electric and
hybrid vehicles similar to the Chevrolet Volt, which it officially introduced on
Tuesday. The new jobs are the latest commitment by G.M. to broaden its lineup of
energy-efficient models as well as to invest in its home state, which has the
nation's second-highest unemployment rate. PAGE B1

GROUPON IN GOOGLE'S SIGHTS

Google's bid to buy Groupon, an online coupon start-up, for $6 billion is an
aggressive play by the search giant to dominate local online advertising and
help with its long-sought move into social networking. PAGE B1

CBS Upends 'Early Show' B1

Sports

LAWSUIT CLAIMS IMG HEAD

Gambled on College Sports

While the sports and entertainment conglomerate IMG Worldwide was representing
top college coaches from 2004 to 2007, its chairman, Ted Forstmann, was betting
hundreds of thousands of dollars on college football and the N.C.A.A. men's
basketball tournament, according to a lawsuit filed last month. PAGE B12

MIAMI OFF TO SLOW START

The Miami Heat entered the season with plenty of hype, but through 18 games, 8
of them losses, the team has inspired only consternation and controversy. PAGE
B12

Arts

UNTESTED MUSICALS

Take Over Broadway

The 2010-11 Broadway season is shaping up as a bounty of new musicals with
ambitious original scores. But new songs, untested on Broadway, come with risk,
both artistic and -- especially this season -- financial. PAGE C1

Dining

HEALTHFUL FOOD TAKES

No Holiday at White House

The annual calorie extravaganza at the White House holiday parties will not look
any less lavish this year, but guests will be offered fresh, healthful, local
food, in keeping with the new paradigm at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. PAGE D5

Op-ed

THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A29

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ecuador Offers Incentives To Bring Emigrants Home

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 791 words


From a spare, second-floor office in Queens, an outpost of the Ecuadorean
government offers English classes, computer training and after-school programs
to immigrants building new lives in New York City. But these days, the office's
busiest program works in the opposite direction -- helping Ecuadoreans go home.

The program, Welcome Home, offers an array of incentives to lure immigrants back
to Ecuador: money to start new businesses, one-way airplane tickets and a waiver
on import taxes and fees on any belongings they take home.

In a battered American economy with high unemployment rates, a rising number of
people are accepting the offer, Ecuadorean officials say.

The motives of the migrants vary. Some have been unable to find work; some miss
their families, or want to retire at home. Some have been here for decades,
while others have just arrived.

Victor Lopez, 49, is preparing to leave after 21 years. The decision was so
hard, he said, that he was ''still shaking'' as he visited the government office
to fill out paperwork.

Mr. Lopez is leaving for many reasons -- his hours as a restaurant manager were
cut, he is tired of waiting for a green card, he has missed enough of his
children's lives -- but the economy, he says, was the final straw. ''Whatever
I'm making, I'm using to pay the bills,'' he said. ''I can work to survive over
there, and there I can be surrounded by all my family.''

Ecuador is not the only nation to offer aid to returning countrymen. Many
nations, including Ethiopia, Jamaica and Morocco, waive sizable import taxes on
goods brought back. Some, like El Salvador and Mexico, offer bus fare and
educational assistance to returning people deported from other countries.

But immigration experts say Ecuador stands out for its aggressive promotion of
its campaign -- in New York, it advertises in bus-stop shelters and on
Spanish-language television -- and for its special ministry dedicated to migrant
affairs.

By no means has the program ignited an exodus. The Ecuadorean population in New
York State has risen steadily over the past decade, to an estimated 175,000. But
the ranks of those leaving have grown, too. Last year, the Queens office
assisted 347 people with tax waivers as they left the country, more than twice
as many as in 2008.

Pablo Calle runs the local arm of the program from the Casa Ecuatoriana in the
Corona section of Queens. He said the office had been overwhelmed with requests
for help moving back.

One recent morning, more than a dozen people -- everyone who came through the
front door except a deliveryman -- wanted to register for the program or learn
more about it.

''Everybody comes here,'' Mr. Calle said as the lobby chairs began to fill up.

Many in this steady stream of people, young and old, said they were finished
with the scramble of immigrant life.

Luis Paramo, 32, a truck driver, said his work had dried up over the past two
years. After seven years in this country, he said, he and his wife, Isabel, are
planning to return to his family's home in central Ecuador. They said many
friends in New York had already gone back.

''Here, you have to pay rent, buy food,'' Mr. Paramo said. ''There, I'm with
family, so it's easier. I feel happy that I'm going home, but I'm scared to
begin again.''

Welcome Home was started in 2007 by Ecuador's president, Rafael Correa, a
left-leaning economist. He had lived in Belgium and studied in the United
States, and he made reaching out to expatriates a crucial plank of his election
campaigns.

Mr. Calle, of the Welcome Home office in Queens, described the program as a
much-needed service for weary immigrants, but also as a way to develop Ecuador,
a poor Andean nation that is enjoying its most stable economic and political
climate in years.

''People left because of a lack of opportunity,'' Mr. Calle said. ''To go back,
we want to give them an opportunity to develop the country and their
communities.''

One of the Ecuadorean government's lures is the Cucayo Fund, which has provided
entrepreneurs with seed money -- up to $50,000 -- to start more than 1,900
businesses, officials said.

Mr. Lopez, the departing restaurant manager, plans to apply for a Cucayo grant
and open a hotel in the city of Cuenca. But even if he does not get the money,
he said, it is time to leave New York.

Since the recession began, his health benefits have been cut, his pay has
dropped and his workload has increased. If he loses his job, he said, he doubts
he will find another. And if the recession deepens, he fears losing what he has
worked so long to achieve. Back home, he can meet his four grandchildren, and
see his three sons for the first time in a decade.

''I cannot save money now,'' he said. ''The bills are the same, but the income
is not the same.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Petra Romero and Luis Quiguayo at an outpost of the Ecuadorean
government in Corona, Queens, called Casa Ecuatoriana, where help is offered to
those who want to return home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Governor Pardons Six Immigrants Facing Deportation Over Old Crimes

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 719 words


Gov. David A. Paterson announced pardons on Monday for six immigrants facing
deportation because of old criminal convictions, including a financial
administrator at the City University of New York.

The governor said the pardons addressed ''shortcomings in our federal
immigration laws relating to deportation.''

Mr. Paterson began a special clemency process in the spring with the principal
aim of helping permanent legal residents -- green card holders -- who were at
risk of deportation because of long-ago or minor convictions.

''Federal immigration laws,'' he said, ''are often inflexible, arbitrarily
applied and excessively harsh, resulting in the deportation of individuals who
have paid the price for their crimes and are now making positive contributions
to our society. These pardons represent an attempt to achieve fairness and
justice.''

Mr. Paterson convened a so-called pardon panel last May. In the past several
weeks, its five members have been sifting through about 1,100 petitions for
clemency, referring promising cases to the governor's Executive Clemency
Committee, which has recommended cases to the governor for final determination.

Officials say the governor may issue another batch of pardons before his term
ends this month.

The administrator who was pardoned, Mario Benitez, 58, is a Dominican immigrant
and the current assistant director of finance for CUNY's Graduate School and
University Center. He pleaded guilty to selling a controlled substance in 1988
and served three years in prison, according to a statement from the governor's
office.

The statement praised Mr. Benitez's achievements since his release, particularly
his rise ''to jobs with higher levels of responsibility'' and his community
activities in the Bronx, including mentoring.

Efforts to reach Mr. Benitez for comment were unsuccessful.

Another pardon recipient was Kevin Auyeung, 32, a Chinese immigrant who, at age
17, was convicted of robbery. While he was in prison, his impoverished father
bought him a manual on computers and a Chinese-English dictionary, the statement
said.

Mr. Auyeung went on to earn a G.E.D. and form his own cellular communications
services company. In 2006, despite determining that it would be ''inhumane to
deport him,'' immigration officials detained him, a news release said.

Though Mr. Auyeung was eventually released, the governor's office said, the
detention cost him his business. ''Nonetheless, Mr. Auyeung has managed to
maintain steady employment and has consistently volunteered as an interpreter
for elderly persons in Chinatown,'' the office said.

The governor also pardoned Deborah Salako-Nation, 41, a Nigerian immigrant
facing deportation for one larceny conviction and two forgery convictions. In
the decade since the convictions, officials said in the statement, Ms.
Salako-Nation ''has worked steadily in order to support her college-age son and
her 6-year-old autistic son.''

Also pardoned was Marlon Oscar Powell, 36, a Jamaican immigrant who was being
held in an immigration jail in New Jersey on Monday, facing deportation for a
misdemeanor drug possession conviction when he was 15, the governor's office
said.

While most of the pardon recipients had green cards, one, Sanjay Broomfield, was
a legal immigrant whose past conviction had blocked his application for a green
card.

Mr. Broomfield, 28, a Jamaican immigrant, was convicted of criminal possession
of a weapon in 2005 after he shot and killed a burglar trying to break into his
home in Suffolk County, officials said. While he was serving three years'
probation, he married an American citizen and applied for a green card.

But even though a district attorney had concluded that the shooting was
justified, immigration authorities rejected Mr. Broomfield's application,
because, they said, his illegal possession of a weapon had resulted in a death.

Immigration officials ''may take no account of the New York State criminal
justice decisions,'' Governor Paterson said, ''but I do.''

The governor also pardoned Darshini Ramsaran, 25, a citizen of Guyana and
Trinidad who was facing deportation for her participation four years ago in a
robbery, officials said. Mr. Paterson's office said that if Ms. Ramsaran were to
be deported, her life would be in danger from two men who were deported after
she testified against them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refocusing Immigration Efforts on Gangs

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1430 words


When Walter Alberto Torres, a Salvadoran immigrant and a gang member, confessed
in October 2009 that he had unsuccessfully plotted the assassination of an
immigration agent in New York City, the admission touched off more than just his
prosecution.

In the weeks that followed, immigration authorities, working with other law
enforcement agencies, conducted raids on suspected hide-outs of Mr. Torres's
gang, La Mara Salvatrucha 13, an international network of violent cliques with a
growing presence in New York City and its suburbs.

And that offensive -- intended in part, officials said, to signal that the
government would not tolerate attacks on its officers -- was only the beginning
for the New York office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. In the months
since, agents in the office's investigative division have expanded their dragnet
far beyond La Mara Salvatrucha and across the region, from Ulster County in the
Hudson Valley to eastern Long Island.

From October 2009 through September, they arrested 285 suspects they said were
gang members or close associates -- a record for the office and a fivefold
increase over the same period the previous year.

The surge, which has unfolded with little public notice, coincided with the
arrival of James T. Hayes Jr., who became the special agent in charge of the
investigations division several weeks before Mr. Torres confessed to the murder
plot.

Mr. Hayes, 37, said that while the threat to an agent had fired up his team, the
arrests also reflected a new emphasis for the investigative unit, which enforces
more than 400 federal customs and immigration statutes. When he assumed the job,
he said, he reviewed the office's recent moves against gangs -- it had made 57
such arrests in the previous year -- and concluded that his team could be doing
far more.

He added 3 agents to a force that now numbers 11, ''and really gave them a
mandate, not just to look at individual gang members but to look at these street
gangs as criminal organizations and to use all our tools to disrupt and
dismantle them,'' Mr. Hayes said in an interview.

The office's stepped-up action against gangs reflects a nationwide shift in
priorities by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department of
Homeland Security, which says it is now focusing on capturing immigrants who
pose a threat to public safety and security, rather than those with civil
violations. The New York offensive has come under the banner of Operation
Community Shield, a five-year-old national campaign by the immigration agency to
dismember violent street gangs by prosecuting and deporting their members and
associates.

Several law enforcement officials in the New York area said gang activity
appears to have grown in recent years, particularly among immigrants, spurring
the formation of new anti-gang units and greater collaboration between local and
federal agencies. Yet even as that has produced an increase in prosecutions,
officials said, the very nature of gangs -- quick to form, grow and change shape
-- has made them particularly hard to track and tackle, and the immigration
agents' contribution has helped.

''I think everyone is being creative about different ways to deal with the
situation,'' said a local prosecutor who was not authorized to speak publicly
about the issue and requested anonymity. ''There are a lot of different agencies
involved.''

Immigration officials in the city say the vast majority, about 74 percent, of
their gang arrests in the past year have been for federal and state crimes, like
illegal weapons possession, murder conspiracy and drug trafficking. The rest
have been for immigration-related reasons and have often resulted in
deportation, they said.

But the agency is still dealing with the fallout from raids a few years ago on
Long Island and elsewhere that drew widespread criticism that agents had behaved
recklessly and, under the guise of breaking up criminal gangs, had mostly swept
up bystanders with civil immigration violations.

A 2009 study by the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law found that in hundreds of
predawn raids in New York and New Jersey in 2006 and 2007, armed immigration
agents had forced their way into private homes in violation of agency rules and
the Constitution. In addition, the report found, the sweeps overwhelmingly
resulted in the arrest of immigrants with civil immigration violations -- 67
percent of those apprehended on Long Island and 63 percent of those in New
Jersey -- rather than the dangerous criminals who were supposedly their focus.

The operations have spurred litigation, including a class-action lawsuit pending
in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, involving more than 30 plaintiffs, all
Latinos, who have accused the immigration agency of illegally entering and
searching their homes.

Agency officials have dismissed the criticism, saying that the raids were
methodically planned and properly conducted, and that the ''collateral arrests''
of illegal immigrants who were not gang members were part of the agency's
mandate to enforce immigration laws.

Mr. Hayes said he could not comment on the raids, which occurred before his
tenure, because of pending litigation. But he said he had brought ''a sharper
focus'' to the office's anti-gang operations.

''We're targeting the people who are the perpetrators and the -- quote, unquote
-- shot-callers,'' he said. ''We're looking for those individuals who are
creating the public-safety hazard in communities that make them a dangerous
place to live, including for innocent and undocumented immigrants.''

Mr. Hayes said he had ''very little interest'' in rounding up illegal immigrants
who had no links to gang violence or other criminal activity. ''Rather than
going into a community and spending a lot of time on people who aren't threats,
we're going in with a specific idea of people'' who are, he said.

Indeed, the new campaign has occurred beneath the radar of many immigrant
advocates who fielded complaints about the earlier raids. ''So far, lately, we
haven't heard anything from our members,'' said Omar Angel Perez, executive
director of Workplace Project, an immigrant advocacy organization in Hempstead,
N.Y.

Luis Valenzuela, executive director of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said
the preponderance of criminal arrests in the recent raids appeared to reflect a
new discipline at the immigration agency.

''They seem to have gotten their act a little bit together and are apprehending
who they're talking about,'' Mr. Valenzuela said.

A more focused approach, Mr. Hayes said, has not only helped to build the
cooperation of local civic organizations and the public but has also fostered
closer cooperation with local law enforcement agencies concerned about
maintaining a well-defined line between their policing and federal immigration
enforcement. ''We've built trust because we're keeping our word,'' he said.

Indeed, while some of the recent arrests have come as a result of unilateral
operations by Mr. Hayes's agents, many others have emerged from investigations
involving an assortment of local and federal law enforcement agencies.

The effort has snared a wide range of gangs. MS-13 has come under particularly
heavy pressure, with 92 of the year's arrests, officials said. The group was
founded by Salvadoran immigrants in Los Angeles in the 1980s and has since
spread through North and Central America. In the New York region, the largest
concentrations of MS-13 cliques are found on Long Island and in Queens,
officials said.

Immigration agents have also sought out members of the Latin Kings, a gang
dominated by Latino immigrants with chapters throughout the country and a strong
presence in the New York area; Los Ninos Malos, a predominantly Mexican gang
locally rooted in Sunset Park, Brooklyn; four other heavily Mexican gangs, La
Raza, Surenos 13, 18th Street and Los Vagos; two Dominican gangs, Los
Trinitarios and Dominicans Don't Play; and the Wen Zhounese Boys, a Chinese gang
that specializes in home invasions, officials said.

But the gang that had the most arrests by immigration agents in the past year
was the Bloods, a predominantly African-American organization. Many of those
arrests came during a May operation in Newburgh, N.Y., where a multi-agency task
force led by the Federal Bureau of Investigation went after members of the
Bloods and the Latin Kings suspected of involvement in drug trafficking,
officials said.

Mr. Hayes cautioned that it was too early to measure the campaign's impact on
street crime, but he vowed to keep up the pressure.

''That's just a start,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In May, a multi-agency operation in Newburgh, N.Y., resulted in
arrests of members of the Bloods and Latin Kings who were suspected of drug
trafficking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 James T. Hayes Jr. leads the immigration investigations unit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) MAP: Going After Gangs: Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents have stepped up efforts to arrest gang members and
their associates in the region. (Source: Immigration and Customs Enforcement)
(A30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Make Paths To Suburbia, Not Cities

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and ROBERT GEBELOFF; Sabrina Tavernise reported
from Washington, and Robert Gebeloff from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1107 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigrants fanned out across the United States in the last decade,
settling in greater numbers in small towns and suburbs rather than in the cities
where they typically moved when they first came to this country, new census data
show.

Following jobs to rural and suburban areas, in industries like construction and
the food business, immigrant populations rose more than 60 percent in places
where immigrants made up fewer than 5 percent of the population in 2000. In
areas that had been home to the most immigrants, the foreign-born population was
flat over that period.

In Los Angeles County, long a major destination for new immigrants, the
foreign-born population remained largely unchanged for the first time in several
decades. In contrast, it quadrupled in Newton County, in central Georgia outside
Atlanta.

Tuesday's report represented the biggest single data release in the Census
Bureau's history, with more than 11 billion individual estimates for 670,000
specific geographic locations -- areas as small as several blocks.

Unlike the 2010 decennial census, which counts every American, Tuesday's survey,
the American Community Survey, details characteristics using samples taken from
about one in 10 Americans between 2005 and 2009.

They show a portrait of a rapidly changing America, whose young population is
much more diverse than its older one.

About 48 percent of newborns last year were members of minority groups, compared
with just a fifth of those over 65, a statistic that raises questions about
possible generational tensions for the United States in coming decades,
particularly over the cost of education and health care, said Kenneth Johnson,
senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire.

It also foreshadows a growing divide: Graduation rates for blacks and Hispanics
-- the overwhelming majority of all immigrants in the United States -- are far
below those for whites. The trend line therefore suggests that the country will
be facing a growing shortage of educated Americans as global competition
intensifies, particularly as other countries' graduation levels rise.

In the last large immigration wave, in the late 19th century, immigrants took
several generations to assimilate into American society through education. But
the United States cannot afford to wait that long as its declining economy
struggles to compete with developing countries like China, said Marcelo M.
Suarez-Orozco, co-director of an immigration research center at New York
University.

''Today we have two elevators,'' he said. ''One stuck in the basement and the
other moving up faster than it ever has before.''

''It is placing us at a huge disadvantage,'' Professor Suarez-Orozco added.

The spreading of immigrants throughout the United States reflects their mobility
in the work force, particularly because of the booming housing industry last
decade.

Roberto Suro, author of ''Strangers Among Us: Latino Lives in a Changing
America,'' estimated that several years ago, before the housing bubble burst,
one out of every three newly arrived Hispanic immigrants was working in
construction.

These workers were joined by their families, and communities that had never
encountered immigrants in large numbers suddenly saw large influxes. Friction
often followed.

Stafford County, Va., for example, where residents have demanded a crackdown on
illegal immigrants, saw its immigrant population nearly triple.

''It was a kind of deficit spending, borrowing against the future in very human
terms,'' said Mr. Suro, a former reporter for The New York Times and The
Washington Post. ''The leveraged asset was the work of the immigrants. The
long-term payout was the social requirement to settle them and look after their
children.''

The country's biggest population gains were in suburban areas. But, in a
departure from past decades when whites led the rise, now it is because of
minorities. More than a third of all 13.3 million new suburbanites were
Hispanic, compared with 2.5 million blacks and 2 million Asians. In all, whites
accounted for a fifth of suburban growth.

Even in rural America, where the population grew the slowest -- just 2 percent
since 2000 compared with 7 percent nationwide -- foreign-born residents
accounted for 37 percent of that growth. Three-quarters of them were not
citizens, suggesting that they had arrived only recently in the states.

Demographers did not agree on what the new data said about segregation trends.

William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said his analysis
of the data showed a decline in racial segregation in 61 of the top 100 metro
areas.

One example is New Orleans, where segregation has declined noticeably, probably
because blacks from segregated areas left the city after Hurricane Katrina in
2005. Black segregation is still higher than it is for Asians and Hispanics in
the United States.

''Nationally we are moving to greater integration,'' Mr. Frey said.

A study by John R. Logan, a demographer at Brown University, and Brian J.
Stults, a demographer at Florida State University, came to different conclusions
by looking closely at neighborhoods of between 3,000 and 5,000 people. They
concluded that black segregation had changed little from 2000 in the
metropolitan areas, and had actually increased in areas where blacks are a
smaller share of population.

The data also showed an increasingly pinched middle class. Median income
declined by almost 5 percent in the past decade, with a few exceptions,
including Maryland, Rhode Island and Wyoming. The deterioration was worse in
counties dependent on manufacturing, where income dropped by 9 percent.

Of the five counties with poverty rates higher than 39 percent, four contain or
are in American Indian reservations in South Dakota. The fifth, Willacy County,
Tex., is in the Rio Grande Valley.

The Washington suburbs were home to some of the most affluent, educated people
in America. The three places in the country with the highest median household
income are all in Virginia -- Falls Church, and the counties of Fairfax and
Loudoun. Seven of the 17 counties where more than half of people 25 and older
had a bachelor's degree were in Washington's suburbs.

There were 62 counties where fewer than 10 percent of the adult population had a
bachelor's degree. Fourteen of these counties were in Georgia, nine in
Tennessee, eight in Kentucky and five each in Florida and West Virginia.

The county with the lowest median home values for owner-occupied housing units
was Reeves in Texas, at $29,400. The county with the highest median home values
was Nantucket, Mass., at more than $1 million.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Where New Immigrants Have Settled: More immigrants in the last
decade have settled in suburbs and small cities than in urban centers, which had
attracted many of their predecessors. The growth of immigrants was most
pronounced in counties where immigrants had comprised less than 5 percent of the
population in 2000.
Most Household Incomes Shrank ...: Incomes fell in about three-quarters of the
nation's counties, especially in Michigan, where most incomes dropped 10 percent
or more, and the Southeast. Still, some states, like Texas, Wyoming and the
Dakotas, saw pockets of income growth.
... While Most Money Remained in Cities: Virginia has the three counties with
the nation's highest median household incomes, all surrounding Washington, D.C.,
while more than 20 percent of the nation's counties, mostly rural, have median
incomes less than $30,000. (Sources: Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College
Sociology Department
 Census Bureau) (MAPS BY HAEYOUN PARK, ERIN AIGNER AND KEVIN QUEALY/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Worry Rises Among Haitians as U.S. Plans to Resume Deportations

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Julia Preston and Deborah Sontag contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 901 words


The Obama administration has been quietly moving to resume deportations of
Haitians for the first time since the earthquake last January. But in New York's
Haitian diaspora, the reaction has been far from muted, including frustration
and fear among immigrants and anger from their advocates, who say that an influx
of deportees will only add to the country's woes.

Haiti is racked today by a cholera epidemic and political turmoil, as well as
the tortuously slow reconstruction.

''I don't think Haiti can handle more challenges than what it has right now,''
said Mathieu Eugene, a Haitian-American member of the New York City Council.
''The earthquake, the cholera, the election -- everything's upside down in
Haiti.''

Federal officials suspended deportations to Haiti immediately after the Jan. 12
earthquake. In addition, a special immigration status, sometimes granted to
foreigners who are unable to return safely to their home countries because of
armed conflict or natural disasters, was extended to Haitians in the United
States, allowing them to remain temporarily and work. Many Haitians, including
some with criminal convictions, were also released from detention centers across
the country.

But in recent weeks, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the
Department of Homeland Security, has begun rounding up Haitian immigrants again,
including some who had been released earlier this year, immigration lawyers
said. On Dec. 10, the agency disclosed, in response to questions from The
Associated Press, that it would resume deportations by mid-January.

Immigration officials said they would deport only Haitians who had been
convicted of crimes and had finished serving their sentences.

Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in
a statement last week that the agency was deciding whom to deport in a manner
''consistent with our domestic immigration enforcement priorities,'' but did not
elaborate. The Obama administration has said it is focusing immigration
enforcement efforts on catching and deporting immigrants who have been convicted
of the most serious crimes or who pose a threat to national security.

Haitians who have been granted the special immigration status, known as
temporary protected status, will continue to be shielded from deportation,
officials said. The protection was granted for 18 months and is set to expire in
mid-July; Haitians who have committed felonies or at least two misdemeanors were
not eligible for the program.

Immigration officials did not say how many people they planned to send back to
Haiti when deportations resume next month, but they revealed last week that 351
Haitians were in detention.

Mr. Eugene and other Haitian community leaders in New York said that despite the
limits of the government's plan, the city's Haitians were bracing for a
resumption of wider deportations.

''The people in the community are worried because they don't know what the next
target population is going to be,'' Mr. Eugene said.

Ricot Dupuy, the manager of Radio Soleil, a Creole-language station in Flatbush,
Brooklyn, said he had been ''flooded with calls'' about the plans for
deportations.

Immigration officials would not say when they planned to resume deportations of
noncriminals. The Haitian government has apparently not commented on
Washington's decision to resume deportations. The consul general in New York did
not respond to phone messages, and the Haitian Embassy did not respond to calls
and e-mails.

Nearly a year after the quake, an estimated 1.3 million Haitians are still
displaced from their homes. The cholera outbreak has killed more than 2,500
people and hospitalized 58,000 more, according to the Haitian government. And
disputes over the preliminary results of the presidential election last month
have escalated into violence.

Advocacy groups have been lobbying the Obama administration to postpone the
deportations. The Center for Constitutional Rights, based in New York, wrote
President Obama to say that their resumption would endanger the deportees'
lives. The Haitian government often detains criminals deported from abroad, the
organization said; because cholera is quickly spreading through that country's
detention system, the policy ''would end up being a death sentence for many,''
it said.

An official of Immigration and Customs Enforcement said the State Department had
been working with Haitian officials ''to ensure that the resumption of removals
is conducted in a safe, humane manner with minimal disruption to ongoing
rebuilding efforts.''

Among those who have been rounded up in the past several weeks is a 42-year-old
odd-jobs man who was detained last week by immigration officials in Manhattan
and was being held on Friday in a jail in Hudson County, N.J., said his lawyer,
Rachel Salazar, who asked that her client's name be withheld because she did not
want to jeopardize his case.

The man, who immigrated to the United States as a legal permanent resident in
1990 and has a 5-year-old child, was last detained in February because of three
past felony convictions, including for assault, petty larceny and attempted
robbery, for which he had served time. But he was released in May, during the
moratorium on deportations, Ms. Salazar said.

The detainee said he was being held with about 40 other Haitians, the lawyer
said, and he had not been told when the government planned to deport him.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Dream Act Setback, Eyeing a Sleeping Giant

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 697 words


HOUSTON -- About 37 percent of Texas residents are of Hispanic origin, and the
state has a long history of welcoming newcomers who work hard and obey the law.
So the state would seem likely to support a bill to grant citizenship to
thousands of foreign-born college students.

Yet the two Republican Senators from Texas, Kay Bailey Hutchison and John
Cornyn, both voted to block the bill, known as the Dream Act, from coming up for
a vote on Saturday.

Neither senator was moved by protests and hunger strikes in San Antonio, nor by
calls from religious leaders to pass the bill, nor by newspaper articles about
the children of undocumented immigrants who had made it to college, only to be
picked up for traffic violations and threatened with deportation.

Their votes are another sign of how strong the reaction to illegal immigration
has grown among Republicans in Texas, a state where Mexicans, with visas or
without, have always been an integral part of the society.

Beyond anger about Washington's spending, immigration policy was also on the
agenda of many of the conservatives who came out in droves to vote in the
November midterm elections.

The question now is whether the failure of the Dream Act will create a backlash
among Hispanic voters against the Republicans in power.

It has already become a cause for some young Hispanics in Texas. One group of
hunger strikers in San Antonio has vowed to use the defeat as a rallying cry to
build a broad movement for an immigration overhaul.

''There is a lot of anger, disillusionment,'' said Arturo Chavez, the president
of a Catholic organization in San Antonio who lobbied for the bill. ''But all
the young people I talk to are even more determined than ever.''

The political winds seem against them, however. Since the election, Texas
lawmakers have introduced dozens of bills intended to discourage illegal
immigration, chief among them an Arizona-style law making it a crime to be in
the state without a visa.

The Republican tide in November gave the party a two-thirds majority in the
State House, prompting one Hispanic Democrat to switch parties recently.

What is more, the Dream Act was supposed to be the easy part of the immigration
overhaul to pass, a law that taps into notions of meritocracy. Proponents say
they are dismayed that such a moderate measure could not win passage even with a
Democratic president and Democratic majorities in both chambers.

Felipe Vargas, one of four protesters in San Antonio who have been fasting for
nearly six weeks in support of the bill, said he had nursed great hopes that it
would finally pass, having first been introduced in 2001. ''I was more indignant
than I have ever been in my life,'' he said of the vote. ''It's never been worse
than this year.''

Mr. Cornyn said that the bill had several flaws and that the Democrats had
refused to allow hearings or amendments. For instance, he said, the bill as
written would have allowed illegal immigrants with criminal records to obtain
citizenship. Ms. Hutchison also said the bill contained flaws that would benefit
people ''beyond the intended individuals who were brought here as children and
grew up and were educated in the United States.''

But Ms. Hutchison had supported similar legislation in the past. To win a
primary election in 2012, she will have to appeal to conservative voters after
Gov. Rick Perry questioned her conservative credentials.

The risk for Republicans like Ms. Hutchison is that in trying to appeal to the
conservative base, they will anger Hispanics, who are regarded as the sleeping
giant of Texas politics.

And whether Hispanic voters come out in large numbers to vote against
Republicans who thwarted the act may depend on young Hispanic activists like
Benita Veliz, a 25-year-old graduate of St. Mary's University in San Antonio and
the child of two illegal immigrants.

Having come to the United States at the age of 8, she wants to study law but
faces deportation after being stopped two years ago on a traffic violation.

''I am a strong believer in the philosophy that the last thing you should ever
give up on is hope,'' she said. ''I think that's the result of being in America.
That's what America taught me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators John Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison voted to block a
bill affecting thousands of foreign-born college students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX
WONG/GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Georgia: Immigrants Found in Truck

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 82 words


Six illegal immigrants were discovered in a truck headed for a cargo facility
near the Atlanta airport Tuesday night, but they are not suspected of plotting
to do any harm, federal authorities said. The men, who were hired to lay carpet
at the facility, could not provide proof of legal residency during a routine
inspection. They may face deportation, according to the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement department. They did not have access to secure areas of the airport,
authorities said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Building, and a City, As a Way Station To a Better Life

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1083 words


For two years, a five-story walk-up apartment building in the Bronx has served
as a small beachhead for a new immigrant community: refugee families from the
South Asian nation of Bhutan. From this new home on University Avenue, where
they were placed by a resettlement agency, the families have made their first,
tentative steps in an unfamiliar culture and language.

But now they are on the move again. In the year since The New York Times
profiled the building and the eight Bhutanese families who were living there,
four of the families have left for other states -- Virginia, Pennsylvania,
Vermont and North Carolina -- and most members of a fifth have moved to Albany.

''It's a tough decision, trying to move from one place to another,'' said T. P.
Mishra, 26, who spent much of his life in a refugee camp in Nepal before coming
to New York in July 2009, and is now living in a quiet suburb of Raleigh, N.C.
''But obviously when you compare the life, it's better.''

Such relocations, sometimes known as secondary migration, are common among
immigrants to the United States as they chase jobs, reunite with relatives and
climb the social ladder.

Yet the experiences of the families on University Avenue also say something
about New York. Often portrayed as an ideal spot for new immigrants, with its
array of public services and advocacy groups and its fertile mix of ethnicities,
the city may not necessarily have all that a newcomer needs to build a future.
Indeed, a trove of census data released in December shows how immigrants to
America in the last decade have spread out from the big cities where they have
traditionally clustered, or bypassed them altogether.

This is especially true for new immigrant populations like the Bhutanese, who,
numbering more than 250 since 2008, have arrived in New York in small numbers
and lack established social networks to turn to for support. Some are
improvising, creating those communities elsewhere -- in smaller, less expensive
cities where relatives have already been resettled.

Those who have left the Bronx building said they were driven out of the city
mainly by the high cost of living, particularly rent.

During his year in New York City, in the throes of the economic downturn, Mr.
Mishra and his two sisters struggled to find jobs and were barely able to cover
basic expenses, including the $975 monthly rent for their one-bedroom apartment.
While new refugees have immediate access to financial support and other services
from government and private sources, that aid often begins to dissipate after
several months.

''I was used to living in the city, but finally when it turned expensive, I was
compelled to leave,'' said Mr. Mishra, who moved to North Carolina to be closer
to several friends and relatives who had been resettled there.

Officials at the International Rescue Committee, the resettlement program based
in New York that brought the Bhutanese to University Avenue, acknowledged the
difficulties that the city posed for many refugees. While New York offers
extraordinary advantages, they said, including an extensive public
transportation system and a network of organizations accustomed to working with
immigrants, it could also be costly and, for some, emotionally overwhelming.

''The placement system is imperfect,'' said Robert Carey, the agency's vice
president for resettlement and migration policy. ''It's an educated effort to
put people where they're best served.''

Regardless of where they are initially placed, Mr. Carey added, refugees will go
where they think they have the best chance of building a successful life.
''People are independently finding their way at a certain point, which is not
all bad,'' he said. ''They have to determine what's going to work for them.''

Abhi Siwakoti, another Bhutanese refugee, decided to leave New York City after
trying for months to cover his family's expenses, including the $1,200 rent for
a two-bedroom apartment in the University Avenue building.

Mr. Siwakoti, 25, who had resettled in the Bronx from Nepal in November 2008,
was living with his mother, who did not speak English, and three siblings, all
of them still in school. He was the only one with a job, but his salary as an
office assistant in a Manhattan men's wear design studio was not high enough.

Fifteen of his relatives had been resettled from Nepal to Albany, so Mr.
Siwakoti looked for a job there. A hospital hired him as a patient support
associate, and in March he moved his family into a three-bedroom apartment in
Albany with an $800 rent.

He has saved enough to buy a used car and start building a nest egg. And the
concentration of so many relatives in one place has given his family an instant
net of support. They share meals, drive one another to the supermarket and to
work, and swap information about job opportunities.

They also pass along modern-world skills that were unheard of in the rural
Nepalese refugee camps. After Mr. Siwakoti attended a driving school in the
Bronx, he began teaching his two brothers, an uncle and a cousin. In turn, he
said, they will teach other relatives and friends. ''That's the philosophy that
I'm passing along,'' Mr. Siwakoti said. ''It's kind of so beautiful to be
together.''

For some families, though, that requires a series of deliberate, chesslike
moves.

Mr. Mishra, who relocated this fall to Raleigh with his wife, Renuka Adhikari,
24, is already planning another leap, to Charlotte, N.C. There they will join
his two sisters, who moved to Charlotte to help relatives adjust to life in the
United States. And sometime in 2011, he hopes to welcome his parents, who are
still in a Nepalese refugee camp and have started the paperwork for their
resettlement.

''The community has been struggling a lot,'' Mr. Mishra said. But soon, he
predicted, ''the community will settle down.''

Meanwhile, the building on University Avenue continues to be an incubator for
the American lives of refugees from Bhutan. As families leave, others arrive.

Suk Man Tamang, 32, who came in the summer of 2009 with his parents, two sisters
and a niece, has since welcomed eight other close relatives to the building and
is expecting at least eight more to resettle in New York this year. But unlike
some of his Bhutanese neighbors, he said, he has no plans to leave the city
anytime soon.

''Everywhere has negative and positive points,'' said Mr. Tamang, an office
assistant for a Manhattan software company. ''I can say I'm happy now because we
have a big family getting bigger and bigger.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: T. P. Mishra, a Bhutanese refugee, in Raleigh, N.C., after
moving from the Bronx. His walls, top, include family photos and religious
iconography. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Mishra used to live in this building on University Avenue in the Bronx. It
has been the first American home for a number of Bhutanese families. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Abhi Siwakoti, a Bhutanese, in his Albany apartment. He left the Bronx after
trying for months to cover his family's expenses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL
BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON IMMIGRATION, BIRTHRIGHT FIGHT IN U.S. IS LOOMING

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words



NOGALES, Ariz. -- Of the 50 or so women bused to this border town on a recent
morning to be deported back to Mexico, Inez Vasquez stood out. Eight months
pregnant, she had tried to trudge north in her fragile state, even carrying
scissors with her in case she gave birth in the desert and had to cut the
umbilical cord.

''All I want is a better life,'' she said after the Border Patrol found her
hiding in bushes on the Arizona side of the border with her husband, her young
son and her very pronounced abdomen.

The next big immigration battle centers on illegal immigrants' offspring, who
are granted automatic citizenship like all other babies born on American soil.
Arguing for an end to the policy, which is rooted in the 14th Amendment of the
Constitution, immigration hard-liners describe a wave of migrants like Ms.
Vasquez stepping across the border in the advanced stages of pregnancy to have
what are dismissively called ''anchor babies.''

The reality at this stretch of the border is more complex, with hospitals
reporting some immigrants arriving to give birth in the United States but many
of them frequent border crossers with valid visas who have crossed the border
legally to take advantage of better medical care. Some are even attracted by an
electronic billboard on the Mexican side that advertises the services of an
American doctor and says bluntly, ''Do you want to have your baby in the U.S.?''

Women like Ms. Vasquez, who was preparing for a desert delivery, are rare.

Still, Arizona -- whose tough law granting the police the power to detain
illegal immigrants is tied up in the courts -- may again take the lead in what
is essentially an effort to redefine what it means to be an American. This time,
though, Arizona lawmakers intend to join with legislators from other states to
force the issue before the Supreme Court.

This coalition of lawmakers will unveil its exact plans on Wednesday in
Washington, but people involved in drafting the legislation say they have
decided against the painstaking process of amending the Constitution. Since the
federal government decides who is to be deemed a citizen, the lawmakers are
considering instead a move to create two kinds of birth certificates in their
states, one for the children of citizens and another for the children of illegal
immigrants.

The theory is that this could spark a flurry of lawsuits that might resolve the
legal conflict in their favor.

''This is not a far-out, extremist position,'' said John Kavanagh, one of the
Arizona legislators who is leading an effort that has been called just that.
''Only a handful of countries in the world grant citizenship based on the GPS
location of the birth.''

Most scholars of the Constitution consider the states' effort to restrict birth
certificates patently unconstitutional. ''This is political theater, not a
serious effort to create a legal test,'' said Gabriel J. Chin, a law professor
at the University of Arizona whose grandfather immigrated to the United States
from China at a time when ethnic Chinese were excluded from the country. ''It
strikes me as unwise, un-American and unconstitutional.''

The 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868, was a repudiation of the Supreme Court's
1857 ruling, in Dred Scott v. Sandford, that people of African descent could
never be American citizens. The amendment said citizenship applied to ''all
persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof.''

In 1898, the Supreme Court, in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, interpreted the
citizenship provision as applying to a child born in the United States to a
Chinese immigrant couple.

Still, some conservatives contend that the issue is unsettled. Kris Kobach, the
incoming secretary of state in Kansas and a law professor at the University of
Missouri-Kansas City who has helped draft many of the tough immigration
regulations across the country, argued that the approach the states were
planning would hold up to scrutiny.

''I can't really say much more without showing my hand,'' Mr. Kobach said in an
e-mail. ''But, yes, I am confident that the law will stand up in court.''

The legal theories are lost on Laura Gomez, 24, who crossed into Arizona from
Mexico five years ago while expecting and is now pregnant with her second child.
But like many other pregnant women in Arizona who are without papers, she has
been following the issue with anxiety.

''It doesn't seem fair to just change the rules like that,'' Ms. Gomez said.

Despite being called ''anchor babies,'' the children of illegal immigrants born
in the United States cannot actually prevent deportation of their parents. It is
not until they reach the age of 21 that the children are able to file paperwork
to sponsor their parents for legal immigration status. The parents remain
vulnerable until that point.

Maria Ledezma knows as much. Just off a bus that deported her from Phoenix to
the Mexico border town of Nogales, she was sobbing as she explained the series
of events that led her to be separated from her three daughters, ages 4, 7 and
9, all American citizens.

''I never imagined being here,'' said Ms. Ledezma, 25, who was brought to
Phoenix from Mexico as a toddler. ''I'll bet right now that my girls are asking,
'Where's Mom?' ''

Blended families like hers are a reality across the United States. A
studyreleased in August by the Pew Hispanic Center found that about 340,000
children were born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008 and became
instant citizens.

In April, Representative Duncan Hunter, Republican of California, one of those
pushing for Congressional action on the issue, stirred controversy when he
suggested that children born in the United States to illegal immigrants should
be deported with their parents until the birthright citizenship policy was
changed.

''And we're not being mean,'' Mr. Hunter told a Tea Party rally in Southern
California. ''We're just saying it takes more than walking across the border to
become an American citizen. It's what's in our souls.''

Immigrant advocates say intolerance is driving the measure. ''They call
themselves patriots, but they pick and choose which parts of the Constitution
they support,'' said Lydia Guzman, a Latino activist in Phoenix. ''They're
fear-mongerers. They're clowns.''

Like many states, Arizona is suffering a severe budget crisis, prompting even
some lawmakers who have supported immigration restrictions in the past to
question whether it is the right time for another divisive immigration bill.
They say the state's fiscal issues need to be resolved before Arizona jumps back
into a controversial immigration debate.

''I was born and raised in New York,'' responded Mr. Kavanagh, who is chairman
of the Appropriations Committee of the Arizona House. ''I can ride a subway,
drink coffee, read the newspaper and make sure my pockets are not picked all at
the same time.''

Scholars who have studied migration say it is the desire for better-paying jobs,
not a passport for their children, that is the main motivator for people to
leave their homes for the United States.

Even Ms. Vasquez, who was preparing for a desert delivery, agrees with that.
While she preferred to have her child be born in the United States, she said, it
was the prospect of a better economic future, with or without papers, that had
prompted her and her family to cross when they did. ''I'll try again -- but once
the baby's born,'' she said.

Online Correction: January 4, 2011, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article incorrectly stated the year that the Supreme Court, in
United States v. Wong Kim Ark, applied the citizenship provision to a child born
in the United States to Chinese immigrants; it was 1898.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laura Gomez, a pregnant illegal immigrant from Mexico, in
Scottsdale, Ariz. She came to the United States to find work, she said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Unexpected Choice for a House Post

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 122 words


The new Republican chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative
Lamar Smith of Texas, passed over an outspoken immigration hard-liner and Tea
Party caucus member for chairman of the immigration subcommittee.

In an announcement Friday, Mr. Smith unexpectedly gave the job to Representative
Elton Gallegly of California. The man who was passed over, Representative Steve
King of Iowa, who was the senior Republican on the subcommittee in the last
session, was named vice chairman instead.

Mr. King is known for his staunch, high-profile support for a crackdown on
illegal immigration. On Thursday, Mr. King introduced a bill that would deny
automatic citizenship to children born in the United States to illegal
immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 14, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Ex-Officers on Trial in Obstruction Case

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 534 words


Three former Pennsylvania police officers went on trial Thursday on charges of
obstructing justice in the beating death of a Mexican immigrant in 2008, a
prosecution that Hispanics have come to view as a national test case for
treatment of Latinos.

The federal case against the former officers, Matthew Nestor, Jason Hayes and
William Moyer, began with the killing of Luis Ramirez, 25, an undocumented
Mexican immigrant who was beaten and kicked to death in July 2008 by a group of
young white men in the central Pennsylvania town of Shenandoah.

The case became a cause celebre for Latinos who argued that the two main
defendants, Brandon Piekarsky, a member of a high school football team, and his
friend Derrick Donchak, got off with light sentences in a state trial in 2009.
They were acquitted of the most serious charges and convicted of simple assault,
a misdemeanor.

After mounting criticism from state officials, federal prosecutors pressed civil
rights charges against the two men, and in October, they were convicted of a
hate crime. The men, who are 19 and 20, face a maximum of life in prison when
they are sentenced on Jan. 24.

In federal court on Thursday in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., prosecutors argued that the
police officers, who are charged with conspiracy, making false statements and
obstruction of justice, misrepresented facts during their investigation because
they had personal connections to the families of the accused. Mr. Nestor, the
chief of police at the time, had vacationed with Mr. Piekarsky's mother,
according to the indictment. Mr. Hayes, a patrolman, was dating her, and the son
of Mr. Moyer, a lieutenant, played on the same football team as those accused in
the beating. All have since left the police department.

Joseph Nahas, a lawyer for Mr. Nestor, strongly disputed the charges, according
to The Republican Herald newspaper, and said that his client had called the
district attorney for Schuylkill County within three hours of the beating.

''Everything the government just told you about my client is absolute
nonsense,'' Mr. Nahas said.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which circulated a
petition in 2009 calling for the Justice Department to bring federal charges in
the case, welcomed the trial.

''This trial sends a strong message that hate crimes and those who attempt to
cover them up, including law enforcement officers, will be prosecuted to the
fullest extent of the law,'' said Gladys Limon, a staff lawyer for the fund.

Included in the indictment were accusations that Mr. Hayes, an investigating
officer, had called Mr. Piekarsky's mother and told her to tell the young men to
''get their stories straight,'' because Mr. Ramirez's condition was
deteriorating. He died in the hospital shortly after the beating.

The indictment also said that Mr. Moyer contacted the parents of one of the
accused and told them to have their son throw away his sneakers, and that a
Shenandoah official told the officers to recuse themselves from the case, but
they refused.

Prosecutors said Mr. Moyer and Mr. Hayes ''deliberately mischaracterized'' an
eyewitness account of what happened in an official police report in order to
''exculpate Brandon Piekarsky.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Even Mayor Cannot Escape Complexity of Immigration Issue

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1362 words


On ''Meet the Press,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg declared, ''We have to go and
get the immigrants here.'' To a group of business leaders in Brooklyn, he
extolled ''the economic power'' of immigration. And in his State of the City
address on Wednesday, he interrupted a litany of local issues to urge Americans
''to fix our broken immigration system.''

Having taken on the New York City school system and the illegal gun trade, Mr.
Bloomberg has now proposed overhauling the federal immigration laws, offering
himself as the man to help settle one of the nation's thorniest debates. He
praises immigrants as a precious resource and speaks of current immigration
policy with undisguised disgust -- ''the most ruinous economic policy you could
ever conceive of'' was his line on Wednesday.

But the stark language often brushes past the complexities surrounding
immigration, which has proved to be a nuanced and difficult issue, even for the
mayor.

Though Mr. Bloomberg, the grandson of immigrants from Russia and what is now
Belarus, has set an inclusive tone in his nine years as mayor and has provided
critical services for immigrants, some programs have failed to live up to
expectations.

And though he has adopted landmark policies to protect the privacy of illegal
immigrants, he has also rankled immigrants' advocates who say city and police
officials work too closely with federal authorities, putting many noncriminals
at risk of arrest and deportation.

''Mayor Bloomberg has been an important ally of immigrant communities,'' said
Andrew Friedman, co-director of Make the Road New York, an advocacy group. ''But
there are a number of areas where he has not used his power, and as a result,
immigrant New Yorkers are more likely to be deported, less likely to learn
English, less likely to be paid lawful wages.''

Supporting immigrant causes is virtually a job requirement for any New York
mayor, but many immigrants and their supporters say Mr. Bloomberg has gone well
beyond the expected. His New York is a city where illegal immigrants start
businesses, raise families and attend public school without the constant fear,
prevalent in many parts of the country, that they can be deported if a police
officer notices them.

The city's information line, 311, greets callers in Spanish, Russian, Mandarin,
Cantonese, Korean and Creole. In his address on Wednesday, the mayor promised
new programs to help immigrant entrepreneurs obtain loans and expertise.

Yet even as New York ranks among the American cities most accommodating to
newcomers, certain practices keep immigrants on edge. At the city jail complex
on Rikers Island, Correction Department officials provide lists of foreign-born
inmates to federal officers who then question, detain and deport about 3,200 a
year. Immigrants' advocates say the collaboration leads to the removal of many
immigrants who have not been convicted of, or even charged with, serious crimes,
and makes others afraid to cooperate with law enforcement.

Mr. Bloomberg's efforts to make city agencies more accessible to people who
speak little or no English have won wide acclaim. In 2003, he signed a law
requiring the city's Human Resources Administration and social service agencies
to provide interpreters and other language help; an executive order in 2008
extended that to every agency dealing with the public.

But Legal Services NYC, a nonprofit group, is suing the Human Resources
Administration, saying that follow-through has been spotty, leading to
''humiliating discrimination'' against immigrants. Many city workers remain
unaware of the rules, and some are unequipped to help people who speak other
languages, lawyers and advocates say.

''There is a big disconnect between what our city policy says and what's
happening,'' said Amy S. Taylor, the lawyer who filed the suit.

Mr. Bloomberg said in a recent interview that language access was improving.
But, he noted, ''you're never going to have every language spoken in every
agency 24 hours a day.''

He said that he had worked to build trust between immigrants and government
agencies, and that newcomers were crucial to New York's success.

''Our lifeblood is a constant stream of new immigrants,'' he said, ''to improve
our cuisine, our culture, our language and, mainly, our economy.''

Mr. Bloomberg began his third term a year ago by announcing plans for a national
task force of big-city mayors and prominent business leaders to press Congress
for an overhaul of immigration policy. His principal argument was, and is, that
immigrants are good for the economy because they open businesses, create jobs
and pay taxes.

There is disagreement over how much influence Mr. Bloomberg, an independent,
might wield in the national debate over immigration, given the Republicans'
takeover of the House and their chilliness to any thaw in immigration policy.
But few doubt his influence in New York, where City Hall officials point to a
series of pro-immigrant policies and decisions that they call national models.

''It started when he took office,'' said Fatima Shama, commissioner of the
city's Office of Immigrant Affairs. ''He was able to focus New Yorkers on being
one city, and showing that all New Yorkers matter. From that, we saw a number of
policies emerge.''

Chief among them was Executive Order No.41, issued in 2003, which sought to
protect crime victims and witnesses from fear of deportation by forbidding city
workers to ask immigrants about their legal status.

A similar policy had been in place since the Koch administration, but by the
time Mr. Bloomberg took office, a federal challenge and subsequent court
decisions had made its renewal uncertain. The Bloomberg administration came up
with an approach that broadened the policy and drew no challenges.

Like the earlier measures, however, Mr. Bloomberg's order made an exception
allowing police officers who suspect illegal activity to inquire about
immigration status. While there is no evidence that it has led to widespread
profiling or harassment, advocates have complained for years, particularly with
regard to the Police Department, that there is no mechanism in place to enforce
the policy or investigate violations.

Immigrants' leaders also lament that the mayor has not joined some officials of
other municipalities across the country in resisting Secure Communities, a new
program that will help federal officials deport illegal immigrants by improving
coordination with local police departments.

Mr. Bloomberg said that while he aimed to accommodate immigrants, he was
responsible for keeping the city safe. ''If people commit crimes, we have an
obligation,'' he said. ''If they broke the law, make them pay the penalty.''

The Bloomberg administration has also sought to solve intractable problems like
finding legal representation for immigrants, who are not entitled to
court-appointed lawyers in the civil courts, where their immigration violations
are heard. City Hall has pledged to provide $2 million to provide lawyers and
training, placing New York far ahead of the national norm on the issue, said
Robert A. Katzmann, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit who has worked closely with the administration.

The mayor has not endorsed every suggested change in immigration policy,
particularly when a proposal collides with his pro-business agenda. For example,
he resisted calls to support a state bill, signed into law last month by Gov.
David A. Paterson, to set stiffer penalties for employers who underpay workers,
many of them illegal immigrants; Mr. Bloomberg's aides say he was concerned
about its effect on small businesses.

For many, though, Mr. Bloomberg's signal mark on the immigration debate had
nothing to do with policy. His declaration of support for the planned Islamic
community center and mosque near ground zero was a stirring affirmation that the
mayor would champion the city's diversity, advocates said.

''That was a defining moment,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, the executive director of
the New York Immigration Coalition. ''He didn't really have to do that. He got
there because of the connections and the work he's done and his whole philosophy
on immigration.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg before delivering his State of the
City address Wednesday on Staten Island. He urged changing the immigration
system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Repatriations to Haiti Resume

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 130 words


Immigration authorities have repatriated 26 Haitians convicted of crimes and one
man acquitted of a plot to destroy the Sears Tower in Chicago, the first
deportations since the Obama administration halted them after the 2010
earthquake in Haiti. Immigrant advocates say political unrest and cholera in
Haiti make it inhumane to deport people there. But the United States announced
last month that it would resume deporting those convicted of violent crimes who
had served their time. Marleine Bastien, executive director of Haitian Women of
Miami, called the deportations ''inhumane and very insensitive.'' The man
acquitted in the Sears Tower case, Lyglenson Lemorin, was among a group sent
back to Haiti on Thursday, his lawyer said. Officials say he remained a security
threat.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As U.S. Patients Await Organ Transplants, Potential Donors Struggle for Visas

BYLINE: By JACQUELINE BAYLON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1031 words


The clock is ticking for Dr. Gabriel Danovitch's patient. Dr. Danovitch, a
transplant surgeon at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of
California, Los Angeles, is treating an immigrant from Mexico in his 40s whose
kidneys have failed. The patient is a good candidate for a transplant and has a
donor, his brother.

But there is a big problem: His brother is a Mexican citizen whose application
for a visa to come to the United States was not granted.

Physicians who perform transplants say patients who need organ donations from a
family member or other close match outside the United States face hurdles that
are often hard to surmount. Difficulties in obtaining visas leave many potential
donors frustrated and force their sick relatives in the United States to wait
months or even years on a list for organs like a liver or kidney.

In other cases, poor families cannot afford to pay for the donors to travel to
the United States and undergo organ-removal operations that can require hospital
stays of up to three weeks. In some states, Medicaid does not cover any of a
donor's expenses, and private insurance policies vary greatly in how much they
will cover.

Getting organ donations is always difficult, but medical authorities say the
problems have gotten worse for immigrants with the tightening of visa policies
after the terrorist attacks in 2001. And with the slowdown in the economy, some
states have been cutting back financial aid to transplant patients and donors.

''If there is someone living and willing and compatible, it's concerning that,
because of so much protection, they end up not being able to help a desperate
person in need,'' said Bryan Stewart, a spokesman for One Legacy, a nonprofit
organization that deals with organ and tissue donations in the seven-county
greater Los Angeles area.

Dr. Giselle Guerra, medical director of the Living Kidney Donor Program at the
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, has similar concerns. ''I wish I
could get rid of all the bureaucratic red tape, and it would be nice for every
donor to fit the criteria so we can stop adding to the waiting list,'' she said.

More than 110,000 people were waiting for an organ as of Wednesday, according to
the United Network for Organ Sharing, a private nonprofit organization that
manages the nation's organ transplant system under contract with the federal
government.

Over 60,000 of those on the list are black, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian,
Pacific Islander or describe themselves as multiracial, according to the organ
sharing network. Of those, 6,229 are resident aliens in the United States,
compared with close to 1,900 resident aliens in 2000. Illegal immigrants are
prohibited from the list.

''When patients need a transplant, most of the time, the first people they turn
to is their families,'' said Dr. Juan Carlos Caicedo, a transplant surgeon and
director of the Hispanic Transplant Program at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in
Chicago. ''It becomes complicated when their families are not in the U.S., which
in a lot of instances, that is the case.''

The State Department does not have a medical visa category, and people traveling
to the United States have to qualify for the B-1/B-2 visa, more commonly known
as the tourist visa.

''Our embassies and consulates around the world do their best to assist visa
applicants who are dealing with life or death situations in order to expedite
their cases,'' a department official wrote in an e-mail.

An individual applying for a visa for a medical reason can fill out a form
requesting that the application be expedited.

But some doctors say that they have contacted State Department officials on
behalf of patients and even that has not sped up the process.

''When I call the consulates or embassies, they're not very cooperative,'' Dr.
Guerra said. ''We try to be as concise as possible, but also explaining the
urgency in the letters that we write, but it just continues to be a waiting
game.''

Dr. Linda Chen, a transplant surgeon at the Miller School of Medicine, said that
for about the last five years, the State Department has required foreign donor
candidates to get preliminary testing done in their home country.

Blood-collection tubes are mailed to the candidates, and the filled tubes are
mailed back for testing. If the donor has the same blood type, there is a
possibility that he or she could be a match with the patient, and the State
Department will take that into consideration, Dr. Chen said.

''But even with blood work,'' Dr. Chen said, ''they don't give people visas
sometimes.''

Dr. Chen said she writes letters on a monthly basis. But she cannot do that for
patients whose donor relatives are in Cuba.

''Since the U.S. does not have a relationship with Cuba, we cannot help them by
writing a letter or sending tests over,'' Dr. Chen said.

If patients cannot get a donor into the United States, their names go on the
organ network's list to receive an organ from someone who has died. Waiting
times for patients vary, and among the factors is a person's state of residence.
Patients in New York, for example, wait an average of seven to nine years, while
people in Florida wait three to five years.

The No. 1 transplanted organ is the kidney. When one is needed but not readily
available, patients must go through dialysis. Medicare spent $9.2 billion in
2009 on dialysis patients, according to an annual Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission report due to Congress in March. Martha Escamilla-Arias, a social
worker at Northwestern Memorial Hospital, said that in most cases dialysis cost
the State of Illinois more than a kidney transplant in the long run.

''In Illinois, two and a half years of dialysis pays for one kidney
transplant,'' Ms. Escamilla-Arias said. ''Some people are in dialysis for five
to seven years, and if things were easier for foreign donors, it would help.''

Jean Viera, 34, a Cuban immigrant on the organ network's list, has been going
through dialysis for six years.

His left arm is disfigured with two purplish raised scars where he is connected
to a dialysis machine.

''I wish I did not have to go through this,'' Mr. Viera said. ''This is just not
the best way to live.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 29, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: 55 Held After Raid at Drop House

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 68 words


State and federal authorities arrested 55 people who were believed to be illegal
immigrants in a raid on a drop house in west Phoenix on Friday. At least three
of the people arrested are suspected of human smuggling, they said. The
authorities said that almost all of the 55 people were adults and that most were
from Central America and Mexico. They have been turned over to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday

'Life Beneath the Field Dust'

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 126 words



HIGHLIGHT: 6 Q's About the News | Why might "the often disrupted lives of the
children of migrants here is likely to grow still more complicated as the
national debate over immigration grows sharper"?


WHO is Oscar Ramos?

WHERE does he teach?
WHERE did he come from himself?

WHEN do migrant workers "follow the lettuce" annually from California to
Arizona?

WHY are "the often disrupted lives of the children of migrants here...likely to
grow still more complicated as the national debate over immigration grows
sharper"?
WHY do you think Mr. Ramos has a collection of Berkeley memorabilia as an
"altar" in his classroom?

WHAT challenges do the children in East Salinas face, according to this article?

HOW does Mr. Ramos's "approachable style" contrast with the tumult in his
students' lives? (Read more about this teacher and his background.)



     ·    Teaching 'The Grapes of Wrath' With The New York Times
     ·    Test Yourself | Math, March 30, 2011
     ·    Migrant Workers Trapped in Libya


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs

                        May 13, 2011 Friday 7:15 AM EST

Before Fame, or Jail, Ai Weiwei Was a New York 'Starving Artist';
City Room

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1096 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Ai would create quick portraits for money near Central Park or in
Times Square. 'He was a better painter than sketcher,' recalls one artist who
still makes his living that way.


Twelve statues installed in fountains opposite the Plaza Hotel were
ceremoniously unveiled this month: the bronze animal heads at Fifth Avenue and
59th Street were made by Ai Weiwei, 53, a prominent Chinese contemporary artist.

Across the street from the statues is a stretch of sidewalk where  Chinese
immigrants can be found working as sketch artists, turning out quickie charcoal
portraits of tourists for a few dollars apiece.

Mr. Ai himself worked there as a street artist during the dozen or so years he
spent as a young artist in the United States before returning to China in 1993.

"He was a better painter than sketcher," recalled a 50-year-old sketch artist
who emigrated from China in 1985 and still sets up his sketch pad and stool on
the sidewalk near the horse-drawn carriages outside an entrance to Central Park.

The artist refused to give his name, noting that even for longtime Chinese
immigrants in New York it is considered dangerous to speak publicly about Mr.
Ai, a vocal critic of the Chinese Communist Party who has not been seen publicly
since he was detained on April 3 in Beijing by the Chinese authorities.

He said that Mr. Ai, who would sketch there, and more often in Times Square,
where Chinese sketch artists still abound, "had a personality that attracted
other artists - he was authentic."

Mr. Ai was one of many young Chinese artists trained at top art schools in China
who came to New York in the early 1980s for artistic freedom, as well as the
chance for fame and fortune. Many resorted to earning a few easy dollars by
using their charcoal-sketch training to become street portraitists, rendering in
minutes a caricature of a customer, who would buy it for as little as $5. Some
of these artists - the 50-year-old near the Plaza included - wound up getting
locked into the street art game permanently to support themselves.

"If you want to create good art, you have to make a change," he said. "On the
street, maybe your skills will improve, but your ideas will not. Your creative
abilities will not develop. Your work will not reflect any new art, because
you're doing the same thing every day, just going through the motions, and also,
there is the financial pressure."

"It is hard to make money, and the police give us problems," he added.

Back in the early 1980s, Mr. Ai was not the familiar rotund artist with a long
beard that much of the world now recognizes. He was younger and leaner and
testing the artistic and political waters with his creations.

He was already an upstart "rascal" in the art world, and once in New York, he
was stimulated by exposure to the work of Warhol and Duchamp and other
innovators and styles, "and he became an inheritor of all that," said Ethan
Cohen, an art dealer and collector who became a patron and friend of Mr. Ai's at
the time.

For Mr. Ai, New York offered artistic freedom and stimulation, but it was a
tough place to survive financially.

"New York was an important part of his intellectual development and artistic
career, and it reaffirmed many of the values that he had," Mr. Cohen said. "It
was a watershed moment in his life."

Early on, Mr. Ai found a cheap basement apartment in the East Village where he
worked and kept his door open to many up-and-coming Chinese artists, filmmakers
and composers. He also used various shops and stores around town, including a
locksmith and a frame shop as work spaces after befriending the owners.

He roamed art galleries and was intrigued by local activism, like the 1988 riots
in Tompkins Square Park, which he photographed extensively. He sold photographs
to the newspapers, often turning his lens to protests and encounters with the
police.

When his more serious art was not selling, Mr. Ai would work as a street
sketcher "to make a day-to-day living," said Yao Jicheng, a sketch artist who is
one of dozens of artists and vendors who set up each evening on 42nd Street,
between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, after 6 p.m., since the police tend to chase
them off during the daytime.

"His technical skills were so-so, but he was a modern artist, he did pop art,"
said Mr. Yao, one recent evening as he quickly sketched a caricature of two
British tourists.

This was not exactly a desirable line of work at the time, because of street
crime and strict police enforcement.

Mr. Ai would set up an easel in Times Square and draw portraits for customers,
at $15 to $25 per drawing and could make perhaps $200 a night, estimated Mr.
Cohen, who conceived of a show in the late 1980s he named "Survival," which
included Chinese street artists sketching portraits for $20 apiece at a SoHo
gallery.

"I did it to bring notoriety to their plight, that they were starving artists
trying to survive, to pay their rent," Mr. Cohen said.

Mr. Ai also happened to be a skilled blackjack player, heading regularly to
Atlantic City, Mr. Cohen said. An article on the Web site Blackjack Champ quotes
a veteran gambler as claiming to have befriended Mr. Ai. The player said Mr. Ai
was a highly rated blackjack player who could count cards and win money
consistently.          Mr. Ai did sell numerous works in New York and had pieces
shown in gallery shows. Still there were times when Mr. Ai seemed discouraged
with the artist's plight. In 1991,he told The New York Times that, "After 10
years living here, I don't think there's so much opportunity."

The article in which Mr. Ai was quoted focused on the killing of a fellow
Chinese street artist. The artist, a 34-year-old man named Lin Lin, was killed
near Times Square while drawing a portrait in the early hours of a Sunday
morning. A passer-by provoked an argument, and Mr. Lin was shot in the chest
when he answered back.

At the time, Mr. Ai told The Times that Lin Lin's living conditions were "worse
than just about anything you would find in China."

Speaking of street artists, he said that "a lot of people already had broken
dreams" and added that "people come here because they are always hoping to
improve things for themselves even if they have to live in terrible
circumstances."       Mr. Ai left New York to return to Beijing in 1993, after
getting word that his father, a celebrated poet, had taken ill.

Last week, the 50-year-old artist working across from the dozen bronze
sculptures near the Plaza Hotel was asked his opinion of the work.

"I think it's very good," he said. "It shows he loves China."

     ·    Need a Crowd Count? Click, Ask the Russians
     ·    In 'Little Britain,' Awaiting Big Royal Wedding
     ·    Former Times Sq. Pastor Dies in Texas Crash
     ·    Bill Clinton Recalls the Old Times Square
     ·    Seeking Bliss Among the Honks and Hisses


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Power of the Hispanic Voter

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 420 words


Democrats were hurt in the midterm election by low turnouts or faltering support
from voters who were young, black or female. But overwhelming support from
Hispanic voters appears to have helped elect Democratic senators in Nevada,
California, Colorado and possibly Washington State. Hispanic voters may have
kept the Senate in Democratic hands.

Several Hispanic Republicans were also elected, including two governors, Brian
Sandoval of Nevada and Susana Martinez of New Mexico, and a senator, Marco Rubio
of Florida. But, over all, Hispanics voted at a rate of 2 to 1 for Democrats,
according to several polls, and many were stirred to action by viciously
anti-immigrant ads or comments made by Republican candidates.

Eligible Hispanic voters represent about 9 percent of the national electorate, a
slight increase over previous years, but the percentages are much higher in the
West, climbing to 22 percent in California. They are less predictably partisan
than other ethnic groups and the two major parties have long contested for their
votes. Early polls had suggested that many were disappointed in both parties for
failing to act on immigration reform, and it appeared that they might sit out
the midterms.

Then came a series of ads by Republican candidates like Sharron Angle, who was
running for the United States Senate in Nevada. One of hers depicted Hispanics
sneaking over the border, carrying weapons and appearing in police mug shots.
Tom Tancredo, whose anti-immigrant sentiment was already known, ran for governor
of Colorado by telling workers that their jobs were threatened by illegal
immigration. Meg Whitman, the Republican candidate for governor of California,
pandered to the same sentiment by saying her former housekeeper, an illegal
immigrant, should have been deported.

Now Hispanic political activists had galvanizing issues. Groups like Mi Familia
Vota, La Raza and Lulac spent the last weeks of the campaign organizing voters
against these diatribes. A tracking poll conducted by Latino Decisions, a
polling organization, found that the number of very enthusiastic Hispanic voters
shot up to 58 percent on Oct. 25 from 40 percent a month earlier.

As the Hispanic electorate continues to grow faster than the overall population
in the years ahead, the 2010 election should be a useful lesson. Anti-immigrant
demagoguery occasionally works, as it did in a number of Republican victories in
Arizona this year. But more often it will produce an angry reaction among a
growing group of committed voters.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dreaming of Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 354 words


The Dream Act, the immigration bill that opens a path to legalization for
undocumented young people who go to college or serve in the military, has a shot
at passing the lame-duck Congress. Not a clear or sure shot, given the danger of
Republican filibustering and Democratic wobbliness, but a shot.

Democratic leaders of the House and Senate have at least promised to squeeze it
onto the floor in the twilight of Democratic control of the House.

If the Dream Act passes, credit must go to those who have fought for it most
strenuously, at greater personal risk and inconvenience than anyone else: the
young people whose futures it will decide. Thousands of students, calling
themselves ''undocumented and unafraid,'' have led an admirable campaign of
advocacy under the threat of arrest and deportation.

They have marched hundreds of miles, fasted for days, staged sit-ins and held
bittersweet mock graduations. In letters and phone calls, on Twitter and
Facebook, the Dream activists have told their stories to whoever will listen,
firmly confronting those who won't.

Gaby Pacheco once hugged Joe Arpaio, a sheriff in Arizona, momentarily disarming
his anti-immigrant virulence. Recently, she and five others were in the office
of Senator John McCain, a former Dream Act co-sponsor, urging him to summon the
courage he now disowns. She reminded him of his promise in 2007 to fight for the
bill. He begged off. She persisted: What about your promise? What about my
family?

The Dream Act will not fix immigration from the border to the workplace to the
future flow of Americans-in-waiting. It's just a down payment on future reform.

But Republicans won back the House in the recent election, so immigration
hard-liners are coming. The Obama administration has the deportation machinery
expelling 400,000 people a year. Victorious Republicans have vowed to tear the
country apart until they find and expel the last of 11 million undocumented.

The question then becomes, whom don't we deport? Let's start with college
students and soldiers who didn't ask to come here without papers, who want to
better themselves and serve their country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Requiem for a Dream

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 433 words


The defeat of the Dream Act in the lame-duck session slams the lid for this
Congress on any meaningful repair of the immigration system, but that should not
be the end of it for President Obama and his administration.

Mr. Obama's strategy of doubling-down on border and workplace enforcement to
gain support for legalizing some undocumented immigrants has failed. And the
next Congress will be harsher on immigration than this one. But if Mr. Obama
really feels the passion and disappointment he expressed about steps like the
Dream Act, he will not be helpless. He has an array of options to make piecemeal
repairs to a system that everyone admits is broken.

The Dream Act was the sort of idea both sides of the immigration fight should
embrace. It would have given a few hundred thousand young people -- brought here
as children, educated here, often at public expense, and then set adrift after
high school -- a chance to better themselves and contribute to this country as
soldiers and college students. But it was too much for a hard-line minority in
Congress, and it was killed by filibustering Republicans who want no
legalization ever.

Mr. Obama doesn't need Congress to curb the Department of Homeland Security,
which is deporting at a record pace many of the very people he says deserve a
chance to stay. That means reforming Secure Communities, a fingerprinting
program that will soon turn every local police department in the country into an
arm of Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- a looming disaster for public
safety and good policing. He can tell border agents to stop harassing and
scaring innocent people.

He can halt deportations of students who would have qualified for the Dream Act,
under the time-honored practice of deferred action for those who pose no threat.
He can have the Labor Department redouble efforts to expose wage-and-hour
violations endemic in the immigrant workplace.

Perhaps most important, he can stop enabling the Republicans who are itching to
make things worse. He can defend against the propaganda that all illegal
immigrants are by definition a class of criminals instead of people trapped in a
web of bad laws, misguided policies and squandered potential. And he can
repudiate the myth that all America's immigration problems will be solved at the
Mexican border.

It won't be easy. Mr. Obama and the Democrats have already meekly ceded much of
that argument, by pushing through billions for border and workplace enforcement
without winning anything in return. As a candidate, Mr. Obama lavishly
distributed I.O.U.'s promising a better way. He still owes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1215 words


International

GREECE TRIES TO SHUT

A Back Door to Europe

The border between Greece and Turkey has become the latest crossing point for
immigrants seeking entry into the European Union. In January, Greece announced
that it would build a fence along the land border, prompting outrage from some
immigrant rights groups that fear that legitimate asylum seekers will be kept
out. But Greek officials say they have no choice, as the new immigrants come at
a time when the country can least afford to be hospitable. PAGE A4

DENYING BANK'S LOSSES

The Afghan Central Bank sharply disputed accounts that Afghanistan's largest
bank had hundreds of millions dollars more in losses than previously publicized.
Kabul Bank, the country's most politically connected as well as the largest, was
crippled last fall when it became known that it had hundreds of millions of
dollars in nonperforming loans. PAGE A5

SWEDES PICK NEW SURNAMES

Growing numbers of young Swedes about to marry are picking new names. Sometimes
it is an older family name; more often it is one they simply concoct. In most
cases, couples adopt a new name to rebel against the hegemony of traditional
Swedish surnames ending in ''-son.'' PAGE A6

National

PROPOSAL TO END SUBSIDIES

Revives a Long Debate

President Obama's expected proposal to do away with roughly $4 billion a year in
subsidies and tax breaks for oil companies rekindles a long-running debate over
federal subsidies for energy of all kinds. Opposition to the subsidies spans the
ideological spectrum. PAGE A14

JUSTICE RECOUNTS FIRST YEARS

Justice Sonia Sotomayor, speaking at a law school in Chicago, reflected on the
advice she had received from colleagues, her discomfort with becoming a
celebrity and the role public opinion plays in judicial decision making. PAGE
A17

New York

U.S. CHARGES FRAUD SCHEME

By 2 Fake Guggenheims

Two men who falsely claimed they were Guggenheim family members and a woman who
called herself Lady Catarina Pietra Toumei -- who claimed to be a countess
married to an actor from the television program ''Cheers'' -- are accused of
trying to solicit money and promote billions of dollars in bogus investment
deals that involved diamonds, crude oil, vodka and bank notes. PAGE A20

Business

NUCLEAR REACTOR PLANS FALTER

Despite Government Push

There is a fairly sturdy political consensus in favor of building more nuclear
reactors. But of four reactor projects identified by the Energy Department in
2009 as the most likely candidates for federal loan guarantees, only two are
moving forward. PAGE B1

EXXON'S PROFITS JUMP 53%

Exxon Mobil, the largest American oil company, reported a 53 percent increase in
its fourth-quarter profit, helped by an improving world economy that has
increased energy demand and crude prices. PAGE B3

PAYING SITES FOR CONTENT

Readability, a popular online tool that strips out publishers' carefully
arranged layouts and advertisements to give readers the bare minimum of text and
photographs, wants to give something back to the outlets whose revenue it may be
hurting. The company says it will calculate what percentage of a subscriber fee
should go to sites, and send them checks. PAGE B1

DIESEL USE VIOLATES LAW

Oil and gas service companies injected tens of millions of gallons of diesel
fuel into onshore wells in more than a dozen states from 2005 to 2009,
Congressional investigators have charged. Those injections appear to have
violated the Safe Water Drinking Act, the investigators said in a letter to the
Environmental Protection Agency. PAGE B1

New York

U.S. CHARGES FRAUD SCHEME

By 2 Fake Guggenheims

Two men who falsely claimed they were Guggenheim family members and a woman who
called herself Lady Catarina Pietra Toumei -- who claimed to be a countess
married to an actor from the television program ''Cheers'' -- are accused of
trying to solicit money and promote billions of dollars in bogus investment
deals that involved diamonds, crude oil, vodka and bank notes. PAGE A20

Business

NUCLEAR REACTOR PLANS FALTER

Despite Government Push

There is a fairly sturdy political consensus in favor of building more nuclear
reactors. But of four reactor projects identified by the Energy Department in
2009 as the most likely candidates for federal loan guarantees, only two are
moving forward. PAGE B1

EXXON'S PROFITS JUMP 53%

Exxon Mobil, the largest American oil company, reported a 53 percent increase in
its fourth-quarter profit, helped by an improving world economy that has
increased energy demand and crude prices. PAGE B3

PAYING SITES FOR CONTENT

Readability, a popular online tool that strips out publishers' carefully
arranged layouts and advertisements to give readers the bare minimum of text and
photographs, wants to give something back to the outlets whose revenue it may be
hurting. The company says it will calculate what percentage of a subscriber fee
should go to sites, and send them checks. PAGE B1

DIESEL USE VIOLATES LAW

Oil and gas service companies injected tens of millions of gallons of diesel
fuel into onshore wells in more than a dozen states from 2005 to 2009,
Congressional investigators have charged. Those injections appear to have
violated the Safe Water Drinking Act, the investigators said in a letter to the
Environmental Protection Agency. PAGE B1

Obituaries

JOHN BARRY, 77

His bold, jazzy scores for ''From Russia With Love,'' ''Goldfinger'' and nine
other James Bond films put a musical stamp on one of the most successful film
franchises of all time. He won five Academy Awards as a composer for ''Born
Free,'' ''Dances With Wolves'' and other films. PAGE B18

Sports

NEGOTIATING TEAMS FOR N.F.L.

And Union Set Meetings

Negotiating teams for the National Football League and the players union will
hold a formal negotiating session on Saturday, and they have also agreed to a
series of meetings over the next few weeks, the sides announced in a joint
statement. PAGE B14

GROOMING LINEBACKERS

The current iteration of the Pittsburgh Steelers has come close to perfecting
the art of drafting and developing linebackers, sometimes changing their
positions, keeping plenty of them in the pipeline and then making them sit and
learn the team's difficult defense until its details seep in. PAGE B12

Arts

AWARDS FOR 'KING'S SPEECH'

Could Suggest Oscar Glory

Dual victories by ''The King's Speech'' at a pair of closely watched awards
ceremonies over the weekend have put the film on track to win a best picture
Oscar, unless the vagaries of a new Hollywood math or simmering questions about
the movie's chief subject, King George VI, get in the way. PAGE C1

BUMBLING IN THE MORGUE

''Post Mortem,'' a documentary on PBS, illuminates the lapses in the American
system of death investigation by highlighting the widespread incompetence of
poorly trained coroners and the failure of local governments to pay sufficient
attention to the need for sound forensic pathology. PAGE C4

Science Times

WHERE NO BUSINESS

Has Gone Before

Last year, the Obama administration pushed through an ambitious transformation
for NASA: canceling the Ares I rocket, which was to be the successor to the
current generation of space shuttles, and turning to the commercial sector for
astronaut transportation. That has sent a wave of companies looking to
capitalize on developmental grants from NASA by conceiving and testing their own
spacecraft. PAGE D1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

Impending Trial Puts a Melting-Pot Neighborhood to the Test

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN.

klydersen@chicagonewscoop.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1193 words


Devon Avenue is one of Chicago's richest melting pots, where Indian stores sell
colorful saris next to Pakistani halal butcher shops and Islamic bookstores.
Farther west are Orthodox synagogues, Jewish bakeries and Russian gift shops. So
residents were shocked when two local men were arrested in 2009 on accusations
that they had helped plot the November 2008 terrorist attack in Mumbai, India,
and a never-realized assault on a Danish newspaper that had published cartoons
of the Prophet Muhammad.

Federal prosecutors allege that Tahawwur Hussain Rana, 49, a Pakistani immigrant
who owns an immigration-law office and a butcher shop on Devon Avenue, knew
about the Mumbai attacks in advance and helped David Coleman Headley, a
Pakistani-American, scout locations. In March, Mr. Headley, 50, pleaded guilty
to charges that could carry a life sentence. Mr. Rana's trial, which was
scheduled to begin Feb. 14, was recently delayed until May 16.

The government says that Mr. Rana falsified immigration documents for Mr.
Headley and helped him use Mr. Rana's First World Immigration Services as cover
for his activities in India and Denmark. Mr. Headley opened a branch of the law
office in Mumbai and pretended that he wanted to place an ad for legal services
in the Danish paper, according to his plea agreement. The government also says
that Mr. Rana passed messages between Mr. Headley and one of his Pakistan-based
operatives, and that Mr. Headley gave Mr. Rana a Qaeda video taking
responsibility for an attack on the Danish Embassy in Pakistan.

Both men are being held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in downtown
Chicago.

More than 160 people were killed in the Mumbai attacks, in which Indian and
Jewish institutions, including the Taj Mahal Hotel and the Chabad House, were
attacked. But in Chicago, residents said the arrests had not caused any
noticeable tensions along Devon Avenue. People in the neighborhood say they
monitor conflict in their homelands from afar, but consider themselves Americans
primarily concerned with making a living.

Many residents and merchants on Devon Avenue greeted the news that Mr. Rana's
trial had been postponed with the kind of skepticism and annoyance that has
characterized local response to the arrests. Many doubt the strength of the
government's case against Mr. Rana, whose lawyer has portrayed him as misled or
duped by Mr. Headley. Others were shocked by the charges, which they say are
contrary to the diverse and harmonious character of the neighborhood. They say
they just want to put this chapter to rest.

Merchants and residents say the arrests have not soured relations or business on
the street, where Mr. Rana's law firm and grocery store still do healthy
business, but they fear extra scrutiny directed at the community during the
trial.

Ahmed Khan, 26, an aldermanic candidate in the 50th Ward who runs the Par-Birdie
grocery near Mr. Rana's law office, does not see Mr. Rana as typical of the
close-knit merchants in the community, Mr. Khan came from India as a baby and is
married to a Pakistani woman.

''This gentleman is not representative of the community,'' he said. ''I'm very
offended that this individual came and tried to be part of this community and
leverage it for what he wanted to do. It's a community that's incredibly
diverse, where we all share the same concerns, and the concerns for local
residents are local concerns like streets and schools.''

A supporter of Mr. Rana, who asked that her name not be published for fear of
harassment, said that many locals did not think Mr. Rana was guilty of
wrongdoing but would not speak publicly for fear of being singled out by the
F.B.I.

Fawad Ahmed, 27, an Afghan immigrant and employee at a halal shop, said,
''People talk like he's a good person.'' But, Mr. Ahmed added, ''no one knows
the real story. Everyone's confused.''

The Devon Avenue neighborhood became heavily Jewish after World War II, largely
because of the presence of an Eastern European refugee resettlement group. In
the 1960s and '70s, after federal policy changes made it easier for Asians to
immigrate to the United States, Indians and Pakistanis began moving into the
neighborhood at the same time many Eastern Europeans were moving to the suburbs.

Although political tensions within the Indian and Pakistani communities have
sometimes surfaced, residents and community leaders say that for years
immigrants have largely left the politics and divisions of their homelands
behind. After the Sept. 11 attacks, residents said they feared and experienced
some discrimination and suspicion, and many merchants and residents prominently
displayed American flags.

Mr. Rana's law office at 2809 West Devon Avenue and his butcher shop on the 2100
block of West Devon are still in business. The law office has Canadian and
American flags in the window -- Mr. Rana is a Canadian citizen and lived
temporarily in Canada after immigrating to the United States with his wife in
1994.

The butcher shop, Chicago Grocers, sells phone cards, ''snacks and sweets,''
halal meat and other products to a diverse clientele including Indians and
Pakistanis. The window holds a large campaign sign for Alderman Bernard Stone
(50th Ward).

Amir Ali, 51, owner of a shop on Devon, said he was concerned that publicity
around the trial might make people suspicious of all Pakistanis or Muslims.

''As a Muslim, as a Pakistani guy, he's not my relative, but maybe some people
will think we're all involved in this,'' Mr. Ali said. ''Islam is a peaceful
religion. We give money to the poor.''

Mr. Rana's lawyer, Patrick Blegen, told a judge that witnesses who testified
during his client's bond hearing showed he ''is a well-respected businessman and
has lived a life of almost 50 years now where he has not promoted violence.''
Supporters have said Mr. Rana gave free legal help to neighbors and raised money
for a medical clinic for the uninsured.

Vijay Gupta, who owns an Indian video store on Devon, said that he had visited
lawyers at Mr. Rana's law firm several times and that he frequently heard
complaints from acquaintances that lawyers there filled out paperwork but did
not actively advocate for their clients.

The lawyer currently working at the law firm did not return calls.

Residents and employees in Jewish businesses said they were affected by the
targeting of Jews in the Mumbai attacks, but many were unaware of the charges
that the attacks had been plotted just blocks away.

''No one is even talking about it; no one knew these individuals,'' said
Alderman Stone, who is Jewish. ''Jewish people have been through things like
this for centuries.''

Huma Mahtani, an Indian immigrant, and her husband have run a sari shop on Devon
Avenue for 25 years. She said she tried to dissuade her daughter from traveling
to Mumbai after the attacks and was shocked to learn later that two of the men
accused in the plot worked in her neighborhood. But Ms. Mahtani said residents
had not dwelled on the arrests.

''People here are just worried about making their mortgages, especially since
the recession,'' said her husband, Ramesh Mahtani. ''Everyone's quite busy doing
their work. It's not like back home.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Devon Avenue neighborhood in Rogers Park is a conglomerate
of nationalities. A worker arranged saris in a store window display. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Gay Asylum Seekers

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 269 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Gays Seeking Asylum in U.S. Encounter a New Hurdle'' (news article, Jan.
29):

While we appreciate your coverage of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
asylum seekers, the article is not consistent with our experience in several
ways.

Each year, Immigration Equality and Human Rights First provide legal
representation to hundreds of asylum seekers, and our legal team and pro bono
lawyers win safe haven for most of these individuals.

In our experience, however, it is exceedingly rare for asylum seekers -- whose
families and home countries often stigmatize gay and transgender people -- to
present themselves falsely as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender to
immigration officials. We have not seen an emerging trend of straight
individuals claiming to be gay for immigration purposes.

Indeed, asylum seekers undergo rigorous evaluation by immigration officials to
ensure that their claims are authentic. Nor have we seen a ''new hurdle'' for
L.G.B.T. asylum seekers having to prove that they are ''socially visible.''
While there have been a few cases where adjudicators have demonstrated a bias in
L.G.B.T. cases, we have found that most United States officials do their jobs,
and verify claims made in asylum applications while respecting an individual's
identity as an L.G.B.T. person.

Until L.G.B.T. rights are respected around the world, asylum remains a lifeline
for those fleeing persecution.

Victoria Neilson Lori Adams New York, Feb. 1, 2011

The writers are, respectively, legal director of Immigration Equality and staff
attorney of the Refugee Protection Program, Human Rights First.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Repeal, Restrict and Repress

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1010 words


Republican state lawmakers, emboldened by their swollen ranks, have a message
for minorities, women, immigrants and the poor: It's on!

In the first month of the new legislative season, they have introduced a
dizzying number of measures on hot-button issues in statehouses around the
country as part of what amounts to a full-throttle mission to repeal, restrict
and repress.

It wasn't supposed to happen like this.

As Reuters pointed out this week, in the midterms, ''Republicans gained nearly
700 state legislative seats and now have their largest numbers since the Great
Depression, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.''

Judging by the lead-up to those elections, one could have easily concluded that
the first order of business on Republicans' agendas would be a laserlike focus
on job creation and deficit reductions to the exclusion of all else. Not the
case.

As MSNBC and Telemundo reported recently, at least 15 state legislatures are
considering Arizona-style immigration legislation. If passed, four of the five
states with the largest Hispanic populations -- California, Texas, Florida and
Arizona -- would also be the most inhospitable to them.

As Fox News Latino recently reported, state legislatures are poised to break the
record on the number of immigration measures and resolutions introduced this
year, having already introduced 600 by the end of last month. For comparison,
1,400 were introduced in total last year, according to a report issued last
month by the state legislatures' group. A record number of those laws were
enacted.

And, according to the State Legislators for Legal Immigration, which was founded
by State Representative Daryl Metcalfe, a Republican of Pennsylvania, lawmakers
from 40 state legislatures have joined the group that last month unveiled
''model legislation to correct the monumental misapplication of the 14th
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.''

On another note, Republicans in Kentucky, Missouri, Nebraska and Oregon are
pushing legislation that would require drug testing of welfare recipients.

This despite the fact that, as the American Civil Liberties Union rightly
pointed out, the policy is ''scientifically, fiscally, and constitutionally
unsound.'' Other states have considered it but deemed it not feasible or
impractical. In Michigan, the only state to implement it, only a tenth of those
tested had positive results for drugs and only 3 percent had positive results
for hard drugs, which the A.C.L.U. points out is ''in line with the drug use
rates of the general population.''

Most importantly, the Michigan law was struck down as unconstitutional, with the
judge ruling that the rationale for testing people on welfare ''could be used
for testing the parents of all children who received Medicaid, State Emergency
Relief, educational grants or loans, public education or any other benefit from
that state.''

Despite all this, these states are pushing ahead because the made-for-the-movies
image of a crack-addicted welfare queen squandering government money on her
habit is the beef carpaccio of red meat for spending-weary, hungry
conservatives.

On the gay rights front, Republicans in Iowa, Indiana, West Virginia and Wyoming
(where Matthew Shepard was tortured to death) are pushing constitutional
amendments to ban same-sex marriage.

Republican Rick Snuffer, a freshman delegate from Raleigh, W.Va., turned logic
on its head when arguing for that state's amendment. He chided Democrats'
pro-choice position, and reasoned that, ''They don't want you to choose your
definition of marriage, so they're not really pro-choice. If they're pro-choice,
let the people choose their definition of marriage.'' So let me get this
straight. To be pro-choice, one has to submit to the tyranny of the majority,
which may seek to restrict the rights and choices of others?

This is exactly the kind of thinking that the shapers of the Constitution
worried about. A quick read of the Federalist Papers would help Mr. Snuffer
understand just how concerned they were about the danger posed by majority rule
to personal freedom.

Republicans in New Hampshire have filed bills to overturn that state's same-sex
marriage law, even though, according to a recent WMUR Granite State Poll, the
state's residents want to leave the law in place by a majority of more than 2 to
1, and when asked which were the most important issues the State Legislature
should address, ''almost no one mentioned dealing with hot-button social issues
such as gay marriage or abortion.'' I guess that ''let the people choose''
argument only works when the people agree with the Republican position.

A Republican state representative in Utah has even gone so far as to introduce a
bill that would bar same-sex couples from drafting wills.

According to The News and Observer in North Carolina, Republicans are
considering severely narrowing or repealing the state's recently enacted Racial
Justice Act, which allows death-row inmates to use statistics to appeal their
cases on the basis of racial discrimination.

Two studies of the death penalty in the state have found that someone who kills
a white person is about three times as likely to be sentenced to death as
someone who kills a minority.

And in Wisconsin, Republicans are pushing a bill that would repeal a 2009 law
that requires police to record the race of people they pull over at traffic
stops so the data could be used to study racial-profiling.

Furthermore, abortion rights advocates are now bracing for the worst. NARAL Pro
Choice America is now tracking 133 proposed bills thus far this legislative
season, and that's just the beginning. Donna Crane, the policy director of the
group, said earlier this month that thanks to the gains by conservatives in the
Nov. 2 election, ''2011 will be a banner year for anti-choice legislation in the
states.''

Richard Gephardt once said, ''Elections have consequences.'' He was right, and
the consequences of the last election could well be a loss of liberty, choice,
access and avenues of recourse for many. Brace yourselves. It's on!

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: State Control (Source: National Conference of State
Legislatures)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Immigration Agent Killed by Gunmen in Mexico

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from Mexico
City, and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 461 words


MEXICO CITY -- Gunmen on a highway in northern Mexico killed an agent with
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Tuesday and wounded
another, in an attack that signaled the escalating risk for American officials
fighting Mexican crime gangs that move drugs and migrants into the United
States.

The United States homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, said in a
statement that the agents were assigned to the customs agency's attache office
at the American Embassy in Mexico City, and that they had been shot in the line
of duty while driving between the city and Monterrey.

The agent who was killed was identified as Jaime J. Zapata. He joined the agency
in 2006 and served in Laredo, Tex., before a recent assignment to Mexico City.
The name of the other agent was not released, but a statement from the
immigration and customs agency said he was in stable condition.

It was the first time that an employee of the immigration and customs agency had
been wounded or killed in the line of duty in Mexico, American officials said.

Typically American immigration agents are involved in major investigations of
trafficking, in conjunction with Mexican law enforcement. And on Tuesday, the
American agents were clearly driving into dangerous territory. The police in San
Luis Potosi State said the attack occurred on a main highway about midway
between Mexico City, the capital, and Monterrey, the same highway where, a month
ago, a group of armed men clashed with the federal police in a running battle
that left five presumed criminals dead.

The American agents' destination, Monterrey, a large, wealthy city two hours
from McAllen, Tex., has become an epicenter of drug gang battles over the past
year as the Gulf Cartel and an offshoot, the Zetas, have fought for control of
smuggling routes.

American and Mexican authorities have warned that roads throughout the area are
rife with false checkpoints run by drug cartel gunmen, and recent victims have
not been limited to rivals. This week, a senior police intelligence official was
found dead in his burning armored car in Monterrey.

On Jan. 26, two American missionaries -- Sam and Nancy Davis -- were ambushed on
a highway between Reynosa and Monterrey. Ms. Davis was killed.

Mexican government officials have said they are making progress in the area,
citing recent arrests. But experts contend that the wave of violence has shown
no sign of diminishing.

While attacks on American law enforcement officials have been rare in Mexico,
threats from the leaders of drug gangs have sometimes escalated. The killing of
an agent from the Drug Enforcement Administration in Mexico in 1985 led to
strained relations between officers on both sides of the border, and between the
Mexican and American governments.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Gunmen Knew Victims Were U.S. Agents, Officials Say

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words


MEXICO CITY -- The gunmen who attacked two American law enforcement officials in
Mexico on Tuesday, killing one and wounding the other, knew they were firing on
foreign officers but proceeded anyway, current and former American officials
said Wednesday.

But an important unresolved question is whether the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agents were attacked because of their work -- more than one Mexican
drug gang has expressed interest in killing American officers -- or for another
reason, like an attempt to steal their dark and presumably armored S.U.V., a
vehicle favored by drug gangs.

The Justice and Homeland Security Departments announced on Wednesday the
creation of a task force to work with Mexican federal authorities to investigate
the shooting, which killed Jaime Zapata and wounded his colleague, Victor Avila.
Mr. Zatapa was the first American immigration agent to be killed in Mexico.

The men were shot as they traveled in their vehicle, which had diplomatic
plates, on a main highway to Mexico City from San Luis Potosi, about 265 miles
to the north. Mr. Avila was released from an American hospital on Wednesday
after being treated for gunshot wounds to his legs.

American and Mexican officials would not comment about the reason for the
shooting, saying they had not yet determined a motive.

Alonzo Pena, a retired Immigration and Customs Agent who served as its
representative in Mexico until 2009, said law enforcement officials had told him
that the two men were taking equipment to another team of agents when they
encountered the gunmen. They rolled down a window to identify themselves and
were shot, Mr. Pena said.

Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas, said the agents ''were
pursued by numerous cartel members and run off the road.''

''When the agents identified themselves as American diplomats, the cartel
members responded by opening fire on the officers,'' Mr. McCaul said, adding
that ''this tragic event is a game changer'' that ''should be a long overdue
wake-up call for the Obama administration that there is a war on our nation's
doorstep.''

American and Mexican officials, who have said that law enforcement relations
between the two countries are at record strength, rushed to pledge their
cooperation. The bitter history of the last American agent to be killed in
Mexico, Enrique Camarena of the Drug Enforcement Administration in 1985, is
still raised in discussions about cross-border relations.

After Mr. Camarena's death, American officials accused the Mexican police of
complicity and whisked one suspect out of Mexico for trial in the United States.

Mr. Pena said that compared with the 1980s, relations between the nations' law
enforcement agencies ''are like day and night.''

''I think they can handle this,'' he said of the Mexican authorities. ''But we
will also help them with a lot of resources.''

The immigration and customs agency is expanding in Mexico. There are 30 agents
in the country now -- part of a large contingent of American agents here -- and
the agency has proposed adding a dozen more to help train the Mexican police and
to investigate smuggling cases.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A U.S. Immigrant Program

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 208 words


To the Editor:

Re ''U.S. Hardens Its Stance on an Immigrant Policy'' (news article, Feb. 18):
As part of a coalition that seeks to end New York's participation in the Secure
Communities program, we are disappointed to learn the extent to which our state
was misled by federal agencies more concerned with instituting a dangerous
program than with operating honestly and transparently.

New York signed up for Secure Communities last May without any public debate or
scrutiny.

Secure Communities undermines everything New York stands for: diversity,
equality and fairness. It throws immigrants into the black hole of deportation,
endangers our safety by promoting fear of the police, and threatens to cost our
state millions of dollars.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement has proved repeatedly to be an unreliable
partner. Its Secure Communities program is designed to deport immigrants en
masse, not to protect the public. New York should stand up to federal duplicity
and bullying. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo must immediately rescind the Secure
Communities agreement.

Michelle Fei Mizue Aizeki New York, Feb. 18, 2011

The writers are, respectively, co-director, Immigrant Defense Project, and
community liaison, Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 25, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drug Raids Across U.S. Net Hundreds Of Suspects

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 523 words


WASHINGTON -- A little more than a week after an American law enforcement agent
was shot to death by gunmen suspected of being drug traffickers in Mexico,
federal authorities struck back Thursday with raids across the United States
that rounded up more than 450 people believed to have ties to criminal
organizations south of the border.

The authorities said sweeps were conducted in nearly every major American city;
involved more than 3,000 federal, state and local law enforcement agents; and
resulted in the seizure of an estimated 300 kilograms of cocaine, 150,000 pounds
of marijuana and 190 weapons. Derek Maltz, a special agent at the Drug
Enforcement Administration, said the sweeps were part of a multinational
investigation that could lead to more arrests and seizures in the United States,
Mexico, Colombia and Brazil.

Mr. Maltz said that the message the authorities hoped to send with the sweeps
was as important as the suspects being brought in. The operation came eight days
after Jaime Zapata, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent, was gunned
down on a Mexican highway. Mr. Maltz said the planning for the operation had
begun before Mr. Zapata's shooting, but he acknowledged that the United States
hoped to show it would not tolerate attacks against its agents.

Louie Garcia, a deputy special immigration and customs agent involved with the
sweeps, echoed that thought in an interview with The Associated Press. ''This is
personal,'' he said. ''We lost an agent. We lost a good agent. And we have to
respond.''

While thousands of Mexican law enforcement agents have been killed in the drug
violence that has plagued Mexico since 2007, Mr. Zapata was the first American
official to be killed in the line of duty there in more than 25 years. Obama
administration officials called the attack a ''game-changer,'' hinting to Mexico
that more needed to be done to quash the cartels.

After those comments, a Mexican newspaper published President Felipe Calderon's
angry reactions to State Department cables obtained by WikiLeaks. Some of those
cables described Mexican law enforcement agencies as corrupt and unwilling to
cooperate with one another.

In response, President Calderon said that American law enforcement was guilty of
the same kind of rivalries and that cooperation from the United States in the
drug fight ended up being ''notoriously insufficient.'' American diplomats, he
added, had ''done a lot of harm'' to relations between Mexico and the United
States ''with the stories they tell and that, in all honesty, they distort.''

President Calderon is to visit Washington next week.

On Wednesday, Mexican authorities detained several people in connection with Mr.
Zapata's murder, saying the traffickers shot the agent because they thought he
and his partner were members of a rival drug cartel. Representative Michael
McCaul, Republican of Texas, who was briefed by senior ICE officials after the
shooting, said, ''I'm not buying the mistaken identity.''

He added, ''Our current strategy is not working. President Calderon is losing
this war. And if the traffickers win' we're going to have a failed state at our
door.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jupiter's El Sol

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 362 words


The seaside town of Jupiter, Fla., has lots of immigrant day laborers, which
makes it scarcely different from hundreds of towns across the country. Men
started showing up on street corners there a few years ago, taking manual jobs
in construction, landscaping and carpentry. It was -- in the boom years, anyway
-- a good match of labor demand and supply.

The changes brought consternation, too, as groups of men turned quiet sidewalks
into traffic-snarling hiring bazaars. Residents complained and anti-immigrant
anger grew. It's an old script, but here is where Jupiter gets extraordinary. In
2006, workers and residents banded together, with the town's help, to create a
hiring site. It brought both order to the streets and immigrant families into
the community.

The site, run by nonprofit groups in a building leased from the town, offers job
referrals. But it also offers job training, counseling, language and sewing
classes, health services and a food pantry. Eighteen workers recently
volunteered to build a playground outside the police department in West Palm
Beach. They call the center El Sol, not just for the sun, but for the man who
helped create it, Sol Silverman.

Jupiter has now also set up a sister-city relationship with Jacaltenango,
Guatemala, the little Mayan village where so many of its newest residents were
born.

Hiring sites like Jupiter's are not going to fix America's ramshackle
immigration system. A recent documentary about Jupiter and Jacaltenango,
''Brother Towns,'' shows the pain and damage of a labor market fueled by
desperation -- the perils of the desert crossing, the women whose husbands
return home in coffins, the children who grow up recognizing their fathers only
as a photo and a voice over the phone.

But it would be foolish to think immigrant labor can be wished or persecuted
away. It is the wise community that resolves to do what it can to help day
laborers -- and itself -- instead of waiting for the great solution that hasn't
arrived.

Nobody has the one big immigration answer. But Jupiter has an answer, one that
supplies more order, lawfulness and compassion than all the screaming in so many
other cities across the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Republicans Must Walk Fine Line on Immigration

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY.

rramsey@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 752 words


Ross Ramsey, the managing editor at The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column.

The growth of the state's Hispanic population and the rise of immigration as a
political issue puts Texas Republicans in a tight spot.

It's clear in the polls, on the political stump, on the news, at rallies and in
the aisles of the Legislature that voters strongly support tougher enforcement
of immigration laws and that conservative and white voters strongly support more
restrictions and fewer benefits for illegal immigrants and their children.

It's also clear that Hispanic voters -- part of the fastest-growing group in the
state's population -- don't agree with their fellow Texans on many of those
issues. Can Republicans keep their current voters happy without alienating the
Hispanics they hope will support them in statewide races in the future?

This isn't new. When George W. Bush was governor, he was careful with
immigration issues. He had watched California Republicans run some tough-nosed
campaigns on immigration that resulted in a backlash that helped the Democrats
take over their state government. Mr. Bush also wanted to bring Hispanics into
the Republican Party, to win their votes and to unravel the historical ties
between those voters and Texas Democrats.

Bill Hammond, a former Republican legislator who now heads the Texas Association
of Business, thinks immigrant-bashing legislation could undermine the G.O.P.,
making Hispanics feel unwelcome and hurting businesses at the same time. ''I
think you suffer in the short term as well as the long term,'' Mr. Hammond said.

When Gov. Rick Perry talks about immigration, he doesn't talk about immigration.
He talks about border security and other law enforcement-related subjects like
sanctuary cities. He's not anti-immigration, just pro-law enforcement. Mexico's
drug gangs haven't hurt the argument for border security, either: Mr. Perry's
ads on the subject in 2006 were so effective that he used them again in 2010.

Now the climate has changed, visible in the makeup of the Legislature.
Republicans have 101 seats in the 150-member House, and 19 in the 31-member
Senate. The clarity of what G.O.P. voters want is reflected in the bills filed
by their elected officials. They're talking about taking in-state college
tuition away from the children of illegal immigrants who live in Texas. They've
proposed Arizona-style legislation to make local police the enforcers of federal
laws. They're calling on the federal government, meanwhile, to enforce those
laws and to -- this is Mr. Perry again -- send more people to patrol the border
in the interest of safety. They've renewed calls to crack down on businesses
that hire illegal immigrants.

Mr. Perry added sanctuary cities to his list of ''emergency'' legislation that
can be considered by the Legislature during what is normally a law-passing
blackout for the first 60 days of the session. But he has been careful with it,
saying he doesn't want to require local police to enforce federal immigration
laws, as Arizona does. He wants to outlaw bans on that practice, and says simply
that local police should be allowed to enforce those laws as they wish. No
requirement, no ban, no bashing -- just law enforcement.

His sanctuary-cities ban is a product of the governor's race in November and
illustrates how he has walked the political line. In that contest, Mr. Perry
accused his Democratic opponent, Bill White, of running a sanctuary city as
mayor of Houston, preventing the police from enforcing immigration laws. And Mr.
Perry closed his campaign with an ad featuring a Houston police officer whose
husband, also an officer, was shot to death by an illegal immigrant during an
arrest.

With the Legislature in town, it's harder to modulate the responses to public
calls for tougher enforcement. If you're a governor or a lawmaker who wants to
be governor some day, all of that raises the political question above: Is it
possible to keep lawmakers from doing something that will sink the party in the
future? And is it possible to escape this legislative session with a package of
bills moderate enough to keep Hispanic voters in the fold without forfeiting the
2012 primary elections to current Republicans, including the noisy Tea Partyers,
who want a stronger hand?

''I don't think this is the kind of issue that defeats you in a Republican
primary,'' Mr. Hammond said. ''You have to be atrocious to get defeated in a
Republican primary. Taxes might fall into atrocious activity, but I don't think
this does.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Exit From a Bad Program

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 395 words


''I'm totally confused now,'' wrote a government official in one of thousands of
internal e-mails released last week on the subject of Secure Communities, the
federal program enlisting state and local police in the crackdown on illegal
immigrants.

The confusion was over a simple question: Could a state or city choose not to
participate in Secure Communities? That is, could it decide to preserve that
bright line separating local policing from federal immigration enforcement, so
as not to discourage immigrants from reporting crimes?

The e-mails show that the Department of Homeland Security didn't know how to
answer the question -- even two years into the program, which sends the
fingerprints of everyone arrested by participating state and local agencies to
federal databases for an immigration check.

The answer was important, because while the Obama administration has made Secure
Communities a centerpiece of its immigration-enforcement strategy, many state
and local agencies have wanted nothing to do with it. They know it has been used
to deport tens of thousands of people with no criminal records, even though it
was supposed to focus strictly on dangerous criminals.

They have seen how some politicized and unscrupulous police departments have
used it as an excuse for racial profiling. They worry that participation will
strain their resources and make community policing harder.

Though the e-mails, obtained through the Freedom of Information Act by
immigrant-rights advocates, show the agency at its most confused, top
administration officials had no doubt: Secure Communities doesn't allow states
and localities to opt out. As The Times reported, the administration even
''developed a plan to isolate and pressure communities that did not want to
participate.''

There is a place for local law enforcement in immigration matters, but it must
be strictly limited and cautiously drawn. It must place the highest priority on
catching and removing dangerous criminals, while letting alone those without
criminal records -- the vast proportion of the undocumented population.

President Obama has repeatedly promised that he will work to change the
immigration laws so undocumented immigrants who work hard can earn legal status.
The Secure Communities program goes against that vow. It is also bad for public
safety. States, cities and towns should be able to opt out.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sarkozy Reshuffles His Cabinet Once Again

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 639 words


PARIS -- In a hastily scheduled speech to the nation, President Nicolas Sarkozy
announced Sunday evening that he had once more reshuffled his cabinet, removing
the foreign minister, Michele Alliot-Marie, after only three months in office
and replacing her with Alain Juppe, the defense minister and a former prime
minister and foreign minister.

Ms. Alliot-Marie had been a focus of controversy after taking a vacation to
Tunisia as antigovernment demonstrations were under way there, and amid
disclosures of her family's business dealings in the country.

Mr. Sarkozy's seven-minute televised speech was billed as an address on
international affairs in the wake of the ''Arab spring'' that has taken France
and the rest of the West by surprise and was an effort to answer charges that
French diplomacy had failed and needed a reorganization of spirit and
leadership.

He spoke of an effort to ''refound'' his stalled ''Union for the Mediterranean''
to better aid the transition to democracy of nations in North Africa and to
better control illegal immigration. ''Europe is in the front line,'' Mr. Sarkozy
said, and he called for a European summit meeting to discuss how to help new
democracies and to find a joint position on immigration, to deal with those
fleeing uncertainty and violence in North Africa.

Mr. Sarkozy announced other shifts in the French cabinet. Gerard Longuet, 65,
the head of Mr. Sarkozy's Union for a Popular Movement in the French Senate,
becomes defense minister. Claude Gueant, a Sarkozy intimate, becomes interior
minister, replacing another Sarkozy confidant, Brice Hortefeux, who is expected
to become a political counselor to Mr. Sarkozy to prepare for the 2012
presidential election.

But Mr. Sarkozy kept Ms. Alliot-Marie's popular partner, Patrick Ollier, as a
junior minister in charge of relations with Parliament.

The change was the fourth cabinet reshuffle within a year, a measure of Mr.
Sarkozy's difficulties and changing fortunes. The change that brought Ms.
Alliot-Marie and Mr. Juppe, 65, into the government last November, while keeping
Francois Fillon as prime minister, was supposed to give Mr. Sarkozy a new
stability and a new political wind.

But the controversy surrounding Ms. Alliot-Marie, 64, soon overwhelmed the
government, dragging Mr. Sarkozy ever further down in popularity, even as
political gossip increased that Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the Socialist now
running the International Monetary Fund in Washington, will enter the race later
this year for the presidential election of 2012. Mr. Sarkozy's popularity
ratings are at historical lows, hovering around 30 percent.

His center-right party faces strong challenges from the far-right National Front
of Marine Le Pen, which is gathering around 20 percent of the prospective vote
in early opinion polls. The nightmare for Mr. Sarkozy would be to be squeezed
out of a second-round runoff for the presidency because of splits on the right
and a strong showing by both the Socialists and the National Front.

Ms. Alliot-Marie, a self-described Gaullist who has in the past been minister of
defense, interior and most recently justice, got into trouble with a
Christmastime vacation to Tunisia, which was by then in the beginning of the
protests that overthrew the government of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali.
Some Tunisian protesters had died by then, but Ms. Alliot-Marie flew on vacation
there with her partner, himself a new member of the government, and her parents.
She took two free flights from a Tunisian businessman who is considered close to
the Ben Ali family, and her parents bought a company from the businessman at a
price she refused to disclose.

In the end, Mr. Sarkozy could not afford to keep her, bringing an embarrassing
end to a remarkable governmental career that began as a secretary of state for
education in 1986.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michele Alliot-Marie was removed after serving only three months
as the French foreign minister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURENT CIPRIANI/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 2, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hundreds Arrested in Gang Crackdown

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING LAW ENFORCEMENT;
Pg. 13

LENGTH: 107 words


An anti-gang dragnet has led to the arrest of 678 gang members and their
associates, most of them immigrants, in 168 cities, federal officials announced
Tuesday. The three-month-long operation focused on groups with ties to
international drug trafficking, said officials from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland Security. Some 447 of the
defendants were charged with crimes while the rest were arrested for
administrative immigration violations, officials said. The offensive was part of
a five-year campaign by immigration officials to combat violent street gangs by
prosecuting and deporting their members.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Libyan Refugee Crisis Called a 'Logistical Nightmare'

BYLINE: By SCOTT SAYARE and ALAN COWELL; Scott Sayare reported from the Ras
Ajdir border crossing, and Alan Cowell from Paris. Reporting was contributed by
Nadia Shira Cohen from Ras Ajdir, Sharon Otterman from Salum, Egypt, Rachel
Donadio from Rome, and Victor Homola from Berlin.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 896 words


RAS AJDIR BORDER CROSSING, Tunisia -- Thousands of stranded immigrant workers
fleeing Libya's violence stood huddled together at this desolate outpost on
Thursday evening, braced silently against a whipping, sandy wind, hoping they
would not spend the night outside. Then the doors of a bus opened, shouts went
up and the crowd swarmed -- men and women surging frantically, their overstuffed
suitcases balanced precariously on their heads as they ran.

Even as an international airlift began repatriating workers, and as governments
and aid agencies began to mobilize in earnest to stem a potential humanitarian
crisis here, there were still not enough buses to move people to refugee camps
or, for the lucky ones, to waiting planes and ships to take them home. Nor was
there enough food, tents or toilets for the tens of thousands waiting here on
the Tunisian border.

Antonio Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, who said
the numbers of workers able to leave Tunisia were still being dwarfed by the
number of those pouring in, called the situation ''a logistical nightmare.''

''I haven't been very lucky,'' said Ripon Das, 33, a Bangladeshi construction
worker who fled Tripoli. This was his third night outside on the Tunisian side
of the border crossing, Mr. Das said. He had spent two nights waiting at the
border in Libya before that. He said that ''gangsters'' had repeatedly held him
up at knifepoint, stealing his money and that soldiers had confiscated and
destroyed his cellphone.

He still does not know how he will make his way home.

For days, Tunisia -- which is itself still grappling with the aftermath of a
revolt that deposed its long-time leader -- has been overwhelmed with refugees,
raising alarm among the international aid community. More than half of the
estimated 180,000 people fleeing Libya in the past 11 days have sought refuge in
Tunisia.

Those who cross here at Ras Ajdir are taken to a hastily built refugee camp
about four miles away, which has room for about 10,000 people and is
overflowing.

An estimated 20,000 to 30,000 refugees are now here and at the camp.

Tens of thousands are thought to remain on Libyan side, as well, according to an
estimate by the International Medical Corps, an aid organization.

Help appears to be on the way from Europe and the United States, which have
committed to rescue efforts. Most of those who remain behind are from countries
in Asia and Africa that do not have the wherewithal to evacuate them.

But it will take time to set up the huge rescue effort, and conditions here are
bad enough that the World Health Organization warned Thursday of the risk of
epidemics. Aid workers and officials have begun wearing protective masks and
latex gloves.

Many of those who have made it here consider themselves lucky, but some are
haunted by the knowledge that other migrants remain trapped by the fighting.

Speaking to a visitor, one elderly Egyptian in a turban and a flowing robe began
denouncing the violence in Libya. A younger man interrupted: ''Stop, uncle,
don't talk about that. There are still Egyptians in Libya!''

A former construction worker in Tripoli, the younger man said he did not want
Libyan forces to single out Egyptians because of critical comments about the
country.

After days of chaos and increasingly urgent calls for help, international
agencies were working to develop plans for dealing with the fallout from Libya's
turmoil long term. The World Food Program said Thursday it was beginning a $38.7
million operation to feed up to 2.7 million people in Tunisia, Egypt, where many
immigrant workers have fled, and Libya itself.

The European Union also committed almost $42 million in aid to address the
refugee crisis on Libya's borders.

The number of countries willing to bring workers from other nations to their
home countries also grew. Many of those refugees are Egyptians, who fled to
Tunisia rather than to the Egyptian border because they started their journeys
in Tripoli, in the west.

President Obama announced that he had approved the use of military and civilian
aircraft to take workers from several nations home, including to Egypt, which is
struggling to recover from political upheaval.

British officials said Thursday that 800 Egyptians had been flown out of Tunisia
on planes chartered by the British government and that the plan was to increase
that number to 2,000 a day.

The German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, announced that Berlin would send
three naval vessels to take 4,000 Egyptians back to their country, joining the
broader European effort to stem a humanitarian crisis here. The region has long
been a springboard for illegal immigration into southern Europe, and Italy and
other countries have asked for help in avoiding what on Italian official called
a possible ''biblical exodus.'' A French amphibious assault ship is expected in
Tunisia Saturday to help ferry more Egyptians home.

On Thursday night, small groups of men continued to shuffle across the blustery
no man's land between Tunisia and Libya, up to a battered, white-washed guard
post here at Ras Ajdir.

The Tunisian National Guard lieutenant in command of the post, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because of security concerns, said his country would do
its best to help those fleeing.

''Either there are a lot, or there are just a few, we don't know,'' he said.
''We just welcome them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thousands of refugees fleeing Libya were hoping for shelter or
passage out of the desolate Ras Ajdir outpost on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADIA
SHIRA COHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Drive (and Without a Law Degree), a Texan Fights for Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1189 words


DALLAS -- The calls from Malaysia come in daily to Ralph Isenberg, a Texas
businessman who has become an unorthodox advocate for immigrants in extreme
distress.

From the office of his commercial real estate company here, Mr. Isenberg confers
by webcam with Saad Nabeel, a college student who once lived in Texas but now
calls from Kuala Lumpur.

Mr. Nabeel's mood shifts from hopeful cheer to reeling despair. And Mr. Isenberg
reassures him, time and again, that despite the daunting odds, he will one day
return to live in the United States.

The alliance of Mr. Isenberg, by his own description a hard-driving Jew, and Mr.
Nabeel, a Muslim engineering student from Bangladesh who was deported last year,
is one of the more unusual tales in the history of immigrants' struggles to
prevail in the American immigration system.

Mr. Nabeel's case is one of several dozen that Mr. Isenberg has taken up in
recent years, voluntarily and with singular zeal, often when lawyers have
concluded that they are too hard to handle. And immigration cases do not come
any harder than Mr. Nabeel's.

Until a year ago, Mr. Nabeel, now 20, hardly thought of himself as an immigrant.
He had been living in the United States since he was 3, when his father brought
the family here because of threats from political adversaries in Bangladesh. Mr.
Nabeel was studying electrical engineering on a full scholarship he won at the
University of Texas, Arlington.

But in 2001, his father's petition for political asylum was denied. A separate
application for resident status was approved, but then it stalled in visa
backlogs. In November 2009, immigration authorities detained Mr. Nabeel's father
and ordered the whole family deported. Mr. Nabeel was expelled to Bangladesh in
January 2010.

Since then, Mr. Nabeel has become a refugee himself, fleeing in fright from
Bangladesh to Malaysia. Now he is lying low there, longing for the United
States.

And Mr. Isenberg sits in his Dallas office, plotting what he calls ''creative''
legal strategies to reopen Mr. Nabeel's case, even though he is not a lawyer. In
a stream of phone calls, he browbeats immigration officials, jawbones local
reporters about the case and communes via video with Mr. Nabeel.

''This is not my job -- it's my mission,'' Mr. Isenberg said after one recent
coaching session with Mr. Nabeel, whom he has never met in person.

''Saad may not be a citizen, but he's as American as anybody else. He's a
product of this country,'' Mr. Isenberg said, ''and we have an obligation to
protect our own.''

As a former member of the Dallas Plan Commission, Mr. Isenberg has cut a high
profile in this city. The first immigration case he undertook, the one that
ignited his passion, involved his own family.

His second wife, Nicole, is from China. When Mr. Isenberg met her, he was
married and she was working as a masseuse. She was in deportation proceedings
after missing an immigration court hearing, Mr. Isenberg said, in a scandal that
fascinated Dallas residents.

He and Nicole married, and Mr. Isenberg lobbied the authorities to reconsider
her case. The couple moved to China, and over eighteen months Mr. Isenberg flew
back across the Pacific more than a dozen times while he pressured American
immigration officials to authorize a visa for Nicole. It was granted in 2007,
and the family returned to Dallas.

''I have had my own experience with the immigration system,'' Mr. Isenberg said,
''and I got hurt.''

Since then, Mr. Isenberg has helped to free a Palestinian family with four
children from a troubled immigration detention center in Taylor, Tex. Last year
he won the release from a jail in Arizona of Hector Lopez, 21, a college student
from Oregon who had been deported to Mexico. Mr. Lopez was detained after he
returned to the border and turned himself in to apply for political asylum. Mr.
Isenberg pressed officials relentlessly until they freed Mr. Lopez in time to
join his mother in Oregon for Christmas.

Mr. Isenberg's office is in one of several buildings he owns in Dallas, this one
a bank building in a stylish suburb with a view of downtown. Enthusiastically
patriotic, he has adorned his office shelves with models of the Lincoln Memorial
and a bust of President John F. Kennedy.

Yet he has antagonized people with his assertive methods, including some who
were on his side. Mr. Lopez's first immigration lawyer, Siovhan Sheridan-Ayala,
resigned after Mr. Isenberg became involved. Ms. Sheridan-Ayala said she could
not comment on that decision as a professional matter.

Another immigration lawyer who has worked with Mr. Isenberg praised his
determination. ''He takes on the most difficult of cases,'' said Josh Bardavid,
whose office is in New York, and ''he sometimes succeeds where standard methods
would not.''

But, Mr. Bardavid added, his ''unorthodox style can rankle the authorities, but
also occasionally his allies, especially where the publicity becomes
overwhelming.''

Lawyers make Mr. Isenberg impatient. ''I have a hard time finding lawyers who
want to take a risk,'' he said.

He hands out a lot of his own legal advice, although he is careful to clarify
that he is not a practicing lawyer. ''Just because I'm not an attorney,'' he
said, ''what's wrong with me knowing more about the law than a lawyer?''

Mr. Nabeel, in a recent interview via Skype, said he tried living with his
family in Bangladesh but drew suspicion because he did not speak Bangla. One day
he was clubbed by a policeman on the street in Dhaka, the capital, he said,
after he came to the defense of a child the policeman was beating. His family
decided he had to leave the country.

In November, Mr. Nabeel enrolled in the International Islamic University of
Malaysia. Even his engineering classes were framed in teachings from the Koran,
he said. In a course on Islamic theology, he said, a professor sought to justify
the Sept. 11 attacks. Mr. Nabeel said he did not return to that course.

After Mr. Nabeel announced to some classmates that he had Jewish friends in the
United States, they created a Facebook page to attack him that filled with
hundreds of insults before it was taken down, apparently by Facebook officials.

''I told Ralph, 'You need to get me out of here,' '' Mr. Nabeel said. ''I'm an
American in a school that's trained to hate Americans.''

He said Mr. Isenberg was his lifeline. ''Whenever I'm close to depression or
something,'' he said, ''Ralph definitely reassures me that he's not going to
give up on my case.''

In Dallas, Mr. Isenberg expounds on the multiple missteps he sees in the
government's handling of Mr. Nabeel's detention and removal. He is preparing
three or four legal plans for the young man's return. ''I've seen enough of
these cases now to know that everyone has got a solution to it,'' Mr. Isenberg
said. His fervor rose. ''I don't mean this in a threatening sense,'' he said,
''but once the pin is pulled out of my hand grenade legally, it's not going to
go back in.''

''I don't want to tear the system apart,'' he added. ''But that's one of the
beautiful things about being a United States citizen. If that's what it's going
to take to make these wrongs right, so be it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ralph Isenberg (A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Revolts Raise Europe's Fear On Migration

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO and SUZANNE DALEY; Rachel Donadio reported from
Lampedusa, and Suzanne Daley from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words


LAMPEDUSA, Italy -- Until a few weeks ago, the immigrant transfer center on this
tiny Mediterranean island -- a kind of Italian Ellis Island -- was empty. An
extensive European campaign against migration from Africa was considered so
effective that the authorities basically shut it down.

But since the Tunisian government collapsed in January, spurring unrest across
North Africa, Lampedusa has been bustling. The Italian police tow in boats full
of desperate immigrants -- about 6,000 refugees in the past two months. Young
men in hooded jackets smoke cigarettes and await transfer to the mainland -- a
prospect that is striking fear in many European hearts.

The turmoil in Libya and elsewhere in the region has toppled or undermined North
African dictators who negotiated a web of benefits from Europe, including aid
and diplomatic standing, in return for stopping immigrants seeking to cross the
Mediterranean.

Without the assistance of those leaders, many in Europe worry that they will
face new waves of illegal immigration not only from the liberated areas in the
north, but from much of sub-Saharan Africa as well.

The immigrants would arrive at a time when much of Europe -- struggling with
high unemployment and lethargic economies -- is already awash with
anti-immigrant sentiment, and many countries say they are simply incapable of
absorbing poor migrants.

''In Italy, there is really a panic,'' said Anna Triandafyllidou, a migration
expert with the Hellenic Foundation for European and Foreign Policy.
''Everything is up in the air, and no one knows what to do.''

Unable to build the kind of border fence that the United States has erected to
keep Mexicans at home, countries like Spain and Italy have spent years forging
close relationships with North African leaders, persuading them to prevent
migrants from trying to sail the rough seas of the Mediterranean. In return,
Morocco, Tunisia and particularly Libya sometimes used brutal tactics to keep
immigrants from ever getting near European shores, human rights activists say.

Italy's agreement with Libya, signed in 2008, was considered especially
effective. Italy pledged $5 billion over 20 years in exchange for Libya's
blocking would-be immigrants from leaving. Almost overnight immigrants stopped
arriving in Lampedusa.

According to the Italian Interior Ministry, in 2008, more than 36,000 immigrants
came ashore in Italy -- not only from North Africa, but from the Horn of Africa,
Niger and Nigeria. After the treaty, that number dropped to 9,500 in 2009 and
slowed to a relative trickle in Lampedusa.

Now, detained migrants once again outnumber the island's local population of
6,000, according to the ministry. At 3 a.m. on Wednesday, an Italian police boat
arrived with 55 tired and shivering immigrants who had been pulled from a
rickety boat. Many were wrapped in thermal blankets. One was taken away on a
stretcher.

At one point, there were so many immigrants here that the authorities allowed
them to wander the island freely rather than keep them locked up. Inside the
center on Wednesday, hundreds of young men, almost all from Tunisia, were eager
to tell visitors their message: ''We want work.''

''I got a high school degree, I worked fixing cars, but there's no work,'' said
Mander Grebis, 25, in halting French, as he stood in a group of young men
huddled in front of the center's one vending machine. He and the others said
they wanted to stay in Italy or to go to France to find jobs.

Italy's arrangement with Libya was hardly the only one. Spain, too, has over the
years enlisted the help of Morocco and other African countries in dealing with
immigrants. Experts say it has offered countries equipment for patrolling
shorelines and economic aid of all sorts -- so that immigrants have fewer
reasons to leave and African governments have more reason to help.

Spain offered Senegal money to help repatriate immigrants who were often
returned to the Dakar airport but did not have the money or the incentive to
return to their villages. At times, the European Union pays for such projects,
too.

But human rights advocates say some of these arrangements have abetted the harsh
treatment of immigrants, particularly in Libya. In a report published in 2009,
Human Rights Watch said that migrants who eventually made it to Malta and Italy
described being beaten and robbed of valuables and their documents while in
detention in Libya.

The report also said that electric shock batons were used to force migrants off
the boats in Libya. And some said they were handed back to traffickers who held
them for ransom.

''These agreements,'' said Bill Frelick, the author of the report, ''are with
partner states that often don't have the same standards as Europe. They often
treat migrants in humiliating and denigrating ways.''

In an interview, Senator Lamberto Dini, a former Italian prime minister who
helped negotiate Italy's treaty with Libya, said such reports had ''not been
proven.''

There have also been disturbing episodes in Morocco. In 2005, 11,000 sub-Saharan
Africans who had been stranded in Morocco after a renewal of the
Spanish-Moroccan partnership stormed the border fence around the Spanish enclave
of Melilla, on the African coast. Some made it across, but several were shot
dead. Some of the immigrants who were eventually turned over to the Moroccan
police were then dumped into the Sahara.

But the agreements have been effective. In the past year, control of the African
coastline was so tight that immigrants were turning to a wholly different route,
showing up on the land border between Greece and Turkey. In recent weeks,
Italian officials have warned of a ''biblical exodus'' in which as many as
300,000 could arrive, though many experts say that number is intended more as a
way to stir up passions domestically than as a reflection of any clear reality.

Experts say any number is conjecture given the fluidity of the situation in
North Africa and the difficulties involved in distinguishing the number of
workers trying to return home from the refugees trying to flee.

In Lampedusa, the immigrants stay for two days before being sent to mainland
Italy for more processing to determine if they are seeking political asylum or
are instead ''economic immigrants'' seeking work.

Over the years, aided by sometimes alarmist press coverage of immigrants
arriving on boats, Lampedusa has taken hold in the Italian and European popular
imagination as the image of out-of-control immigration. In a sign of how crucial
Lampedusa has become to that image, especially for some right-wing parties,
Marine Le Pen, president of France's far-right National Front, plans to visit
the island on Monday.

Tommaso Della Longa, a spokesman for the Italian Red Cross on Lampedusa, said
the organization was setting up a field hospital on the dock here to give
emergency aid to immigrants after long, rough crossings.

''It's better to be prepared,'' Mr. Della Longa said, ''if -- and I underline if
-- the thousands of immigrants that people are talking about arrive.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigrants and the 'Secure Communities' Program

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 428 words


To the Editor:

''No Exit From a Bad Program'' (editorial, Feb. 28) claims that the Secure
Communities program is problematic because it results in the arrest and
deportation of illegal immigrants with little or no criminal record. Such a view
is misguided and dangerous.

Secure Communities is the Department of Homeland Security's comprehensive
strategy to improve the identification and removal of criminal aliens from the
United States.

While not perfect, this sensible program allows for an automated
immigration-history check to be run at the same time as the routine
criminal-history check done on every person booked into a local jail. It flags
criminals who are foreign nationals and sends a notification to D.H.S., which
can choose to remove the offender.

Secure Communities simply makes sense. Who wouldn't want to remove an illegal
immigrant who has been arrested by the police for a criminal offense? To make
our streets safer, local law enforcement agencies should embrace the Secure
Communities program. Opposition to this program is dangerous and foolish.

Sue Myrick Member of Congress, 9th Dist., N.C. Washington, Feb. 28, 2011

To the Editor:

The Obama administration is putting out an inconsistent message regarding its
priorities for immigration reform.

Secure Communities, by resulting in the deportation of thousands of immigrants
without criminal records, shifts resources away from handling dangerous
criminals and actually makes communities less secure. It's decidedly at odds
with President Obama's declared intention to work hard for serious and
comprehensive immigration reform.

In response to the administration's mixed messages, and Congress's unwillingness
to act, state legislatures are proposing some of the most virulently
anti-immigrant bills in United States history. One such bill in Arizona would
require hospitals to check patients' immigration status. Another in Arizona
would create a different set of birth certificates for United States citizen
children of undocumented immigrants.

Georgia is considering a bill that would turn a United States citizen who gives
a ride to an undocumented immigrant into a criminal, while Kentucky has proposed
legislation that would make mere presence in Kentucky as an undocumented
immigrant a state crime.

Such bills will only proliferate as long as federal immigration policy remains
confused and unclear. Until then, immigrants and United States citizens alike
will continue to live in communities that are increasingly insecure.

Grace Meng Researcher, U.S. Program Human Rights Watch New York, Feb. 28, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Danbury 11

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 336 words


In September 2006, an undercover police officer in Danbury, Conn., who was
driving a van and posing as a contractor, picked up 11 Latino day laborers at a
park and delivered them straight to federal immigration agents. The men were
arrested and placed in deportation proceedings. In another city, this would have
struck officials as abusive policing and a gross violation of civil rights. Not
in Danbury. Its mayor said the city had only supplied ''logistical support'' to
the agents.

The city should have learned its lesson last week when it agreed to pay $400,000
to settle a civil-rights lawsuit brought by eight of the laborers. The federal
government is paying another $250,000 to settle claims against six of its
immigration agents. Plaintiffs' lawyers say it is the largest settlement ever
won by day laborers. Even now, Danbury's mayor, Mark Boughton, insists the city
did nothing wrong and that the settlement was agreed to only at the suggestion
of an insurance company. ''We are not changing any of our policies, practices or
customs,'' he told The Times.

Day laborers have waged struggles across the country for the right to assemble
peaceably and look for work. Cities and towns keep passing ordinances to keep
day laborers off the streets only to have them overturned by federal courts as
violations of Constitutional rights. In Oyster Bay, N.Y., town officials are
appealing a federal judge's decision to block, on First Amendment grounds, an
anti-solicitation law that critics say was specifically -- and
unconstitutionally -- aimed at stifling the rights of a single group: immigrant
Latino men.

Mr. Boughton was the co-founder with Steve Levy, a county executive on Long
Island, of Mayors and Executives for Immigration Reform, which sought to channel
suburban resentment through harsh -- but costly and ineffective -- crackdowns.
Both men should have learned that tough talk and unconstitutional laws don't do
the community any good. Sometimes they also cost the taxpayers a lot of
hard-earned money.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Returns 4-Year-Old Girl, a Citizen, to Guatemala

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 794 words


Leonel Ruiz, a landscaper in Brentwood, N.Y., was waiting at Kennedy
International Airport on the early morning of March 11 for his 4-year-old
daughter, Emily, to arrive home from a trip to Guatemala. The plane arrived
hours late, but Emily was not on it, and neither was her grandfather, who was
supposed to be escorting her back.

It took several hours for Mr. Ruiz to learn what had happened. Emily, a United
States citizen, and her grandfather, a Guatemalan traveling with a valid work
visa, had been detained by immigration authorities at Dulles International
Airport near Washington, where the plane had been diverted because of bad
weather. The officials had told Emily's grandfather that because of an
immigration infraction two decades ago, he would not be allowed to stay in the
country.

That has left Emily, a pigtailed native of Long Island, in an unusual limbo. As
a citizen, she has the right to re-enter her country. But her parents are
illegal immigrants, which has complicated the prospect of a reunion.

Today, Emily is in Guatemala, her parents are struggling to bring her home, and
lawyers and federal officials are arguing over parental responsibility and
citizenship rights. The Ruizes find themselves on the front lines of a heated
immigration debate: how to treat families in which the parents are here
illegally, while their children, born in the United States, are citizens.

The case comes as elected officials across the country have pushed for bills to
end automatic citizenship for children, born here, who are sometimes referred to
pejoratively as anchor babies. Immigrant advocates say the proposals are
antithetical to American ideals.

There are two conflicting versions of the Ruiz story. Officials at Customs and
Border Protection say they offered Mr. Ruiz the chance to pick up Emily at the
airport, but he ''elected to have her return to Guatemala with her
grandfather.'' The customs agency ''strives to reunite U.S. citizen children
with their parents,'' Lloyd M. Easterling, a spokesman, said Tuesday.

But such a meeting could have put Mr. Ruiz at risk of detention, and he said he
was never offered that option. In an interview conducted in Spanish, Mr. Ruiz,
who speaks little English, said that an agent spoke to him over the telephone in
English and laid out two choices: Emily could enter the custody of the State of
Virginia, or she could return to Guatemala with her grandfather.

Terrified that she would be given up for adoption if she entered state custody,
Mr. Ruiz said, he agreed to put her on a plane back to Guatemala. ''We were very
worried, and my wife was crying and crying at what was happening,'' Mr. Ruiz
said.

He said he would have gone to pick up Emily, and was in fact preparing to do so,
but was not given the chance. ''If we had to go there, we would have gone
there,'' he said.

The family's lawyer, David M. Sperling, is planning to travel to Guatemala next
week to escort Emily back to Long Island.

''She was treated like a second-class citizen or worse,'' Mr. Sperling said.
''She's a U.S. citizen, and she's entitled to the same rights as any other U.S.
citizen.''

Immigrant advocates have seized on the Ruiz case as a sign of what may come if
new legislation curtails the citizenship rights of illegal immigrants' children.

''The case is alarming because it shows what can happen once you start treating
kids who are born here whose parents are undocumented with less rights than a
full-blown citizen,'' said Jeanne A. Butterfield, a former executive director of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association who has been acting as an informal
adviser to Mr. Ruiz's lawyers.

Last week, Arizona, which has become a national flash point in the immigration
debate, rejected a measure aimed at pushing the Supreme Court to rule against
automatic citizenship for American-born children of illegal immigrants. But
elected officials in other states, like Kansas and California, have also
signaled a desire to change the law to make it harder for such children to stay
in the country.

The Ruizes embody the difficulties of a family divided by citizenship. Mr. Ruiz,
32, was born and raised in a small village outside Guatemala City. He came to
the United States illegally in 1996 because, he said, ''we were in a very poor
situation in my country.''

He settled on Long Island, finding work tending lawns. He eventually married
another Guatemalan, Brenda Dubon, and they had two children: Emily and
Christopher, 3.

Mr. Ruiz said he and his wife sent Emily to Guatemala for the winter because
they worried that the cold weather in New York would aggravate her asthma. They
are distraught, he said, that the family has been kept apart.

''This is very unfair because she is a citizen,'' he said, ''and she is a very
little girl.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leonel Ruiz said authorities gave him two options: his daughter
could enter state custody, or she could return to Guatemala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Emily Ruiz, 4. Her parents are illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Undercover Customs Agent Fires Shots at Vehicle on Manhattan's West Side

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 530 words


A federal undercover drug investigation erupted in gunshots on Friday evening,
when a plainclothes agent opened fire on a suspect who steered an SUV at him on
Manhattan's West Side, the authorities said.

Officials said that one suspect was captured and that another had escaped after
the violence, which began at 34th Street and 10th Avenue.

James T. Hayes Jr., the special agent in charge of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement 's Homeland Security Investigations office in New York City, said in
a statement that there were no serious injuries. He said the investigation was
continuing.

The agency was pursuing what one law enforcement official described as a
narcotics investigation in the neighborhood, near a McDonald's restaurant. While
the agency focuses on immigration-related issues and human smuggling, it is also
charged with investigating ''any illegal movement of goods or people into or out
of the country,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because the investigation was continuing.

A large portion of the New York City caseload is ''customs related,'' including
drug and contraband cases, with an ''international nexus,'' the official said.

About 7:30 p.m. Friday, one of the subjects of the inquiry drove his vehicle
toward one of the agents, Mr. Hayes said. The agent was on foot and fired three
shots ''in self-defense'' at the approaching vehicle, which then drove away, he
said.

Agents pursued the SUV, and one of the suspects was then taken into custody.

The vehicle, a Chevrolet Tahoe, was later discovered abandoned in front of Il
Punto Ristorante, on the north side of 38th Street, west of Ninth Avenue, a busy
stretch lined with restaurants. Workers at several businesses saw officers
converging on the dark gray SUV.

Antonino LaRosa, a bartender at Il Punto, said the vehicle was pocked with
bullet holes. The driver's side window had two holes, and the front passenger
window was almost completely blown out.

On Saturday, an attendant at a parking lot next to the restaurant said a law
enforcement officer had come by asking if any security cameras might have
captured what happened. Later, a worker there pointed to one affixed atop a
building on Ninth Avenue, just south of 38th Street.

Asked on Saturday for an update on the matter, a spokeswoman for the agency,
Lorie Dankers, wrote in an e-mail that she was ''limited as to what I can say,
beyond the statement'' from Mr. Hayes.

In 1997, a shooting also involving undercover federal law enforcement officers
occurred the same intersection of at 34th Street and 10th Avenue.

In that case, a customs agent was wounded in the McDonald's parking lot, and the
man who had shot him was shot to death.

The parking lot was the site of an arranged meeting between two undercover
agents who were posing as money launderers and a reputed member of a drug gang
who wanted to export hundreds of thousands of dollars in drug profits to
Colombia, law enforcement officials said at the time.

''It was reminiscent of that one,'' another law enforcement official said.
''That one was pretty much the same thing. It was at the drive-through, and the
guy turned around on an officer and they shot at him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2011 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

States' Bills on Immigration

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 235 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Arizona Flinches'' (editorial, March 22):

The Arizona Legislature's rejection of the latest round of discriminatory
anti-immigration bills signals an encouraging trend. Other states have declined
to enact copycat laws modeled after Arizona's notorious SB 1070, which requires
police officers to demand papers from a person who they have ''reasonable
suspicion'' to believe is in the United States unlawfully. Such tactics are
associated with totalitarian regimes, not robust democracies.

Unfortunately, such extreme racial profiling bills are still being considered in
a few remaining states, including Oklahoma, Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina
and Georgia. Utah's governor recently signed a similar bill into law.

These bills trample on fundamental American principles of fairness and equality.
They invite discrimination against anyone a police officer might perceive to be
''foreign,'' creating a hostile environment for citizens and noncitizens alike.

States considering these bills should heed the federal court decision that
blocked the most egregious parts of Arizona's profiling law. Such discriminatory
legislation takes us backward, eroding our civil rights struggles to secure the
Constitution's promise of equal rights under the law.

Cecillia D. Wang San Francisco, March 24, 2011

The writer is the managing attorney of the American Civil Liberties Union's
Immigrants' Rights Project.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

4-Year-Old Girl Is Returned From Guatemala to Parents

BYLINE: By TIM STELLOH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 502 words


Updated 4:20 p.m. It has been a confusing three weeks for Emily Ruiz, the
4-year-old United States citizen and Long Island native who was deported earlier
this month to her parents' native country, Guatemala.

But on Wednesday morning she was reunited with her mother, father and little
brother at Kennedy International Airport, after the family's lawyer, David M.
Sperling, flew to Guatemala to retrieve her.

''Emily is back with us now,'' her father, Leonel Ruiz, said in a statement.
''We have no words to express the joy it brings us to see, hold and kiss our
daughter again.''

Emily's troubles began on March 11, when she was detained at Dulles
International Airport outside Washington, D.C., while returning to the United
States with her grandfather after a five-month stay in Guatemala.

Because of an immigration infraction two decades ago, her grandfather was told
he could not stay in the country. But Emily's parents are illegal immigrants, a
fact that left her in limbo and complicated her return to the United States.

The case has been a touchstone for advocates of changed immigration laws; they
say it speaks to broader problems facing children of illegal immigrants.

Mr. Sperling, who held a news conference at the International JFK Airport Hotel
on Wednesday after the reunion, said the government's treatment of Emily was
''disgraceful.''

''It's incomprehensible that this happened to a U.S. citizen,'' he said, adding
that Emily slept under a bench - and was left cold and hungry for many hours
-while in the custody of Customs and Border Protection at Dulles.

Jeanne A. Butterfield, a former executive director of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association who also spoke at the news conference, said there were 5.5
million children who have at least one undocumented parent. ''I've never seen a
little kid wrongfully deported,'' she said.

Customs and Border Protection issued a statement on Tuesday saying the Ruizes
were told they could pick up the child, ''but elected to have her return to
Guatemala with her grandfather.''

An agency spokeswoman declined to comment on Emily's treatment at Dulles.

Mr. Ruiz, who speaks little English, has said that he was never given the option
to retrieve his daughter. An agent, in English, told him Emily would either
enter the custody of the State of Virginia or return to Guatemala, he said.

Though Emily is in good spirits, the events of the last month have left her
bewildered, said Hulda Mazariegos, a former client of Mr. Sperling's who
traveled with him to Guatemala.

On the plane ride back, she said, Emily was confused about which home she was
flying to.

''She would say, 'I want to go to Guatemala,' '' Ms. Mazariegos recalled. ''Then
she would say, 'No, wait, I want to go see my mom.'''

The family, however, did not attend the news conference and did not wish to
speak with the news media, Mr. Sperling said. ''We've tried to keep Emily out of
the public spotlight,'' he said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cellphone photo of Emily Ruiz, 4, who returned to the United
States on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words


International

FLEEING NORTH AFRICA

FOR UNCERTAINTY IN ITALY

A hastily built refugee camp in Manduria, Italy, was meant to help hold
immigrants fleeing a tiny Italian island jammed with thousands of immigrants
from North Africa. The camp is an example of the logistical challenges that
Italy -- and Europe -- face as they prepare for thousands of immigrants fleeing
the unrest in Africa. PAGE A4

National

LAYOFFS RAISE CONCERNS OF TURMOIL IN SCHOOLS

School authorities across the nation are warning thousands of teachers that they
could lose their jobs in June, raising the possibility that America's public
schools may see the most extensive layoffs of their teaching staffs in decades.
PAGE A12

SELLING FISCAL COMPROMISE

As budget negotiations resumed on Capitol Hill and seemed to make some headway,
House Republican leaders began the delicate task of assessing what level of
compromise they can sell to a conservative rank-and-file spoiling for a fiscal
fight. PAGE A18

STUDY ON SCHOOL NETWORK

The KIPP network, one of the fastest-growing and most academically successful
charter school groups, has received more taxpayer dollars per student than
regular public schools, according to a new study, which also noted that Kipp
received substantial private philanthropic money. KIPP officials disputed the
report, saying it significantly overstates the amount per student. PAGE A15

New York

STRUGGLING TO DEFINE

A 9/11 DEATH 10 YEARS LATER

An effort to investigate the death of George Wong, a retired police officer,
once again raises the question that continues to bedevil doctors, researchers,
police officers and firefighters: what qualifies as a death resulting from the
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001? PAGE A21

Business

MEETING TO HAMMER OUT

NEW RULES ON MORTGAGES

The nation's top mortgage servicers met in Washington with the attorneys general
from five states as well as Obama administration officials, beginning
negotiations in earnest over new rules for homeowners who are in default. The
one thing everyone seemed to agree on was that an agreement was going to take
time. PAGE B5

MICROSOFT FOUNDER'S MEMOIR

In a forthcoming memoir, Paul G. Allen, the Microsoft co-founder, says he still
resents his former partner, Bill Gates, for not sharing enough credit or giving
him his due financially. PAGE B1

MEDICARE TO PAY FOR DRUG

Medicare announced that it would pay for Dendreon's prostate cancer drug
Provenge, whose $93,000 price tag had ignited debate about the cost and
effectiveness of cancer drugs. PAGE B2

CAR SHORTAGES EXPECTED

Car dealers and analysts say that production disruptions in Japan could mean
that some brands could begin having difficulty meeting demand in the months
ahead. PAGE B3

Sports

EX-PLAYERS TELL OF PAYMENTS

AT AUBURN AND ELSEWHERE

Four former Auburn football players say in an ''HBO Real Sports'' report that
they were paid thousands of dollars during their college careers, including one
who said he received money from an assistant coach. PAGE B13

V.C.U.'S TINY FLOOR GENERAL

Eleventh-seeded Virginia Commonwealth University can become the lowest seed to
make the N.C.A.A. final by defeating No. 8 Butler on Saturday. College
basketball experts may be surprised at the Rams' success, but those who know
Joey Rodriguez, the diminutive spark plug of V.C.U.'s unlikely Final Four run,
say they are not. PAGE B12

Arts

DANCING PAST CENSORS

TO PERFORM CHINESE EROTICA

The Beijing Dance Theater's adaptation of ''Jin Ping Mei,'' or ''The Golden
Lotus, '' had its premiere last weekend. The production was rehearsed under a
veil of caution for the Ming dynasty novel, which has been banned in China
because of its explicit sex by successive governments, starting with the Kangxi
Emperor in 1687. PAGE C3

Home

KEEPING TRACK OF YOUR STUFF

WITH AN ELECTRONIC MANAGER

People with an inclination toward neatness might do well to consider investing
in a good home inventory manager. Creating and maintaining an inventory might
take a few weekends, but the software for phones and computers will help keep
track of what's actually in the house. Home Tech. PAGE D1

Thursday Styles

AN 'OUTSIDER' BLOSSOM

UPENDS THE FLOWERPOT

The sculptor Emily Thompson has become New York's surprise floral designer du
jour, and has been compared to Constance Spry, the great British floral
innovator of the years before and after World War II. PAGE E1

Op-ed

GAIL COLLINS PAGE A25

NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A25

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 1, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 246 words


ELLIS ISLAND IMMIGRATION MUSEUM (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) With
Tartan Week celebrations about to begin, the time to bring out your inner
Scotsman or Scotswoman is now. The history of tartan -- a colorful
identification with a region or clan -- will be told in the exhibition ''A
Celebration of Tartan,'' at the museum through Sunday.

The display features 15 garments, including those with the Ellis Tartan
especially commissioned for the show, as well as interpretative panels of prints
and other material (above, a watercolor by Kenneth MacLeay from ''The Highland
Clans for the Royal Family,'' published in 1870). Sponsored by the Clan Currie
Society, the weekend will also feature performances by Highland dancers, pipers,
drummers and others each day from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Beginning on Thursday, the
museum will also present ''Forgotten Gateway: Coming to America Through
Galveston Island,'' an exhibition on the immigration history of Galveston, Tex.,
a point of entry into the United States for many immigrants from the mid-1800s
to early 1900s. The display, running Sept. 5, is also inspiring discussions,
tours and lectures. Both exhibitions can be viewed daily from 9:30 a.m. to 5:15
p.m. Museum admission is free; ferry tickets to Ellis Island are $13; $10 for
62+; and $5 for those 4 to 12; ferry information: statuecruises.com. ''A
Celebration of Tartan'' information: tartandayonellisisland.com. The wearing of
tartan will be most welcome. (Anne Mancuso)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTTISH TARTANS SOCIETY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mother Nature's Melting Pot

BYLINE: By HUGH RAFFLES.

Hugh Raffles, an anthropologist at the New School, is the author of
''Insectopedia.''

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 854 words


THE anti-immigrant sentiment sweeping the country, from draconian laws in
Arizona to armed militias along the Mexican border, has taken many Americans by
surprise. It shouldn't -- nativism runs deep in the United States. Just ask our
non-native animals and plants: they too are commonly labeled as aliens, even
though they also provide significant benefits to their new home.

While the vanguard of the anti-immigrant crusade is found among the likes of the
Minutemen and the Tea Party, the native species movement is led by
environmentalists, conservationists and gardeners. Despite cultural and
political differences, both are motivated -- in Margaret Thatcher's infamous
phrase -- by the fear of being swamped by aliens.

But just as America is a nation built by waves of immigrants, our natural
landscape is a shifting mosaic of plant and animal life. Like humans, plants and
animals travel, often in ways beyond our knowledge and control. They arrive
unannounced, encounter unfamiliar conditions and proceed to remake each other
and their surroundings.

Designating some as native and others as alien denies this ecological and
genetic dynamism. It draws an arbitrary historical line based as much on
aesthetics, morality and politics as on science, a line that creates a mythic
time of purity before places were polluted by interlopers.

What's more, many of the species we now think of as natives may not be
especially well suited to being here. They might be, in an ecological sense,
temporary residents, no matter how permanent they seem to us.

These ''native'' species can have serious effects on their environment. Take the
mountain pine beetle: thanks to climate change, its population is exploding in
the West, devastating hundreds of thousands of square miles of forest.

It's true that some non-native species have brought with them expensive and
well-publicized problems; zebra mussels, nutria and kudzu are prime examples.
But even these notorious villains have ecological or economic benefits. Zebra
mussels, for example, significantly improve water quality, which increases
populations of small fish, invertebrates and seaweeds -- and that, in turn, has
helped expand the number of larger fish and birds.

Indeed, non-native plants and animals have transformed the American landscape in
unmistakably positive ways. Honeybees were introduced from Europe in the 1600s,
and new stocks from elsewhere in the world have landed at least eight times
since. They succeeded in making themselves indispensable, economically and
symbolically. In the process, they made us grateful that they arrived, stayed
and found their place.

But the honeybee is a lucky exception. Today, a species's immigration status
often makes it a target for eradication, no matter its effect on the
environment. Eucalyptus trees, charged with everything from suffocating birds
with their resin to elevating fire risk with their peeling bark, are the targets
of large-scale felling.

Yet eucalyptuses are not only majestic trees popular with picnickers, they are
one of the few sources of nectar available to northern Californian bees in
winter and a vital destination for migrating monarch butterflies.

Or take ice plant, a much-vilified Old World succulent that spreads its thick,
candy-colored carpet along the California coast. Concerned that it is crowding
out native wildflowers, legions of environmental volunteers rip it from the
sandy soil and pile it in slowly moldering heaps along the cliffs.

Yet ice plant, introduced to the West Coast at the beginning of the 20th century
to stabilize railroad tracks, is an attractive plant that can also deter erosion
of the sandstone bluffs on which it grows.

There are plenty of less controversial examples. Non-native shad, crayfish and
mud snails provide food for salmon and other fish. Non-native oysters on the
Pacific Coast build reefs that create habitat for crab, mussels and small fish,
appearing to increase these animals' populations.

And in any case, efforts to restore ecosystems to an imagined pristine state
almost always fail: once a species begins to thrive in a new environment,
there's little we can do to stop it. Indeed, these efforts are often expensive
and can increase rather than relieve environmental harm.

An alternative is to embrace the impurity of our cosmopolitan natural world and,
as some biologists are now arguing, to consider the many ways that non-native
plants and animals -- not just the natives -- benefit their environments and our
lives.

Last month, along with 161 other immigrants from more than 50 countries, I
attended an oath-swearing ceremony in Lower Manhattan and became a citizen of
the United States. In a brief speech welcoming us into a world of new rights and
responsibilities, the presiding judge emphasized our diversity. It is, he said,
the ever-shifting diversity that immigrants like us bring to this country that
keeps it dynamic and strong.

These familiar words apply just as meaningfully to our nation's non-native
plants and animals. Like the humans with whose lives they are so entangled, they
too are in need of a thoughtful and inclusive response.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOUTHER SALAZAR)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unfair to Immigrants, Costly for Taxpayers

BYLINE: By SCOTT M. STRINGER and ANDREW FRIEDMAN.

Scott M. Stringer is the Manhattan borough president. Andrew Friedman is the
co-executive director of Make the Road New York, an immigrant advocacy
organization.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 578 words


EVERY year thousands of immigrants being held on Rikers Island are transferred
to federal custody and deported. Only about half of them have a criminal record,
many of them are here legally, most of them have their due process rights
violated and all of them are subjected to substandard conditions before being
returned to their countries of origin.

The city has no obligation to hand over detainees, and in fact many cities
around the country have refused to participate in the federal government's
efforts. Mayor Michael Bloomberg should do the same.

Under what is known as the Criminal Alien Program, for more than a decade city
law enforcement officials have given the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency the names of all arrestees, regardless of the crime they are accused of
committing and regardless of whether they are convicted. When agents locate an
immigrant, they often request that he be transferred to federal custody.

Once in federal hands, most detainees are transported to centers in Texas and
Louisiana, far from their families. Conditions at these federal detention
centers are worse than those at many prisons, with inadequate medical care and
access to phones and legal materials. Detainees are subjected to abuse and
sometimes even death -- 107 people died in immigration detention from 2003 to
2010.

True, earlier this year the federal government proposed upgrading these centers,
including those in the New York region, to increase capacity and improve
conditions. But this is a Band-Aid solution to a much larger problem: over 80
percent of those in detention have little or no access to lawyers -- and no
effective way to represent their interests in a surreal, confusing system.

Not only is the program an injustice -- according to our calculations, it has
cost the city tens of millions of dollars. New York houses these prisoners at
Rikers far longer than it would otherwise, because of a misguided city policy
which forbids anyone with immigration holds -- meaning they might be placed in
deportation proceedings -- from being released on bail.

What's more, because of its flaws and draconian rules, the city's policy deters
many immigrant New Yorkers from reporting crimes, fearing that contact with the
police could lead to deportation.

Perhaps what is most disturbing is that sometimes legal immigrants who have been
convicted of no crime are caught up in this system. Their plight stems partly
from flaws in federal databases; the process is too rushed to ensure proper
identification of status and identity, let alone confirmation of criminal
background.

But it's also a matter of political pressure to increase the number of people
who are deported every year. E-mails released in December from the Department of
Homeland Security showed how the immigration agency has been pushing states and
cities to send it the fingerprints of all those they arrest as part of a similar
program, Secure Communities.

For all these reasons, Mayor Bloomberg should end New York's collaboration with
federal officials on Rikers Island and resist Washington's pressure to join the
newer Secure Communities program. New York wouldn't be the first: communities as
diverse as Santa Clara, Calif., and Arlington, Va., have limited or prevented
federal access to their jails.

For decades, New York City has been a beacon to the rest of the country in
promoting immigrant rights. We must not let our desire to enforce immigration
laws lead us to dim that light.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

American Citizenship

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 163 words


To the Editor:

''Arriving as Pregnant Tourists, Leaving With American Babies'' (front page,
March 29) unfortunately feeds rhetoric from would-be revisionists of the 14th
Amendment who argue that children of illegal immigrants born in the United
States should not be granted citizenship.

First, the article is about legal visitors and not undocumented immigrants.
Second, wherever these unlicensed maternity centers operate, local authorities
have the power to shut them down. Finally, the citizenship implications of this
issue are exceedingly small. It's unfortunate that some politicians are
exploiting a few isolated instances to argue for unwarranted constitutional
changes.

Americans are frustrated with our immigration system and want real, workable
solutions that uphold our nation's values. Policies that instead create
second-class citizenship are simply un-American.

KAREN K. NARASAKI President and Executive Director Asian American Justice Center
Washington, April 4, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Immigrants Navigate Government

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 889 words


At a Haitian church in Canarsie, Brooklyn, officials from the mayor's office
spent a recent Saturday morning discussing food stamps and discrimination in the
workplace, their words translated into Creole for an audience of some 50 people.

The next night, another delegation spoke to a group of Bangladeshi immigrants in
the Bronx about police precincts and community boards. In recent weeks,
officials have held similar meetings with Albanians, Mexicans and West Africans.

The forums are part of a new program, run by the mayor's office, that is
intended to improve the relationship between city government and immigrants who
are often wary of local authorities or unaware of city services available to
them.

One N.Y.C., One Nation, as the program is called, is in some ways an
acknowledgment that despite Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's vocal support for the
city's immigrants, too many of them remain cut off from the mainstream. The
first forums have found many immigrants distrustful of the local police,
unengaged with their elected officials and unable to find reliable legal help
for their immigration problems.

''How do we fundamentally engage our immigrant communities to help them
understand that their voice matters?'' asked Fatima A. Shama, commissioner of
the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs, which is coordinating the program.

The initiative, which began in February, also represents a shift of emphasis for
the Bloomberg administration, which has spent significant energy rallying mayors
and business leaders to lobby for a broad overhaul of federal immigration policy
-- only to see its campaign stall in Congress.

Instead of looking toward Washington, the new program focuses on government at
its most humble: police precinct councils, community board meetings, zoning
laws. While local officials and agencies directly affect immigrants' quality of
life and sense of empowerment and security, Ms. Shama said immigrants rarely
connect with them.

At the meeting with Haitian immigrants at Beracan Baptist Church on Flatlands
Avenue, the program's director, Camelia Ghiuzeli Mitchell, asked whether anyone
had ever heard of police precinct councils -- neighborhood groups that meet with
the local police to discuss safety issues. Not a hand went up.

''Our immigrant communities,'' Ms. Shama said, ''know how to navigate a lot of
the city that they participate in -- they know how to put a parade together. But
do they know what a community board is? Are they engaged with the park
cleanup?''

''The success of the city will always be dependent on people being a part of
their communities,'' she added. ''Now more than ever we have to make sure that
immigrants trust us.''

The program was created in part as a response to some of the inflammatory
remarks in last summer's debate over a proposed Islamic center and mosque near
ground zero, as well as several high-profile attacks against Muslims, gays and
other minorities. ''We had some intolerance happening in the city, which forces
us to be smarter to ensure that our immigrant communities feel more
comfortable,'' Ms. Shama said.

One Nation, a national foundation that promotes civic engagement with an
emphasis on reaching Muslims, is financing the project with a two-year, $500,000
grant to be supplemented by at least $500,000 raised by the New York Community
Trust.

Ms. Shama said the New York initiative, which seeks to engage myriad immigrant
groups on a wide range of projects, is the first of its scale in the country.

Posters and speakers will urge immigrants to become more involved with their
children's schools, to participate in English study programs and to open bank
accounts. College readiness seminars and financial literacy sessions will be
offered.

But the program also seeks to identify a new wave of leaders in immigrant
communities who have ideas for reshaping their neighborhoods to better suit the
changing populations. The mayor's office is teaming up with the Coro New York
Leadership Center to offer small grants to 20 immigrants, who will receive
leadership training and help in creating community development projects. The
hope is to cultivate a group of potential leaders to represent communities whose
voices are seldom heard, Ms. Shama said.

Advocates for immigrants said they were pleased to see the city focusing on
civic engagement, as long as the authorities continued offering basic services
to the needy.

''If you're shuttling your family to soup kitchens, it's hard to play a
meaningful role on the community board,'' said Andrew Friedman, co-executive
director of Make the Road NYC. ''But there is a real desire in immigrant
communities throughout the city to figure out how to engage.''

The meeting with the Haitians showed both the project's potential and its
challenges. The group sat patiently through more than an hour of presentations
about city services and privacy policies, but at the end, few questions touched
on any of the programs mentioned. Instead, nearly all asked about their
immigration status, a matter largely beyond the program's purview.

Still, many in the audience said the session proved valuable. ''As an immigrant,
we don't know our rights, how to get help, who to talk to,'' said Verlande
Antoine, a Haitian nursing assistant who has lived in New York for nearly a
decade. ''You never know when you're going to need help.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sgt. Rafet Awad of the New York Police Department spoke to
Bangladeshis in the Bronx on April 3 about police precinct councils and hate
crimes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Sheriff Spending Criticized

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 159 words


The Maricopa County Sheriff's Office, known for efforts against illegal
immigrants, inappropriately spent $99 million from two jail funds over the past
eight years to pay for other law enforcement operations, including immigration
patrols, county budget officials said. The figure released Wednesday is an
update to an estimate made in September by budget officials who said the
sheriff's office was believed to have used up to $80 million over four or five
years from a jail tax on other purposes. Since then, officials said they
discovered that the sheriff, Joe Arpaio, had inappropriately spent money from a
second jail account. The findings were sent to federal prosecutors, who are
investigating Sheriff Arpaio on abuse of power allegations. He was not at a
county meeting on Wednesday where the budget was discussed because he was at an
immigration raid. But interim Chief Deputy Sheriff Jerry Sheridan blamed an
outdated payroll system for the mistake.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Civic Engagement by Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 232 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Helping Immigrants Navigate Government'' (news article, April 11):

With immigrants and their children making up almost two-thirds of New York
City's population, we welcome Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's commitment to
facilitating their civic engagement.

What the article doesn't mention is the significant number of immigrant
organizations, leaders and community members that have long worked daily to
improve the quality of life for everyone here. As leaders of organizations
ourselves, and as board members of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
umbrella organization for nearly 200 groups that work with immigrants across the
state, we see firsthand the phenomenal work of immigrant communities as actively
engaged citizens.

They have organized parents in the public schools and worked with hospitals to
better address community health needs; secured policies that make city agencies
accessible to a multilingual constituency; helped revitalize parks and improve
public spaces; and become a growing force at the ballot box, making up 40
percent of all first-time voters (and making inroads into elected office).

Do we still have a lot of work to do? Of course. But a strong foundation for
immigrant civic engagement has already been laid. GRACE HEYMANN GUILLERMO CHACON
New York, April 13, 2011

The writers are chairwoman and vice chairman of the New York Immigration
Coalition.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

The Anti-Immigration Crusader

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3001 words



WASHINGTON -- Three decades ago, a middle-aged doctor sat outside his northern
Michigan home and saw a patch of endangered paradise.

A beekeeper and amateur naturalist of prodigious energy, John Tanton had spent
two decades planting trees, cleaning creeks and suing developers, but population
growth put ever more pressure on the land. Though fertility rates had fallen, he
saw a new threat emerging: soaring rates of immigration.

Time and again, Dr. Tanton urged liberal colleagues in groups like Planned
Parenthood and the Sierra Club to seek immigration restraints, only to meet
blank looks and awkward silences.

''I finally concluded that if anything was going to happen, I would have to do
it myself,'' he said.

Improbably, he did. From the resort town of Petoskey, Mich., Dr. Tanton helped
start all three major national groups fighting to reduce immigration, legal and
illegal, and molded one of the most powerful grass-roots forces in politics. The
immigration-control movement surged to new influence in last fall's elections
and now holds near veto power over efforts to legalize any of the 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States.

One group that Dr. Tanton nurtured, Numbers USA, doomed President George W.
Bush's legalization plan four years ago by overwhelming Congress with protest
calls. Another, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, helped
draft the Arizona law last year to give the police new power to identify and
detain illegal immigrants.

A third organization, the Center for Immigration Studies, joined the others in
December in defeating the Dream Act, which sought to legalize some people
brought to the United States illegally as children.

Rarely has one person done so much to structure a major cause, or done it so far
from the public eye. Dr. Tanton has raised millions of dollars, groomed proteges
and bequeathed institutions, all while running an ophthalmology practice nearly
800 miles from Capitol Hill.

''He is the most influential unknown man in America,'' said Linda Chavez, a
former aide to President Ronald Reagan who once led a Tanton group that promoted
English-only laws.

While Dr. Tanton's influence has been extraordinary, so has his evolution --
from apostle of centrist restraint to ally of angry populists and a man who
increasingly saw immigration through a racial lens.

Mindful that the early-20th-century fight to reduce immigration had been marred
by bigotry, Dr. Tanton initially emphasized FAIR's identity as a ''centrist
group'' and made arguments aimed at liberals and minorities. He allowed few
local FAIR chapters, warning that a stray demagogue might ''go off half-cocked
and spoil the whole effort.''

When a member of FAIR wrote that Hispanic immigrants should be shot -- because
they ''multiply like a bunch of rats'' -- a staff member offered to refund his
dues. Early supporters included Senator Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota and Warren
E. Buffett.

Now FAIR's signature event is an annual gathering of talk radio hosts, where
earnest policy pitches share time with the kind of battle cries Dr. Tanton once
feared. This year's event mixed discussion of job losses among minorities with
calls to use Tomahawk missiles on Tijuana drug lords, while a doubter of
President Obama's birth certificate referred to ''the undocumented worker'' in
the White House. Leading allies include Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County,
whose sweeps of Latino neighborhoods around Phoenix have prompted a federal
investigation.

While the whole movement grew more vehement as illegal immigration increased,
Dr. Tanton seemed especially open to provocative allies and ideas. He set off a
storm of protests two decades ago with a memorandum filled with dark warnings
about the ''Latin onslaught.'' Word soon followed that FAIR was taking money
from the Pioneer Fund, a foundation that promoted theories of the genetic
superiority of whites.

Dr. Tanton, who remains on the FAIR board, denied charges of racial bias and
donated his papers to the University of Michigan to show that he and colleagues
''are not the unsavory types sometimes alleged.'' They include hundreds of
private letters, some outlining his interest in genetic differences between the
races and concerns about the country's changing ethnic mix.

Reeling from their recent defeats, supporters of immigrant rights are mining
those files as part of a fierce -- critics say unfair -- campaign to label him a
racist and discredit his broader cause. Some have gone as far as calling FAIR a
''hate group.''

But accusations of bigotry could alienate moderates the immigrant rights groups
need. Allies of Dr. Tanton say their accusers are discrediting themselves with a
guilt-by-association campaign that twists his ideas and projects them onto
groups where, they say, his influence long ago waned. Still, few of those allies
are willing to defend all the views he expresses in his files.

Dr. Tanton, 77, declined interview requests, citing problems from Parkinson's
disease. That leaves his files to speak for themselves. Is he an embodiment of
his powerful movement or an embarrassment to it?

A Pledge of Centrism

Petoskey, population 6,000, hugs Lake Michigan in a forested area known for
sailboats and summer homes. Dr. Tanton has spent most of his adult life there,
chopping wood, keeping bees and growing kale. Even as late as 2000, the
surrounding county was 94 percent white.

Regretting what he saw as the limits of his rural education, Dr. Tanton
compensated with autodidactic zest. He started a Great Books Club, read up on
macroeconomics and polished his foreign language skills by subscribing to a
German newspaper. The results included a wide-ranging mind and at times a tone
deafness. He is a former farm boy who calls colleagues ''chaps.''

Dr. Tanton founded local chapters of Planned Parenthood and the Sierra Club and
became the national president of Zero Population Growth. Unable to interest
colleagues in fighting immigration, he formed FAIR in 1979, pledging in his
proposal to make it ''centrist/liberal in political orientation.'' The first
director, Roger Conner, had made his mark as a liberal environmental advocate.

Otis L. Graham Jr., a founding board member, wrote, ''A leading concern for me
is to bring into FAIR strong representation from people in groups of liberal,
progressive disposition.''

Then, as today, there were serious liberal arguments for lower immigration. FAIR
hoped to enlist unions concerned about wage erosion, environmentalists concerned
about pollution and sprawl, and blacks concerned about competition for housing,
jobs and schools.

A few prominent Democrats lent support, including Senator McCarthy. But most
liberal groups saw immigrants, even illegal ones, as minorities to be protected,
rather than economic rivals. Unions saw potential members; Democrats saw voters.

''We didn't convince anybody,'' Mr. Graham said in an interview.

Worried that it was losing the war of ideas, FAIR in 1985 spun off a
free-standing research group, the Center for Immigration Studies, intended ''to
make the restriction of immigration a legitimate position for thinking people,''
as Dr. Tanton put it.

The next year FAIR faced a defining fight over the first major immigration bill
in more than 20 years. It created penalties for employers who hired illegal
workers but legalized several million people already here. With FAIR sharply
split, Dr. Tanton pushed it to support the compromise, but the penalties proved
ineffective and the amnesty was marred by fraud.

No one at FAIR would think of compromising on legalization again.

Challenging Taboos

FAIR was founded on complaints about the immigrants' numbers, not their culture.
But Dr. Tanton feared that they were failing to assimilate. He formed a new
group, U.S. English, to oppose bilingual education and demand that government
agencies use English alone. By 1988, Dr. Tanton had a high-profile director in
Ms. Chavez and ballot measures pending in three states.

Then The Arizona Republic revealed the contents of a memorandum he had sent to
friends before a brainstorming session. ''Will Latin-American migrants bring
with them the tradition of the mordida (bribe)?'' he asked. ''As whites see
their power and control over their lives declining, will they simply go quietly
into the night? Or will there be an explosion?''

Latino fertility rates caused him special alarm: ''those with their pants up are
going to get caught by those with their pants down!''

Soon followed the news that FAIR had received grants from the Pioneer Fund,
whose most famous grantee was William B. Shockley, the Nobel-winning physicist
who argued that for genetic reasons, blacks are intellectually inferior to
whites.

Ms. Chavez resigned, Mr. Buffett stopped supporting FAIR, and any hope of
significant liberal support vanished.

Some colleagues never forgave him.

''The fear was that one ugly person could tar the larger movement, and sadly,
ironically, it turned out that person was John Tanton,'' said Patrick Burns, who
was then FAIR's deputy director.

But if anything, Dr. Tanton grew more emboldened to challenge taboos. He
increasingly made his case against immigration in racial terms.

''One of my prime concerns,'' he wrote to a large donor, ''is about the decline
of folks who look like you and me.'' He warned a friend that ''for
European-American society and culture to persist requires a European-American
majority, and a clear one at that.''

Dr. Tanton acknowledged the shift from his earlier, colorblind arguments, but
the ''uncomfortable truth,'' he wrote, was that those arguments had failed. With
a million or more immigrants coming each year -- perhaps a third illegally -- he
warned, ''The end may be nearer than we think.''

He corresponded with Sam G. Dickson, a Georgia lawyer for the Ku Klux Klan, who
sits on the board of The Barnes Review, a magazine that, among other things,
questions ''the so-called Holocaust.'' Dr. Tanton promoted the work of Jared
Taylor, whose magazine, American Renaissance, warned: ''America is an
increasingly dangerous and disagreeable place because of growing numbers of
blacks and Hispanics.'' (To Mr. Taylor, Dr. Tanton wrote, ''You are saying a lot
of things that need to be said.'')

Beyond immigration, he revived an old interest in eugenics, another field
trailed by a history of racial and class prejudice.

''Do we leave it to individuals to decide that they are the intelligent ones who
should have more kids?'' he wrote. ''And more troublesome, what about the less
intelligent, who logically should have less. Who is going to break the bad news
to them?''

Still, few friends confronted him.

''My biggest regret is I looked at what he was doing, rolled my eyes and said,
'That's John,' '' said Mr. Conner, the first FAIR director, who praised Dr.
Tanton's great ''decency and his generosity on a personal level'' and his
selfless devotion to his cause. Those qualities are ''so profound that the
people around him disregarded things that we should have called him on,'' he
added.

Power in the Ballot

Dr. Tanton argued that the public was incensed by illegal immigration, but that
elites ignored ''hoi polloi,'' who bore such costs as rising crime and
overcrowded schools.

FAIR first glimpsed the power of populist action with the passage of Proposition
187, the 1994 ballot initiative in California barring illegal residents from
virtually all social services. But victories came slower on Capitol Hill, where
immigrant groups stood with business lobbies eager for foreign labor. The anger
that shook California was slow to make the Capitol switchboard buzz.

The man who most changed that was Roy Beck, who spent several years as
Washington editor of The Social Contract, Dr. Tanton's journal. Mr. Beck formed
Numbers USA in 1997 to help pipe the growing populist anger into Congressional
offices. Dr. Tanton helped him raise money and housed the group for four years
under his umbrella organization, U.S. Inc.

Mr. Beck mobilized a database of supporters with what was then a novel
technology, the Internet fax. Prompted by a well-timed alert, his followers
could register outrage with a few mouse clicks -- or call. They did, in
attention-grabbing numbers.

A folksy entrant to a fiery debate, Mr. Beck appeared to share little with the
white nationalist element in Dr. Tanton's broad circle. He calls himself a
racial liberal and argues that lower immigration would raise the wages of
native-born blacks. He put a picture of Barbara Jordan, a black civil rights
leader and politician he considered an ally, on the Numbers USA Web site.

Yet at The Social Contract, he was part of a journal that often criticized
immigration on racial grounds, and Dr. Tanton once dubbed Mr. Beck his ''heir
apparent.''

''He's just like any friend -- there are lots of issues I don't agree with him
on,'' Mr. Beck said.

Numbers USA showed its force in 2002 when Republican leaders of the House backed
a bill that would have allowed some illegal immigrants to remain in the United
States while seeking legal status. Numbers USA set the phones on fire, and a
majority of Republicans opposed it.

''I had people come up to me on the floor of the House saying, 'O.K., O.K., call
off the dogs' -- meaning Numbers USA,'' said former Representative Tom Tancredo,
a Colorado Republican who fought the bill.

The big war broke out in 2007, after Mr. Bush proposed a systemic overhaul
including a path to citizenship for most illegal immigrants. Supporters said it
would free millions of people from fear and exploitation; opponents argued that
it would reward lawbreakers and encourage more illegal immigration.

FAIR rallied talk show hosts. The Center for Immigration Studies churned out
studies of the bill's perceived flaws. Numbers USA jammed the Capitol's phones.

Their success became the stuff of lore. They ''lit up the switchboard for
weeks,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader,
explaining his decision to oppose the bill. ''And to every one of them, I say
today: 'Your voice was heard.' ''

Becoming a Target

For supporters of granting legal status, the vote was a total rout. ''Let's face
it, they kicked our butt,'' said Frank Sharry, who led a business-immigrant
group for the bill. A new network formed of loosely affiliated liberal groups
with a more confrontational bent. It seized on two words: John Tanton.

In December 2007, the Southern Poverty Law Center dubbed FAIR a ''hate group.''
In Chicago, the Center for New Community tracked ''Tanton's empire of fear and
prejudice.''

Mr. Sharry's new group, America's Voice, placed newspaper advertisements warning
Congress not to meet ''with extremist groups like FAIR.'' Its online video
combines pictures of Dr. Tanton and Mr. Beck with images of Klan members and
Nazis.

Mr. Sharry acknowledges that he used to warn colleagues that charges of racism
would backfire. But he said the 2007 debate convinced him of his opponents' ill
will. ''I've gone from saying they're part of the process to seeing them as
extremists who want to expel millions of people,'' he said. While they started
with a liberal gloss, ''their juice became culturally conservative Republicans
who don't like brown people.''

Despite such attacks, the groups remain influential. Georgia legislators passed
a bill last week much like the Arizona measure that FAIR helped draft. Its main
sponsor, State Representative Matt Ramsey, a Republican, asked FAIR to review an
early draft and credited Numbers USA with helping to mobilize local supporters.

''That grass-roots program they have is incredibly effective,'' he said.

Dan Stein, the president of FAIR, said opponents were suddenly focusing on Dr.
Tanton -- now in his 32nd year on the board -- to silence a policy debate they
had lost.

''Is FAIR responsible for everything he said in his private correspondence?
No,'' he said. ''I love John, but he's had no significant control over FAIR for
years.'' Citing antidiscrimination language on FAIR's Web site, he added,
''We've always said you should not discriminate on the basis of race.''

Mr. Beck said the charges of bigotry were especially unfair and let a reporter
hear a tape of his 1970 wedding ceremony, which included a song he wrote
pledging to fight ''race hate.'' He deliberately lives in integrated
neighborhoods, he said, and sent his children to integrated schools, including
one in a mostly black housing project.

''What kind of racist does that?'' he said. ''They've never accused us of doing
anything that's racist or white nationalist. It's only that Numbers U.S.A. 'has
ties' '' to Dr. Tanton.

He added: ''Even if there were some mild strain of white nationalism in John,
the fact is that the results of everything he is pushing in immigration policy
would disproportionately help black and Hispanic Americans.''

The Center for Immigration Studies, where Dr. Tanton played a lesser role, has
come closest to criticizing him, writing last year that he had a ''tin ear for
the sensitivities of immigration.'' (A blogger then attacked the center as
undermining ''the patriotic struggle.'')

Mr. Sharry said the groups' reluctance to criticize Dr. Tanton showed tacit
agreement. But Mr. Conner, the former FAIR director, called it politeness toward
a beleaguered friend. ''It's been perfectly clear that people have not been
willing to defend John,'' he said.

Mr. Burns, his former FAIR colleague, said the groups' silence was harming an
honorable cause. ''The immigration reform movement has to say what it is and
what it's not, and it has to say it's not John Tanton,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
picture caption on April 17 with the continuation of an article about John
Tanton, who helped start all three major national groups that are fighting to
reduce immigration to the United States, misstated the mission of Numbers USA, a
group founded by Roy Beck. It seeks to reduce legal and illegal immigration
alike, not ''to give voice to anger about illegal immigration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A demonstration this month in Atlanta against legislation
favored by groups opposed to illegal immigration. The bill passed. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
John Tanton (A1)
Immigrants at the Maricopa County Jail in Phoenix, where Sheriff Joe Arpaio's
neighborhood sweeps have led to a federal investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN
MOORE/GETTY IMAGES)
The signature event of the Federation for American Immigration Reform is an
annual gathering of like-minded talk radio hosts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT
ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Roy Beck founded a group to give voice to anger about illegal immigration, but
says the movement is not based on racism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Frank Sharry, who supports immigrant rights, calls some opponents ''culturally
conservative Republicans who don't like brown people.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE
BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighting Deportation, But Speaking Out No Less Loudly

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1121 words



Whether fighting a military dictator in Chile, speaking up for the impoverished
in the South Bronx or denouncing United States intervention overseas, Victor
Toro has never been shy about his left-of-center politics. So why should he
start now?

Perhaps because he faces imminent deportation to his native Chile, after the
authorities discovered that he had been living illegally in the United States
since 1984.

A well-known advocate for immigrants and the needy in New York, Mr. Toro has
been in and out of immigration court for nearly four years, unsuccessfully
battling a deportation order and trying to win asylum. But unlike most
supplicants there, he has remained stubbornly outspoken outside the courtroom --
corralling colleagues for May Day rallies, demanding changes in immigration laws
and criticizing the United States government, which has accused him of having
belonged to a Chilean terrorist group in the 1970s.

Even as he announced a last-ditch legal appeal last month, he went out of his
way to fault President Obama for not apologizing for the role of the United
States in the 1973 coup that ousted a Chilean president, Salvador Allende, and
installed Gen. Augusto Pinochet.

''It's not just about my situation,'' Mr. Toro later explained, ''but about the
crisis facing different communities and anyone who is confronting oppression.''

At 68, Mr. Toro has many reasons to resist a return to Chile. He was imprisoned
and tortured there during the Pinochet regime. He has few relatives and even
fewer prospects there, having built a life and family in the Mott Haven section
of the Bronx, where he established La Pena, a popular cultural and political
center.

Some of his staunchest supporters wish that for his sake, he would focus more
closely on his own predicament.

''He wants to see himself as a fighter and part of a collective struggle, but in
U.S. jurisprudence it's about the individual,'' said Temma Kaplan, a Rutgers
University historian who has written about Chile. ''It's like a time warp. We
are fighting these immigration cases in the 21st century, but he's a person who
was formed in the 1960s.''

Inside the loft that La Pena shares with the Rebel Diaz arts collective, Mr.
Toro plopped down in a chair, his heavy-lidded eyes framed by white hair pulled
back into a ponytail. Political posters and fliers lay about the space, where
concerts and film screenings are regularly held.

''We always said it's not enough to express yourself culturally,'' he said.
''You are in the midst of all these great social problems, and you have to put
that in the mix.''

He admitted he was among the founders of the Revolutionary Movement of the Left,
known by its Spanish acronym, MIR, a Chilean socialist group that emerged in the
1960s. Though the group financed its activities through bank robberies it called
''expropriations,'' Mr. Toro said he never participated, but organized working
people.

Mr. Allende's overthrow in September 1973 sent Mr. Toro into hiding, though he
was eventually arrested and interned at a series of camps, where he was
tortured. He speaks little about these degradations, which included being bound
to a metal bed frame and shocked repeatedly. He was freed in 1977, and left the
country. The government declared him dead -- a message, he said, that if he
returned he could disappear.

After stays in Cuba and Nicaragua, Mr. Toro won asylum with his wife and infant
daughter in Mexico. But feeling vulnerable to agents of the Pinochet regime,
they crossed the border illegally into Texas, and finally settled in the South
Bronx.

''I saw here the third world that I had come from,'' he said.

Mr. Toro threw himself into local activism, helping to organize unlicensed
street vendors, staging music and art events, and providing a meeting space for
immigrants from Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Honduras. Then, in July 2007,
after attending conferences on immigrant rights in several cities, he was on an
Amtrak train outside Buffalo when immigration agents asked for identification.
All he had was an expired Chilean passport. He was arrested.

Hearings were held late last year, and in March an immigration judge, Sarah
Burr, denied Mr. Toro's asylum request, saying his homeland was now safe because
democracy was restored in 1990.

Still, she rejected the government's claim that Mr. Toro had engaged in
terrorism. And she seemed sympathetic, saying she thought it
''incomprehensible'' that he had not tried before his arrest to seek asylum or a
green card, especially since his wife and daughter are legal residents.

Mr. Toro said he had not applied for asylum earlier because he distrusted the
United States government for its support of the Pinochet dictatorship. Rather
than risk deportation, he said, he had waited for a change in immigration laws.

An appeal has won him a temporary stay of deportation. He and his lawyer plan to
argue that Mr. Toro's support for the rights of indigenous groups could put him
at odds with the Chilean government.

But human rights advocates say Chile is not the repressive country Mr. Toro
fled. ''Chile has made significant strides,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco, director
of the Americas division of Human Rights Watch.

Mr. Toro's supporters fear that simply returning there could wreak havoc on him.
His physician, Dr. Clyde Lanford Smith, testified that Mr. Toro's past torture
had lingering effects.

''His mental health is not going to be good because of what happened to him 25
years ago, where he saw so many of his friends knocked off,'' said Dr. Smith,
who works with torture survivors. He noted that since Mr. Toro was arrested, he
had become quieter, and afraid of crowds.

Yet Mr. Toro continues to volunteer at La Iglesia Evangelica Espanola, a church
where hundreds of people go each week for a hot meal and a sack of groceries. He
has counseled teenagers to quit gangs and helped drug addicts enter
detoxification.

Danilo Lachapel, the church's social outreach worker, said that, yes, Mr. Toro
remains unapologetically political. Should he mute himself?

Mr. Lachapel voiced doubt that Mr. Toro ever could. ''I think he has become more
radical,'' he said with a chuckle. ''Given his trajectory, if he became a
moderate, all of a sudden it would only make the government more suspicious of
him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Monday about Victor Toro, an advocate for immigrants and the needy
who faces deportation to Chile, misstated the occupation of Danilo Lachapel, who
works at a Bronx church where Mr. Toro volunteers and said he doubted Mr. Toro
would ever mute his radicalism. He is the church's social outreach worker, not
its assistant pastor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Victor Toro, an advocate for immigrants and the needy, railed
against Wall Street greed while speaking in March at La Iglesia Evangelica
Espanola in the Bronx.
 Mr. Toro at a South Bronx community center. He was imprisoned and tortured in
Chile, and entered the United States illegally in the 1980s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Leader of Salvadoran Military Faces Deportation Hearing

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 711 words


ORLANDO, Fla. -- During the civil war in El Salvador three decades ago, Gen.
Eugenio Vides Casanova was that nation's top military officer, a close ally
valued by the United States for his implacable battle against Marxist
guerrillas, in spite of notorious human rights violations by his forces.

On Monday, in a case that represents an about-face in American policy, Obama
administration lawyers will charge in immigration court here that General Vides
participated in torture when he commanded the Salvadoran armed forces and will
seek to have him deported.

The case against General Vides is hailed by human rights advocates as the first
time a special human rights office at the Department of Homeland Security has
brought immigration charges against a top-ranking foreign military commander.

The government's immigration charges are a stark reversal of fortune for General
Vides, who has been living as a legal permanent resident in South Florida since
he retired honorably in 1989, after serving six years as El Salvador's defense
minister. He has denied any role in torture. Among witnesses on his behalf he
plans to call a former United States ambassador to El Salvador, Edwin G. Corr.

As a sign of the divide in this country over the legacy of the Salvadoran
conflict, the government's lawyers are also expected to call a former
ambassador, Robert E. White, a longtime critic of Washington's role in that war.

''As a legal case, it will really put the Department of Homeland Security on the
path to empowerment to go after people at the top level, or not,'' said Carolyn
Patty Blum, a lawyer for the Center for Justice and Accountability in San
Francisco who is representing two government witnesses.

The current trouble for General Vides began in 1998 with a visit to El Salvador
by a lawyer, Scott Greathead, who was representing the families of four American
churchwomen murdered 18 years earlier by Salvadoran National Guard troops, when
General Vides was in command of that force. The American ambassador, Anne W.
Patterson, mentioned to Mr. Greathead that General Vides and another former
defense minister, Jose Guillermo Garcia, had retired to Florida.

In 2000, a Florida jury acquitted General Vides and General Garcia of civil
charges in the churchwomen's killings. But the justice center filed a separate
suit, accusing them of responsibility for torture.

In 2002, another Florida jury found the generals liable and ordered them to pay
$54.6 million to three torture victims. That verdict was upheld by an appeals
court in 2006, and General Vides was required to turn over some $300,000 in
assets.

Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Senator Tom Coburn,
Republican of Oklahoma, pressed the Department of Homeland Security to deport
the generals. The immigration charges against General Vides were filed in late
2009.

Brian Hale, a department spokesman, said he could not comment on the case. The
human rights unit has deported more than 400 people for rights abuses since its
creation in 2003, according to its Web site.

One witness expected to testify for the government is Juan Romagoza Arce, a
Salvadoran physician who was captured by National Guard troops in 1980. In an
earlier trial, Dr. Romagoza testified that General Vides personally interrogated
him in the course of a 24-day ordeal, during which, Dr. Arce said, he was
suspended by his wrists and beaten, given electric shocks on his tongue and shot
in the left arm.

Mr. Corr, the former ambassador, is expected to testify that as defense
minister, General Vides worked with United States officials to curb abuses by
his forces. General Vides was awarded the Legion of Merit, a high military
honor, by President Ronald Reagan.

The hearing is scheduled to last at least a week. General Garcia is facing
separate immigration proceedings.

Diego Handel, General Vides's lawyer, said that no American officials had been
accused of responsibility in the abuses in El Salvador.

''All these events were taking place when there was extreme concern in this
country regarding the spread of communism north from Central America,'' Mr.
Handel said. ''It is ironic that the winds have changed, but no one in the
United States government has been called negatively to account for any of these
cases.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Gen. Eugenio Vides Casanova after a federal court proceeding in
Florida in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Restaurant Owners Charged

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 118 words


Two owners of Mexican restaurants in a Southwest chain were arraigned on
Thursday in federal court in Phoenix on 19 charges that they knowingly hired
illegal immigrants as kitchen workers and committed tax fraud by paying them off
the books. Mark Evenson, 58, and his son Christopher Evenson, 39, owners of
Chuy's Mesquite Broiler restaurants in Arizona and California, were arrested
Wednesday following immigration raids at 20 restaurants. Also arrested were an
accountant for the chain and 41 immigrant workers suspected of being
unauthorized. If convicted on all charges, Mark Evenson faces up to 86 years in
prison, in one of the toughest cases brought by Obama administration authorities
against an employer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Opponent Withdraws From Group

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 607 words


WASHINGTON -- On this much, both sides agree: John Tanton, the provocative
architect of a national movement to reduce immigration, has quietly left the
board of the group he started and helped guide for 32 years.

But when did it happen and what does it mean?

Dr. Tanton, a Michigan ophthalmologist, has been a magnet for criticism since
the 1980s, for writings that appear to disparage minorities and for accepting
money from a foundation that promoted theories of white superiority. Hoping to
discredit his broader movement, immigrant groups intensified their attacks in
recent years, in what Dr. Tanton's friends call a campaign of vilification.

Yet the Federation of Americans for Immigration Reform, or FAIR, the influential
group he started in 1979, kept him on the board of directors. Two years ago, Dan
Stein, the group's president, hailed him as a ''renaissance man.''

On April 17, The New York Times published an article examining Dr. Tanton's
racial views. Soon after, his name disappeared from the list of board members on
the FAIR Web site.

Critics crowed. ''FAIR needed to finally distance itself from someone who had
brought such a bad reputation to the organization,'' said Heidi Beirich of the
Southern Poverty Law Center, a long-time nemesis.

But the story may be more subtle -- and revealing about immigration politics.
Inside the movement, Dr. Tanton has been a giant, helping to start all three
major national groups that seek to reduce immigration, legal and illegal. The
others are the Center for Immigration Studies and Numbers USA.

An environmentalist and an advocate of population control, Dr. Tanton started
with vows to build bridges with the left. But he attracted more support on the
populist right, with warnings about the ''Latin onslaught'' and assertions that
American society needs ''a European-American majority, and a clear one at
that.''

Now 77 and with Parkinson's disease, he has been withdrawing from public life.

In a brief telephone interview, Mr. Stein said Dr. Tanton left the board two
months before the Times article. He forwarded an e-mail from Feb. 3, in which
Dr. Tanton told the board that his term was expiring and he would not seek
re-election.

Yet the FAIR Web site continued to list him on the board. In an interview on
March 9, Mr. Stein simply described Dr. Tanton as ''relatively inactive.'' After
the Times article appeared, FAIR issued a long statement, but did not say Dr.
Tanton had severed his ties.

The next day, Julie Kirchner, FAIR's director, canceled a scheduled talk to a
class at Princeton, saying she did not want to discuss Dr. Tanton. But she, too,
did not say he had left the board, nor did Dr. Tanton himself, in a letter to
The Times. Then suddenly he vanished from the roster on the Web.

Why the delicate choreography? One theory is that neither FAIR nor Dr. Tanton
wanted to appear that they were reacting to what they regard as unfair attacks
by unscrupulous enemies.

''I had heard for months that John was leaving the board,'' said one friend,
speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid entering the dispute over Dr.
Tanton's views. ''I really think it's purely his health. He's been such a target
forever, it wouldn't be the attacks.''

Mr. Stein said he had not called attention to Dr. Tanton's departure because he
did not find it newsworthy. ''I would certainly object strenuously if you
characterized this somehow as a byproduct of external pressures,'' he said.

Told that Dr. Tanton had resigned in February, Ms. Beirich said she found it
''mystifying'' that FAIR had not announced it. ''Perhaps they didn't want to
draw any more attention to him and his views,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 64 words


FRONT PAGE

A picture caption on April 17 with the continuation of an article about John
Tanton, who helped start all three major national groups that are fighting to
reduce immigration to the United States, misstated the mission of Numbers USA, a
group founded by Roy Beck. It seeks to reduce legal and illegal immigration
alike, not ''to give voice to anger about illegal immigration.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Improving Immigrant Access to Lawyers

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 871 words


More than two years ago, a federal judge in New York began a crusade to find
lawyers for the many immigrants who are detained or deported because they lack
representation. Powerful figures, including Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.
and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, heard the call and helped draw attention to the
issue.

But the problem persists in immigration court, where defendants have no right to
a court-appointed lawyer, forcing many to go without and drastically raising
their chances of being deported. Although Mr. Bloomberg promised $2 million to
train lawyers in immigration issues, the city has not produced the money.

On Tuesday, about 200 leaders from legal, governmental and immigration circles
gathered in Manhattan to discuss the barriers that deny many immigrants proper
legal counsel. Robert A. Katzmann, the federal judge who started the effort and
organized the symposium, called the problem a ''substantial threat to the fair
and effective administration of justice.''

John Paul Stevens, the retired Supreme Court justice, who galvanized immigrant
advocates with a decision last year that said lawyers must tell their clients
about the deportation consequences of pleading guilty, delivered the keynote
address.

''The need for legal representation for immigrants is really acute,'' Mr.
Stevens said. He urged the audience to push for Congress to grant state and
federal judges discretion in deportation cases because, he said, ''the
consequences are just so drastic.''

Immigrants' fate in deportation cases often comes down to whether they can
afford a lawyer. Immigrants with legal representation are at least five times as
likely to win their cases as those without, yet in New York only 40 percent of
detained immigrants have lawyers, according to research by Judge Katzmann's
group that was released Tuesday.

More than a quarter of immigration defendants who have not been detained do not
have lawyers either, the study showed.

''The fact that so many can face such dire results at the hands of our legal
system without the benefits of competent counsel is one of the blatant
injustices of our time,'' said Matthew Diller, dean of the Benjamin N. Cardozo
School of Law at Yeshiva University, where the conference was held.

The problem only gets worse when immigrants are sent to distant detention
centers in places like Texas or Louisiana, as happens to nearly two-thirds of
those taken into immigration custody in New York. Nearly 80 percent of those
immigrants are unrepresented, according to the study, which examined Justice
Department data from 2005 to 2010.

''If they don't have a lawyer, it's because they don't have anything,'' said
Lynn M. Kelly, executive director of the City Bar Justice Center. ''People beg,
borrow and pass the hat around the community to hire attorneys.''

But simply hiring a lawyer is not necessarily a solution. Lazy and unprepared
lawyers fill immigration courts, bungling cases at grave costs to their clients,
experts say.

''The too-often-poor quality of representation continues to undermine the
effective administration of justice,'' said Judge Katzmann, who sits on the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

More than 50 New York lawyers who have been expelled or suspended by the Justice
Department have cases pending before the immigration courts or the Board of
Immigration Appeals, the new research says.

People posing as lawyers are another common problem for vulnerable immigrants,
many of whom cannot speak English. ''Across New York, fraudulent legal service
providers are making huge profits by defrauding immigrant communities,'' said
Janet Sabel, an official in the state attorney general's office.

It is highly unusual for a federal judge to embrace a public issue with such
vigor, but Judge Katzmann said his background -- he is the grandson of Russian
immigrants and the son of a refugee from Nazi Germany -- had granted him a
special sympathy ''for those who come to this country and want to make it
great.''

His study group, which draws more than 50 immigration experts, has made some
progress since it began work in 2008.

The Legal Orientation Program, a Justice Department project that advises
immigrants on their rights, opened a New York City branch last year. The ranks
of pro bono lawyers working on immigration cases have grown, and the authorities
have stepped up efforts to crack down on fraudulent lawyers.

But with much work remaining, many advocates looked to Mr. Bloomberg to fulfill
his 2009 campaign promise to spend $2 million to train lawyers. Fatima A. Shama,
the city's immigrant affairs commissioner, said the mayor had not forgotten.

''We will do what we need to do, not only to maintain our commitment around a
campaign promise, but around what's right,'' Ms. Shama told the crowd.

At the session Tuesday, many acknowledged that there were no quick fixes to the
challenges of immigrant representation.

''These problems have been around for a long time,'' said Claudia Slovinsky, a
veteran immigration lawyer. She said that only a sweeping solution ensuring
representation to all immigrants would address the fundamental inequalities.

''Everything we're doing in the meantime is short-term improvements of a weak
system,'' Ms. Slovinsky said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Paul Stevens, the retired Supreme Court justice, spoke on
Tuesday at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law about the ''really acute'' need
for legal representation for immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 523 words


INTERNATIONAL

CHINA CREATES NEW AGENCY

FOR PATROLLING THE INTERNET

China's government said that it had created a new central agency to regulate the
nation's Internet community, a move that appeared to complement a continuing
crackdown on political dissidents and other social critics. PAGE A6

NORTH KOREAN PRISONS GROW

North Korea's work farms and prison factories are the world's most notorious,
according to human rights experts. Former inmates at the political labor camp at
Yodok said they were frequently tortured and forced to watch the executions of
fellow prisoners. PAGE A6

NATIONAL

TEA PARTY LICENSE PLATE DRAWS OPPOSITION

Since conservative Republicans pushed a bill through the Arizona Legislature
that created a license plate to raise money for Tea Party groups in the state,
the biggest opposition has suprisingly come from Tea Party members themselves.
PAGE A16

IMMIGRATION BILL IN FLORIDA

The Florida Senate approved a bill that would require the police to make ''a
reasonable effort'' to determine the immigration status of people they arrest
and jail, a provision critics say is an attack on legal and illegal immigrants.
PAGE A17

New York

CONSTRUCTION EXECUTIVES CHARGED WITH FRAUD

Four veteran construction executives were charged with stealing tens of millions
of dollars from investment firms, insurance companies and law firms as they
built corporate offices in buildings across Manhattan. PAGE A26

GUIDE FOR MEMORIAL NAMES

The National September 11 Memorial and Museum issued a clear and navigable
computerized guide to the location of every name inscribed on the bronze
parapets that are being installed along the perimeters of the pools where the
World Trade Center towers once stood. PAGE A25

BUSINESS

INTEL INCREASES CHIP'S SPEED

AND LOWERS POWER USE

Intel announced that it has found a way to make computer chips that run as much
as 37 percent faster in low-voltage applications and that reduce power
consumption as much as 50 percent. PAGE B1

OBITUARIES

RICHARD CORNUELLE, 84

He was a libertarian writer whose best-known book, ''Reclaiming the American
Dream,'' championed volunteerism as a means of addressing social problems like
poverty, unemployment, delinquency and urban blight. PAGE B13

SPORTS

DODGERS OWNER CONFRONTS

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

Frank McCourt, the Los Angeles Dodgers owner, appeared to be moving closer to a
legal confrontation with Major League Baseball by sending two letters that
accuse Bud Selig, the league's commissioner, of causing the team's financial
distress by not approving a pending local television deal with Fox. PAGE B14

ARTS

AN 'AMERICAN IDOL' JUDGE HEEDS HER OWN ADVICE

In just a couple of months, Jennifer Lopez has become the most cogent, sensible
and helpful judge ''American Idol'' has ever had. PAGE C1

HOME

USE OF HOME SAFES INCREASES

Manufacturers of residential safes report an increase in sales. Recent events
are prompting more people to keep their valuables at home. PAGE D1

THURSDAY STYLES

WEDDING DRESS PUTS DESIGNER IN THE SPOTLIGHT

Sarah Burton is now a star, thanks to the wedding dress she created for the
commoner Kate Middleton. PAGE E1

OP-ED

Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A29

Gail Collins PAGE A29

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Favoring Immigration If Not the Immigrant

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words


WASHINGTON -- So deeply has the phrase ''a nation of immigrants'' seeped into
the American psyche that millions of people reflexively use it while few know
who coined the phrase. (It was Senator John F. Kennedy, in a 1958 book by that
name.)

Susan F. Martin, a historian at Georgetown University, embraces the term even as
she warns that it hides more than it reveals. Her book -- titled, yes, ''A
Nation of Immigrants'' -- argues that the United States historically has favored
immigration more consistently than it has immigrants.

Three competing models evolved in the original colonies, she writes, each with a
different vision of what purposes newcomers would serve. Elements of each have
persisted since.

Virginia sought workers but found them in slaves.

Massachusetts sought believers but punished dissent.

Pennsylvania sought citizens, and built them from foreign stock (despite gripes
from residents as cosmopolitan as Benjamin Franklin).

Each model was pro-immigration, Ms. Martin argues, but not necessarily
pro-immigrant.

''They had very different ideas about what would happen after the immigrant
entered the country,'' she said in an interview.

All three models have taken contemporary shape, not only in the United States
but also across the globe, at a time when migration is a growing force and Ms.
Martin one of its leading academic chroniclers. While her book is confined to
American history, she said the armies of guest workers in Dubai reminded her of
Virginia in its indentured servant phase, while the French campaign against
Islamic headscarves had echoes of Salem.

Ms. Martin champions the Pennsylvania model in her book, published this year by
Cambridge University Press: political unity, cultural diversity and equal
rights. But almost unwittingly her book shows how improbable and precarious that
model is. It is utterly foreign to much of the world, where citizens are born,
not made, she said, and threatened at home by the reliance on illegal workers
who lack rights.

''The Pennsylvania model is not dead, but it is under severe challenge,'' she
writes.

Ms. Martin finds many to blame for this: the left (for opposing tough
enforcement), the populist right (for strains of prejudice) and employers (for
seeking cheap labor). ''One of my concerns about illegal immigration is that it
undermines legal immigration,'' she said.

Ms. Martin said her interest in immigration comes in part from her roots. Her
father arrived in the United States in 1906, fleeing the persecution of Jews in
a Polish shtetl called Milejcsicz. Ms. Martin visited there as a college student
and discovered that all the Jews who stayed behind had died in the Holocaust.

She trained as a colonial historian at the University of Pennsylvania and
acquired policy credentials as a staff member of two high-level government
commissions on immigration policy. For her first assignment she read the mail
and found that all the major complaints -- immigrants bring crime and disease,
they refuse to learn English -- were prominent in earlier debates.

''There's a tendency to say that our ancestors were the good immigrants, but
there are problems with the contemporary ones,'' she said.

Ms. Martin's mentor, Lawrence H. Fuchs, first identified the colonial archetypes
in his 1990 book, ''The American Kaleidoscope: Race, Ethnicity and the Civic
Culture.'' But he saw the Pennsylvania model as historically dominant and
politically secure. Ms. Martin (who has dedicated her book to him) sees a
constant battle among the three models, and peril in the present.

The Virginia model began with commercial motivations: Jamestown settlers sought
plantations on the river, not cities on the hill. When the colony could not
attract enough indentured servants to export tobacco, it imported slaves. Though
chattel slavery has disappeared, Ms. Martin emphasizes that the exploitation of
immigrant labor has not.

''The high levels of tolerance for unauthorized migration represents a return to
the Virginia model of disposable workers with few rights,'' she writes.

In Massachusetts the Puritans came to affirm their faith. Compatriots were
welcomed but expected to believe, and dissidents like Roger Williams were
banished. Ms. Martin finds the fear of alien views reappearing in episodes as
old as the Alien and Sedition Acts and as recent as post-9/11 laws that increase
the government's power to detain foreigners. ''The problem with Massachusetts
isn't those it includes but those it excludes and the basis on which it excludes
them,'' she said.

William Penn arrived in the colonies six decades later, after being jailed in
England for his Quaker beliefs. Like the Virginians he too wanted to make money
-- in his case by selling land -- but sought out buyers far and wide, with
translations of his pamphlets reaching the Rhine. Pluralism was part of his
faith and part of his business plan.

That is not to imply that harmony always reigned. A second tradition that traces
back to Pennsylvania is the fear that non-English speaking immigrants will fail
to assimilate. The ''most ignorant Stupid sort,'' Franklin called the Germans,
upset at bilingual street signs.

Historians may quibble that Ms. Martin's model exaggerates the differences
between colonies: Puritans sought profit too, and Virginians prayed. She readily
acknowledges the overlaps. ''There are elements of each model in each colony,''
she said.

In contemporary debate her views can be hard to categorize. She is less worried
about how many immigrants come than about what rights they have. Like most in
the high-immigration camp she favors a legalization plan for illegal immigrants,
which opponents say will encourage more people to come. But like most in the
low-immigration camp she is skeptical about guest worker plans, at home or
abroad, seeing a slippery slope to exploitation.

Certainly such programs have been abused. But millions of poor people across the
globe find them preferable to poverty at home. Would Ms. Martin stand in those
people's way?

Tamar Jacoby, the president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a business group that
supports guest worker programs, argues that Ms. Martin's resistance to temporary
visas would suppress immigration to the detriment of immigrants and the economy
alike. ''Not all labor market migration is exploitative,'' she wrote in a recent
issue of The New Republic.

Ms. Martin, who directs Georgetown's Institute for the Study of International
Migration, calls that criticism a ''fair avenue for debate.'' But she said she
had traveled widely in Europe, where the descendants of 1960s guest workers have
formed an alienated underclass. European colleagues often ask her how the United
States has remained a ''nation of immigrants and not just a collection of
them.''

Imagine the curious looks she gets when she starts talking about William Penn.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan F. Martin has written a book about immigration models.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Varied Welcomes: Susan F. Martin, a historian at Georgetown University,
describes three competing visions of immigration based on life in the original
colonies.
VIRGINIA MODEL: Detail from ''Introduction of Slavery,'' probably set in
Jamestown, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEAN COLLECTION/ARCHIVE PHOTOS, VIA GETTY IMAGES)
MASSACHUSETTS MODEL: Painting by Charles Lucy shows pilgrims and the Mayflower.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEAN COLLECTION/GETTY IMAGES)
 PENNSYLVANIA MODEL: Depiction of William Penn's first visit to America.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIME LIFE PICTURES/MANSELL, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (C5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Call in Albany to Quit U.S. Immigration Program

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 548 words


A group of 38 state lawmakers sent a letter to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Monday
urging him to remove New York from a national program that has been a
cornerstone of the Obama administration's immigration enforcement efforts.

The letter comes about two months after another group of elected officials in
the state, including 19 New York City Council members, sent a similar letter to
Mr. Cuomo -- part of a growing national chorus of hostility to the enforcement
initiative, which has begun in most states and in some New York counties.

Under the program, called Secure Communities, the fingerprints of everyone
booked into a local or county jail are automatically sent to the Department of
Homeland Security and compared with prints in the agency's databases. If
officials discover that a suspect is in the country illegally, or is a
noncitizen immigrant with a criminal record, they may seek to deport the person.

Last week, Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois said he was pulling his state out of the
program; it was the first time a state had sought to withdraw entirely. Mr.
Quinn and other opponents complain that Secure Communities has strayed from its
stated goal of ensnaring convicted criminals, particularly those found guilty of
the most serious offenses, and that it is instead sweeping up many immigrants
charged with low-level crimes or guilty only of being in the country illegally.

In their letter, the New York legislators applauded Mr. Quinn's action, adding,
''Given New York's immigrant heritage and our leadership role in the nation, we
firmly believe that our state, too, must immediately end this destructive
program.''

A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo said on Monday that the governor and his staff were
still reviewing the program.

The Bush administration began Secure Communities in 2008, intending to have it
fully in place around the country by 2013. In May 2010, Gov. David A. Paterson
signed agreements to cooperate, and by Monday, 24 of the 62 counties in New York
had been added to the program. They include Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester,
Rockland, Putnam, Orange and Dutchess Counties. They do not include New York
City's five boroughs.The new data-sharing system has contributed to a surge in
deportations. Opponents worry that it could deter illegal immigrants from coming
forward as witnesses to help law enforcement officers fight crime.

In March, a group of lawyers and immigrant advocates analyzed data from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland
Security, and concluded that about one in four people deported under Secure
Communities had not been convicted of a crime. In some jurisdictions, more than
half of deportees were not convicted criminals, the advocates said.

New York's counties began joining the system on Jan. 11. Through the end of
February, about 80 percent of the immigrants detained as a result of Secure
Communities had no criminal record, advocates said.

While Obama administration officials have said that states can technically opt
out of the program, refusal to participate would be costly. Federal officials
have warned that any state that declines to share fingerprints through the
program will lose access to the criminal databases of other states and the
federal government, seriously hampering crime-fighting efforts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Obama's Remarks on Immigration

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 4092 words


Following is a text of President Obama's remarks on immigration, delivered
Tuesday in El Paso, as released by the White House:

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, El Paso! (Applause.) Well, it is wonderful -- wonderful to
be back with all of you in the Lone Star State. (Applause.) Everything is bigger
in Texas. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you!

THE PRESIDENT: I love you back! (Applause.) Even the welcomes are bigger.
(Applause.) So, in appreciation, I wanted to give a big policy speech outside on
a really hot day. (Laughter.) Those of you who are still wearing your jackets,
feel free to take them off. I hope everybody is wearing sunscreen.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We live here.

THE PRESIDENT: You say you live here? You don't need it, huh? (Laughter.) Well,
it is a great honor to be here. And I want to express my appreciation to all of
you for taking the time to come out today.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you!

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. (Applause.)

You know, about a week ago, I delivered a commencement address at Miami Dade
Community College, which is one of the most diverse schools in the nation. The
graduates were proud that their class could claim heritage from 181 countries
around the world -- 181 countries. (Applause.)

Many of the students were immigrants themselves, coming to America with little
more than the dream of their parents and the clothes on their back. A handful
had discovered only in adolescence or adulthood that they were undocumented. But
they worked hard and they gave it their all, and so they earned those diplomas.

And at the ceremony, 181 flags -- one for every nation that was represented --
was marched across the stage. And each one was applauded by the graduates and
the relatives with ties to those countries. So when the Haitian flag went by,
all the Haitian kids -- Haitian American kids shouted out. And when the
Guatemalan flag went by, all the kids of Guatemalan heritage shouted out. And
when the Ukrainian flag went by, I think one kid shouted out. (Laughter.) This
was down in Miami. (Laughter.) If it had been in Chicago, there would have been
more.

But then, the last flag, the American flag, came into view. And everyone in the
room erupted in applause. Everybody cheered. (Applause.) So, yes, their parents
and grandparents -- some of the graduates themselves -- had come from every
corner of the globe. But it was here that they had found opportunity. It was
here that they had a chance to contribute to the nation that is their home.

And it was a reminder of a simple idea, as old as America itself: E pluribus
unum. Out of many, one. We define ourselves as a nation of immigrants -- a
nation that welcomes those willing to embrace America's ideals and America's
precepts. That's why millions of people, ancestors to most of us, braved
hardship and great risk to come here -- so they could be free to work and
worship and start a business and live their lives in peace and prosperity. The
Asian immigrants who made their way to California's Angel Island. The German and
Scandinavians who settled across the Midwest. The waves of Irish, and Italian,
and Polish, and Russian, and Jewish immigrants who leaned against the railing to
catch their first glimpse of the Statue of Liberty.

This flow of immigrants has helped make this country stronger and more
prosperous. (Applause.) We can point to the genius of Einstein, the designs of
I. M. Pei, the stories of Isaac Asimov, the entire industries that were forged
by Andrew Carnegie.

And then when I think about immigration I think about the naturalization
ceremonies that we've held at the White House for members of our military.
Nothing could be more inspiring. Even though they were not yet citizens when
they joined our military, these men and women signed up to serve.

We did one event at the White House and a young man named Granger Michael from
Papua New Guinea, a Marine who had been deployed to Iraq three times, was there.
And you know what he said about becoming an American citizen? He said, ''I might
as well. I love this country already.'' That's all he said. Marines aren't big
on speeches. (Laughter.)

Another was a woman named Perla Ramos who was born and raised in Mexico and came
to the United States shortly after 9/11, and joined the Navy. And she said, ''I
take pride in our flag and the history we write day by day.''

That's the promise of this country -- that anyone can write the next chapter in
our story. It doesn't matter where you come from -- (applause) -- it doesn't
matter where you come from; it doesn't matter what you look like; it doesn't
matter what faith you worship. What matters is that you believe in the ideals on
which we were founded; that you believe that all of us are created equal,
endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. (Applause.) All of us
deserve our freedoms and our pursuit of happiness. In embracing America, you can
become American. That is what makes this country great. That enriches all of us.

And yet, at the same time, we're here at the border today -- (applause) -- we're
here at the border because we also recognize that being a nation of laws goes
hand in hand with being a nation of immigrants. This, too, is our heritage.
This, too, is important. And the truth is, we've often wrestled with the
politics of who is and who isn't allowed to come into this country. This debate
is not new.

At times, there has been fear and resentment directed towards newcomers,
especially in hard economic times. And because these issues touch deeply on what
we believe, touch deeply on our convictions -- about who we are as a people,
about what it means to be an American -- these debates often elicit strong
emotions.

That's one reason it's been so difficult to reform our broken immigration
system. When an issue is this complex, when it raises such strong feelings, it's
easier for politicians to defer until the problem the next election. And there's
always a next election.

So we've seen a lot of blame and a lot of politics and a lot of ugly rhetoric
around immigration. And we've seen good faith efforts from leaders of both
parties -- by the way, I just noticed, those of you who have chairs, if you want
to sit down, feel free. There's no rule about having to stand when I'm --

AUDIENCE MEMBER: -- we love you! (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: But we've seen leaders of both parties who try to work on this
issue, but then their efforts fell prey to the usual Washington games. And all
the while, we've seen the mounting consequences of decades of inaction.

Today, there are an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants here in the
United States. Some crossed the border illegally. Others avoid immigration laws
by overstaying their visas. Regardless of how they came, the overwhelming
majority of these folks are just trying to earn a living and provide for their
families. (Applause.)

But we have to acknowledge they've broken the rules. They've cut in front of the
line. And what is also true is that the presence of so many illegal immigrants
makes a mockery of all those who are trying to immigrate legally.

Also, because undocumented immigrants live in the shadows, where they're
vulnerable to unscrupulous businesses that skirt taxes, and pay workers less
than the minimum wage, or cut corners with health and safety laws, this puts
companies who follow the rules, and Americans who rightly demand the minimum
wage or overtime or just a safe place to work, it puts those businesses at a
disadvantage.

Think about it. Over the past decade, even before the recession hit,
middle-class families were struggling to get by as the costs went up for
everything, from health care, to college tuition, to groceries, to gas. Their
incomes didn't go up with those prices. We're seeing it again right now with gas
prices.

So one way to strengthen the middle class in America is to reform the
immigration system so that there is no longer a massive underground economy that
exploits a cheap source of labor while depressing wages for everybody else. I
want incomes for middle-class families to rise again. (Applause.) I want
prosperity in this country to be widely shared. (Applause.) I want everybody to
be able to reach that American dream. And that's why immigration reform is an
economic imperative. It's an economic imperative. (Applause.)

And reform will also help to make America more competitive in the global
economy. Today, we provide students from around the world with visas to get
engineering and computer science degrees at our top universities. (Applause.)

But then our laws discourage them from using those skills to start a business or
a new industry here in the United States. Instead of training entrepreneurs to
stay here, we train them to create jobs for our competition. That makes no
sense. In a global marketplace, we need all the talent we can attract, all the
talent we can get to stay here to start businesses -- not just to benefit those
individuals, but because their contribution will benefit all Americans.

Look at Intel, look at Google, look at Yahoo, look at eBay. All those great
American companies, all the jobs they've created, everything that has helped us
take leadership in the high-tech industry, every one of those was founded by,
guess who, an immigrant. (Applause.)

So we don't want the next Intel or the next Google to be created in China or
India. We want those companies and jobs to take root here. (Applause.) Bill
Gates gets this. He knows a little something about the high-tech industry. He
said, ''The United States will find it far more difficult to maintain its
competitive edge if it excludes those who are able and willing to help us
compete.''

So immigration is not just the right thing to do. It's smart for our economy.
It's smart for our economy. (Applause.) And it's for this reason that businesses
all across America are demanding that Washington finally meet its
responsibilities to solve the immigration problem. Everybody recognizes the
system is broken. The question is, will we finally summon the political will to
do something about it? And that's why we're here at the border today.

And I want to say I am joined today by an outstanding Secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, who's been working tirelessly
on this issue. (Applause.) Our commissioner who's working diligently on border
issues, Alan Bersin, is there, and we appreciate him -- Bersin. (Applause.)

So they're doing outstanding work. And in recent years, among one of the
greatest impediments to reform were questions about border security. And these
were legitimate concerns. What was true was a lack of manpower and a lack of
resources at the border, combined with the pull of jobs and ill-considered
enforcement once folks were in the country.

All this contributed to a growing number of undocumented people living in the
United States. And these concerns helped unravel a bipartisan coalition that we
had forged back when I was in the United States Senate. So in the years since,
''borders first, borders first,'' that's become the common refrain, even among
those who were previously supportive of comprehensive immigration reform.

But over the last two years, thanks to the outstanding work of Janet and Alan
and everybody who's down here working at the border, we've answered those
concerns. Under their leadership, we have strengthened border security beyond
what many believed was possible. They wanted more agents at the border. Well, we
now have more boots on the ground on the southwest border than at any time in
our history. (Applause.)

The Border Patrol has 20,000 agents -- more than twice as many as there were in
2004. It's a build-up that began under President Bush and that we've continued,
and I had a chance to meet some of these outstanding agents, and actually saw
some of them on horseback who looked pretty tough. (Laughter.) So we put the
agents here.

Then they wanted a fence. Well, the fence is --

AUDIENCE: Booo!

THE PRESIDENT: The fence is now basically complete.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Tear it down!

THE PRESIDENT: Then we've gone further. We tripled the number of intelligence
analysts working at the border. I've deployed unmanned aerial vehicles to patrol
the skies from Texas to California. We have forged a partnership with Mexico to
fight the transnational criminal organizations that have affected both of our
countries. (Applause.) And for the first time -- for the first time we're
screening 100 percent of southbound rail shipments to seize guns and money going
south even as we go after drugs that are coming north. (Applause.)

So, here's the point. I want everybody to listen carefully to this. We have gone
above and beyond what was requested by the very Republicans who said they
supported broader reform as long as we got serious about enforcement. All the
stuff they asked for, we've done. But even though we've answered these concerns,
I've got to say I suspect there are still going to be some who are trying to
move the goal posts on us one more time.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: They're racist!

THE PRESIDENT: You know, they said we needed to triple the Border Patrol. Or now
they're going to say we need to quadruple the Border Patrol. Or they'll want a
higher fence. Maybe they'll need a moat. (Laughter.) Maybe they want alligators
in the moat. (Laughter.) They'll never be satisfied. And I understand that.
That's politics.

But the truth is the measures we've put in place are getting results. Over the
past two and a half years, we've seized 31 percent more drugs, 75 percent more
currency, 64 percent more weapons than ever before. (Applause.) And even as we
have stepped up patrols, apprehensions along the border have been cut by nearly
40 percent from two years ago. That means far fewer people are attempting to
cross the border illegally.

And also, despite a lot of breathless reports that have tagged places like El
Paso as dangerous, violent crime in southwest border counties has dropped by a
third. El Paso and other cities and towns along this border are consistently
among the safest in the nation. (Applause.) Of course, we shouldn't accept any
violence or crime. And we've always got more work to do. But this progress is
important and it's not getting reported on.

And we're also going beyond the border. Beyond the border, we're going after
employers who knowingly exploit people and break the law. (Applause.) And we are
deporting those who are here illegally. And that's a tough issue. It's a source
of controversy.

But I want to emphasize we're not doing it haphazardly. We're focusing our
limited resources and people on violent offenders and people convicted of crimes
-- not just families, not just folks who are just looking to scrape together an
income. And as a result, we've increased the removal of criminals by 70 percent.
(Applause.)

That's not to ignore the real human toll of a broken immigration system. Even as
we recognize that enforcing the law is necessary, we don't relish the pain that
it causes in the lives of people who are just trying to get by and get caught up
in the system.

And as long as the current laws are on the books, it's not just hardened felons
who are subject to removal, but sometimes families who are just trying to earn a
living, or bright, eager students, or decent people with the best of intentions.
(Applause.)

And sometimes when I talk to immigration advocates, they wish I could just
bypass Congress and change the law myself. But that's not how a democracy works.
What we really need to do is to keep up the fight to pass genuine, comprehensive
reform. That is the ultimate solution to this problem. That's what I'm committed
to doing. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, we can! Yes, we can!

THE PRESIDENT: Yes, we can. We can do it. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!

THE PRESIDENT: The most significant step we can now take to secure the borders
is to fix the system as a whole so that fewer people have the incentive to enter
illegally in search of work in the first place. This would allow agents to focus
on the worst threats on both of our -- both sides of our borders, from drug
traffickers to those who would come here to commit acts of violence or terror.
That's where our focus should be.

So, El Paso, the question is whether those in Congress who previously walked
away in the name of enforcement are now ready to come back to the table and
finish the work that we've started. (Applause.) We've got to put the politics
aside. And if we do, I'm confident we can find common ground.

Washington is lagging behind the country on this. There is already a growing
coalition of leaders across America who don't always see eye-to-eye, but are
coming together on this issue. They see the harmful consequences of a broken
immigration system for their businesses and for their communities, and they
understand why we need to act.

There are Democrats and Republicans, people like former Republican Senator Mel
Martinez; former Bush administration Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff; leaders like Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York; evangelical
ministers like Leith Anderson and Bill Hybels; police chiefs from across the
nation; educators; advocates; labor unions; chambers of commerce; small business
owners; Fortune 500 CEOs.

I mean, one CEO had this to say about reform: ''American ingenuity is a product
of the openness and diversity of this society. Immigrants have made America
great as the world leader in business, in science, higher education and
innovation.'' You know who that leader was? Rupert Murdoch, who owns FOX News,
and is an immigrant himself. I don't know if you're familiar with Rupert
Murdoch's views, but let's just say he doesn't have an Obama sticker on his car.
(Laughter.) But he agrees with me on this. (Applause.)

So there is a consensus around fixing what's broken. And now we need Congress to
catch up. Now we need to come together around reform that reflects our values as
a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants; reform that demands that everybody
take responsibility. So what would comprehensive reform look like?

First, we know that government has a threshold responsibility to secure our
borders and enforce the law. And that's what Janet and all her folks are doing.
That's what they're doing. (Applause.)

Second, businesses have to be held accountable if they exploit undocumented
workers. (Applause.)

Third, those who are here illegally, they have a responsibility as well. So they
broke the law, and that means they've got to pay their taxes, they've got to pay
a fine, they've got to learn English. And they've got to undergo background
checks and a lengthy process before they get in line for legalization. That's
not too much to ask. (Applause.)

And fourth, stopping illegal immigration also depends on reforming our outdated
system of legal immigration. (Applause.) We should make it easier for the best
and the brightest to not only stay here, but also to start businesses and create
jobs here. In recent years, a full 25 percent of high-tech startups in the U.S.
were founded by immigrants. That led to 200,000 jobs here in America. I'm glad
those jobs are here. I want to see more of them created in this country. We need
to provide them the chance. (Applause.)

We need to provide our farms a legal way to hire workers that they rely on, and
a path for those workers to earn legal status. (Applause.) And our laws should
respect families following the rules -- reuniting them more quickly instead of
splitting them apart. (Applause.)

Today, the immigration system not only tolerates those who break the rules, but
it punishes folks who follow the rules. While applications -- while applicants
wait for approval, for example, they're often forbidden from visiting the United
States. Even husbands and wives may have to spend years apart. Parents can't see
their children. I don't believe the United States of America should be in the
business of separating families. That's not right. That's not who we are. We can
do better than that. (Applause.)

And we should stop punishing innocent young people for the actions of their
parents. (Applause.) We should stop denying them the chance to earn an education
or serve in the military. And that's why we need to pass the DREAM Act.
(Applause.) Now, we passed the DREAM Act through the House last year when
Democrats were in control. But even though it received a majority of votes in
the Senate, it was blocked when several Republicans who had previously supported
the DREAM Act voted no.

That was a tremendous disappointment to get so close and then see politics get
in the way. And as I gave that commencement at Miami Dade, it broke my heart
knowing that a number of those promising, bright students -- young people who
worked so hard and who speak about what's best in America -- are at risk of
facing the agony of deportation. These are kids who grew up in this country.
They love this country. They know no other place to call home. The idea that
we'd punish them is cruel. It makes no sense. We're a better nation than that.
(Applause.)

So we're going to keep fighting for the DREAM Act. We're going to keep up the
fight for reform. (Applause.) And that's where you come in. I'm going to do my
part to lead a constructive and civil debate on these issues. And we've already
had a series of meetings about this at the White House in recent weeks. We've
got leaders here and around the country helping to move the debate forward.

But this change ultimately has to be driven by you, the American people. You've
got to help push for comprehensive reform, and you've got to identify what steps
we can take right now -- like the DREAM Act, like visa reform -- areas where we
can find common ground among Democrats and Republicans and begin to fix what's
broken.

So I'm asking you to add your voices to this debate. You can sign up to help at
whitehouse.gov. We need Washington to know that there is a movement for reform
that's gathering strength from coast to coast. That's how we'll get this done.
That's how we can ensure that in the years ahead we are welcoming the talents of
all who can contribute to this country and that we're living up to the basic
American idea that you can make it here if you try. (Applause.)

That's the idea that gave hope to Jose Hernandez. Is Jose here? Where's -- Jose
is right over there. (Applause.) I want you to hear -- I want you to think about
this story. Jose's parents were migrant farm workers. And so, growing up, he was
too. He was born in California, though he could have just as easily been born on
the other side of the border, if it had been a different time of year, because
his family moved around with the seasons. So two of his siblings were actually
born in Mexico.

So they traveled a lot, and Jose joined his parents picking cucumbers and
strawberries. And he missed part of school when they returned to Mexico each
winter. Jose didn't learn English until he was 12 years old. But you know what,
Jose was good at math and he liked math. And the nice thing is that math was the
same in every school, and it's the same in Spanish as it is in English.

So Jose studied, and he studied hard. And one day, he's standing in the fields,
collecting sugar beets, and he heard on a transistor radio that a man named
Franklin Chang-Diaz -- a man with a surname like his -- was going to be an
astronaut for NASA. So Jose decided -- right there in the field, he decided --
well, I could be an astronaut, too.

So Jose kept on studying, and he graduated high school. And he kept on studying,
and he earned an engineering degree. And he kept on studying, and he earned a
graduate degree. And he kept on working hard, and he ended up at a national
laboratory, helping to develop a new kind of digital medical imaging system.

And a few years later, he found himself more than 100 miles above the surface of
the Earth, staring out of the window of the shuttle Discovery, and he was
remembering the boy in the California fields with that crazy dream that in
America everything is possible. (Applause.)

Think about that, El Paso. That's the American Dream right there. (Applause.)
That's what we're fighting for. We are fighting for every boy and every girl
like Jose with a dream and potential that's just waiting to be tapped. We are
fighting to unlock that promise, and all that holds not just for their futures,
but for America's future. That's why we're going to get this done. And that's
why I'm going to need your help.

Thank you. God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America.
(Applause.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unfounded Suspicions Wreak Havoc on Lives Of Two Muslim Soldiers

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1135 words


Two years ago, Khalid Lyaacoubi and Yassine Bahammou, immigrants from Morocco,
enlisted in the Army National Guard, recruited for a program that promised
higher rank, bonuses and quick citizenship to Arabic speakers who could help
fill the military's need for interpreters.

Shortly before Christmas 2009, they graduated from boot camp, proud just to have
made it. But as they prepared to leave Fort Jackson, S.C., they were instead
questioned by military investigators who suspected them and three other Moroccan
immigrants of plotting to poison fellow soldiers.

For the next 45 days, they were placed under a form of barracks arrest,
prevented from calling their families without sergeants present, forbidden to
speak Arabic to each other and required to have escorts to the mess hall and the
bathroom. No charges were filed, but their laptops, cellphones and passports
were confiscated.

Only after the intervention of a Muslim chaplain were they finally allowed to go
back to their homes. Last May, the Army concluded that the allegations against
them -- initially raised by a relative of a soldier -- were unfounded. But the
Federal Bureau of Investigation has kept its inquiry open, officials say. As a
result, the men have been unable to receive security clearances, become
citizens, deploy to Iraq, obtain concealed weapons permits or get government
jobs, the soldiers say.

''Am I one of them, a soldier?'' Specialist Lyaacoubi, 34, asked in an
interview. ''Or am I like one of those prisoners in Iraq?''

The handling of the two soldiers' cases underscores the conflicted nature of the
military's relationship with its Muslim troops since the Fort Hood shootings in
November 2009. A Muslim soldier, Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, is accused of killing
13 people there.

Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou were recruited into a program intended to put
Arabic-, Dari- and Pashto-speaking immigrants in uniform to help frontline
commanders operate in Afghanistan and Iraq. In a promotional video from 2008, an
Army officer said the program -- known as 09 Lima, after the Army designation
for interpreter jobs -- ''saves both American and local lives.''

Having Muslims in uniform also helped the military combat the view propagated by
Al Qaeda -- but also held by many Muslims -- that the United States was at war
with Islam. Perhaps for that reason, the Army chief of staff at the time, Gen.
George W. Casey Jr., strongly defended the need for Muslim troops and warned
about harassment of them after Major Hasan was arrested.

Despite the general's pleas, however, Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou say
they were swept into a tide of suspicion after the Fort Hood shootings, which
occurred midway through their Fort Jackson training.

Treated with dignity during the first half of their training, they say other
soldiers ransacked their bunk room and called them ''garbage'' soon after the
shootings. When he was initially detained at Fort Jackson in 2009, Specialist
Lyaacoubi said an interrogator told him: ''We are at war with Islam. And you are
Muslim.''

Mikey Weinstein, president and founder of the Military Religious Freedom
Foundation, a nonprofit group representing the two soldiers, said his group had
seen a steady increase in Muslim clients who claimed they had been discriminated
against since Fort Hood. He called the Army's Fort Jackson investigation
''draconian and clearly unconstitutional.''

In recent days, the Army has begun acknowledging problems with the way it
handled the soldiers at Fort Jackson. An internal review that has not been made
public found that they were treated in an ''overly restrictive'' way because
they were not allowed to contact anyone for weeks. But the review did not find
evidence of racism or harassment, Maj. Gen. Stephen R. Lanza, the Army's chief
spokesman, said in a letter.

General Lanza defended the Army investigation, even though it came up empty.
''To not do so -- had these alleged threats turned out to be credible, and in
light of the Fort Hood shooting incident that took place mere weeks before these
allegations -- would have been an unconscionable dereliction of duty and
leadership on our part,'' he wrote.

But the Army has been unable to explain why the F.B.I. continues to investigate
the men. The F.B.I. declined to comment because the case is continuing.

Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou say the F.B.I. got in touch with them after
they started going public with their stories recently. Both say that an agent
said their cases could be closed if they passed polygraph tests.

''I will take 10, 20 or 30, if it will help,'' said Specialist Lyaacoubi, who
has taken the test.

Both men remain part of a National Guard unit in Washington, D.C. But they have
not been allowed to train with their company since the investigation began.

In what they consider another sign of government harassment, both men say they
have been searched repeatedly after routine traffic stops. Specialist Bahammou,
27, said he was handcuffed by the Washington police for more than 30 minutes
while they searched his car recently. ''I never had a ticket before,'' he said.

The other three Moroccan immigrants investigated at Fort Jackson were also
cleared by the Army, records show. One has returned to Morocco, Specialist
Lyaacoubi said, while the other two have declined to speak publicly about the
case.

Though graduates of the 09 Lima program are eligible for expedited citizenship,
Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou say that is not the reason they enlisted.
Both won green cards in lotteries in Morocco, allowing them to live and work
legally in the United States and which must be renewed after 10 years.

Specialist Lyaacoubi immigrated in 2004; Specialist Bahammou, who comes from
Casablanca, arrived in 2007.

The men say they enlisted mainly for economic reasons. Specialist Lyaacoubi,
from Rabat, the Moroccan capital, had been laid off from a hotel job when a
recruiter told him about the 09 Lima program. He in turn persuaded Specialist
Bahammou, who hoped military experience would help him get work in law
enforcement.

Since returning to their homes in the Washington area last year, the men say
they have had trouble finding permanent jobs. Specialist Bahammou said he had
applied for work as a security guard but could not get a concealed-weapon permit
because of the F.B.I. investigation. Specialist Lyaacoubi said a good job offer
was recently rescinded when the employer, a government contractor, learned he
was not a citizen. His naturalization, which he said had been approved, is
halted for now because of the investigation.

Both men said they would deploy to Iraq if given the opportunity.

''I lived in my country for 27 years and I did great,'' Specialist Lyaacoubi
said. ''But why should I leave America? I want to live here, I want to get
married here. I want to die here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Specialists Khalid Lyaacoubi, left, and Yassine Bahammou of the
Army National Guard were recruited to be interpreters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN
SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

She Calls It Art. They Call It, Well, Life.

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1148 words


Tania Bruguera has eaten dirt, hung a dead lamb from her neck and served trays
of cocaine to a gallery audience, all in the name of art. She has shown her work
at the Venice Biennale, been feted at the Pompidou Center in Paris and landed a
Guggenheim fellowship.

But now she is sharing a tiny apartment in Corona, Queens, with five illegal
immigrants and their six children, including a newborn, while scraping by on the
minimum wage, without health insurance.

She has not fallen on hard times. Ms. Bruguera is performing a yearlong art
piece meant to improve the image of immigrants and highlight their plight. And
she is bringing her high-concept brand of provocation to a low-wattage precinct
of taco stands and auto-body shops, where the neighbors have responded with
varying degrees of curiosity, amusement and befuddlement.

''She's an artist? I didn't know that,'' said J. P. Jimenez, a salesman at
Metropolitan Lumber and Hardware on Roosevelt Avenue, opposite the storefront
Ms. Bruguera opened last month. ''I don't see nobody going in with paintings.''

Ms. Bruguera (pronounced brew-GAIR-a) has turned the space, a former beauty
supply store, into the headquarters for her new advocacy group-cum-art project,
Immigrant Movement International, using about $85,000 from Creative Time, a
nonprofit arts group, and the Queens Museum of Art.

She seeks to blend politics and art to empower immigrants through English
classes, legal help and impromptu performances. She has held workshops to write
slogans -- like ''I am today what your grandparents were yesterday'' -- that she
plans to print on bumper stickers and T-shirts. And she intends to live like her
working-class Latino neighbors; she has vowed not to tap her credit cards,
personal bank account or assistants in Italy and Cuba.

''I don't want to hear things in the office -- I want to live them,'' said Ms.
Bruguera, 43, who is from Cuba but spent the last year in Paris. ''I want to
have the anxiety.''

She added, ''Those are things I have to feel on my skin.''

She has already learned a thing or two. After finding her apartment and
roommates in January through a flier on the street, she was surprised that the
local gym did not offer yoga. The apartment had no heat through the winter, and
her minimum-wage salary, which she wrote into the project description, offers
little leeway.

''One week I saved $8,'' she said, standing in her spartan bedroom, which can
barely fit the dresser she found on the street.

Her roommates, especially an out-of-work Ecuadorean laborer, do not know what to
make of her. ''I explained to them four times what I'm doing already,'' she
said. ''They don't get it. They're not very excited.''

But people have begun trickling into the storefront. They ask for English
classes, jobs and legal help -- services outside her training. ''They don't want
any art at all,'' Ms. Bruguera said. They want ''very concrete and mundane
things,'' she said. ''This is what their life is.''

She plans to address those needs -- with a twist. Artists will teach English
''in a more creative way, where people can learn English but also learn about
themselves,'' Ms. Bruguera said. A lawyer will offer advice informed by artists,
who ''are very good at looking at loopholes and seeing where the system has a
failure.''

If it all sounds a bit vague, Ms. Bruguera means it to be.

She wants immigrants to shape her work by telling her what they want to achieve
here. ''You work with people's hope,'' she said. ''That's the material of my
work.''

The project has skeptics. Some see her as an artistic carpetbagger; before
moving to Queens, she had never visited the borough, except for her own shows at
MoMA PS1. Others say that her plans for social change sound naive, and that her
unusual living arrangement can be dismissed as a stunt.

''Being able to hit the eject button at any time changes the experience in a
dramatic way,'' said Andrew Friedman, co-executive director of Make the Road New
York, an immigrant advocacy group in Queens. ''I tend to be kind of allergic to
the heroics of it.''

Still, Mr. Friedman's group has sent immigrants to Ms. Bruguera's workshops, and
he, like some other critics, respects her passion. Ms. Bruguera contends that
commuting from Manhattan would have felt artificial, and that the Corona
apartment has allowed her to experience immigrant life viscerally.

Besides, she said: ''Do I care what people think? Nothing I've done is popular
at the moment. Later, everyone says it's great.''

She has financing for one year, but hopes to extend it.

Nato Thompson, Creative Time's chief curator, called her ''a rare artist'' whom
he was thrilled to have working in New York. ''There are so many parts of this
project which defy typical art rules, which we enjoy,'' he said.

The daughter of a Cuban diplomat and an English translator, Ms. Bruguera grew up
amid the revolution's promises and problems. She began splitting her time
between Havana and Chicago in 1997, and taught art at the University of Chicago
from 2003 to 2010.

In conversation, she toggles between Spanish and English, tossing off the koans
of a conceptual artist. A favorite line: ''I don't like art that points at a
thing. I like art that is the thing.''

Her work has long had a political bent. One piece in Cuba had visitors walk over
rotting sugar cane husks while naked men stood before a video screen showing
Fidel Castro; in another, a security guard in a Miami gallery quizzed visitors
about plots to assassinate President Obama.

In Queens, some residents have caught on. Aida Sehovic, a Bosnian immigrant who
lives in Astoria, attended a recent workshop eager to dive into Ms. Bruguera's
whirlpool.

''Immigrants in this city usually only relate to art when they're custodians at
museums,'' Ms. Sehovic, 34, said. ''This project flips that, where the
immigrants become active participants.''

On a recent Sunday, three dozen young people from places like Jamaica, Russia
and Mexico gathered at the storefront before taking the subway to a workers'
rights rally in Manhattan. But Ms. Bruguera was most excited for the commute on
the No. 7 train, which she planned to turn into her theater.

For the performance, each volunteer was to sit next to a stranger and recount
his or her immigrant experience.

As the train hurtled above the Queens streets, the show began. Ms. Sehovic and a
dapper Armenian man riding to Times Square shared stories of horrors in their
homelands, but then shifted sharply into a debate about illegal immigrants.

''If you are illegal, you have no rights!'' the man shouted. Ms. Sehovic argued
for compassion, but the man shook his head. ''This is a country of laws.
Otherwise it is a jungle!''

Ms. Bruguera watched the exchange. She left the man in his three-piece suit,
holding a sticker that read, ''Everyone is an immigrant at some point.''

Exiting the train, she smiled and said, ''This is exactly what I wanted.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'THE BURDEN OF GUILT' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEO DE BELLAS ARTES,
CARACAS, VENEZUELA)
'VIGILANTES: THE DREAM OF REASON': The artist Tania Bruguera in three of her
works. She is now living in a Corona, Queens, apartment with several illegal
immigrants, to draw attention to immigrants' plight. A slide show is at
nytimes.com/nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE ARTIST)
'STUDIO STUDY' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CENTRO WIFREDO LAM)
Ms. Bruguera at a Manhattan rally of Immigrant Movement International, her
advocacy group and arts project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A20)
  The headquarters of Tania Bruguera's advocacy group, Immigration Movement
International, in Corona, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A23)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

How the Other Half Lives, Still

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 312 words


At the Lower East Side Tenement Museum in Manhattan, visitors can view
meticulously recreated moments in the lives of the immigrant families who lived
there, like the Moores of Ireland. Their dark, stifling apartment sits ready for
the wake of a baby girl, dead of malnutrition. This was in the 1870s, when
America's newcomers struggled mightily against poverty and isolation.

They still do. New immigrants crowd into derelict apartments. Parents toil,
children suffer. But while most of the last centuries' newcomers were Americans
in the making, many today have no way to naturalize. They live in the shadows,
so their American-born children do, too.

''Immigrants Raising Citizens,'' a study by a Harvard education professor,
Hirokazu Yoshikawa, followed nearly 400 of these young children in New York
City. It found that while mothers and fathers showed great effort and ingenuity
in trying to provide for their children, the children have paid a steep price
for their parents' precarious lives.

Depression, anxiety and crushing work schedules, plus the stress and discomfort
of crowded apartments, make it hard for parents to provide adequate nurturing.
Fear of deportation and lack of information keep parents from enrolling children
in government programs that offer help with nutrition, child care and early
education. From the start, the children's development suffers. Their reading and
language skills lag. These early results bode poorly for their future academic
and job success.

If conditions are this bad in New York City, with its array of social services
and nonprofit organizations, what would he have found in Arizona or Texas or
other places where immigrants are pushed ever farther into the shadows?
Professor Yoshikawa estimates that four million preschool-age children of
immigrants are American citizens. Their hindered development will haunt this
country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 171 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Plan to Upgrade a New Jersey Jail Into a Model for Immigrant Detention Centers

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1405 words


For officials of Essex County, N.J., it promises to be a potential moneymaker in
struggling Newark: a proposed upgrading and extension of the county jail so it
would hold hundreds more immigrants than it does now.

For the Obama administration, the plan offers the possibility of something far
more sweeping: one of the first publicly visible results of its strategy to
overhaul the way the government detains immigrants accused of violating the law.

Federal officials say the county's proposal, which they have tentatively
approved, would provide a less penal setting for such detainees, with improved
medical care, amenities and federal oversight -- the template for a new kind of
detention center they intend to create around the country by renovating existing
centers, building new ones and closing others.

As the government has locked up a growing number of immigrants in recent years,
it has patched together a loose network of county jails and private detention
centers, some of which have come under fire for abuse, substandard living
conditions and even detainee deaths.

The Newark project, officials say, would also help alleviate a shortage of beds
at detention centers in the New York region that has forced the transfer of many
detainees to other parts of the country, far from their families and their
lawyers, and driven up expenses. The expanded detention center would hold as
many as 2,750 immigrants -- 1,750 more than it does now -- increasing the number
of detainee beds in and around the region by as much as 60 percent, federal
officials said.

Officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the division of the
Department of Homeland Security that runs the detention system, say they have
chosen Essex County's proposal over three other submissions from the region. The
deal is still subject to final approval by federal authorities; negotiations
between the authorities and county officials are expected to take at least three
more months.

The project is the only one under consideration in the immigrant detention
network in the Northeast. Just one other program in the country is as far
advanced: The immigration agency signed a contract last month with Karnes
County, Tex., for a 600-bed minimum-security center to house male detainees.
Federal officials have also signaled their intent to expand or build centers in
or near Miami, Atlanta, Chicago and San Francisco.

Immigration officials are saying little about the Newark proposal, citing the
sensitivity of negotiations. But in a statement this month, the agency called
the Karnes County agreement ''a significant milestone'' in its effort to improve
the detention system.

Federal and Essex County officials would not disclose the Newark project's
projected cost; the immigration agency said the responsibility to finance it
would rest with the county. In turn, the federal government would pay for each
inmate housed. It currently pays the county $105 per day for each immigrant in
its jail, the Essex County Correctional Facility, in an industrial section of
northeast Newark.

Such arrangements have not always worked out well for local governments. In
Central Falls, R.I., a for-profit detention center built by a municipal
corporation has struggled financially; federal officials removed all of its
immigrant detainees in 2008 after the death of a New York man who they said had
been abused and denied medical care.

Moved in part by events like that, the Obama administration announced in August
2009 that it would overhaul the immigration detention system. Among other
things, the plan seeks to establish more centralized authority over the system
and improve living conditions by renovating centers designed for penal detention
to make them more appropriate for detainees facing deportation.

To that end, federal officials said in a statement this month, the Essex County
project would feature amenities including new medical facilities, ample indoor
and outdoor communal areas, enhanced social programs, ''easy access'' to legal
services and ''abundant natural light.'' An immigration official on the premises
would provide oversight, officials said. The jail would also provide higher
security for detainees considered violent or at high risk of escape.

The administration's detention overhaul also seeks to improve the system's
efficiency by increasing the number of beds near big cities where the nation's
immigrant populations are concentrated.

Federal immigration officials have said they expect demand for bed space in
jails around the country to increase in coming months and years, in part because
of Secure Communities, a new enforcement program that has already contributed to
a surge in deportations. The program, which allows federal officers to check the
immigration status of everyone booked into a local or county jail, is being
rolled out state by state and is expected to be in place across the country by
2013.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement now has space for about 33,000 detainees at
a time, spread out across about 260 detention centers nationwide, down from as
many as 370 before the proposed changes were announced. Immigration officials
said they had closed centers that were rarely used or failed to meet the
agency's standards.

In the region overseen by the agency's field offices in New York City, Newark
and Philadelphia -- an area that includes southern New York State, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Delaware -- current demand is more than 3,400
beds per day, well over the capacity of 2,850 beds spread across 20 detention
centers, federal officials said. Because of this shortfall, about 4,800
detainees are transferred out of the region every year, some sent as far away as
Texas, slowing the deportation process by about two weeks in each case,
officials said.

Essex County can hold up to 1,000 immigrants in its jail and in a neighboring
residential building used to prepare convicts for re-entry into society, though
the county usually holds fewer than half that number. The new project, county
and federal officials said, would add at least 1,250 beds, and as many as 1,750,
by improving those buildings and constructing another nearby.

Federal officials said that they had no immediate plans to close any detention
centers in the region, but that the system would be continually evaluated as the
Secure Communities program got under way throughout the country.

Some immigrant advocates and civil libertarians who have criticized the
detention system said the improvements proposed for the Essex County jail were
long overdue.

In April, the county's handling of detainees was assailed in a report by three
advocacy groups that examined federal detention centers in New Jersey and
declared them ''a complete failure.'' Among other grievances, detainees in
Newark complained of delays of up to two weeks to receive medical care and
medicine, insufficient food served in ''unsanitary conditions,'' and a scarcity
of soap and toilet paper. They also told of verbally abusive guards and long
wait times for visitors to see detainees, said the report, by the Immigrant
Rights Clinic at the New York University School of Law.

Amy Gottlieb is the director of the Immigrant Rights Program at the American
Friends Service Committee, a Quaker organization that collaborated on the report
and provides legal representation to the jail's detainees. She said she had not
heard any complaints from the Newark jail for several months.

''But that doesn't mean they're not happening,'' she added. ''There's always
this trepidation because of the history of the facility.''

Nancy Morawetz, an N.Y.U. law professor who leads the rights clinic, said the
revamping of the detention system and the improvements proposed for Essex County
were ''laudable goals.'' But she said she remained concerned about the
government's criteria for detaining people and was convinced that far fewer
immigrants needed to be locked up.

''The unnecessary detention of people causes an enormous amount of hardship,''
Ms. Morawetz said.

As part of the system's improvements, the Obama administration has promised a
greater use of alternatives to detention, like community supervision. Federal
officials said the immigration agency was still evaluating how best to expand
that program.

Still, they said that detention centers would remain the foundation of an
elastic system that would change and shift as the government clamped down on
illegal immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A proposal calls for upgrading the Essex County Correctional
Facility, a plan which could provide a less penal setting, with improved medical
care and amenities, for immigrant detainees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
