
                               1 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS LEAVE THE SHADOWS AS YEAR OF AMNESTY DAWNS

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words


Thousands of illegal aliens stepped out of the shadows yesterday, lining up at
Government centers around the country to apply for legal status under the new
immigration law.

In New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and other major cities, small groups of aliens
began lining up before dawn at new legalization centers, which opened for
business at 8 A.M. and will continue taking applications for amnesty until May
4, 1988.

''I want to be the first,'' said Isabel Isamit, a 74-year-old native of
Santiago, Chile, who has been living in Chicago since 1969 and arrived at one of
that city's 15 legalization centers at 3 A.M. yesterday.

At a legalization center in Long Island City, Queens, Reshad Lata and his wife
produced income tax returns, gas bills and an apartment lease to show that they
had lived in Brooklyn since 1981.

Chance for a Reunion

For the Latas, the amnesty program means a chance to reunite their entire
family. One of the Lata children, who is 5 years old, was born in New York City,
and has American citizenship. But another child, now 7, was left behind when
they moved to Brooklyn from Yugoslavia in 1981 and has been living with Mr.
Lata's parents.

''He doesn't know us,'' said Mr. Lata, a security guard, whose status as an
illegal alien had prevented him from bringing the older child to New York. If
his application for amnesty is approved, however, he said he hopes to reunite
his family within 18 months.

Government officials had been scrambling under tight deadlines to staff, equip
and open the legalization centers on time. And when they opened yesterday, most
of the centers operated in an atmosphere of uncrowded calm.

''The Government is more than prepared for this program,'' said Alan C. Nelson,
the Commissioner of the Immigration Service, who attended the opening on West
24th Street of one of the New York City legalization centers. ''Given six months
to get ready, we have accomplished an amazing task.''

Only 173 Apply in New York

Still, the number of people applying for amnesty on the first day of the program
fell far short of the crush that some had expected. In New York, for example,
where the new centers are equipped to process 1,150 applications a day, only 173
applicants turned up. Officials attributed the light turnout nationally to a
reluctance among many illegal aliens to identify themselves to the Immigration
Service, even if they are qualified for amnesty and resident status.

Although uncrowded, many of the the legalization centers took on an atmosphere
of shared optimism.

''I will never be afraid again,'' said Shakia Hydri, a Chicago bartender, came
to the United States from Pakistan in 1977, and who presented immigration
officials in Chicago with his documents yesterday. ''We are in a free country -
with all its benefits.''

The amnesty program is also a family matter for Maquel Morales, a native of the
Dominican Republic who moved to New York in 1978. A cook at a Manhattan
restaurant, Mr. Morales said he and his wife have been in court five times since
1980 to appeal a deportation order, even though two of their children were born
in the United States and are citizens.

Looking for a Photographer

As he was awaiting an interview with Immigration Service officials, Mr. Morales
spoke for a moment of the Dominican Republic. ''My kids are Americans,'' he
said. ''How could I take them back?''

And in New Jersey, where dozens of aliens showed up at a legalization center in
Paterson, Chac Boi Kwan, a 32-year-old native of Vietnam, was less well prepared
than most. After arriving at 8 A.M., he realized he had forgotten to bring a
photograph of himself, as required, and had to scramble to find a photographer.

''Despite this, I feel pretty good,'' said Mr. Kwan, who works as an actuary. He
finally found a photography shop that opened hours after he arrived at the
Paterson Center.

Amnesty ''will make life easier for me,'' he added. He said legal status will
help him in his career and allow him to visit his mother, who lives in Hong
Kong, without fears of violating the immigration laws.

Short Lines in West

In San Francisco, where the turnout of amnesty applicants was light and orderly,
100 demonstrators, many of them associated with immigrant rights groups, marched
in front of the Immigration Service offices to protest the new law, which they
said unfairly discriminates against aliens who arrived in the United States
since 1982. In that city's Mission District, a largely Hispanic neighborhood,
the waiting area in a newly opened processing center was half empty.

Chicago's legalization centers began emptying out at mid-day.

In Los Angeles, where officials say there are more illegal aliens than in any
other city, the lines at 15 new legalization centers were short or nonexistent.

''There is going to be a need for trust building,'' said Muzaffar Chisti,
director of the Immigration Project of the International Ladies Garment Workers
Union in New York. He added that illegal aliens ''distrust the system, and they
are not going to take a chance the first day.''

Number Expected to Grow

The amnesty program, signed into law by President Reagan last November, provides
legal status to aliens who are able to demonstrate that they have been living in
the United States since Jan. 1, 1982.

Some New York officials said they were not surprised by the light first-day
turnout because neither the illegal aliens nor a host of nonprofit groups that
are guiding them through the application process have had sufficient time to
gear up.

''We expect the number of people being processed to increase very soon,'' said
Charles C. Sava, director of the Immigration Service's New York District.

Indeed, the level of activity yesterday was more hectic at churches, union
offices and other nonprofit centers around the country that have established
programs to counsel aliens on their rights, help them collect documents, and
guide them through the amnesty process.

Scores of Telephone Calls

At the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, which has been assisting its
members and their families throughout the nation, Mr. Chisti said more than 100
phone calls were coming in each hour from aliens seeking information about the
new immigration law. ''We're going crazy over here,'' he said.

And at an office set up last month by the Congress of Racial Equality in
Brooklyn, volunteer workers said more than 150 aliens walked in yesterday to
seek advice and assistance, far more than any previous day.

''At this point, we are the ones feeling the crush,'' said George Holmes, a CORE
official. ''As word of the program spreads, and as the aliens get their
documents together, the INS will have a crush of its own.''

But some officials who have been counseling aliens said their fears of the
Immigration service are difficult to break down, and the amnesty program is
unlikely to attract anywhere close to the 3.9 people the Government estimates
have been living illegally in the United States since January 1982 and may
qualify for legal status.

''It's the kind of thing where one mistake might take years to correct,'' said
Mary To, a director of a counseling center run by the International Institute of
Los Angeles. She added that illegal aliens ''are in no rush'' to step forward.

Among those who applied yesterday, many had looking forward to the amnesty
program for months. Most were interviewed briefly by Immigration Service
officials, and presented the officials with stacks of rent reciepts, medical
bills, pay check records, and other documents necessary to prove that they
qualify for legal status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Isabel Isamit (NYT); photo of aliens checking their amnesty
applications (NYT/Steve Kagan); photo of a lawyer explaining forms to Chinese
applicants (NYT/John Sotomayor)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

4 Are Cited in Jail Disturbance

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 18, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 8


Four Jamaicans were blamed for initiating a four-hour disturbance involving 100
illegal aliens at a Federal detention center, immigration officials said today.

An officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service suffered internal
bleeding as inmates set mattresses on fire and fought with guards Friday night
at the Krome Avenue Detention Center, said Richard Smith, regional deputy
director for the immigration service. The officer, Julio Velez, was flown to
Jackson Memorial Hospital for treatment and later released.

''It started with a lot of screaming and hollering, which we normally ignore,''
Mr. Smith said. ''But when they started turning over beds and wadding up
blankets and setting them on fire, we had to move in.''

Guards in riot gear placed the Jamaicans in separate cells in an isolation ward,
he said. The center was holding about 315 illegal aliens scheduled for
deportation.

The disturbance occurred in a second-floor barracks just after 9 P.M. Friday
when the four men tried to incite their cellmates to riot, he said.

''Eventually, they were taking mattresses and trying to start a fire,'' he said.
''Four officers went in and were in the process of putting out the fire when
they jumped our officers, who were able to back out of the living quarters and
lock the door.''

The disturbance grew when the detainees were separated, and 36 additional
officers were called in from the Border Patrol and Metro-Dade police to bolster
the force of 35 officers at the center.

The inmates were asked to leave the area voluntarily, Mr. Smith said. ''We had
identified the instigators at that point, and we let the others leave.''

The situation was under control by 1:15 A.M. this morning, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 9, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Ground Broken in Louisiana For Jail for Cuban Criminals

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La.


The new Federal Detention Center for illegal aliens here will soon have an
addition, an outgrowth of the nation's new immigration law.

The detention center, in central Louisiana's piney woods, opened in early 1986
as a jail for 1,000 aliens, a processing center for asylum seekers and an
expulsion point. But late last year officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service made it a center specifically for Cuban aliens with
criminal records.

In early October, just down a dusty road from the $17.5 million center, ground
was broken for the $7.5 million adjunct, which will hold 326 aliens with
criminal records. Construction is expected to begin next spring.

The Oakdale detention center is the nation's largest built solely to house
illegal aliens and the first built to be run jointly by the Federal Bureau of
Prisons and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The center, surrounded by a 12-foot fence layered with razor-sharp wire, is
situated on a 300-acre tract of land in this community of 7,000 people. It costs
almost $10 million a year to operate, according to Ray Rowe, an associate warden
at Oakdale.

The smaller addition, Oakdale II, along with a $7.5 million center planned for
San Pedro, Calif., are being built as a result of the new immigration law, said
Leonard E. Rowland, an Oakdale official.

A Danger to Society

Mr. Rowland said that because the law, which provides for penalties for
employers who hire illegal aliens, has made many aliens go home, immigration
officials can now ''concentrate on criminal aliens.''

These are illegal aliens from various countries who have completed sentences for
crimes committed in the United States and are subject to deportation. The 981
Cubans now in Oakdale are in this status, but they have been refused re-entry to
Cuba by its leader, Fidel Castro. They were among 125,000 Cubans who came to
this country from Mariel in the 1980 boatlift Their crimes ranged from illegal
use of credit cards to manslaughter. ''The majority are drug crimes,'' Mr.
Rowland said.

About 7,000 Cubans who came in the Mariel boatlift are still in prisons or jails
throughout the United States, a spokesman for the immigration service said. Half
of them have completed their criminal sentences and the rest or serving
sentences or are awaiting trial.

Arthur C. Helton, a lawyer who was involved in a lawsuit against the Oakdale
center, is also critical of the addition. Mr. Helton, director of the political
asylum project of the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights, said, ''It's
something we look at with trepidation because in our experience immigration
authoritities detain up to the capacity of their prisons and that has meant the
detention of thousands of innocent asylum seekers.''

'May Need to Challenge It'

He said, ''We're watching the situation carefully and may need to challenge it
in Congress or in the courts.'' The lawsuit against Oakdale had sought to stop
it on the ground that the remote cite would interfere with the aliens' right to
counsel. There are few lawyers in the area and the center is three and a half
hours by automobile from New Orleans and from Houston. The suit was dismissed as
premature. The Rev. Roy Bourgeois, a Roman Catholic, was among American citizens
serving out Federal sentences at the center by working there. In a recent
interview, Father Bourgeois, whose nine-month sentence was for trespassing on
Federal property in a protest against aid to the Nicaraguan rebels, described
the Cubans as ''an abandoned voiceless people,'' treated well physically but
''psychologically tortured'' by Government policy ''which says we will detain
these Cubans indefinitely.''

Since late 1986, when the Cubans went to Oakdale, more than 305 have been sent
to halfway houses operated by the Justice Department and by the Public Health
Service. Mr. Rowland said a candidate for a halfway house must show he can
behave reasonably in a less organized environment.

''Because most have felony convictions,'' he said, ''very few will become lawful
residents of the U.S. and an even smaller number will become citizens. The
majority will spend their lives as parolees.''

Mr. Rowe, the associate warden, said the center worked well as a transition
point for moving Cubans ''into the community.'' He said, ''The only thing that
slows us up is the shortage of halfway houses.''

As for the community's reaction to the center, Patricia Jones, editor of The
Oakdale Journal, said residents were generally pleased because of the number of
jobs it had brought. ''I forget it's there,'' she said. ''I see someone in a
khaki uniform and I remember, 'oh yes, we have a detention center.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 10, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
The headline of a dispatch from Oakdale, La., yesterday about the Federal
Detention Center there misstated the reason for the center's expansion. The
additional space will be used for aliens from countries other than Cuba who have
criminal records.

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 25, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. MODIFIES RULES ON WORKER STATUS OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 24


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it had proposed, in
effect, to allow illegal aliens to work in this country through Sept. 1.

The agency said it would notify employers that it did not plan to impose
sanctions on those who employed illegal aliens through Sept. 1 if the aliens
assured employers that they expected to be granted legal status under the
nation's new immigration law.

The sweeping new law prohibits the hiring of illegal aliens as of last Nov. 6,
and authorizes penalties against employers who violate that provision after June
1. The law also offers legal status to aliens who have continuously lived in the
United States since Jan. 1, 1982. Aliens can apply for legal status beginning
May 5.

Settlement of Lawsuit

The agency's proposal was outlined in regulations issued last week and in a
settlement of a lawsuit signed Monday in Federal District Court in Sacramento,
Robert L. Bombaugh, a Justice Department lawyer representing the immigration
agency, said today.

Spokesmen for an immigrant rights group hailed the court agreement as a major
victory and said it would avert the dismissal of hundreds of thousands of
illegal aliens by employers who feared they would be penalized under the
immigration law approved by Congress last fall.

But Mr. Bombaugh said the court settlement merely reflected the proposed
regulations issued last week by the agency.

Fines Range Up to $10,000

''We think this should reverse the trend of employers firing many of their
workers to avoid sanctions,'' said Peter Schey, director of the National Center
for Immigration Rights Inc., of Los Angeles, which had brought the suit against
the immigration agency.

Under provisions of the law effective June 1, employers can be subject to fines
ranging from $250 to as much a $10,000 for habitually hiring illegal aliens.

The suit sought an order requiring the agency to allow illegal aliens to remain
working in this country while their legal status was being decided. The new law
states that aliens who make a plausible application for legal status ''shall be
granted authorization'' to work and may not be deported.

Agreement in Sacramento

In the agreement signed Monday by Lawrence K. Karlton, chief judge of the
Federal District Court for the Eastern District, in Sacramento, the immigration
agency agreed to notify employers that they would not be subject to sanctions
under the proposed new rule through Sept. 1 if employees signed a statement that
they intended to seek and were qualified for legal status under the new law. The
notification is to be made through the Federal Register, a Government
publication, and the printing of 500,000 pamphlets to be distributed to
employers.

In an interview, Mr. Schey depicted the agreement as a significant legal victory
for his organization.

But Mr. Bombaugh, the Justice Department lawyer, disputed this characterization
of the agreement, saying it was similar to the draft regulations issued by the
agency last week. The public has until April 20 to file comments on the proposed
rules, which may be issued in final form early in May.

An 'Administrative Nightmare'

The rules were proposed, Mr. Bombaugh said, to avoid having to process millions
of applications for temporary work permits for aliens at the same time the
agency was undertaking the enormous task of determining which aliens were
qualified to remain legally in the United States under provisions of the new
law.

He said, ''What we have done, in effect, is this: The service, facing the
administrative nightmare of anticipating up to five million applications for
temporary work authorizations, has in effect granted blanket authority'' for
illegal aliens to work in this country through Sept. 1.

Mr. Bombaugh, the Government lawyer who handles litigation stemming from the new
law, denied ''emphatically'' that the agency had agreed to grant temporary de
facto legitimacy to the employment status of illegal aliens because of the
lawsuit filed here and similar actions brought against the agency in Houston and
Phoenix.

''We faced what could have been a colossal administrative problem,'' he said,
adding that the court settlement pertained only to the wording of the pamphlet
to be distributed to employers and a companion notice in the Federal Register,
not to the regulations themselves.

Widespread Cheating Feared

Some officials in the immigration agency said the decision to allow workers to
sign statements saying they were eligible to remain in the United States under
provisions of the law would probably lead to widespread cheating. But Mr.
Bombaugh said the statements would have no import when the agency ultimately
determined whether the workers were eligible to remain in this country legally.

Mr. Schey of the National Center for Immigrants' Rights, which had joined in
bringing the lawsuit in Sacramento by the American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations, the United Farm Workers and several
religious groups, asserted that the agency would not have made it so easy for
aliens to continue working if it had not faced a legal challenge.

''We anticipate that more than one million immigrants who qualify for
legalization will take advantage of the self-issuing work permit procedure,''
Mr. Schey said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 24, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TO FOCUS ON MAJOR COMPANIES ON CURB ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23


The Reagan Administration said today that it would focus on ''Fortune 500-type
companies'' in enforcing a new law that prohibits employers from hiring illegal
aliens.

At the same time, Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d named more than 200 religious,
civic and community groups to help the Government screen applications from
illegal aliens seeking legal status under the new immigration law. On May 5 the
Immigration and Naturalization Service will begin accepting applications from
illegal aliens.

Immigration officials said that families of illegal aliens might be split up as
a result of decisions on their applications for legal status. For example, the
Government might grant legal status to a man who arrived in the United States in
1981, but deny applications from his wife and children if they arrived in 1983.
In practice, the officials acknowledged, some of the illegal aliens who do not
qualify for legal status might remain in the country.

The new law prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens, but offers legal
status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can prove that they entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since then.

The Government has rejected for the time being suggestions that the illegal
aliens undergo blood tests to determine if they have been infected with the AIDS
virus. They must undergo medical examinations. The Public Health Service is
considering a proposal to add AIDS to a list of ''dangerous contagious
diseases'' for which aliens can be be kept out of the United States.

In enforcing the new ban on hiring illegal aliens, the Goverment will focus on
big employers. Raymond M. Kisor, Associate Commissioner of the immigration
service, said, ''We will have a nationwide program that will be consistent,
going to work with the Fortune 500-type companies, spending the majority of our
time there, and then trickling on down with our resources'' to smaller
companies.

Mr. Kisor said the Government would look for ''good-faith efforts at
compliance'' by employers. But he said, ''When there is wanton disregard of the
law, when there is evidence of fraud, when there is an absence of record-keeping
on a repeated basis, sanctions will be imposed.''

Fines of Up to $10,000

Employers are subject to civil penalties of $250 to $10,000 for each illegal
alien hired, depending on the number of prior violations.

A Justice Department lawyer, Mary E. Mann, was named by President Reagan to
serve temporarily as head of a new office that will investigate complaints of
discrimination based on citizenship status or national origin. Under the law,
employers with four or more workers may not discriminate against legal aliens
because of their citizenship status.

In applying for legal status, aliens may submit applications to the private
groups named by Mr. Meese or to any of 107 special offices to be opened by the
immigration service.

Members of Congress, knowing that illegal aliens might be afraid to deal
directly with the Government, authorized the Attorney General to enlist the help
of private organizations, which will serve as a buffer between the Government
and the aliens.

The organizations designated for this purpose include the United States Catholic
Conference, the social action arm of the Roman Catholic Church; Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Services; the American Council for Nationalities
Service, a refugee resettlement agency; the Presiding Bishop's Fund for World
Relief, an arm of the Episcopal Church; the Martin Luther King Jr. Farm Workers
Fund, and the International Ladies Garment Workers Union.

About 4 Million Applications

Altogether, the Government expects to receive 3.9 million to 4 million
applications from illegal aliens, about half of them coming through the private
agencies. Immigration officials said the private groups had more than 440
offices around the country.

Immigration officials have said the new law appears already to be deterring
illegal immigration. From October 1986 through March 1987, the Government caught
561,592 illegal aliens near the Mexican border, a decline of 21 percent from the
number apprehended in the comparable period of 1985-86.

Under the program, illegal aliens may become lawful temporary residents of the
United States. After 18 months in that status, they may apply for permanent
residence. After five years as permanent residents, they may apply for United
States citizenship.

Under current law, permanent resident aliens can file petitions with the
Government to obtain visas permitting a spouse or unmarried child to immigrate
to the United States. But there may be a wait of 14 months or more until the
visa is granted because the number of visas is limited by a quota. Illegal
aliens who gain legal status under the new law will not be able to file such
petitions for relatives for at least 18 months and the wait may be much longer.

Of the civic and community groups selected by the Attorney General to
participate in the program, many are local entities. These include the Florida
Fruit and Vegetable Association, the Coalition of Florida Farm Worker
Organizations, Travelers and Immigrants Aid of Chicago, Community Legal Services
of Philadelphia and the Los Angeles County Bar Association.

The immigration service said it would have several offices in the New York area
where illegal aliens could submit applications. The offices will be at 252
Seventh Avenue, at West 24th Street in Manhattan; 28-10 Queens Bridge Plaza in
Queens, and 250 Fulton Avenue, Hempstead, L.I. Similar offices will be in New
Haven, Jersey City, Camden, and Paterson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Edwin Meese 3d (AP)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 22, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

DELAY IS BACKED IN ALIEN LAW FINES

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21


The Senate, in the first attempt to change the new immigration law, tentatively
approved legislation today that would delay the enforcement of sanctions against
employers who hire illegal aliens.

The penalties against employers, which are scheduled to take effect June 1,
would be delayed to Oct. 1 under the bill, appproved by a vote of 48 to 45.

But after the vote, Senator Alan K. Simpson, a co-sponsor of the new law and an
opponent of the delay, moved to reconsider the vote next week, and there is a
possibility that the vote could be reversed.

The actual margin of victory was 47 to 46 but Mr. Simpson, in a parliamentary
maneuver, switched his vote to ''yes'' so that he could move for a second vote.
Under Senate rules, a Senator has to be on the winning side of a vote to move
for reconsideration.

The proposal to delay the sanctions for four months, which was sponsored by
Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona, was an amendment to the
supplemental appropriations bill for the fiscal year 1987.

Employer Information Delayed

In the House, there has been no concerted effort for a similar delay.

Mr. DeConcini argued that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had not yet
mailed the pamphlet describing the law and the sanctions to employers. He said
it would not get there until June 1 or later.

''We would like to ease the time and provide for a true public education time,''
he said, adding that he was not trying to undermine the law.

But Mr. Simpson, a Republican from Wyoming, said: ''This is a delay in
enforcement. Nothing more.'' He said that the immigration service had agreed not
to issue any citations or warnings to employers in the month of June because of
the phamplet delay.

Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, said that ''we're not going to get the
job done'' if we ''start backing up on our commitment.''

The law prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens and offers legal status,
or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can prove they entered the United States
before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since then.

The employer sanctions were opposed by business groups, which asserted that they
would impose heavy burdens on employers, and by Hispanic goups, which said they
would lead to an increase in discrimination in hiring.

Fines of Up to $10,000

Employers are subject to civil penalties of $250 to $10,000 for each illegal
alien hired, depending on the number of violations. The law also authorizes
criminal penalties, including six months in prison, for ''a pattern or practice
of violations'' by an employer.

Under the law, employers must ask all job applicants for documents to verify
that they are either United States citizens or aliens authorized to work in this
country.

This requirement is also scheduled to take effect on June 1, although many
employers have not received the necessary Government forms that are supposed to
be filled out for each new employee. The form indicates what documents the
employer has examined.

The sanctions for violating the paperwork requirements are civil penalties of
$100 to $1,000. These sanctions would also be delayed under the proposed
amendment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 27, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. POSTPONES FINES FOR A MONTH ON HIRING OF ILLEGAL ALIEN WORKERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26


Federal officials said today that they would generally not cite employers for
hiring illegal aliens in June because the Government had not distributed forms
needed to start enforcement of the new immigration law.

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said his
agency ''will not issue any written citations or take any other enforcement
action, beyond informational and educational activities, during the month of
June, with possible exceptions in the case of blatant violators'' who show
''wanton disregard'' for the new law.

The agency had intended to start citing violators June 1, as envisioned in the
law. But Mr. Nelson said that employers would not receive the necessary forms to
verify the citizenship status of new employees until June or early July. .

Senate Approved Delay

He said employers should voluntarily comply with the law and should ask all new
employees, including United States citizens, for documents such as passport,
driver's license or Social Security card to verify identity and eligibility to
work in this country.

The Senate last week tentatively approved a proposal to delay the start of
employer sanctions to Oct. 1. The vote was 48 to 45, and the measure will be
reconsidered Thursday. The outlook for such legislation in the House of
Representatives is unclear.

At a news conference today, Mr. Nelson emphatically opposed the four-month delay
approved by the Senate. He said that the legislation, originally proposed by
Senator Dennis DeConcini, an Arizona Democrat, ''sends a terrible message'' to
citizens of foreign countries, because it suggested that the United States was
not serious about enforcing its new law.

The law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, prohibits employers
from hiring illegal aliens. It also offers legal status, or amnesty, to illegal
aliens who can prove they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and
have lived here continuously since then.

Fines Up to $10,000

Under the law, employers are subject to civil penalties of $250 to $10,000 for
each illegal alien hired, depending on the number of prior violations. The law
also authorizes criminal penalties, including six months in prison, for an
employer who engages in ''a pattern or practice of violations.''

The law specifies that the Government shall issue a citation, or warning, but
should not impose other penalties for a first offense committed from June 1,
1987, through May 31, 1988. Any subsequent offense, in this period or later, is
subject to the full range of penalties.

Mr. Nelson, exercising what he described as ''administrative discretion,''
decreed today that enforcement of the new law would begin more gradually than
Congress intended.

He said the decision to defer penalties applied to violations of the law's
record-keeping requirements as well as to substantive violations.

The immigration service also clarified today its interpretation of the new law
with respect to household workers. In a ''handbook for employers,'' it said that
people would not have to fill out forms or verify the citizenship status of
employees who performed ''domestic work in a private home on an intermittent or
sporadic basis.'' But it said such forms must be filled out for domestic workers
who provided services ''on a regular basis,'' such as once a week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

4-MONTH DELAY IN ALIEN CURBS VOTED IN SENATE

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28


The Senate voted today to delay for four months the enforcement of new civil and
criminal sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens.

The delay, approved 47 to 43, was the first action by Congress to change the
immigration law approved last year.

One House Democrat involved in writing the law, Representative Charles E.
Schumer of Brooklyn, said the House would not agree to the delay. But a strong
lobbying effort is expected from business groups that have opposed the sanctions
and want the delay.

'The Whole Thing Could Unravel'

''The compromise which produced the new law took six years to work out and it is
delicately balanced,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''Once you change one thing, you open
the law to change other things and the whole thing could unravel.''

The Democratic leaders of the House have not decided what to do. But one
indicated that if members of the House Judiciary Committee, where the law was
written, were strongly opposed, then the leadership would also oppose the delay.

The fines and other penalties envisioned under the law are scheduled to become
effective Monday, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service said last week
that it generally would not cite employers for violations next month because of
a delay in distributing forms and information. Citations would be issued only
against employers who showed ''wanton disregard'' for the law, said Alan C.
Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization. In any case,
Congress could not achieve final approval to delay before Monday.

Supporters of the delay argued that more time was needed for education about the
new law. But opponents of the delay characterized it as an effort to avoid the
sanctions as long as possible. Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
said the four-month delay would ''send the wrong signal'' to employers and
foreigners. ''And that signal will be 'Keep coming illegally, because we're not
serious about controls,' '' Mr. Simpson said.

A spokesman for the Immigration Service said today that the Senate vote would
not change its plan for enforcing the new law. ''This does not change
anything,'' said Verne Jervis, the spokesman. ''It's only a vote in one house.
We do not consider this that significant. We are proceeding.''

The proposal, sponsored by Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona, was
offered as an amendment to the $9.6 billion supplemental appropriations bill for
the 1987 fiscal year. The Senate initially approved the delay last Thursday by a
preliminary vote of 48 to 45. Mr. Simpson, a co-sponsor of the immigration law,
moved to reconsider the vote today. He lost that vote 47 to 43, which let last
week's action stand.

The Immigration Control and Reform Act of 1986 prohibits employers from hiring
illegal aliens, but offers legal status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can
prove they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here
continuously since. The amnesty provision is not affected by the delay.

Employers would be subject to fines ranging from $250 to $10,000 for each
illegal alien hired, depending on the number of violations. The law also allows
criminal penalities, including six- month jail sentences, for ''a pattern or
practice of violations'' by an employer.

Spending Measures Considered

Under the law, the Immigration Service could issue only a warning for the first
violation between June 1, 1987, and May 31, 1988. Additional violations,
however, would be subject to penalties.

Employers must also ask all job applicants, including United States citizens,
for documents to verify their eligibility to work in this country. This
requirement would also be delayed four months under the amendment approved by
the Senate today. The Immigration Service had said it planned to delay for a
month enforcement of this provision, which provides for fines of $100 to $1,000
for violations.

In other actions on the supplemental approriations bill, which the Senate is
expected to pass Friday. the Senate rejected an effort to add $245 million in
aid for the homeless. The amendment failed after the Senate rejected, 47 to 46,
a proposal to waive the budget-balancing law's limit on 1987 spending. Sixty
votes are needed to waive the budget law.

But the Senate did agree, by a voice vote, to a $190 million increase in housing
aid for the homeless. Most of the money will not be spent until 1988 and after;
thus the measure does not run afoul of the spending limit set by the budget
balancing law.

On Wednesday night, the Senate approved a $10 million increase in aid to the
elderly. This also required a waiver of the budget law, which was approved 74 to
21.

The overall supplemental appropriation bill in the Senate has the support of the
Reagan Administration, although it adds $2.7 billion to the spending ceiling set
under the 1987 Congressional budget plan. But the $9.25 billion House version,
which was approved last month, is opposed by the Administration because it
includes restrictions on arms control policies and provides less than the
President requested for the Pentagon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
A Vote to Delay Alien Sanctions

BYLINE: By KATERINE ROBERTS, CAROLINE RAND HERRON AND MARTHA A. MILES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 232 words


Beginning tomorrow, employers who hire illegal aliens are subject to fines and
possibly even imprisonment. That's what it says on paper anyway.

Last week, Federal officials announced a one-month grace period during which
only the most ''blatant violators'' of the new Immigration Reform and Control
Act will be penalized. Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, said the delay was needed because his agency had not yet
distributed the proper paperwork. Meanwhile, the Senate decided to give
employers even more slack, voting 47 to 43 to postpone enforcement for four
months.

Businesses that oppose the act are expected to lobby hard for the moratorium in
the House. But immigration officials and supporters of the law disagreed with
contentions that employers need until October to learn how to comply.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, said such a delay would ''send
the wrong signal'' to employers and to foreigners to ''keep coming illegally,
because we're not serious about controls.'' And Representative Charles E.
Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, worried that the ''delicately balanced''
compromise that ''took six years to work out'' would unravel.

A provision offering legal status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can prove
that they have lived in the country continuously since Jan. 1, 1982, would not
be affected by the delay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 30, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

RULE ON ALIENS EASED FOR HARVEST

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it would allow
migrant farm laborers into the United States on the basis of their word that
they had worked in past harvests.

The agency previously insisted that laborers have documents to prove they had
harvested perishable crops here. But under pressure from farm groups and
lawmakers from the West and South, the agency modified its rules.

''We're saying O.K., you don't have to have full documentation but be able to
say 'I worked 90 days for the following growers,' '' said Alan C. Nelson, the
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization. He said workers would have to be
''relatively specific as to where they worked and how long.''

Beginning Wednesday, illegal aliens seeking Special Agricultural Worker status
will be able to obtain it by filling out an application at a consulate or a
border processing center of the immigration service, paying a $185 fee and
telling where and for whom they worked in past harvests.

Based on that, the workers will be given a 90-day temporary work authorization
card and will be allowed to enter the country. Once here, they must collect the
documents and turn them over to the immigration service before the 90 days
expire.

Complaints of Growers

Growers have complained that confusion over the new immigration law has kept
migrant workers home and as a result of the labor shortage, their crops are
rotting on the vine.

Last week, the immigration service agreed to let migrant workers who entered the
United States before last Friday apply for the special status at an immigration
office here, rather than go back to Mexico to apply. The previous cutoff date
was May 1.

These actions by the agency are intended to help growers get this year's crop
out of the fields while starting migrant laborers on the track to legalization.

Special agricultural status is one of the provisions of immigration law approved
by Congress last fall. It allows migrant workers to apply for temporary legal
status if they were in this country in the period from May 1985 to May 1986 and
can prove they worked in the perishable-crop industry for at least 90 days.

Mr. Nelson said some 10,000 applications for special agricultural status had
been turned in so far.

As to growers' complaints about a severe labor shortage, he said, ''There's been
some panic, which may or may not be based on reality, and some hype.'' But he
added, ''None of us wants a problem with rotting crops or a shortage of labor.''

Representative Charles Pashayan Jr., Republican of California, called the
immigration agency's concessions ''minimally acceptable.''

''We need to get those workers in American fields now,'' Mr. Pashayan said. ''If
this shortage of farm workers continues two or three more weeks, our farms will
go from a crisis to disaster.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. NOW ENFORCING LAW ON EMPLOYERS OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1612 words


Immigration officials have begun issuing citations to employers who continue to
hire illegal aliens, ushering in the most lasting and difficult part of the
nation's new immigration law.

In enforcing the law, the Federal Government is embarking on a program that has
been used with mixed results throughout the world and in a number of states.

But despite doubts, the program constitutes the nation's most concerted effort
to curb illegal immigration, by denying aliens employment.

'Long Learning Period'

''It's difficult to implement these kinds of programs,'' said David Simcox,
director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington. ''It's very
difficult when you have seven million employers and 700 investigators. It's
going to be a long learning period.  ''The real danger is that many people want
real and rapid return on the sanctions, and I think it will be unreasonable to
expect to see an effect in less than three years.''

The penalties on employers are one of two main parts of the Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986. The other is an amnesty program that also offers legal
status to several million aliens who have lived in the country continuously
since before Jan. 1, 1982.

The sanctions went into effect when Congress passed the law last November. But
immigration officials have used the time since then to prepare for enforcement
by educating employers, hiring new personnel, developing enforcement strategies
and distributing forms to employers.

The agency said it would not cite employers for technical record-keeping
violations committed before Sept. 1. Also, illegal aliens seeking amnesty must
apply by then to be hired legally while their applications are pending.

Last Friday, officials with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Los
Angeles delivered a citation to what they described only as ''a medium-sized
manufacturing company'' that they said was continuing to hire illegal aliens.
Immigration officials said it was the first citation under the new law, but
similar actions were expected shortly from other I.N.S. offices.

Good-Faith Effort

On first offenses companies that violate the law are liable for fines of $250 to
$2,500 for each illegal employee. In the first year of the program, officials
say, violators will be issued citations rather than be fined. However, repeat
offenders could be fined up to $10,000 for each alien.

''You can be sure that we will follow up,'' said John R. Belluardo, director of
Congressional and public affairs for the immigration service's Western Region.
''They are expected to comply immediately. It could be three weeks or three
months before we get back.''

The new law affects all the nation's seven million employers, including
household employers who hire anyone on a regular basis. It requires all
employers to file a form attesting that a good-faith effort has been made to
obtain documents indicating that an employee is legally entitled to work in the
United States. But critics say that, because employers are not required to
verify those documents, a proliferation of forged papers could undermine the
program.

There is a fierce debate over whether penalties on employers are effective in
curtailing illegal immigration, but both critics and proponents agree that such
programs are extraordinarily difficult to enforce.

Starting with California in 1971, 12 states have passed laws that include fines
for employers who hire illegal aliens. But few have any enforcement mechanism
and none are credited with having an appreciable impact on the problem. Despite
California's law, for example, the state is home to almost 50 percent of the
nation's illegal aliens.

Uneven Record in Other Nations

In other nations that have tried sanctions, the record is uneven and subject to
dispute.

A 1982 report by the Federal Government's General Accounting Office on similar
programs in 19 countries and Hong Kong concluded that employer penalties, as
they had been enforced, had not been an effective deterrent to illegal
employment.

In a 1985 report, the agency found evidence of successful programs but presented
a mixed picture. The report noted that in Hong Kong, for example, harsh fines
and aggressive enforcement by government agencies seemed to have brought about a
decrease in the number of aliens working illegally.

But other countries, including Italy, Canada and Spain, say sanctions have
failed to deter the hiring of illegal aliens. And those reporting some success,
like West Germany and France, are hesitant to say that sanctions have reduced
the number of aliens working illegally. Instead, they say, the employer
penalties have been one of many tools, such as widespread publicity on the ill
effects of hiring illegal aliens, in helping to control the situation.

'Symbiotic Relationships'

''They have not stopped the hiring of illegal aliens,'' said Mark J. Miller, a
political scientist at the University of Delaware who has studied such programs
in Europe. ''Indeed, the illegal immigrant population may be larger now than
when the sanctions began. But the Europeans, certainly those in governmental
circles, view them as a useful part of a broader strategy and believe the
situation would be worse without them.''

Others say there is little evidence of success elsewhere and that conditions in
the United States make the chances of success even less likely.

''The experience elsewhere has been that employer sanctions are very difficult
to enforce,'' said Dr. Kitty Calavita, a research associate with the Center for
U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California in San Diego. ''Given the
size of the border, the long-standing symbiotic relationships between American
employers and Mexican workers, and the lack of a national identification card,
there probably isn't a nation in the world less amenable to effective sanctions
than the U.S.''

Researchers agree that at best the sanctions will act to lessen, not eliminate,
employment of illegals.

A study last May by the Federal Reserve Bank in Dallas estimated enforcement of
the law could reduce the employment of illegal aliens by 15 to 25 percent.
Interviews conducted by Dr. Calavita and Dr. Wayne A. Cornelius indicated that
employers in California did not foresee a major effect on their operations from
the law.

Problem With Documentation

Dr. Cornelius noted in July that the law only required an employer to make a
good-faith attempt to determine whether job applicants were legal residents. It
does not require that they attempt to verify the authenticity of documents
presented to them. Given the widespread use of fake documents by illegal aliens,
he said, that may pose a fatal flaw in the law.

Another concern is enforcement. The new law will increase the number of Border
Patrol officers from about 3,200 to 4,200 and the number of immigration service
investigators from 700 to 1,632 by September 1988. The Department of Labor will
also monitor compliance.

But financing for enforcement was below what the immigration service requested,
and many people familiar with the program believe that even with the agency's
intention of focusing on likely offenders, the numbers are paltry.

''I don't think the concept of the law is flawed, but the implementation is,''
said Representative Charles E. Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat who helped draft
the immigration law. ''My worry is that the Administration has not given the
I.N.S. enough personnel to enforce the law and get the job done. If the
immigrants get the idea that we are soft on this law, it's not going to work.''

Despite the skeptics, aliens say that for now at least, the law is making it
much harder to get work.

Roberto Quintanilla of Houston is an illegal alien from El Salvador who said he
does not qualify for the amnesty program. He now finds construction work and odd
jobs so hard to come by that he is reluctantly thinking of returning home.
''Practically speaking,'' he said, ''working like I am now is like not working
at all.''

Maria C., a custodial worker who decined to give her last name, had a similar
story. ''Some people are reduced to going around to dance halls and trying to
make some money snapping pictures,'' she said. ''But even then they'll
eventually crack down on them.''

'Need for Cheap Labor'

The experience of sanctions elsewhere, particularly in West Germany and France,
is that it takes a long-term commitment and fine-tuning of the law and its
enforcement to make the program effective, Dr. Miller said.

But many experts question whether there is sufficient national consensus in
favor of sanctions to generate the long-term support here.

Some cite the long-standing use of aliens and the nation's mixed ethnic
character as a major hurdle. Others point to demographic trends and the nation's
reliance on illegal aliens for low-paying jobs.

''My sense is that the need for cheap labor will grow,'' said Linda Wong,
executive director of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund in
Los Angeles. ''Because we are approaching a level of zero population growth, we
may find ourselves in a situation where we have to open the door. What Congress
has done is to open a Pandora's box where the cure is worse than the illness.''

But others say there is enough concern about illegal immigration and enough
visibility to the new law that it presents the possibility of effective
enforcement.

''This is as complex to make work as our tax system when you think of all the
consequences,'' said Mr. Simcox. ''But I think our tax compliance in the U.S. is
high, and for that reason, I am hopeful that these sanctions will work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 7, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Sets Regulations On Alien Employment

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6


The Justice Department today issued final regulations governing prosecution of
discriminatory employment practices under the new immigration law. The
regulations were sharply criticized by Hispanic groups.

The law, which institutes sanctions against employers who knowingly hire illegal
aliens in an effort to cut down illegal immigration, was also intended to
protect United States citizens and aliens authorized to work in this country
from employment discrimination.

Under the final regulations, the Justice Department said that those filing
complaints under the law must prove intent to discriminate, a more difficult
standard of proof than the approach favored by Hispanic organizations, which
would allow the discriminatory results of hiring practices as proof.

The regulations which become effective Nov. 5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN LAW EFFECT ON FARM WORKERS WORRIES GROWERS

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1370 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 11


California agricultural groups report that fewer alien farm workers than
expected are applying for legal status under the new immigration law,
intensifying the debate over whether the supply of farm labor here will be
sufficient in coming years.

Some growers in California, the nation's biggest agricultural producer and the
state most reliant on illegal farm labor, are convinced that by 1989 they will
be forced to choose between letting their crops rot in the fields and breaking
the law by continuing to hire undocumented workers.

Critics of the growers, including the United Farm Workers of America, say the
farmers' complaints about the law are part of a campaign to maintain an
oversupply of inexpensive labor. The critics contend that farmers have shown a
propensity to cry wolf with warnings of labor shortages in the harvest season
that is winding down here. The shortages did not materialize.

Once-in-a-Lifetime Chance

And immigration officials, while admitting that more needs to be done to solicit
applications for legal status, remain optimistic about the legalization program
for agricultural workers.

The effort to obtain legal status for California's farm workers and to impose
sanctions on those growers who continue to hire illegal aliens has emerged as a
key test of the new immigration law. The law, which took effect last May, offers
many undocumented immigrants a once-in-a-lifetime chance to obtain amnesty and
puts much of the burden of enforcing the law on employers by requiring them not
to hire anyone without proof of legal status.

The amnesty program has had mixed results in various parts of the nation. In the
New York area, the small number of applicants has forced some immigration
offices to reduce or redeploy their staffs. [Page B3.] Easier to Qualify The
immigration law distinguishes between farm workers and other illegal aliens, and
generally makes it easier for farm workers to qualify for legal status.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, working with growers' groups, union
offices and charitable organizations, has been taking legalization applications
under the Special Agricultural Worker program since June.

As of Sept. 30, the Western Region of the immigration service had received
59,374 applications, no more than 20 percent of the 300,000 to 400,000 workers
estimated to be eligible for the agricultural program in the region, which
includes California, Arizona, Nevada, Hawaii and Guam. The majority are in
California. The applications received in the Western Region are just under half
the total for the entire country. Most of the applicants are Mexican.

''The numbers aren't anywhere near what everyone had expected,'' said Wayne
Smith, the general manager of Alien Legalization for Agriculture, an
organization formed by Western growers' groups to encourage their workers to
apply.

Grace Period for Growers

The pace of applications in the farm workers program is expected to slow until
next summer's harvest as many migrant workers return to Mexico for the winter.
Unless the number of applications generated next year is substantially greater
than this year, Mr. Smith said that in 1989 ''the implication is that there will
not be enough legal workers to pick the crops.''

Having enough workers to pick crops was the main goal of the legalization
program for farm laborers. In addition to making it easier for the laborers to
qualify for legalization, the immigration law gave farmers a longer grace period
than other employers before the immigration service would start enforcing the
regulation that they no longer hire undocumented workers.

Under the agricultural workers program, aliens who can prove that they worked as
field laborers in perishable agricultural commodities for at least 90 days from
May 1, 1985, to May 1, 1986, are eligible for legal status. They must apply by
Nov. 30, 1988, and the immigration service can begin levying fines on farmers
who continue to employ undocumented aliens after that date.

Nonagricultural workers must prove that they have been in the United States
continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982, to be eligible for amnesty.
Nonagricultural employers are already being fined by the immigration service if
they are caught hiring new employees who are not legal residents.

The overall amnesty program also got off to a slow start, but after five months,
officials say, more than 800,000 illegal aliens have applied for legal status.
The immigration service expects to receive more than 2 million applications the
one-year amnesty period that ends May 4.

Continuing Confusion

Farmers, immigration officials, the unions and the workers themselves attribute
the program's slow start to a variety of factors, among them continuing
confusion among laborers about the law's provisions and requirements.

When immigration officials traveled recently to the Roberto Chavez Ranch, a
strawberry and vegetable farm in Santa Maria, Calif., north of Santa Barbara,
they were inundated with questions, complaints and hardship stories from more
than 1,000 workers who came to learn how the new law worked.

Crowding into a warehouse decorated in red, white and blue and clutching
immigration forms and information packets, many complained that they could not
prove that they had worked the required 90 days during the specified period
because their employers would not furnish them with letters or other
documentation.

Others said they could not afford the $185 application fee. Some were bewildered
by the law's requirements or baffled by the paperwork. Language was a problem;
not all of the immigration personnel spoke Spanish, and only a few of the
workers appeared to speak English well enough to comprehend what they were
hearing.

''What can I do?'' one woman asked tearfully in Spanish, explaining that she has
five children, two of them handicapped, but that her husband cannot get the
documentation that would let them stay legally in the United States.

'Not Taking It Seriously'

''One big problem the program has that we didn't foresee is that a lot more
workers came to the U.S. and worked less than 90 days than we thought,'' said
Don Laub, a grape grower in Fresno, Calif.

Mr. Laub, an active supporter of the program, said it has been hampered by
apathy on the part of growers and laborers. ''We see some farmers who are not
taking it seriously and some workers who are not taking it seriously,'' Mr. Laub
said. ''There are farmers who think this is just another law that cannot be
enforced.''

Indeed, immigration officials say that if the program is to work, the growers
will need to work harder to help their workers in applying.

''The growers are going to have to continue getting their own act together,''
said Harold Ezell, the Western Regional Commissioner of the immigration Service.
''I put the heavy burden on the growers, not on the I.N.S.''

Sending Vans Into the Fields

Mr. Ezell said the immigration service was trying to reach more workers through
a program that sends vans into the fields. There are now 12 vans, each equipped
with computers, cameras and other equipment to help process applications. Still,
only 2,721 applications had been received through the vans by the end of
September.

If farmers feel that the labor pool becomes too small, Mr. Ezell said, they
could take advantage of another Federal program that would allow them to import
workers temporarily from foreign countries.

But officials of farm workers' organizations bitterly dispute the idea that
there is, or will be, any labor shortage. ''There are too many workers for too
few jobs right now,'' said Dolores Huerta, a vice president of the farm workers
union.

Ms. Huerta and other union officials noted that in Washington state apple
growers, fearful of a labor shortage, recruited workers this fall from other
regions, only to find themselves with more workers than they needed.

Union officials contend that farmers are hoping to create another labor shortage
scare that would lead to liberalization of the immigration laws and help keep
the supply of workers up and wages down.

But farmers say they are only being prudent in warning of what could be a major
problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Law on Aliens Fails to Halt Salvadorans

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20


A new immigration law has failed to stem the flow of illegal aliens from El
Salvador to the United States, according to a confidential cable from the
American Embassy there.

The report does not discuss patterns of immigration from other countries. Mark
W. Everson, Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
declined to comment on the cable. But he insisted, as other Reagan
Administration officials have, that the law was working as intended to
discourage illegal immigration over all.

The law, which prohibits the hiring of illegal aliens, temporarily reduced
Salvadoran migration to the United States for several months after it was signed
by President Reagan in November 1986, the report says. But it says that
''illegal migration to the United States is increasing'' and has ''risen back to
1984-86 levels.''

The main purpose of the law was to curtail illegal immigration by penalizing
American employers who hire illegal aliens. However, the cable concluded that
the employer sanctions ''are failing to slow illegal Salvadoran migration to the
United States.''

Cable Cites Law's 'Loopholes'

Salvadorans have learned of ''loopholes'' in the law and delays in its
enforcement, the cable said. They also know that the House of Representatives on
July 28 passed a bill to suspend the deportation of Salvadorans living illegally
in the United States, the cable said. The Senate is expected to consider a
similar bill in the spring.

The House and Senate bills would protect about 500,000 Salvadorans and 200,000
Nicaraguans. Members of Congress singled them out for special attention because
of the civil strife, economic difficulties and reports of human rights
violations in both countries.

These developments, taken together, ''appear to have convinced Salvadorans that
the United States is not serious about enforcing its immigration law'' against
them, the cable said.

The Salvadoran Ambassador here, Ernesto Rivas-Gallont, said he generally agreed
with the assessment in the cable. ''Immigration, legal and illegal, from El
Salvador to the United States has not really decreased,'' he said in an
interview. ''Traffic through this embassy and through our seven consulates
continues to be very substantial.''

The immigration service often cites its apprehensions of illegal aliens as an
indication of the level of illegal migration. Mr. Everson said the total number
of illegal aliens apprehended along the United States-Mexico border declined 30
percent, to 1.1 million, in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. It continues to
decline, he said.

Apprehensions of Salvadorans also dropped, to a low of 496 in April, but have
been rising steadily, according to Government data. They totaled 1,053 in
September, the last month for which figures are available.

Smugglers' Business Revives

Using another yardstick, the cable said that ''so-called travel agencies engaged
in smuggling Salvadorans into the United States'' report that business has
returned to normal after a sharp decline in the months immediately after passage
of the immigration law.

The new law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, offers legal
status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can prove that they entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since then.

In its report to the State Department, the American Embassy in El Salvador
predicted that there would be ''an astronomical increase'' in applications for
visas in the 1990's as Salvadorans seek to join relatives in the United States
who gain legal status under the amnesty provisions of the law.

The law says that after 18 months as lawful temporary residents of the United
States, aliens may apply for permanent residence. After another five years, they
can apply for citizenship. Permanent residents and citizens can then file
petitions to bring close relatives to this country. The cable predicts that
''hundreds of thousands'' of Salvadorans will enter the United States in this
way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 20, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Illegal Aliens Depress Wages for Some in U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19


Illegal aliens are depressing wages and worsening working conditions for legal
immigrants and native Americans in low-skilled and low-paying jobs, the General
Accounting Office says.

Citing empirical data and several case studies, the accounting office, an
investigative arm of Congress, said Friday that United States-born citizens and
legally documented immigrants were being hurt, especially those working as
janitors and food processors.

The report identified restaurants and companies producing automobile parts,
shoes and clothing as others that often employ illegal aliens. The aliens'
willingness to work in low-skill jobs for less than the minimum wage in those
industries has depressed wages and benefits for comparable native and legal
immigrants, the G.A.O. said. But it also said the low wages paid illegal aliens
allowed some of the businesses to grow or survive foreign competition,
indirectly expanding job opportunities and wages for higher-skilled workers in
the same trades.

Without a pool of illegal immigrants willing to be garment workers or
shoemakers, the accounting office said, many companies would shut down.

It also said restaurants' practice of using illegal immigrants as dishwashers
and busboys allowed the businesses to keep their prices low and expand,
providing more jobs for more highly skilled waiters and chefs. The Labor
Department disagreed, saying none of the studies surveyed by the accounting
agency offered any concrete evidence of a positive effect from using illegal
workers.

The department also disputed the accounting agency's premise that legal workers
would not take many of the low-wage jobs, particularly in the shoe and garment
industries. ''The fact is that large numbers of native and legal U.S. workers
are in the same labor market as illegal workers,'' the department said.
''Furthermore, if wages were not depressed by illegal workers, even greater
numbers of native and legal workers would be in that labor market.''

The G.A.O. said the 1986 immigration law and its fines for hiring illegal
aliens, if successful, would force wages up for legal immigrants and natives and
cause ''considerable stress'' financially for growers and shoe and garment
manufacturers.

Congress asked the accounting office to survey all available studies and data on
illegal immigrants' impact on native and legal immigrant workers in 1985, when
it was considering the employer sanctions that were adopted a year later.

The accounting office has now submitted the study to Congress, saying that after
examining 230 academic and other treatises on the issue it found scarce useful
information. The biggest problem, the G.A.O. said, is that illegal aliens are a
hidden population, making it hard to identify them for use in any empirical
study.

About two dozen case studies, however, suggested that employers' use of illegal
aliens has displaced native workers and legal immigrants from their jobs and
driven down wages of those who remain.

The most dramatic examples were among janitors and farm and food processing
workers in California.

Under contracts negotiated by the Service Employees International Union, blacks
and legal Hispanic immigrants working as janitors at office buildings in
downtown Los Angeles had won wage and benefits reaching a peak of $12 an hour by
1983. But a group of nonunion janitorial services hiring predominantly illegal
immigrants began to wrestle the best building contracts away from the unionized
companies, driving the union scale back down to $4 an hour and less. Of 2,500
black janitors under high-wage contracts in 1977, 100 were still paid
comparative wages by 1985.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 3, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Moves to Fine Hotel for Employing Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2


The Immigration and Naturalization Service today accused a Virginia hotel of
employing illegal aliens and served notice of its intent to fine the hotel
$16,500. It was the first such action under the new immigration law.

The agency said it repeatedly warned the hotel before raiding its premises
Monday and seizing 16 workers from Guatemala, El Salvador, Bolivia and Mexico.

Jane F. Conkey, controller of the 350-room hotel, a Quality Inn in Arlington,
Va., said that she had been unable to find American citizens willing to do the
work for $5 an hour, the starting wage.

She said the hotel would probably contest the charge, arguing that some of the
aliens were hired before Nov. 6, 1986, the day President Reagan signed the
legislation.

The statute, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, prohibits the
hiring of illegal aliens, but offers legal status to those who can prove that
they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here
continuously since then. The complex measure was passed after nearly a decade of
national debate, including protests from employers who said they did not want to
serve as ''policemen'' for the Government.

Response by Hotel Official

Ms. Conkey, the hotel controller, said, ''I don't think there is any place in
the whole Washington, D.C., area that has not at some time hired illegal
aliens.'' She said she had not knowingly hired illegal aliens because she had
''no idea whether the workers were legal or illegal.''

Duane Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the Government had
served a formal notice of its intent to fine the hotel $1,500 for each of 11
illegal aliens found to be working there.

Of the $1,500, he said, $1,000 was for employing an illegal alien and $500 was
for failure to complete the necessary paperwork. Under the new law, employers
must ask all job applicants for documents to verify that they are either United
States citizens or aliens authorized to work in this country. Acceptable
documents include passports, drivers' licenses and birth certificates.

The proposed fines are in the middle of the range allowed by the law. On a first
offense, an employer is subject to a civil penalty of $250 to $2,000 for the
hiring of any illegal alien. The employer is subject to a separate civil penalty
of $100 to $1,000 each time he fails to complete the necessary Government forms.

William R. Tillman, acting deputy director of the I.N.S. field office in
northern Virginia, said the hotel had been ''recalcitrant.''

''They continued to employ illegal aliens after being told that there were
people on their payroll who were illegal,'' Mr. Tillman said.

Mr. Austin said that immigration officers had visited the hotel in late summer
to inform the managers about the requirements of the new law. On Sept. 4, he
said, the Government issued a citation, or warning, because the hotel was not in
compliance. #16 Seized in Raid on Hotel On Monday, Mr. Tillman said, the
immigration officers went back with a search warrant and seized 15 women and 1
man believed to be working illegally.

In fact, he said, only 3 people in this group were found to be working
illegally. But when the officers went back to inspect the hotel records Tuesday,
he said, they found 8 other illegal aliens who had been hired after Nov. 6.
Under the law, employers are not subject to penalties for the continuing
employment of illegal aliens hired before Nov. 6.

An employer accused of violating the law is entitled to a hearing before an
administrative law judge. The Quality Inn has 30 days in which to request such a
hearing.

The hotel is one of 11 owned by Quality Inns Inc., a subsidiary of Manor Care
Inc., which is based in Silver Springs, Md. The stock of Manor Care is traded on
the New York Stock Exchange.

Raymond G. Murphy, senior vice president of Manor Care, confirmed tonight that
the company had received notice of the proposed fine. He said the hotel had
discharged the 11 workers on Monday ''because we were told to do so'' by the
immigration service.

In response to questions, Mr. Murphy said that the company had not exploited the
workers, had provided them with health insurance and other benefits and would
help them obtain legal advice on how to apply for legal status.

But Mr. Austin, the I.N.S. spokesman, said the Government wanted the aliens to
leave the United States and would move to deport them if they did not depart
voluntarily.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 2, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Lawsuit to Determine Rights of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BISHOP, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 1


Three years ago, Alicia Castrejon, a young, undocumented worker from the state
of Michoacan, Mexico, had a job counting and packaging tortillas in
Farmersville, a small town about 30 miles south of Fresno in California's
central agricultural area.

After she took a disability leave for pregnancy, she says, she was denied her
job when she tried to return.

Today, lawyers who specialize in immigration and in employment problems, unions
and civil rights organizations around the country are watching the progress of a
lawsuit brought by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission here on Mrs.
Castrejon's behalf against her former employer.

Implications for Millions

The case is expected to determine whether millions of undocumented aliens are
protected by Federal laws against sex and race discrimination in employment
while they go through the process of seeking amnesty under last year's sweeping
immigration law.

On Monday in Federal District Court in Fresno, Judge Robert E. Coyle will hear
arguments on a motion brought by the former employer, Tortilleria La Mejor, to
dismiss the lawsuit on the ground that under the new immigration statute,
illegal aliens do not enjoy the protection of Federal laws governing the
workplace, including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

''We expect this to be a major decision establishing that all individuals
working in this country are entitled to protection from race and sex
discrimination regardless of immigration status,'' said Michael Rubin, a San
Francisco lawyer who has filed a friend-of-the-court brief in the case on behalf
of several organizations. They include the International Ladies' Garment
Workers' Union, the Service Employees International Union, the American Civil
Liberties Union and the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund.

While the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 prohibits discrimination
based on citizenship status, it is silent as to whether undocumented alien
workers who have applied for amnesty, as Mrs. Castrejon has, are protected by
the civil rights act in the period before a decision is reached on whether they
can become citizens.

Lack of Guidance Cited

I. Singh Aulakh of Visalia, Calif., the lawyer representing La Mejor, said that
because of the lack of guidance in the new law, ''the courts will have to
resolve the issue of what rights we're going to give an illegal alien.''

Mrs. Castrejon initially brought a complaint to the commission charging sex
discrimination after she was denied her former job when she completed her
disability leave.

She was eventually reinstated in 1986 at the tortilla factory, which employs
about 30 workers, but was subsequently discharged. She has filed another action
with the commission, asserting that she was dismissed in retaliation for
bringing the first complaint. That action is not an issue in the current
lawsuit.

No court has ever ruled on the question of whether Title VII applies to
undocumented workers. A number of court rulings decided before the immigration
law was passed have held that undocumented workers are covered by other
protective legislation governing the workplace like the National Labor Relations
Act. Thus undocumented workers have been allowed to vote in union elections and
file charges of unfair labor practices.

'Direct and Questionable Conflict'

But in a case decided last May in a Federal District Court in Birmingham, Ala.,
a judge cited the new immigration law as the basis for dismissing an action by
an undocumented worker who asserted that he had been paid less than the minimum
wage and denied overtime compensation.

Ruling that the Fair Labor Standards Act does not cover illegal alien workers,
Judge William M. Acker Jr., said that to rule otherwise would be in ''direct and
unquestionable conflict'' with the immigration law's policy of discouraging
employment of illegal aliens.

That case is on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit.

The Department of Labor has taken the position that illegal aliens are covered
by the Fair Labor Standards Act.

In papers filed with the court in the California case, Francisco Cancino, a
lawyer for the E.E.O.C. here, argued that if the court followed the reasoning in
the Alabama case, it would ''create a class of workers in the United States
without labor law rights and civil rights protection.''

In his friend of the court brief, Mr. Rubin argued that the Alabama case had
been wrongly decided and the court should follow a 1987 ruling made in the Ninth
Circuit, which includes California.

In that case, the National Labor Relations Board told a group of employees who
had been discriminated against for engaging in union activity that because of
the immigration law, they would have to prove lawful immigration status to
collect back pay and be reinstated. The court rejected the argument, holding
that the National Labor Relations Act applied regardless of a worker's
immigration status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AIRPORT GUARDS CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING ALIENS

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 668 words


Twenty-one former Wells Fargo guards and supervisors and six associates were
charged yesterday in a scheme that extorted money - and, in some instances,
sexual favors - to allow illegal aliens apprehended at Kennedy International
Airport to avoid deportation.

Andrew J. Maloney, the United States Attorney in Brooklyn, said that from
October 1985 to July 1986 - the period covered by the investigation -''over 70
aliens were smuggled into the United States through Wells Fargo J.F.K. offices
in exchange for hundreds of thousands of dollars.'' Most of the aliens came here
from Jamaica and the Dominican Republic. They had invalid visas, altered
documents or lacked proper work permits, he said.

Mr. Maloney added that the scheme ''extended back for some years'' and involved
many more illegal aliens. He described it as ''a major illegal alien smuggling
conspiracy.''

Payments of $10,000

According to a Federal complaint, the illegal aliens often paid $2,000 to
$10,000 ''to 'escape' from Wells Fargo custody and illegally remain in the
United States.''

The complaint, brought in Federal District Court in Brooklyn by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the United States Postal Inspection Service, said
the illegal operation functioned out of the Wells Fargo Guard Services branch
office at the airport. Among those charged was William Van Mannen, 29 years old,
of Lindenhurst, L.I., the former branch manager.

Until last July, the complaint noted, Wells Fargo had contracts with American
Airlines, Air Jamaica, Air Dominicana, Eastern Airlines and other carriers, to
guard aliens who were passengers on the airlines, but who were being denied
entry to the United States and were to be deported.

Under new procedures, the immigration service - and not the airlines - is
responsible for guarding people awaiting deportation, said Charles C. Sava, New
York district director of the immigration service.

The complaint said that Mr. Van Mannen and some other defendants admitted the
illegal activities when they were questioned by investigators.

Sexual Encounters

''Defendant Van Mannen admitted to personal involvement in over 25 escapes for
which he was paid approximately $1,000 per escape,'' the complaint said. It also
said that Mr. Van Mannen ''stated that several Wells Fargo guards had sexual
encounters with many of the female deportees.''

One Wells Fargo guard was quoted in the complaint as having told investigators,
''It was common to see girls crying in the office in the morning saying that
they had sex with a guard to be set free but that they were being deported.''

After the Federal investigation began, the complaint said, Wells Fargo shut down
its operations at the airport.

According to the complaint, last year a Haitian deportee being held in a crowded
room at the Viscount International Hotel at the airport jumped to his death
''while guards were sleeping on the job.''

To cover their illicit actions, the Wells Fargo employees filed false reports
with the authorities or sent imposters, pretending to be the deportees, out of
the United States, the complaint said. The imposters, who were among those
charged, then returned to this country under their real names and with proper
documentation.

Conspiracy Charges

Joe Allen, a spokesman for Wells Fargo Guard Services's parent company, Baker
Industries, said the company had ''cooperated fully'' with the investigation.

By late yesterday afternoon, 23 of those named in the complaint had been
arrested or surrendered to the authorities. Most were released on $10,000 bond.
Four other defendants were being sought.

Gregory J. O'Connell, the assistant United States attorney handling the case,
said the defendants were charged with conspiracy to violate immigration laws and
other counts. Each conspiracy count, he said, carries a possible five-year
prison term on conviction.

Mr. O'Connell said only a few of the illegal aliens who were allowed to escape
deportation have been found.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 5, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Fear and Uncertainty Down on the Farm

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: GLASSBORO, N.J., Sept. 2


For the fruit and vegetable farmers of southern New Jersey, the new immigration
law will probably make already scarce farm labor scarcer.

Monday's deadline for employers to start verifying the work eligibility of all
employees or face heavy fines for hiring illegal aliens, found John Smith, one
of the state's biggest peach growers, with most of his 25 Mexican workers
properly registered.

They were registered, however, under a section of the new law that in effect
delays the eligibility test for farm workers until November 1988.

And he and others concerned about farming worry that the new law will restrict
the stream of about 2,000 mostly Mexican aliens who pick the apples and peaches
of New Jersey's southern counties.

''The law has a deferral for farmers of perishable crops until November 1988,
and that lets us sidestep the problem for a while,'' said Peter Furey, director
of the New Jersey Farm Bureau, an agricultural trade group.

''So what we find is that it is not necessarily a problem right now, but it
could grow into a problem in a year or so with the contraction of the farm labor
supply,''

Farm Bureau officials in New York and Connecticut echoed this belief that state
economies already hungry for labor in all sectors make it harder for farmers to
find men and women to do the particularly demanding work of harvesting fruit.

For Mr. Smith, Mexican field hands have been the backbone of his harvesting
operation since the first of them showed up one day 15 years ago with little
more than a willingness to work.

Mr. Smith believes he is one of the largest employers of Mexican labor, and as a
token of his desire to keep those workers, he spent many days in recent weeks
driving them from medical examiner to immigration offices to social workers to
get them registered as special agricultural workers.

That category grants residency until November 1988 for aliens who worked in
American agriculture for at least 90 days during the 12 months ending May 1,
1986.

Today, he has 25 Mexicans working at a rate of 55 cents a bushel picking peaches
on his 900-acre peach and apple farm, Aura Orchards, and about the same number
of local people, mostly women and teen-agers, working at the packing plant at
minimum wage.

The Mexicans, he said, regulate their own employment at his orchards, bringing
enough compatriots up in the late summer to assure all the peaches are picked
but not so many that anyone's wages are cut. During the harvest, he said, the
men make upward of $400 for a seven-day workweek.

'I Like the New Law'

''I'd say, 'Pablo, how many men do we need this year?' and he'd say 'Maybe 20,'
and I'd say, 'Remember we got caught a little short last year,' and he said,
'O.K., maybe 25,' and that would be it.''

Pablo Navarro came north from Guadalajara 11 years ago and has been working
summers at Aura Orchards ever since.

''I like the new law,'' he said, half in English and half in Spanish. ''I think
it's a good idea to let us stay.''

In fact, the question of staying may be an important element in the unfolding of
the new immigration law's impact on American employers.

Immigration officials have surmised that as alien farm workers who have lived in
the United States since Jan. 1, 1982, are thus qualified for permanent residency
under the amnesty program, they are likely to move beyond the hard work of
agriculture and into other jobs and so further reduce the number of available
field hands.

Continuing Uncertainty

Mr. Navarro was not clear on whether he met the January 1982 residency cutoff
point, but Jorge Martinez, another Aura Orchards worker, said he had been in the
country only since 1983, when he paid a ''coyote'' $300 to smuggle him across
the border at Tijuana.

''We had to run and hide all the time,'' he declared. ''I don't want to do that.
I want to stay.'' He has been going to night-school English classes.

Beyond uncertainty about whether they will be allowed to stay, Mr. Smith said,
many of the workers were wary of the questionnaire they had to fill out. Among
the questions are where, when and how they crossed the border; whether they have
ever been arrested by the Immigration and Naturalization Service; names, state
and county of past employers, and the names of family members and parents.

Clash of Cultures

Mr. Smith pointed out that many had used several names and Social Security
numbers and that they feared the questions about family would be used against
those left behind in Mexico.

''I know the Government is trying to do the right thing,'' he said, ''but
they're trying to blend two cultures.''

Besides, he argued, if consumers can import finished products without Federal
intervention, farmers should be able to import labor.

''I don't think it's any different from people buying a Toyota as far as
knocking someone out of a job goes,'' he argued. ''If we can buy Toyotas and
send the money back to Japan, these people should be able to come up here and do
a certain amount of work and send the money back to Mexico.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of John Smith with migrant workers from Mexico harvesting peaches
on his orchards in Elks Township, N.J. (NYT/Frank C. Dougherty)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. IS EXPANDING AMNESTY PROGRAM FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4


President Reagan's Administration, expansively interpreting the new immigration
law, plans to offer legal status to illegal aliens who have been harvesting
fruit, vegetables and ''other perishable commodities'' such as Christmas trees
and tobacco.

The new law prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens but offers legal
status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who have lived in the United States
continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.

Congress, recognizing that many farmers were dependent on illegal aliens to
harvest their crops, created a separate program permitting such workers to
become lawful residents of the United States. This program, for aliens who
performed ''seasonal agricultural services'' for at least 90 days in the year
ending May 1, 1986, is more generous than the amnesty program for other illegal
aliens.

A Broader Interpretation

The special program for farm workers, which begins June 1, will be open to
aliens who worked in the cultivation of fruits, vegetables and ''other
perishable commodities,'' as defined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

Under the program, illegal aliens who have picked perishables may become lawful
temporary residents of the United States. After one or two years in that status,
they may become permanent residents, with most of the rights of American
citizens. After five years as permanent residents, they may apply for
citizenship.

New rules drafted by the Agriculture Department define ''perishable
commodities'' far more broadly than expected by sponsors of the legislation. As
a result, more aliens will qualify, and intense debate over the wisdom of the
new rules is likely in Congress.

Commodities Are Defined

The official record of Congressional debates shows that lawmakers intended the
new program to provide a steady supply of labor for growers of cherries, grapes,
apricots, peaches, lettuce and similar produce that can spoil if not picked
immediately when ripe.

But a confidential draft of the new rules prepared by the Agriculture Department
defines perishable commodities to include ''Christmas trees, cut flowers, herbs,
hops, horticultural specialties, spanish reeds, spices, sugar beets and
tobacco.''

Al French, a farm labor specialist at the Agriculture Department, said the reeds
were used in musical instruments like clarinets and saxophones.

The draft regulations define ''horticultural specialties'' to include shrubs,
seedlings, fruit and nut trees, vines, potted plants, flower bulbs and other
''nursery crops,'' whether grown in fields, greenhouses or containers.

Key Part of Measure

The special amnesty program for farm workers was indispensable to passage of the
immigration bill. Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn, one of three
Democrats who devised the program, said it was not meant for producers of
tobacco or hops.

The broad definition of perishable commodities, like the special program for
farm workers, reflects the economic and political importance of farmers, who
have lobbied the Agriculture Department in the five months since Mr. Reagan
signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

During debate on the legislation, Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican
who was chief sponsor of the bill, said the growers' demands for special
treatment were motivated mainly by ''greed.'' But other lawmakers said the
growers were fighting for economic survival.

While the eligibility criteria for farm workers seeking legal status are
relatively liberal, the standards for other illegal aliens are more stringent
than many members of Congress had expected. Hispanic groups and some religious
organizations say these standards are so strict in requiring aliens to document
five years of ''continuous residence'' that they will exclude thousands of
illegal aliens whom Congress had intended to include.

No one has determined how many illegal aliens are in the United States, although
estimates by those familiar with the situation range from 3.5 million to 6
million. The Labor Department says experts believe there may be 300,000 to 1.25
million illegal aliens working in American agriculture.

Earthworm Producers Excluded

Mr. French, the Agriculture Department official, said that farmers wanted the
Government to include livestock in the definition of perishable commodities. But
the proposed rules, to be issued later this month, explicitly exclude livestock,
poultry, dairy products, cotton, earthworms, fish, oysters, rabbits, hay, honey,
horses, soybeans, wool and sugar cane.

Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat, said the exclusion of
sugar cane would adversely affect Jamaicans, Haitians and others from the
Caribbean who performed ''backbreaking work'' in Florida cane fields.

Farm lobbyists have belatedly discovered that substantial numbers of illegal
aliens are employed by livestock, dairy and poultry producers.

C. H. Fields, a lobbyist for the American Farm Bureau Federation, said: ''Nobody
knew there was any sizable number of illegal aliens in these segments of
agriculture. But evidently there were more than any of us dreamed.

Milk Is Perishable, Too

''The livestock, dairy and poultry producers are coming out of the woodwork,
sounding cries of alarm in an effort to get included in the program for
perishable commodities,'' he said.

Conrad Gingg, president of the United Dairymen of Arizona, said, ''Our cows and
milk are every bit as perishable as the fruits and vegetables.''

Under the new law, farmers who need seasonal labor may ask the Government for
permission to bring in temporary foreign workers for up to 11 months at a time.
But they must show that American workers are not available and that the
employment of aliens would not adversely affect the wages or working conditions
of Americans holding similar jobs.

The Labor Department has drafted rules specifying the minimum wages that must be
paid to temporary foreign workers in agriculture. The minimum would be 20
percent higher than the prior year's average hourly wage rate for field and
livestock workers in the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 17, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

INVISIBLE ALIENS: IRISH FEAR EFFECT OF NEW IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1570 words


Patrick, an Irishman who lives in this country illegally, resents being called
an undocumented alien.

His grandfather was an American who fought with the United States Army in France
in World War I. One sister is a nurse in the United States Army in England and
is married to an American. Another sister works on a horse farm in New Jersey; a
brother has a job in a warehouse in Connecticut. His American relatives include
a retired Army colonel, an F.B.I. agent and a Boston police officer.

''It's part of the Irish identity to become an American citizen,'' said the
husky, 24-year-old man with rusty hair and sober blue eyes.

Patrick, who lives in Queens with an American uncle and cousin, asked to be
identified by his first name only. He fears a crackdown on illegal aliens in
May, when a new immigration law takes effect.

The law offers legal status to undocumented aliens who can prove continuous
presence in this country since Jan. 1, 1982. It also provides for sanctions
against employers who hire illegal workers.

Patrick is one of the city's invisible illegal aliens. They move easily around
the city's Irish-American community, with its old established churches, clubs,
bars and businesses.

Immigration officials cannot say how many Irish illegals there are. Since 1965,
very few Irish have been admitted as permanent immigrants, but the Irish have
been one of the largest groups to come with temporary status, according to a
statistician for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Margaret Sullivan.

She said that in 1986, only 1,839 Irish were admitted as permanent residents,
while 98,188 came with temporary visas. She adding that the numbers have been
growing steadily over the last four years. Officials noted recent research
showing that the Irish are one of the leading nationalities that tend to
overstay the terms of temporary visas.

The presence of new Irish illegal aliens in New York is felt particularly in the
old Irish neighborhoods of Inwood in upper Manhattan, Woodlawn in the Bronx and
Woodside, Queens. More young people are seen at church; more nightspots play
Irish traditional music and Irish rock; Irish clubs and bars are usually jammed,
community members say.

''If they could get 1,000 fans it was a good day for Gaelic Park five years ago,
but nowadays 3,000 to 4,000 people attend Sunday games,'' said John Byrne, who
has reported on Gaelic games at the park in the Riverdale section of the Bronx
for The Irish Echo for 27 years. Mr. Byrne said 55 teams are now affiliated with
the Gaelic Athletic Association of New York, which has been ''revitalized by the
new Irish.''

While the Irish illegals are apprehensive about the new immigration law, there
is none of the panic currently found among Hispanic illegal aliens.

Their relative calm is easy to understand. Things have been fairly easy for them
so far, the Irish illegals say. There have been no raids or sweeps by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. And, according to immigration service
sources, only eight Irish illegals were deported in 1985, compared with 3,034
Salvadorans and 11,368 Mexicans.

In terms of apprehensions, which the service says present a truer picture, the
agency's statistics for 1985 show 1,523 from Britain (mainly Irish), compared
with 1,083,080 from Mexico.

A Lottery Victory

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the agency's
enforcement policy was ''country- and nationality-neutral.'' He said that Irish
illegals were not so prone to be picked up for two reasons: they assimilate more
quickly than Asians and South Americans and they do not get involved in
activities with a high concentration of illegal aliens, such as agriculture.

''Realistically, the Irish have less trouble with the I.N.S. than the Mexicans
and Salvadorans because of their race and language,'' said Arthur Helton, a
Manhattan immigration lawyer and a director of the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights. He emphasized that the immigration service has limited resources and so
picks ''the most easily identifiable targets - factories and fields where
workers look and sound foreign-born.''

The Irish have been lucky too. For instance, they won a third of the 10,000
non-preference visas in a recent immigration lottery intended for people from 36
countries who were ''adversely affected'' by the 1965 immigration law. The
lottery involved applications mailed to a special post office box in Washington
on Jan. 21 and was judged on a first-come basis.

The Irish success was said to be due to efforts by the Dublin postmaster and to
a radio host, Adrian Flanelly of New York's Irish Show on WNWK, who went to
Washington with 60,000 applications and handed them in on the stroke of
midnight.

Determined to Fight

Patrick said two of his friends were winners in the lottery. But Patrick
himself, who sent in 30 applications, was not so lucky.

Born in County Cork, Patrick graduated from Cork University College with a
degree in political science but could not find a job. He came to this country
last year on a tourist visa. He found work as a laborer in a Manhattan
construction company but hopes one day to go into the United States Army or to
become a police officer.

Like many other Irish illegals, Patrick is determined to hang on and ''fight the
battle for legality'' because he says there are no job opportunities for his
generation in Ireland. He said that unemployment there has risen to 19 percent
from 9 percent in the last five years.

His views were echoed in one of the proliferating Irish bars of Woodlawn Heights
in the Bronx, where a group of Irish illegals talked casually the other evening
about their lives.

Dolores, a cheerful dark-haired woman of 27 who came here in 1980 from Offlay in
the Midlands, hopes to qualify for legalization and has hired a lawyer. She
arrived with a tourist visa, got a job baby-sitting in Manhattan for a few weeks
and then worked as a waitress in New Rochelle, downtown and the Bronx, ''getting
better jobs all the time.'' She hopes to save enough to open a business of her
own.

But she is worried about the other Irish, who have come in the last two years
and are not eligible for legalization - like her sister. An art school graduate,
Dolores's sister could not find work in Ireland. So Dolores sent her an airline
ticket and she too is a waitress.

Now, however, some of the big Irish bars and restaurants downtown have begun to
warn employees that if they are not eligible for legalization, they will be
dismissed.

''It's the economy that's driving us out of Ireland,'' said 25-year-old
Caroline. ''If you're lucky enough to get a job, then you're taxed out of your
shoes.'' The slender, red-haired, rosy-cheeked woman came from Kerry in 1984
with a diploma in business studies. She got a job with a mortgage bank through
an Irish employment agency. But when she learned the agency was taking half her
salary, she gave it up and became a waitress.

Caroline has met so many immigrants from Kerry in New York that she wonders if
anybody is left. Just in her immediate family, one sister who came in 1983 is a
baby sitter in Manhattan; another came in 1985 and works as lady's companion in
Westchester and one sister is going to nursing school at home so she can
immigrate legally.

'Who'll Do the Hard Jobs?'

Dermot, a 20-year-old six-footer with green eyes and brown hair, comes from
County Carlow. He went to agricultural college but there was not enough work on
the family sheep farm. He came here in 1985 and shares an apartment in Queens
with his 26-year-old sister, a waitress in Manhattan.

Employed by a Manhattan construction company, Dermot now takes home about $450 a
week, after taxes, whereas back on the farm, he earned $30 a week, ''not enough
to buy a car or even pay for gas for Mother's car.''

''If they get rid of the illegals, who'll do the hard jobs?'' Dermot asked,
adding, ''Most Americans don't want to do what we're doing.'' He planned to hang
on with the hope that the amnesty period would be extended. But if it became too
hard to get a job, he would think about moving to Australia.

Concerned about the new immigration law, the Woodlawn Heights Taxpayers and
Community Association devoted this month's meeting to the problem of
undocumented aliens.

''Lots of us have relatives and friends adversely affected by the government's
immigration policy, and we want to see what can be done to help,'' the
association's president, Jim Considine, said.

''This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for illegals to get out of the gray
area,'' Assemblyman John Brian Murtaugh, a Manhattan Democrat, told the meeting.
He spearheaded the successful effort to get $800,000 in the new state budget to
help the legalization process.

At the same meeting, Frank Hoare, Democratic leader for the Inwood and Marble
Hill district, stressed that ''many illegal aliens have relatives who vote'' and
that there was new pressure to expand the legalization period.

In an interview, Paul O'Dwyer, the former City Council president, said
Irish-Americans must join forces with other communities with large numbers of
illegal aliens - Greeks, Italians, Poles and Hispanic people - ''to make the
immigration law more humane.'' He said a multi-ethnic lobby should press
Congress for an amendment that would legalize all undocumented aliens in the
country when the new immigration law was passed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of a meeting with the Woodlawn Heights and Community Association
(NYT/Angel Franco)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 26, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DURATE APPEALS TO REAGAN TO LET SALVADORANS STAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


The President of El Salvador, alarmed about the new United States immigration
law, has appealed to President Reagan to give temporary refuge to Salvadorans
living illegally in this country.

Key State Department officials, who have adamantly opposed efforts by liberal
Democratic members of Congress to suspend the deportation of Salvadorans, said
they now supported the request from President Jose Napoleon Duarte.

In a confidential letter to Mr. Reagan, Mr. Duarte said that if the Salvadorans
returned home, it would be disastrous to El Salvador's economy.

But Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d, who has the primary responsibility for
enforcing immigration laws, is expected to oppose Secretary of State George P.
Shultz in this first major conflict between United States foreign policy and the
new statute.

'Bizarre Twist,' Senator Says

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, who shepherded the immigration
bill through Congress, said he would fiercely resist Mr. Duarte's request. For
the State Department to support it, he said, is a ''bizarre twist.''

The new law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, prohibits employers
from hiring illegal aliens, but offers legal status, or amnesty, to illegal
aliens who can prove that they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982,
and have lived here continuously since then.

Mr. Duarte said ''some 400,000 to 600,000 Salvadorans have entered the United
States illegally since January 1982'' and thus would not qualify under the
amnesty program. This represents about 10 percent of the Salvadoran population,
which, according to the United States Census Bureau, was five million in 1985.

Duarte Cites Economic Crisis

Mr. Duarte said his country was experiencing ''a severe economic crisis''
because of seven years of civil war and the earthquake that left 300,000 people
homeless last October.

The return of Salvadorans from the United States, under pressure of the new
immigration law, ''would reduce drastically the amount of money received by poor
Salvadoran people in remittances from relatives now working in the United
States,'' Mr. Duarte said.

''My Government estimates that the total value of remittances is some place
between $350 million to $600 million annually, and is thus larger than the
United States Government's assistance to El Salvador,'' Mr. Duarte wrote.

Further, he said: ''The enormous cost of the war, the destruction the guerrillas
have caused, the reduction of our sugar export, the loss of the cotton market
and the plummeting of coffee prices all bode ill for the Salvadoran economy in
the coming year. To eliminate remittances from the United States would be yet
another blow that seems counterproductive to our joint aims of denying Central
America to Marxist-Leninist regimes.''

Killings in Salvador Noted

A copy of Mr. Duarte's letter was obtained by The New York Times from a person
sympathetic to his request and to the plight of Salvadorans in the United
States.

Members of Congress and human rights advocates assert that hundreds of civilians
in El Salvador have been killed by Government security forces, by death squads
affiliated with them and by leftist guerrillas opposed to the Government in the
last year.

Mr. Duarte said, ''The improved human rights situation does not justify the
granting of political asylum by the United States to Salvadoran illegals.''
Asylum is available to aliens who can show ''a well-founded fear of
persecution.''

But Mr. Duarte urged Mr. Reagan to let Salvadorans remain in the United States
''until the economic situation has improved'' in El Salvador. He said the United
States should defer deportation of Salvadorans by giving them a special status
known as ''extended voluntary departure.''

The Justice Department has granted a similar dispensation to people from
Afghanistan and Poland and, on a more limited basis, to Ethiopians.

Bills Are Introduced

Bills to defer the deportation of Salvadorans have been introduced by
Representative Joe Moakley of Massachusetts and Senator Dennis DeConcini of
Arizona, both Democrats. The latest version of Mr. Moakley's bill would also
halt the deportation of Nicaraguans.

Mr. Moakley said the position of the Salvadoran Government might help his case.
''It brings a new force into the battle,'' he said. ''Conservative members of
Congress may feel that voting for my bill may save the Duarte regime.''

Salvadorans who have worked in the United States could be a ''destabilizing
force'' if they return home and cannot get jobs, he said. Estimates of
Salvadoran unemployment range from 25 percent to 40 percent.

Elliott Abrams, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, has
emerged as a leading supporter of Mr. Duarte's request because of his concern
about El Salvador's economy. But Mr. Abrams said it was ''utterly fallacious''
for anyone to suggest that Salvadorans returning from the United States would be
killed or persecuted.

A Change in Attitude

''Extended voluntary departure'' is different from asylum or refugee status; it
may be granted to citizens of a country where there is turmoil or civil unrest,
regardless of whether they face persecution.

From 1983 to early March of this year, Mr. Abrams opposed giving ''extended
voluntary departure'' to Salvadorans, saying it ''would draw even greater
numbers of undocumented aliens to this country.'' However, he now sees merit in
the idea because of the earthquake and the new immigration law, which has
apparently frightened Salvadorans and other illegal aliens into leaving the
United States.

Senator Simpson said that if the United States gave a reprieve to Salvadorans,
people from Haiti, the Dominican Republic and other countries would demand
similar treatment.

''I can't imagine a more illogical step than for members of this Administration,
which fought the sanctuary movement tooth and nail, to embrace the request from
Duarte,'' Mr. Simpson said today in an interview. Members of the sanctuary
movement have given shelter in this country to illegal aliens from Central
America.

Gregory J. Leo, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said, ''We are against extended voluntary departure for Salvadorans.'' It ''goes
against the grain of our immigration policy, which should apply equally across
the board to all countries of the world,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 2, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AFTER 3 WEEKS, U.S. SAYS TURNOUT BY ALIENS IS LESS THAN EXPECTED

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1046 words


In the three weeks since the new immigration law took effect, far fewer illegal
aliens have applied for citizenship than was expected, Federal immigration
officials said yesterday.

At the same time, Mayor Koch told a Congressional panel in Manhattan that the
law might discourage illegal aliens from being counted in the 1990 Census,
driving them further underground.

As of May 28, the Immigration and Naturalization Service had received only 5,257
applications for citizenship from Maine to Virginia, about half of them in New
York City, said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the agency. The agency initially
projected that 1,150 people a day would apply for amnesty in New York City.

'Absolutely Disgraceful'

The pattern has held true nationwide, officials said. Only about 40,000 people
have applied around the country, according to Mr. Austin.

The Government estimates that 6 million illegal aliens are living in the United
States and that 3.9 million of them would be eligible for amnesty.

Mr. Austin said that New York was the third largest center of illegal aliens in
the United States, after the Los Angeles region and Texas. An estimated 850,000
to 1 million undocumented aliens live in New York State, most of them in New
York City.

Officials of the immigration agency said the amnesty program had been slowed by
early administrative problems and that many aliens had been afraid to come
forward. but asserted that the turnout would increase dramatically soon.

Panelists at yesterday's hearing charged, however, that the immigration service
was not doing enough to promote naturalization among illegal aliens in New York
City.

''The figures are absolutely disgraceful,'' said Representative Robert Garcia,
Democrat of the Bronx. ''We're talking about a minuscule number of people coming
forward.''

''Historically, the I.N.S. has been an agency where people have not been treated
fairly,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''Not enough is being done. The I.N.S. has to start
moving more aggressively to send that messsage out and bring these people in.''

Documentation Rules Criticized

Muzaffar Chisti, a lawyer who is the director of the International Ladies'
Garment Workers' Union Immigration Project, asserted that the new law's
documentation requirements tend to discourage aliens from applying.

Aliens who present insufficient documentation to immigration officials are being
denied the opportunity to produce the documents later, he said.

''I don't know what the big deal is,'' he said. ''In non-legalization cases,
they give you 60 days to correct the documentation.''

Mr. Austin said, however, that it was the immigration agency's job to carry out
the law, not to ''rope people in'' to be naturalized.

''The point seems to be just to blame the I.N.S. if someone doesn't want to come
in and present themselves,'' he said. ''If people aren't coming in because they
don't meet the standard, then they're not eligible.''

He also defended the early pace of applications, predicting that it would
increase with time. The immigration service has predicted that two million
aliens would apply for amnesty within the year, and Mr. Austin said the figure
still holds.

'Start Out Light'

''We hoped it would start out light and build up,'' he said, saying that
''administrative problems'' have slowed the pace of applications so far.

''There's also been some reticence on the part of aliens initially, until
they're sure it's a good program,'' he added.

''We'll see a very, very large number of people coming forward to claim this
benefit before we're done,'' Mr. Austin said. ''If people aren't coming forward
because they don't meet the standards, then they're not eligible.''

The amnesty program, signed into law by President Reagan last November, provides
legal status to aliens who are able to prove that they have been living in the
United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. Legalization centers will
continue accepting applications for citizenship until May 4, 1988.

Fines Up to $10,000

The new law does not punish illegal aliens directly. But it prohibits people
from hiring them, and those that do so are fined $250 to $10,000 for each
illegal alien they employ.

In theory, sanctioning employers means that illegal aliens, unable to find work,
will be forced to return to their native countries. But critics of the provision
say that some employers will continue to hire illegal aliens at low wages and
that aliens not qualifying for amnesty are unlikely to leave the United States
voluntarily.

At yesterday's hearing, Mayor Koch and others said they feared the new law would
discourage illegal aliens from being counted in the 1990 census and cause a
significant undercount of New York City's population.

''Many undocumented aliens in New York will be ineligible for amnesty, and they
will continue to live in fear and thus continue to avoid the census,'' the Mayor
said.

Assemblyman Angelo Del Toro, Democrat of Manhattan, testified that the
immigration bill would have a ''chilling effect'' on the census after the
amnesty period was over. ''No matter how much the census tells people that the
data is confidential, they will still remain underground,'' he said.

Mr. Chisti, the lawyer, added: ''We're talking about a large number of people
who came in after 1982 and who are ineligible for amnesty under the law.''

City Is Undercounted

He said that in 1980, when the last census was taken, ''there was a general hope
of amnesty in the air, and people were more likely to be counted. Now that hope
is gone.''

New York City's population was undercounted by about 524,000 people in the 1980
census, according to the Census Bureau's own estimates, Mayor Koch said. Other
estimates have put the figure as high as 750,000.

''One crucial effect of the undercount is to deprive the city of its full share
of representation in Congress and in the New York State Assembly,'' he said. ''A
second effect is that the city has lost between $25 million and $52 million
annually in Federal funds under certain programs with formulas tied to
population.''

Mayor Koch called on Congress to pass a law requiring the Census Bureau to make
a statistical adjustment in its figures based on its estimates of the uncounted
population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Representatives Robert Garcia and Mervyn M. Dymally, at
immigration law hearing (NYT/John Sotomayor)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 9, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. EASES RULES ON ILLEGAL ALIENS WHO SEEK AMNESTY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1069 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8


The Reagan Administration today liberalized the rules for illegal aliens seeking
amnesty under the new immigration law and predicted that at least 100,000 aliens
would benefit from the change.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
the change would be particularly beneficial to many illegal aliens in the New
York metropolitan area, where the number of applications for amnesty has been
far below official expectations.

Visitors' Visas Misused

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said, ''The
new regulation will affect persons who were residing illegally in the United
States, left the country, then fraudulently used documents obtained at overseas
consulates to re-enter the U.S. to resume their illegal residence.''

Such people, previously barred from the amnesty program, may now qualify, Mr.
Nelson said. Typically, the aliens used visitors' visas to re-enter the United
States. But they were not true visitors because they intended to continue
working and living here, immigration officials said.

'Geographical Imbalance'

Mark W. Everson, Deputy Commissioner of the immigration service, said the agency
had revised its interpretation of the law in part because it noted a
''geographical imbalance'' in the flow of applications for amnesty. Illegal
aliens who lived in Texas or California, traveled to Mexico and surreptitiously
re-entered the United States could qualify for amnesty under the old rules, he
said in an interview. But those who went to Europe or Africa and then re-entered
this country with visas were ineligible under the old rules, he said.

Immigration lawyers and Hispanic groups suggested that the Government had
liberalized the rules because officials were disappointed with the number of
applications to date.

Mr. Everson said, ''We would like to see the applications increase in New
York,'' but he insisted that was not the primary reason for the change.
Officials concluded that the old rule was inequitable to some aliens and that
the new rule was ''consistent with Congressional intent,'' he said.

To qualify for legal status under the law, an alien ''must establish that he
entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and that he has resided
continuously in the United States in an unlawful status'' from that date until
he applies for amnesty. The new rule expands the definition of continuous
residence.

As an example of those who would benefit, Mr. Nelson cited the case of a Mexican
woman who has been living in this country with her family since 1977. The woman
returned to Mexico for a family emergency and obtained a visitor's visa to
re-enter the United States after Jan. 1, 1982, he said.

The amnesty program began slowly, but now, after five months, more than 800,000
illegal aliens have applied for legal status, Mr. Nelson said. The program was
designed to handle up to 3.9 million applications in the one-year period that
ends May 4. But Mr. Nelson said officials never really expected more than 2
million to apply, and he said the program would probably meet that goal.

The statute also makes it unlawful for employers to hire illegal aliens.
Employers hiring illegal aliens are subject to civil penalties that range from
$250 to $2,000 for each alien. #30% Drop in Alien Arrests Mr. Nelson said there
had been a 30 percent decline in the number of illegal aliens arrested on the
Southern border in the last year. The number dropped to 1,124,931 in the year
that ended Sept. 30, from 1,615,854 in the prior year, he said.

Mr. Nelson said, ''We attribute the decrease to the fact that fewer people
attempted illegal entry because they believed they could not find employment''
in the United States.

James A. Jasey, legalization officer for the immigration service in New York
City, said that 34,410 people had applied for legal status in the New York
district through last week.

''We had expected to get about 125,000 applications by now,'' he said. ''We had
been hoping to get 1,100 applications a day, but are receiving an average of
only 300 to 400 a day.''

The New York district covers New York City, Long Island and seven nearby
counties. For the amnesty program, the immigration service has offices in
Manhattan, Queens and Hempstead, L.I. Many ethnic groups and religious
organizations offer help to illegal aliens in preparing applications.

Mr. Jasey said the number of applications had been relatively low because New
York had many separate, diverse communities of illegal aliens, including
Haitians, Salvadorans, Colombians, Dominicans, Koreans, Chinese and Indians. He
said that it took time for Federal officials to go into each community and
explain the law.

Law Better Known in West

The amnesty program appears to be better known in some Western states where most
of the illegal aliens are from Mexico, he said.

Muzaffar A. Chishti, an immigration lawyer who works for the International
Ladies Garment Workers Union in New York, said, ''A lot of our members from
Latin American countries will be helped'' by the new rule. But he said that the
change did not go far enough and that other ''corrective measures'' were needed
to make more people eligible.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said he was ''greatly
disappointed'' that so few people had applied for amnesty in New York. But in
other respects, he said, ''The new immigration law appears to be working pretty
well so far.''

Sam Bernsen, a former general counsel of the immigration service, said the new
rule on amnesty seemed to reflect a ''softening'' of the agency's position.
''Many aliens were reluctant to apply for legal status because the I.N.S. took
such a hard line'' on eligibility, he said. ''The agency has been retreating
from some of those hard-line positions.''

On another issue, the agency has generally refused to say how it would handle
applications from a family of illegal aliens when some members qualified for
legal status but others did not. Immigration lawyers said that such families
could be split apart by a literal interpretation of the law.

Immigration officials offered assurance to some of those families today. Duane
Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the Government would not
take action to deport minor children living with their parents when the parents
qualified for amnesty but the children did not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 22, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. May Let Some Illegals Stay If Relatives Qualify for Amnesty

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21


The Administration announced a policy today under which some illegal aliens may
be allowed to stay in the United States if they have immediate relatives who
qualify for amnesty under the new immigration law.

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said the
Government would consider deferring deportation of such aliens in instances in
which there were compelling humanitarian reasons to avoid splitting up families.

This was the first time the Government had indicated its intentions on the
emotional question of how to treat families in which some members qualified for
legal status and others did not.

Gregory J. Leo, a spokesman for the immigration service, gave several examples
of the ''special humanitarian factors'' that might justify allowing an
ineligible adult to remain in the United States with a spouse who gains amnesty,
including seriously illness or handicap, or old age.

Numbers Are Substantial

Verne Jervis, also a spokesman for the immigration service, said he had no way
to estimate how many families would be affected. But he said the number was
probably more than 100,000, and Hispanic groups agreed.

''We hear about this problem from lots of people who are counseling undocumented
aliens,'' said Charles K. Kamasaki, a policy analyst at the National Council of
La Raza, a Hispanic group.

Mr. Nelson said there would be a review of each case, but he refused to rule out
the possibility that some married couples might be split.

Gilbert Paul Carrasco, an immigration lawyer with the United States Catholic
Conference, the social action arm of the Roman Catholic Church, said the new
policy did not go far enough. ''It does not adequately address the plight of
ineligible spouses who are devoted to the other members of their families,'' he
said.

Law Adopted Last Year

Mr. Carrasco estimated that several hundred thousand families could be affected
by the new policy. A majority of the illegal aliens applying for legal status
may have immediate relatives in this country who are ineligible, he said.

Under the immigration law adopted last year, illegal aliens may qualify for
legal status if they can prove that they entered the United States before Jan.
1, 1982, and have lived here continuously in an unlawful status since that date.

Mr. Kamasaki said he believed there were many cases in which men came to the
United States before 1982, followed by their wives and children after Jan. 1,
1982.

In general, Mr. Jervis said, the ineligible spouse of a person who qualifies for
amnesty would be in jeopardy only if he or she were discovered by immigration
officers inspecting a work site.

Information Kept Confidential

A person who applies for legal status must list his or her immediate relatives.
But the information must be kept confidential and may not be used to enforce
immigration laws or to find illegal aliens, Mr. Jervis said.

Mr. Nelson, testifying today before the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, said no information from an application would be used against the
applicant or family members.

Immediate relatives of illegal aliens who obtain amnesty are not automatically
entitled to the same status because Congress provided no authority for such a
dispensation, Mr. Nelson said. He cited a 1985 report by the Senate Judiciary
Committee, which said that ''families of legalized aliens'' should obtain no
special rights by virtue of the amnesty.

In addition, Mr. Nelson said, ''Fairness dictates that illegal alien family
members of persons eligible for legalization not be treated more favorably than
the family members of legal permanent residents, who may have to wait years to
come to the United States'' because of the heavy demand for visas.

Special Policy for Children

Mr. Nelson said there was a special policy for unmarried children under 18 years
old who are living with their parents: The Government will generally not take
action to deport them if the parents have received amnesty and the children do
not qualify.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said he might offer
legislation to insure that families of illegal aliens could stay together if
some members qualified for amnesty.

In the 1986 law, he said, Congress was deliberately vague on this issue because
it feared there might be huge numbers of aliens seeking amnesty. ''But since the
numbers have been relatively low, it behooves us to let families stay
together,'' he said.

The amnesty program began slowly, but after five and a half months more than
865,000 illegal aliens have applied for legal status, Mr. Nelson said. He
expects a total of 2 million by the time the application period closes in May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 13, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION: The Amnesty Gamble;
Immigration Law's Impact Still Tough To Measure

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


IT was called a corpse that would not die, the immigration legislation that
finally became law in 1986 after a year-to-year Congressional marathon.

Sixteen months later, as the nation enters the final two months of the largest
amnesty program for illegal aliens in history, it is clear that the marathon has
only begun. Born in tortuous compromise, the Immigration Reform and Control Act
of 1986 remains a patchwork and its long-term effects remain an utter mystery.

Critics and proponents agree the law's effectiveness will be dictated by
economics, politics and enforcement decisions in the United States and by the
political and economic stability of Latin America. With so many variables, the
critics say, the law may eventually become almost irrelevant. Even supporters
say any expectations of a quick immigration fix are wildly inappropriate.

''The immigration law isn't a Cadillac, but at least it's a car,'' said Patrick
Burns, assistant director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which advocates generally restrictive policies. ''The rise of illegal
immigration was a process, not an event, that developed over 20 years. And just
as it took time to develop, it will take time for us to regain control of our
borders.''

The law attempts to curb illegal immigration while offering amnesty to aliens
who have lived here long enough to develop a stake in the United States - those
who can prove residence since Jan. 1, 1982. It includes penalties for employers
of illegal aliens and stepped-up border enforcement.

The amnesty program has been more successful than some critics expected; they
give the Immigration and Naturalization Service high marks for succeeding with
so many aliens in overcoming their historic fear of all its works and ways.

Still, turnout is well below expectations. The I.N.S. planned for 2 million
general amnesty applicants, perhaps as many as 3.9 million; officials now say
they expect about 1.35 million by the May 4 deadline.

There are no reliable figures for the illegal population - estimates range from
3 million to well over 5 million - so it's impossible to be sure what percentage
of eligible aliens have applied.

But because of the restricted eligibility period, it is clear the law will not
come close to removing the illegal subclass from the nation's workforce. Some
demographers estimate that for every illegal alien who wins amnesty, two will
stay illegal.

Thus, even as some aliens come from the shadows, the rest will become a more
desperate, exploitable subculture, critics say.

''The potential is they will become a new underclass,'' said Cecilia Munoz,
project director for the legalization program of Catholic Charities in Chicago.
''They will not go home because this is their home. If they came from Mexico
because there is no work in Mexico, there still is no work in Mexico.''

'The Push Factors'

Besides, critics say it is folly to believe unilateral reforms will deter new
immigrants fleeing widespread poverty in Latin America, and war in several
nations.

''The law deals with some of the pull factors; it does not deal with the push
factors,'' said Roberta Johnson, an immigration caseworker with Catholic
Charities in Dallas. ''We have not provided a hemispheric answer to a
hemispheric problem.''

Border Patrol figures show a dramatic drop in apprehensions of aliens along the
nation's southern border since the law went into effect. But a study of the
law's first year by David S. North for the Center for Immigration Studies found
the impact diminished with time. In the first two months of this year, 210,352
illegal entrants were caught, against 190,833 in the same period last year.

There are even fewer ways to assess the success of the employer sanctions.
Analysts say there seems to be a good deal of voluntary compliance thus far. But
similar programs have had mixed results in other countries, with some relative
successes and numerous failures.

Already there are proposals to alter the law. Congress will soon consider
extending the amnesty period for a year to increase turnout. Citing a report
last month by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace as evidence,
supporters of this plan say that the public information campaign on the amnesty
was inadequate and slow to start, leaving eligible aliens confused and reluctant
to apply. In addition, some groups have called for expanding the applicant pool
to include people who came after Jan. 1, 1982.

Dr. David Reimers, a history professor at New York University who specializes in
immigration, said the United States has shown the ability to alter its
immigration flow drastically in the past when it saw a need. Thus, he said, the
real question is not how to alter the law, but whether the will exists to
enforce it.

Such factors as who wins the

Presidential election, deficit-inspired budget cuts and anticipated labor
shortages could help shape enforcement, he said. Most important could be the
economy: A severe economic downturn could prompt rigid enforcement, as in the
1930s, he said.

Even suporters wonder if a nation with intense but mixed feelings about
immigration will ever send an unequivocal message about border control.

''There's little doubt illegal immigration can be brought under control if the
law is enforced,'' said Mr. Burns, of the reform federation. ''The wild card is,
to what extent are we going to enforce it?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Mexicans boarding raft to cross Rio Grande in U.S.
illeglally; illegal aliens applying for amnesty in El Paso, Tex. (NYT/Bruce
Berman); graph of amnesty requests, May 1987-Feb. 1988 (Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 29, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
A Grace Period For Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By CAROLINE RAND HERRON AND MARTHA A. MILES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 242 words


''Now they ask me for papers,'' said Jose Antonio Menendez, an illegal alien
from El Salvador who has lived and worked in Houston since 1981. Mr. Menendez
can no longer find a job, even though, like millions of other aliens, he can
apply for legal status under the immigration law adopted in November. He can
legally be employed while the Immigration and Naturalization Service decides
whether he qualifies, and in any case, a provision authorizing fines of
employers who hire illegal aliens does not go into effect until June 1.

Nevertheless, suits filed by immigrant rights groups in Houston, Phoenix and
Sacramento say many employers are already dismissing illegal aliens or, more
often, refusing to hire them, choosing to run no risk of fines that range up to
$10,000.

Last week the immigration service agreed to grant ''blanket authority'' for
illegal aliens to work until Sept. 1, if they tell their employer that they
expect to qualify for legal status. The service said it did so only to avoid the
''administrative nightmare'' of trying to issue up to five million temporary
work permits while also determining which aliens were qualified for amnesty.

A spokesman for the group that filed the Sacramento suit called the agreement,
which settled the suit, a victory. ''We think this should reverse the trend of
employers firing many of their workers to avoid sanctions,'' said Peter Schey,
director of an immigrants group in Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 9, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Group to Explain Alien Law

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8


The Federal Government said today that it had awarded a $10.7 million contract
to a group that will publicize the new immigration law among employers and
aliens.

One of the contractors, Fernando Oaxaca, a budget official in the Ford
Administration, strongly opposed the immigration legislation when it was pending
in Congress. He said the bill would impose too many burdens on employers. But he
vows now to help make it work.  The contract was awarded to a joint venture
composed of two small Hispanic businesses and Hill & Knowlton, which describes
itself as the largest public relations company in the United States. They will
spread the word in English, Spanish, Chinese, Polish, Korean, Japanese, Arabic
and other languages for illegal aliens who might be eligible for legal status
under the law, Mr. Oaxaca said.

The joint venture, the Justice Group, includes the Coronado Communcations
Corporation, of which Mr. Oaxaca is chairman, and La Agencia de Orci &
Asociados, an agency that specializes in Spanish-language advertising. Both are
based in Los Angeles. Hector Orci said his agency was a division of
McCann-Erickson until last October.

The 1986 law prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens but offers legal
status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can prove that they entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided here continuously since then.

On May 5 the Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to open more than 100
offices around the country to accept applications from illegal aliens seeking
legal status.

Frank Mankiewicz, executive vice president of Hill & Knowlton, said Mr. Oaxaca
had organized the joint venture and would coordinate it.

Mr. Oaxacasaid one of the goals of the advertising campaign was to assure
illegal aliens that information they provided in applying for legal status would
not be used against them. Under the law, the information is to be kept
confidential and is not to be used as the basis for deporting those found
ineligible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 19, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Border Officers To Weigh Pleas Of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18


The Government has named Border Patrol agents, investigators, deportation
officers and other enforcement personnel to review applications from illegal
aliens seeking legal status under the new immigration law.

The assignments have caused concern among immigration lawyers, Hispanic groups
and religious organizations, which fear that some of the officials, because of
their law-enforcement background, will be hostile to aliens.

Immigration officials said that the fears were unfounded and that data submitted
on applications for legal status would not be used to deport illegal aliens. The
law requires that such information be kept confidential unless an alien has
knowingly made false statements in an application.

The Law of the Land

However, the officials acknowledged that the law would require major changes in
attitude for many employees of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
success of the law depends on such changes, immigration experts said.

Alfred J. Heitzmann was an immigration investigator for 13 years and a Border
Patrol agent for 9 years before he retired. He was called back to be deputy
chief of the Government office that will review applications from illegal aliens
in New Orleans.

''It's a 180-degree change,'' Mr. Heitzmann said. ''I spent 22 years of my life
apprehending and ejecting illegal aliens. Will I have a problem now legalizing
them? No. This program is the law of the land, and I am sworn to uphold it.''

On May 5 the immigration service will open 107 offices around the country to
accept applications from illegal aliens. The office for Washington and Virginia
is to be headed by Bruce Chadbourne, who was a deportation officer until a few
months ago.

The manager of the legalization office in Manhattan, Jack Byrnes, was until
recently a supervisor of investigations who specialized in detecting immigration
fraud.

'Hostile to Illegal Aliens'

Edward J. Wildblood, director of legalization for the Eastern region, which
covers 13 states, spent 29 years in the immigration service, serving as a Border
Patrol agent, intelligence officer, investigator and associate regional
commissioner for enforcement, among other jobs. He said his goal now was ''to
legalize as many aliens as possible.''

Sam Bernsen, an immigration lawyer, said the selection of enforcement personnel
to run the legalization program was a mistake.

''These people are likely to be perceived as hostile to illegal aliens,'' said
Mr. Bernsen, who worked at the immigration service for more than 35 years in
various jobs, including general counsel. ''As a result, aliens will be
apprehensive and may be afraid to apply.''

Charles C. Foster of Houston, a former president of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, said, ''A person who has spent his life trying to detect,
detain and deport aliens will have mixed feelings about trying to administer the
legalization program in a generous fashion, as Congress intended.''

Richard E. Norton, Associate Commissioner of the immigration service, said the
people running the program ''understand that the I.N.S. has different missions
and wears different hats.'' Many have experience serving the public and
reviewing aliens' applications for citizenship or other benefits, he said.

New Law Offers Amnesty

A Federal advisory committee that studied immigration policy said in 1981 that
the public service and law-enforcement functions of the I.N.S. should be
separated ''to the greatest extent possible.'' But that has not occurred.

The new law prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens but offers legal
status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan.
1, 1982, and have resided here continuously since then.

The application period lasts to May 4, 1988. The Government expects applications
from four million illegal aliens.

Under the program, illegal aliens may become lawful temporary residents of the
United States. After 18 months in that status, they may apply for permanent
residence. After five years as permanent residents, they may apply for United
States citizenship.

In preparing their applications, many illegal aliens will receive help from
nonprofit groups like the United States Catholic Conference, the social action
arm of the Roman Catholic Church. Gilbert Paul Carrasco, an immigration lawyer
at the Catholic Conference, said he had ''very serious concern'' that
immigration officials would ''maintain their law-enforcement perspective in the
legalization program.''

Problems of Documentation

''This is a benefits program and is supposed to be liberally construed,'' he
said.

The law will require a major psychological change for many aliens, too. After
living in the United States for years as ''undocumented workers'' trying to
conceal their illegal status, they must now find documents to prove they have
been here ''in an unlawful status'' since 1982.

Muzaffar A. Chishti, a lawyer with the International Ladies Garment Workers
Union, said that thousands of illegal aliens would have ''severe problems''
finding the necessary documents. In the needle trades, he said, many aliens
''worked in sweatshops for fly-by-night operators who paid them in cash, so
there are no pay stubs, paychecks or other records.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 30, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Refugees Are Not Subsidies

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words


President Duarte of El Salvador has asked President Reagan to give temporary
refuge to half a million Salvadorans living illegally in the United States. If
President Reagan agreed, he would blow a loophole the size of St. Louis through
the new Immigration Reform and Control Act.

The Salvadoran issue involves vexing questions of how to control the border, who
is properly a refugee and how much America should do to help a friendly
neighbor. Can these all be addressed without sacrificing principle? Yes, but not
in the way Mr. Duarte suggests.

                                     *  *  *

Since 1980, United States law has defined refugees as people with a
''well-founded fear of persecution'' in their home country and thus entitled to
sanctuary or political asylum. To send them home would risk committing the
diplomatic sin of refoulement - forcibly subjecting them to peril.

Giving refugee status to those who face persecution is compassionate. But it is
necessary to reserve it for only them. Not even a generous nation can afford to
become a haven for millions who would like to come here to seek a better
standard of living. The new immigration law strikes a decent compromise. It
tightens the borders against economic migrants while offering amnesty to those
who have lived here illegally since before 1982.

Yet the new law could have a devastating impact on Salvadorans, the
second-largest group of undocumented aliens, after Mexicans. Most came here
after the amnesty cutoff date, and stronger enforcement will probably induce
many to return home before being apprehended.

Mr. Duarte argues that to send half a million Salvadorans home would be
disastrous. He cites El Salvador's ''severe economic crisis'' caused by seven
years of civil war and an earthquake last October that left 300,000 homeless.
There are few jobs for returnees. Worse, Mr. Duarte notes, they send home
between $350 million and $600 million in remittances to relatives each year. If
the United States wants to help Mr. Duarte succeed, the argument goes, it would
let the aliens stay. Yet to grant the Salvadorans temporary refuge on the basis
of Mr. Duarte's economic appeal would twist the idea of refugee into subsidy.
That distortion would extract an intolerably high price, vitiating the new
immigration law even before it goes into effect. Instantly, the international
grapevine would spread the word: ''See, the yankees aren't really serious.
Forget all the talk about a tough new law. They're already winking at it.''

If there's a case for subsidizing the Duarte Government, then let the subsidy be
made directly and not by back-door evasion of American law.

There probably are Salvadorans who can demonstrate a well-founded fear of
persecution. In the case of El Salvador, because of longstanding civil strife,
politics and economics are intertwined. A recent investigation by the General
Accounting Office found that some Salvadorans faced ''personal security
problems'' and that human rights abuses were still occurring.

American law doesn't provide for temporary safe haven, but the Attorney General
can grant ''extended voluntary departure.'' The Administration has steadfastly
refused, however, to give such status to any Salvadorans.

That's why Congress is considering a bill, co-sponsored by Representative Joe
Moakley of Massachusetts and Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, to confer
extended voluntary departure status on undocumented Salvadorans and Nicaraguans
and suspend their deportation for two years. The emotional energy behind the
bill is understandable considering the Administration's rigidity. There might
not be such a bill had the Administration been more generous in processing
Salvadoran claims.

Nevertheless, the bill goes too far. To impose a two-year suspension for
compassionate reasons would have the same costly effect as agreeing to the
Duarte request for economic reasons. Sound policy calls for evaluating
persecution claims case by case, or in some instances, group by group.

The United States has a big stake in seeing Mr. Duarte's Government succeed. It
has a big stake in dealing humanely with people seeking refuge. It also has a
big stake in not trashing its own laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 1, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. ISSUES RULES MAKING IT EASIER FOR ALIENS TO OBTAIN LEGAL STATUS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30


The Reagan Administration, in a reversal, today announced policy changes that
will make it easier for thousands of illegal aliens to obtain legal status under
the new immigration law.

At the same time, the Government issued rules intended to lighten the burden the
new law places on employers. The law prohibits employers from hiring illegal
aliens but offers legal status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can prove that
they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here
continuously since then.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service originally intended to deny legal
status to any illegal alien who left the United States after Nov. 6, 1986, even
if the person had been residing in this country for more than five years.

But in final rules issued today, the agency said such aliens may qualify if they
have since returned to the United States. Thus, for example, an illegal alien
who left the United States for the Christmas holiday last year but returned in
January might qualify for legal status under the new rules. Such aliens would
have been ineligible for the amnesty program under rules proposed by the
immigration service last month.

'A Significant Step Forward'

Aliens who leave the United States after today will be barred from the amnesty
program, immigration officials said.

Linda J. Wong, a lawyer with the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, welcomed the change in policy, saying, ''It represents a significant step
forward for the I.N.S.''

''It will relieve thousands of people who were worried about the effect of trips
outside the country on their eligibility for legalization,'' she said. ''A lot
of people left the country over the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays without
realizing the consequences.''

On Tuesday the immigration service will open 107 offices around the country to
accept applications from aliens seeking legal status. The application period
runs through May 4, 1988.

Aliens wishing to file applications may obtain assistance from private
organizations, which will have nearly 600 offices around the country. For
information about the new law, people can call a toll-free telephone number:
800-777-7700.

Aliens must present documents such as pay stubs, rent receipts and utility bills
to prove they have ''resided continuously'' in the United States since January
1982. An alien will be disqualified if he or she has been absent from the United
States for more than 45 days at a time or for a total of more than 180 days
since Jan. 1, 1982.

Money Shortage Is Cited

As the rules were issued, members of Congress and immigration lawyers warned
that the success of the new law was being put in jeopardy by a shortage of
Federal funds.

At a hearing of the House Budget Committee, Representative Martin Frost, a Texas
Democrat, said, ''I am deeply concerned that the I.N.S., despite its heroic
efforts to begin implementing this law next Tuesday, is in fact ill-prepared,
and that the potential for chaos is very real.''

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said the Administration
''took a lot of credit'' for winning approval of the legislation but has been
''choking the law'' by not providing enough money to the immigration service.

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, insisted
that the agency's request for $861.5 million this year and $1.1 billion next
year was ''completely adequate.''

The immigration service ordered several changes in the rules to make it easier
for employers to comply. Under the law, employers must ask job applicants for
identification documents to verify that they are either United States citizens
or aliens authorized to work in this country. Employers are subject to civil
penalities of $250 to $10,000 for each illegal alien hired.

Under the first draft of the rules issued in January, employers would have been
required to check such documents within 24 hours of hiring a person. The second
draft, in March, gave employers three days. #3-Week Extension Allowed The final
rule, issued today, still requires employers to verify the citizenship status of
a new employee within three days, but allows an extension of up to three weeks
if the worker has lost the necessary documents.

The final rules also include these provisions:

* Employers must verify the citizenship status of all workers who were hired
after Nov. 6, 1986, the day President Reagan signed the bill into law. Employers
have until Sept. 1 to verify the status of people hired from Nov. 6 to June 1,
1987.

* Immigration officers will ordinarily give three days' notice before demanding
to see the forms that employers must fill out for all new employees.

* The immigration service relaxed the requirement that aliens seeking legal
status submit original documents to prove five years of continuous residence in
the United States. The Government will initially accept certified copies, but
may ask to see the originals.

In addition, foreign workers living outside the United States may be allowed to
re-enter this country and apply for residence permits if they can show that they
worked in American agriculture for at least 90 days in the year ending May 1,
1986.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AMNESTY BEGINS;
U.S. MEETS IMMIGRANTS ON UNEASY TERMS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 6; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


ONE of the great experiments in American history begins Tuesday, when the
Immigration and Naturalization Service will offer legal status to millions of
illegal aliens. No one is sure what to expect, and perhaps the only thing
certain is that, like much social policy legislation, the new law will have
unforeseen, unintended consequences.

The law prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens, but offers legal status,
or amnesty, to illegal aliens who can prove that they entered the United States
before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since then.

''No other country has attempted an amnesty program of this magnitude before,''
said Maurice A. Roberts, a former chairman of the Federal Board of Immigration
Appeals. The immigration service says it is prepared to review applications from
four million illegal aliens in the next 12 months, but no one is sure how many
will actually come forward.

A Federal advisory committee reported in 1981 that ''legalization programs in
Canada, Europe and Australia all had significantly lower numbers of applicants
than were expected'' because they could not overcome the fears and suspicions of
illegal aliens. The United States has tried to learn from that experience. In
this country, aliens can obtain assistance from private voluntary organizations
and religious groups, and the law forbids the immigration service to use the
data in an application to deport an illegal alien.

The immigration bill was debated as thoroughly as any legislation in the last
decade. But it still came as something of a surprise last month when it was
reported that substantial numbers of Mexicans and Salvadorans were fleeing the
United States even before the law takes effect.

In another unanticipated side-effect, thousands of illegal aliens migrated to
Canada. This influx, with other factors, has led the Canadians to consider
imposing new restrictions on refugees.

Oscar Handlin, the Harvard historian, said that ''most social policy legislation
has unforeseen effects.'' For example, he said, ''Prohibition ruined the
temperance movement and spread drinking.'' Similarly, in the 1970's, lawyers who
helped mental patients assert their civil liberties and win release from state
institutions scarcely foresaw that some of their clients would be homeless a
decade later.

John P. Roche, a professor at the Fletcher School of Tufts University, observed:
''The history of reform movements is loaded with unanticipated consequences. You
try to solve one problem and you create three others.''

Foreign Effects

Already the new immigration law is forcing the United States to pay more
attention to its neighbors in Latin America. President Jose Napoleon Duarte of
El Salvador has appealed to President Reagan to give his countrymen temporary
refuge in the United States because, he said, their return would have a
devastating effect on his country's economy. The $350 million to $600 million a
year sent home by the estimated 400,000 to 600,000 Salvadorans who have entered
the United States illegally in the last five years may be worth more than the
country's coffee crop.

The foreign policy implications of the new law received comparatively little
attention in Congress. In the House, the bill was repeatedly scrutinized by the
Committees on the Judiciary, Agriculture, Education and Labor and Ways and
Means. But the Foreign Affairs panel did not formally take up the bill or
investigate its implications for other countries.

In the next 15 years, immigration will account for at least one-quarter of the
growth in the population and labor force of the United States, according to the
Census Bureau and the Labor Department. Though the effects may not show up until
the mid-1990's, one outcome of the new law might be to increase migration from
Latin America and Asia. Such ''chain migration'' may occur because illegal
aliens who become lawful permanent residents or United States citizens can
obtain visas for some of their relatives.

Meanwhile, some economists say that the new law will significantly increase
dependence on legal foreign labor. Indeed, the law was designed to make it
easier for employers to bring in temporary foreign workers.

While most people focus on the implications for aliens, Sam Bernsen, former
general counsel of the immigration service, said, ''I project a tremendous
impact on United States citizens as well.'' All workers will have to show such
documents as birth certificates and passports before they can be legally hired.
Mr. Bernsen predicts that some citizens will have to delay starting work while
they search for the necessary papers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of an alien seeking legal help at an immigration office in
Manhattan run by a garment workers' union (NYT/Keith Meyers)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

FACTS ON AMNESTY PLAN FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS IN U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4


Illegal aliens will get a chance to apply for legal status Tuesday as the United
States, in a historic experiment, begins an amnesty program bigger than any ever
attempted.

The program, surrounded by confusion and uncertainty, is full of technical
requirements.

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said the
Government was ''well prepared.'' But immigration lawyers are doubtful. They say
they have had difficulty getting the necessary forms for their clients.

Many agree with Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer in Washington, who said
''The whole process of qualifying people for amnesty is a lot more complicated
than we thought it would be when the law was passed'' last year.

The law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, prohibits employers
from hiring illegal aliens, but offers legal status to some immigrants.

Following are some of the key questions and answers about the amnesty program,
gleaned from the new law, Congressional reports, Federal officials and
immigration lawyers:

Q. Who qualifies for legal status?

Illegal aliens who can prove that they entered the United States before Jan. 1,
1982, and have ''resided continuously'' in this country since then.

Q. How do you know if a person has resided here continuously?

An alien will be disqualified if he or she has been absent from the United
States for more than 45 days at a time or for a total of more than 180 days
since Jan. 1, 1982.

Q. How can an illegal alien show that he or she has lived in the United States
for the necessary time?

The person must submit documents such as employment records like pay stubs or
income tax withholding forms; utility bills; school records or report cards;
hospital or physician records; affidavits from churches, labor unions or
employers; bank statements; automobile registration forms; mortgages or
contracts. The applicant has ''the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence'' that he has lived here for the required time.

Q. What other documents are necessary?

The applicant must submit the results of a medical examination, as well as a
passport, driver's license or other evidence to establish identity.

Q. If an alien entered the United States legally as a tourist in February 1981
and has remained in this country since then, could the person qualify for the
amnesty?

Yes, if the time authorized for his stay as a tourist expired before Jan. 1,
1982.

Q. If an alien entered the United States legally as a student in February 1981
for a two-year course of study, but took a full-time job in September 1981 in
violation of the terms of his visa, could he qualify for legal status?

Only if his violation was known to the Government as of Jan. 1, 1982. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service says that the alien must have made ''a
clear statement or declaration'' of his illegal status and that the statement
must have been recorded in his immigration file by Jan. 1, 1982. This
requirement is so stringent that lawyers say it will be challenged in court.

Q. Where does an illegal alien apply for legal status?

The person may file an application directly with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The agency will have 107 special offices around the
country to review applications. Or the person may file an application with one
of the many church, civic and community groups that have agreed to help aliens.

Q. How much does it cost to apply for legal status?

There is an application fee of $185 for each adult and $50 for each child under
18 years old. The maximum fee for a family is $420. All fees must be paid by
money order, cashier's check or certified bank check. In addition, private
groups may charge fees of $75 for counseling an alien and $25 for making
fingerprints and photographs.

Q. How long does an illegal alien have to apply?

The application period runs from Tuesday through May 4, 1988.

Q. What happens to illegal aliens who do not apply in this period?

If they are caught after that time, they could be deported. The amnesty program
gives them a one-time opportunity to obtain legal status.

Q. What else must an illegal alien do to obtain legal status?

The applicant must be interviewed by an immigration officer and must prove that
he will have enough income so he is not likely to depend on public assistance.
An illegal alien with income below the official poverty level may still qualify
for legal status if he has a history of regular employment. Men 18 through 25
years of age must register with the Selective Service System.

Q. Can illegal aliens become United States citizens?

Yes, but it is a slow process. First, under the amnesty program the applicant
may become a lawful temporary resident of the United States. After 18 months in
that status, he may apply for permanent residence. After five years as permanent
residents, the person may apply for citizenship.

Q. Can an illegal alien be deported if his application for legal status is
denied?

The person cannot be deported as a result of information that he provides in the
application. But if the alien's illegal status comes to the attention of the
immigration service in some other way, the person may be deported.

Q. Does an illegal alien run any risk making false statements or using
counterfeit documents in applying for legal status?

Yes; the person may be subject to criminal prosecution. The maximum penalty for
knowingly providing false information is five years in prison and a fine of
$250,000.

Q. Can an illegal alien appeal a decision denying his or her application for
legal status?

Yes; the alien can ask for a review by a special administrative appeals unit in
the immigration service.

Q. Can the alien then appeal to a Federal court?

The law does not envision immediate judicial review of decisions denying amnesty
to illegal aliens. If an alien is later caught and ordered deported, he could
ask a Federal appeals court to review the deportation order. Lawyers say it is
not clear whether the court would also examine the merits of the decision
denying amnesty.

Q. If two illegal aliens are married and the man qualifies for legal status but
the woman does not, can she obtain permission to stay with him?

She has no automatic right to stay in the United States. The Government may give
her a special dispensation, for the sake of family unity, but that will be
decided on a case-by-case basis.

Q. Can an illegal alien get permission to work while waiting for the Government
to rule on an application for legal status?

Yes.

Q. How can a person get more information about the amnesty program?

From church, civic and community groups, or from a special toll-free telephone
number established by the Government: (800) 777-7700.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

THE GRIEF IN NEW ALIEN LAW: SOME FAMILIES MUST SEPARATE

BYLINE: By DENA KLEIMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, L.I., May 1


For countless families across the nation, perhaps the most wrenching aspect of
the new immigration law that comes into full effect Tuesday is the fear that
they may be torn apart.

Typical is the family of two sisters, their husbands, one brother and two
children - all illegal immigrants from El Salvador - living in quiet anonymity
here as they work hard to try to make ends meet.

An estimated 3.9 million illegal immigrants who came to this country before Jan.
1, 1982, are being invited to take advantage of the Federal Government's program
of amnesty under a new law. But behind many of these welcome immigrants - in one
of the law's least advertised aspects - are the siblings, husbands, wives,
parents and children who may not be permitted to stay.

Under the law, immigration officials said, they will grant legal status to
individuals, not to family units. In theory, the Government has the power to
split up families if some members qualify for amnesty and others do not.

Some officials said that in such cases they would refrain from deporting
immediate relatives of aliens who qualify for amnesty. But there is no uniform
policy on the issue.

Legal residents, including those who gain permanent residence under the amnesty
program, can sponsor close relatives for legal status, but it is a long process.
The relatives must return to their native country and, after completing
application procedures, join a waiting list that in some countries has a 20-year
backlog.

''How am I going to leave my son?'' asked Bertha, 32 years old, who came to this
country in June 1982 - six months after the legal cutoff for amnesty. She has no
idea what she is going to do.

Bertha and Sylvia, 29, are sisters who live together with their families in a
small, well-kept apartment here. They came to this country only nine months
apart, but Sylvia qualifies for amnesty and Bertha does not.

Bertha's husband, Roberto, 38, came before the deadline also. But not his
brother, Otto, 19. Because the children - all born in this country - qualify to
become American citizens, the law does not apply to them.

This Hempstead family agreed to speak to a reporter in the hope of making public
their plight and that of others, but they asked that their real surnames not be
used out of fear that they would be deported. For them, the last several weeks
of waiting for the new law to take effect have been filled with confusion,
uncertainty, anguish -and for the first time since they arrived in this country
- division.

Like so many families - not to mention immigration officials - they do not know
what how the new law will be interpreted and enforced. It is not clear to them
when and if they can be discharged from jobs or deported outright.

Even for those members of the family who do qualify for amnesty, they have no
idea how, after organizing their lives around anonymity for so long, they can
now come up with documentation to prove how long they have been here.

'What Are We Supposed to Do?'

''I cannot stay without work,'' said Bertha, whose $175-a-week salary is crucial
to the family's economic survival and who is afraid she will lose her job. ''I
cannot work without legal status. I have to leave. But my husband and son can
stay. What are we supposed to do?''

The family of brothers and sisters has been living in a two-bedroom apartment
that they rent for $675 a month. To keep their cover, the nameplate next to the
lobby buzzer to their apartment is blank. They have no telephone, and the rule
to friends is: Never knock. Stand at the front door and whistle.

Bertha, her husband, Roberto, and their 6-month-old son, Jamie, sleep in one
bedroom. Sylvia, her husband, Juan, and their 2-year-old daughter, Rosita, sleep
in the living room. Roberto's brother, Otto, has been sleeping on a cot in the
breakfast nook, off the kitchen. The second bedroom is for boarders - other
aliens.

Although the family members have separate schedules and rarely have time to eat
a meal together, their ability to stay together is contingent on the finances
and energy each contributes.

A Variety of Jobs Held

Sylvia, for example, who has worked over the years as a domestic and currently
volunteers in a local center that helps other illegal families, takes care of
the children while Bertha commutes to an Islip, L.I., factory about an hour
away, where she packs cookies for $4.85 an hour. Roberto drives to an Italian
restaurant in Queens, where he is a $225-a-week chef.

He bought the car he uses for $600 and learned to cook Italian by working for
several years as a busboy in an Italian restuarant. He has no driver's license
but instead carries a learner's permit in case he is stopped by the police.
Juan, 24, Sylvia's husband, works for $170 a week as a messenger in Manhattan.

Since they arrived in this country, they have been able to find work -often
thanks to Sylvia, an outgoing woman who makes friends easily and tends to be in
the know about jobs that are available. Sylvia, the most fluent in English, has
emerged as the family's decision-maker.

As the family has learned about the new immigration law, she has been the one
who has sought help. If there has been any division in recent weeks, it is that
Bertha and her husband, Roberto, would prefer to just keep going as they have
been - quietly underground.

'I Know I Qualify'

Sylvia is anxious, however, to step forward and claim the amnesty that she
believes she is entitled to, even if she may have trouble proving it.

''I know I qualify,'' said Sylvia, who remembers the date she emerged wet and
scared from the Rio Grande after swimming underwater with a snorkel to provide
air.

Although she has no written proof, she said she knew that on Oct. 5, 1981, she
went to work for a Venezuelan family in Bethesda, Md., where she remained for
nearly a year. Some weeks ago Sylvia went to Bethesda to look for that family
but was unable to find the house.

It was Sylvia who decided against hiring a lawyer she had heard about and who
was asking $3,000 to help a family apply for amnesty. Instead she tracked down
the Center for Immigrant Rights, a nonprofit educational and legal advocacy
group in Manhattan.

The group is helping Sylvia, Juan and Roberto track down former employers, as
well as look for other ways to help document their residency in this country
since January 1982. Still there is very little the center can do at this point
to assist Bertha and Otto.

''The tragedy is this family needs so much to be a unit to survive,'' said Felix
Cardona, a staff lawyer at the center.

As the effective date for the new law approached, Otto said he had decided he
was no longer willing to wait. ''I hate feeling all the time I'm a criminal,''
he said.

''It's dangerous to go home,'' Bertha has told him. ''Stay as long as you can.''

''I can't,'' Otto said the other day, returning to the apartment after being
discharged from his job as a dishwasher because his boss was afraid immigration
officials would fine him.

Otto has decided to forget his dreams of working in this country and is
returning to El Salvador on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of family that will be split because of new alien law (NYT/Vic
DeLucia)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Apply for Amnesty on First Day of New Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 56 words


Martha and Cesar Suarez holding their children as they stood in line to file for
legal status yesterday at an Immigration and Naturalization Center in Houston.
Although thousands of illegal aliens applied at more than 100 centers throughout
the nation, officials said there were fewer than expected. Page B7. (NYT/F.
Carter Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 7, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CONFLICTING FIGURES ON ILLEGAL ALIENS ROBERT REINHOLD

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1127 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 6


As the largest legalization of illegal immigrants ever undertaken by any country
gets under way, the program is awash with confusing and often conflicting
estimates of the number of aliens eligible for legal status and how many might
come forward to claim it. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has said
that its 107 legalization centers around the country are prepared to process up
to 3.9 million applications, a figure some experts say is far too high and
others say is just about right.

Some local and state officials have been making estimates for the potential
number of illegal aliens in their areas that border on the fantastic. They have
estimated the number eligible in Texas alone at a million, which would mean
there are about 10 million eligible nationally, since demographers estimate that
about one-tenth of the illegal aliens are in that state. But almost no
demographers put any credence in that, or some Congressional estimates that have
put the number as high as 12 million.

The question of how many foreigners live illegally in the United States has long
been clouded in uncertainty. The ''illegals,'' or ''undocumented,'' have avoided
official contact. Their numbers can only be estimated, and those estimates have
often been distorted by political exigencies.

The new immigration law confers legal status, or amnesty, on those who have
lived continuously in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982. Thus, the upper
limit of the number eligible would be the total here on that date, minus those
who died, emigrated or achieved legalization through normal means.

More Than 100,000 Annually

The Census Bureau believes it counted 2.1 million illegal aliens nationally at
the last Census Day, April 1, 1980. But since many presumably avoided being
counted, the bureau estimated the actual number at 2.5 million to 3.5 million, a
figure that many demographers still consider extremely conservative.

Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer with the Census Bureau, said that the number of
illegal aliens was estimated to have grown by 100,000 to 300,000 a year since
the last census. Thus, he said, the figure on Jan. 1, 1982, would have been in
the range of 2.7 million to 4 million, half of them estimated to have been in
California and a tenth in New York State. The majority were from Mexico (55
percent), but there were also substantial numbers of Britons, Iranians,
Salvadorans and Haitians, among others.

Mr. Passel said he believed the immigration service's figure of 3.9 million was
plausible, saying it was ''on the high end of the range but in the ballpark.''
He added that the Census Bureau figures did not include the special agricultural
workers included under the amnesty, estimated to be 400,000.

Even within the immigration service there appears to be confusion over the
numbers. Robert Warren, a demographer who is chief of the statistics branch at
the agency in Washington, said he estimated the upper limit of the number
eligible for amnesty at 3.3 million, consisting of 2.9 million illegal
residents, in addition to 35,000 illegal aliens in Puerto Rico, the Virgin
Islands and Guam and the special farm workers from Mexico.

But Michael H. Landon, special assistant to the associate commissioner for
examinations at the immigration office in Washington, said the agency was
working on the assumption that 3.9 million would apply and 2.9 million would
gain approval. He said the figure was purely a ''guestimate'' based both on
census figures and information from local immigration community relations
officials.

'Nothing Definite About It'

''There's nothing definite about it,'' he said, adding that the agency wanted to
err on the upper end to avoid being caught short on staff and forms.

On Monday, Alan C. Nelson, head of the immigration service, gave still another
figure on illegal aliens, saying he thought two million would win amnesty.

That number seems small, at least to judge from the assertions of local
government and church officials aiding the aliens. In New York City alone there
may be up to 500,000 coming forward for amnesty, according to the Department of
Social Services. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn says it expects to aid a
minimum of 100,000 aliens.

And Catholic Charities of the Los Angeles Diocese says it had preregistered
287,000 applicants the week before the one-year amnesty period opened on
Tuesday.

Charles B. Keely, a demographer with the Population Council in New York, who has
been a long-time student of immigration, said he thought many estimates of the
numbers of illegals were exaggerated. He estimated that about 2.25 million would
qualify, at the most.

Another scholar of illegal immigration, Leon F. Bouvier, recently retired from
the Population Reference Bureau. ''I would lean toward the lower side.''

That view was seconded by Frank D. Bean, director of the Population Research
Center at the University of Texas at Austin, who said he thought the census
range of 2.5 million to 4 million was correct. ''We do not know for certain, but
a lot of us will be very astounded if anything outside that range turned up,''
he said.

Whatever, the theoretical pool of applicants, the big imponderable is how many
will come forward. Lingering fear and suspicion, as well as the daunting
paperwork requirements, the cost of applying and other factors are thought
likely to deter many, as well as medical requirements and the barriers to people
who have committed felonies in this country or abroad.

In addition, it is unknown how many do not plan to stay anyway, or how strictly
immigration officers will interpret the rules.

But the experience in other countries is that turnout is well below
expectations, according to several studies by David S. North of the New
TransCentury Foundation in Washington. He has studied previous amnesties offered
by Britian, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United States Virgin Islands,
the Netherlands and other countries.

''Generally we learned that fewer came forward than the managers expected,'' Mr.
North said.

The 60-day Canadian amnesty, proclaimed on Aug. 15, 1973, for illegal immigrants
who had entered before Nov. 30, 1972, was widely expected to confer benefits on
about 200,000. In fact, only 29,000 people were granted ''landed immigrant''
status, in spite of what Mr. North said was a ''splendid job'' of promoting and
executing the program.

But the situation in Canada in 1973 is vastly different from that of the United
States in 1987, considering its lengthy border with economically depressed
Mexico. The question now is whether the incentives to remain in this country are
strong enough to induce many people to overcome the considerable bureaucratic
and psychological hurdles to amnesty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphs of estimated aliems eligible to apply for legal residency status
(Source: Bureau of the Census and Immigration and Naturalization Service)

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 15, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN REJECTS SALVADORAN PLEA ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 14


President Reagan today turned down a plea from the President of El Salvador to
give temporary refuge to thousands of Salvadorans living illegally in this
country.

The State Department said the United States had decided that it could not make
an exception to the new immigration law, despite an impassioned request
President Jose Napoleon Duarte made last month.

Illegal aliens from El Salvador have already begun returning home because they
cannot legally be hired in this country. But in a letter to Mr. Duarte, Mr.
Reagan said, ''It is unlikely that a large-scale exodus of Salvadorans will
occur.'' Mr. Reagan also quoted the United States Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization as saying, ''There will be no large-scale deportations as a
result of the new law.''

Mr. Reagan's letter was given to Mr. Duarte by Edwin G. Corr, the United States
Ambassador to El Salvador.

'Not Surprised' by Ruling

In Washington, the Salvadoran Ambassador, Ernesto Rivas-Gallont, said in an
interview that he was ''saddened but not surprised'' by the decision.

''We do not want to jeopardize our excellent relations with the United States,''
Mr. Rivas-Gallont said. ''But we feel our main obligation is to our fellow
countrymen and women. We will continue to pursue avenues that would allow
Salvadorans to remain in the United States for such time as necessary until the
situation in El Salvador becomes normal. Then we can program an orderly return
of our people.''

The new law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, prohibits employers
from hiring illegal aliens, but offers legal status, or amnesty, to illegal
aliens who can prove that they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982,
and have lived here continuously since then.

Economic Impact Feared

In a letter dated April 10, Mr. Duarte asked Mr. Reagan to let the Salvadorans
remain temporarily in this country. He said that ''the massive return of
Salvadorans from the United States would add to the already disastrous levels of
unemployment and economic crisis'' in his country.

He said 400,000 to 600,000 Salvadorans, representing about 10 percent of his
country's population, had entered the United States illegally since January 1982
and thus would not qualify for amnesty under the new law. Mr. Duarte said these
people sent home remittances of $350 million to $600 million a year.

In his letter to Mr. Duarte, President Reagan said he had asked Secretary of
State George P. Shultz ''to bring your concerns to the urgent attention of the
Department of Justice and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and to
work with them to insure that the effects you fear do not occur.''

Administration officials said it was unlikely large numbers of Salvadorans would
return home, even though the new law was designed to encourage the departure of
illegal aliens.

Under the law, employers may continue to employ illegal aliens who were hired
before Nov. 6, 1986, when President Reagan signed the immigration bill. But
these aliens are locked into their current jobs; they cannot legally be hired by
any other employer.

Elliott Abrams, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, said
last month that he supported Mr. Duarte's request. But Administration officials
said it had been opposed by other Presidential appointees, including Mr. Nelson,
Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d and Michael H. Armacost, the Under Secretary of
State for Political Affairs.

Mr. Duarte had asked Mr. Reagan to defer the deportation of Salvadorans by
giving them a special status known as ''extended voluntary departure.'' The
Justice Department has granted a similar dispensations to people from
Afghanistan and Poland and, on a more limited basis, to Ethiopians.

The rejection of Mr. Duarte's request is likely to intensify interest in
legislative proposals to defer the deportation of Salvadorans. Such bills have
been introduced by Representative Joe Moakley of Massachusetts and Senator
Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, both Democrats.

Most Seeking Asylum Rejected

Many Salvadorans have applied for asylum in the United States, but few
applications have been approved. In the last fiscal year, the immigration
service granted asylum to 55 Salvadorans and denied 1,149 applications.

To qualify for asylum, an alien must show ''a well-founded fear of persecution
on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social
group, or political opinion.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS LEARN 'CAVEAT EMPTOR'

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 50, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words


Lawyers, real-estate agents, notaries public, travel agents and even some
driving instructors have put up signs in recent weeks offering to help illegal
aliens sort their way through the complexities of the new immigration law.

While the signs in front of the offices are the most visible indication of the
increased interest in providing advice for illegal aliens, some self-styled
''experts'' are going into cafes in immigrant neighborhoods offering advice -for
a fee.

There is nothing illegal about helping aliens become eligible for residence in
the United States, but community leaders say they are concerned that some people
are charging exorbitant fees and others may lack the expertise to give
professional advice. Furthermore, it is illegal for a non-lawyer to give legal
advice or to interpret the law for a client.

'Many Unscrupulous People'

''There are many unscrupulous people playing on the fears of the illegal
aliens,'' said Joseph Buttigieg, the director of the Office of Cultural and
Ethnic Concerns for Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rockville Centre in
Amityville, L.I., one of the ''Qualified Designated Entities'' named by the
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service to help with the naturalization
process. He said some notaries were offering services for which they were not
qualified. ''They're getting away with it because in Spanish countries a notary
has a higher standing,'' he said.

Immigration lawyers said that the average legal fee for help in filing the
legalization application should be from $500 to $1,000. In addition to the
Diocese of Rockville Centre, the immigration service has designated about 40
other church and civic groups in the metropolitan region as qualified to handle
applications, for a fee of up to $75. But some lawyers and non-lawyers are
charging much more.

Mr. Buttigieg told of a lawyer in Hempstead who charged a Hispanic alien $3,000
to fill out an application. In Westbury, two Mexicans, eligible for
legalization, paid a lawyer $75 each for letters merely to show their employers
they will apply for legal status, he said.

Federal Agency's View

''There's nothing to prevent an alien from asking a friend or anybody else to
help fill out the application for legal status,'' said Verne Jervis, a spokesman
for the immigration service in Washington. ''We have no control. But we
recommend people go to an immigration attorney or one of the Qualified
Designated Entities, where they are more likely to get good advice and less
likely to waste money.''

While not all the designated entities have lawyers available to handle
immigration matters, many have staff members who have worked on immigration
matters for a long time and are considered qualified.

Under the new law, aliens who have lived here continuously since January 1982
are eligible for legal status if they can document their time in the United
States.

''Rip-offs are happening,'' said Darlene Kalke, director of the Center for
Immigrant Rights, a nonprofit organization in Manhattan.

A Dominican couple who have lived here many years and would qualify under the
new law went to a man calling himself an ''immigration expert'' in an office in
Manhattan a few months ago. They paid $1,000 each to begin the legalization
process. When they returned with their documents, the man was gone and the
office closed. Now they have started over again with a lawyer who is charging
them $800 apiece.

Bishop Acts

Assailing the abuse of illegal aliens seeking legal status, Bishop Francis J.
Mugavero of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn, announced this week the
creation of a commission to evaluate reported abuses and seek ways to curb them.

''The potential for abuse is tremendous,'' says Peter Pitsiokos, chairman of the
Immigration and Nationality Law Committee of the Bar Association of Suffolk
County. He said it was hard to control this kind of abuse because some lawyers
were teaming up with travel agents and other consultants, in effect matching
those who have the expertise with those who have contacts in the immigrant
communities.

Mr. Pitsiokos recently filed a complaint with the New York State Attorney
General's office against a travel agency, Argonastys, which published a series
of large advertisements in the local Greek daily newspapers, offering to help
aliens prepare applications for legal status. Mr. Pitsiokos said one of his
assistants who called the office to ask if he would need a lawyer to handle the
immigration process was told no.

In an interview, Kirk Phillips, director of Argonastys, said: ''It's perfectly
legal. I just fill out applications, I don't give advice.''

Booming Business

A tour of Queens shows that the immigration business is booming, particularly in
the heavily Hispanic sections of Jackson Heights and Corona. A law office has
just opened on 37th Road and 74th Street with two huge American flags painted on
its facade and the word Amnesty written in English and Spanish. The firm offers
the services of an American lawyer with a Hispanic legal assistant.

Similarly, other law firms and travel agents have added signs offering help on
immigration matters. On Roosevelt Avenue, Manuel Molino of the Colombiana Viajes
travel agency said the concern charges $500 to fill out an application and could
recommend a lawyer who would complete the process for another $600.

Many travel and real-estate agencies in the area offer immigration services,
without a lawyer. Some say they have services of a notary public. Others say
they know how to fill out papers.

Gerard Twombly, executive vice president of the Long Island Board of Realtors,
which includes Queens, said he had not heard that brokers were offering
immigration services but that it would not surprise him. ''A lot of people who
have real-estate licenses are immigrants themselves and might be interested in
helping others by offering more humane services,'' he said. ''If some of them
are abusing their licenses, the New York Department of State should discipline
them.''

Congressman's Warning

''The notaries I know don't practice law and know their limitations,'' said
Sidney Haimowitz, a Brooklyn insurance broker and notary. But he acknowledged
that some people might be taking advantage of the situation.

Travel industry officials in the New York metropolitan region said agencies in
some ethnic neighborhoods in Queens play a quasi-governmental role among
immigrants and are helping out with immigration documents.

Concerned about the situation, Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the
Bronx, has taped messages for television and radio in Spanish and English urging
people to get in touch with their local voluntary agencies for information on
legalization, warning: ''Beware of persons asking for money or fees to obtain
your legal status; only the I.N.S. has this authority.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LACK OF DOCTORS CALLED PERIL TO ALIEN AMNESTY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 35, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16


A shortage of physicians certified to perform required examinations on illegal
aliens under the amnesty program ''is the single biggest problem threatening''
the program's success, according to a report submitted to immigration officials
by a New York member of Congress.

The shortage of physicians certified by the Government to perform the medical
examinations is evident in New York, Miami, Chicago, Dallas and Los Angeles,
concluded the study compiled by the office of Representative Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of Brooklyn. It found that in Brooklyn and Queens only 18 health
maintenance organizations were certified to do the examinations, and that only
nine doctors had been certified in Dallas and Fort Worth and only 15 in Chicago.

''In Florida, except for the Broward and Dade county areas, there are virtually
no certified physicians,'' said the four-page report, submitted Friday. It was
compiled through a telephone check of immigration offices and private support
groups.

''If this situation is not improved it could cause a tremendous backlog in
applications, perhaps putting people in danger of not being able to file before
the legalization program ends next May,'' Mr. Schumer said in a letter to Alan
C. Nelson, head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

However, spokesmen for the immigration service said Mr. Schumer's report
overstated the problem and that steps were being taken to find more doctors.

Mario Ortiz, the spokesman for the agency's Dallas office, said there were about
33 doctors, not 9, available in the Dallas area. Verne Jarvis, an I.N.S.
spokesman in Washington, said district directors had already been given
authority to expand the list of physicians certified to conduct the exams.

Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, illegal aliens living in
the United States since before Jan. 1, 1982, have until next May 5 to seek
legalization, the first step toward citizenship. The immigration service
estimates that as many as 3.9 million people may apply.

The report declared that ''the early experience'' of the amnesty program, which
went into effect May 5 ''is generally positive.''

Mr. Schumer's office also said that the number of people who have presented
themsleves at immigration offices was smaller than expected. His staff
attributed this to Government delays in publishing final regulations and ''the
understandable reticence of people to come forward until they see how I.N.S. is
treating applicants.''

The lack of physicians ''is the single biggest problem threatening the
legalization program,'' it concluded.

A possible solution, the report asserted, is for immigration officials to grant
a request from the Catholic Conference to allow doctors at Catholic hospitals to
perform the examinations. The Catholic Conference is one of the private agencies
designated by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to assist aliens in
seeking legalization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 21, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Edict Urged on Alien Families

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20


Four lawmakers today urged Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, to issue a directive preventing the separation of
families under the Government's amnesty program for illegal aliens.

Senator Alan R. Cranston, assistant majority leader, said he and Representatives
Edward R. Roybal, Esteban Torres and Howard L. Berman, all California Democrats,
told Mr. Nelson there was a need to administer the new immigration law ''in ways
that do not break up families wherever possible'' adding that to do so was
''contrary to the American tradition.''

Under the program begun May 5, families in which only some members are eligible
for amnesty will be forced to separate or leave the better life they have found
in the United States, Mr. Cranston said.

But after the meeting in Mr. Cranston's office, Mr. Nelson said he was unsure of
his authority to alter the immigration reform law passed by Congress last year.

The commissioner has already advised the agency's district directors that they
have the authority to prevent, for humanitarian reasons, the deportation of
ineligible aliens. But, he said, there should be no blanket extension of amnesty
to family members.

It would be unwise, for instance, to permit an illegal alien to remain in the
country by marrying an alien who is eligible for amnesty soley for that purpose,
he said.

''You have to balance the legal immigrant with the illegal immigrant and a lot
of legal immigrants have to wait in line to bring their children in,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

EDUCATED ILLEGAL ALIENS BLOCKED FROM AMNESTY

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 30


The way the new immigration law is interpreted by its enforcers is making it
hard for foreign students who are illegal aliens to gain amnesty. A result,
according to lawyers who specialize in immigration cases, is that many of the
best-educated aliens stand a poor chance of staying in this country.

Masoud Farzad, an Iranian national who lives in Dallas, violated his student
visa by working in the late 1970's, which made his presence here illegal. He has
lived here and worked illegally since then. The law offers legal status to
illegal aliens who came here before 1982 and have lived in the United States
continuously since then.

But Mr. Farzad is apparently ineligible for amnesty because of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's interpretation of the law, which could affect
thousands of foreign students who came here over the past decade. That
interpretation is one of many complexities that are evolving as the amnesty
process gets under way.

''I think there's the sense the law was written for poor respectful, humble
folks who will do the jobs no one else wants,'' said Charles Foster, a Houston
lawyer who specializes in immigration cases. ''There's a constituency for those
people, but there's no constituency for students.''

For Some, It's Clear Cut

Mr. Farzad's case, which is before a Federal District Court and is expected to
be resolved soon, is typical of the complexities of the new law and the knotty
social policy issues it addresses.

At issue is the status of students and other aliens who have violated the terms
of their visas. For many, the status is clear cut: If the visa expired before
Jan. 1, 1982, and they stayed on illegally, they are eligible to apply for
amnesty. If it expired after that date or they violated the terms of their visa
after that date, they are not eligible.

But many students have been able to extend their visas for several years while
working full time or part time, in violation of the terms of their visas. Some
kept their student status but worked instead of going to school.

Technically, their status was illegal when they began to work. But the new
immigration law does not recognize that. It says students and other aliens who
are not immigrants must have overstayed the visa before Jan. 1, 1982, or their
unlawful status must have been known to the Federal Government by that time.

Lawyers say the records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Federal
witholding tax records and other records should be enough to establish that an
alien's status was known to the Government. But the immigration law specifies
that the wording ''known to the Government'' means known to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service through deportation proceedings or other immigration
proceedings. The provision was debated at some length, and the service's
interpretation of it appears to reflect the desires of Congress.

Breakdown on Alien Students

As a result, experts on the matter said, a Mexican who waded across the Rio
Grande in 1980 and has worked here since then would be eligible for amnesty, but
an engineer who came here on a student visa at the same time and began working
shortly afterward would not be eligible for amnesty.

Almost 3 percent of the nation's college, junior college and graduate school
students were aliens in the 1985-86 school year. That included 38,460 junior
college students, 149,200 undergraduates, 132,430 graduate students, and 23,690
in other programs.

''I have talked to 40 or 50 people who should qualify but who won't,'' said
Brian Bates, a Dallas immigration lawyer who represents Mr. Farza, who is facing
deportation for overstaying his visa. Mr. Farzad, who came to Dallas to study
engineering in 1976, has been denied political asylum and is trying to obtain
labor certification that would allow him to continue working.

The immmigration service has suspended deportation proceedings for aliens who
are eligible for amnesty. Mr. Bates's writ says Mr. Farzad should be eligible to
apply for amnesty, and therefore his deportation should be suspended. A ruling
is expected soon.

Two U.S. Degrees, but Ineligible

Cases vary enormously, but many of those affected are professionals in good jobs
who want to stay in the United States.

George, a Cyprioe national who asked that his name not be used, came to Houston
in 1979 to study engineering and lives here.

He began working full time in 1980, while continuing his education and is now a
civil engineer specializing in highway design. He got his bachelor's degree in
1981 and a master's in 1984. His work violated the terms of his visa, which
expired after he finished his education.

Under the I.N.S.'s reading of the law, since his illegal status was not known to
the service, he is not eligible for amnesty.

George is now making $50,000 a year, drives a new car and lives in a town house
in southwest Houston. When the immigration law was enacted he thought it would
be his ticket to legal status. Now, he says, he is not sure what he will do.

Fields of Interest to Aliens

''I was ready on the fifth of May to apply,'' he said. ''It's so frustrating,
because I think I can be a worthwhile member of this society. This country
became what it became because it was good at draining the brainpower from most
other countries. Now it's suddenly reversing its policies and saying 'Give me
your manual laborers,' and keeping professionals out. I don't think it's best
for this country.''

The most popular fields of study for foreign students are engineering, business,
mathematics and computer sciences. Advocates say the students affected represent
a valuable talent pool. Officials say, however, it is likely that some will find
other ways to achieve legal status.

Immigration officials say the intent of the bill was not to offer legal status
to everyone here illegally, particularly those who have not been exploited by
their illegal status. And they say providing amnesty to students would provide
it to many who never intended to emigrate here.

''Have they not had the full benefit of the U.S. Government?'' said an
immigration service spokesman, Duke Austin. ''They're temporary visitors.
They've never lived in fear of the I.N.S. They've never lived in a sub rosa
culture.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 4, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Arrests of Aliens Drop

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 45 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, June 3


Arrests of illegal aliens dropped about 60 percent here last month compared with
arrests a year ago, immigration officials have reported. They said the decrease
was part of a downward trend since President Reagan signed immigration reform
legislation in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 6, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN LAW CAUSING SHORTAGES OF LABOR IN SOME INDUSTRIES

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1802 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 5


Garth Ward looks around his garment factory here and sees idle sewing machines
where he would like to see a second shift of 150 new employees churning out
sportswear.

Mr. Ward, like most garment contractors in southern California, has always
relied heavily on illegal aliens for his low-wage work force. These days he says
he cannot find enough new workers to meet a growing demand for his company's
products and blames the new immigration law.

''We've only been able to hire half a dozen people since the law was passed last
November,'' Mr. Ward said. He has advertised extensively for workers, he added,
with almost no results.

While some suggest that Mr. Ward might do better if he offered higher wages, he
said that his inability to add a second shift of workers at any reasonable price
was forcing his company, Fashion Sportswear Inc., to forgo $50,000 a month in
contracts.

Mr. Ward's experience, common in the past several months in the apparel industry
in Los Angeles, illustrates a dramatic effect of the new immigration legislation
on employers.

Hiring Policies Altered

While the law is changing the lives of millions of illegal immigrants - some are
now eligible to become legal residents and others might be forced to leave the
country - it is also altering the hiring policies of almost every company in the
nation and causing big disruptions for some employers, especially in California.

The new law puts the burden on an employer to verify that all new workers have a
legal right to work. The law applies to all employees hired after last Nov. 6
and to all employers, large or small.

The most common problem, immigration experts say, is confusion among employers
about exactly what is required of them by the new law. For example, many
employers are uncertain about the extent to which they must vouch for the
authenticity of a job applicant's documentation.

The law requires them to make a ''good faith'' effort to accept only legitimate
documents, but does not hold them responsible for forgeries. Failure to ask for
documentation that a new employee has a legal right to work can subject a
company or its executives to sanctions, including fines of up to $10,000 and, in
extreme cases, six-month jail sentences.

Enforcement of the sanctions, originally scheduled to begin last Monday, has
been delayed at least until July, and Congress is considering postponing it
until October. Proper documentation includes birth certificates, passports,
Social Security cards or immigration papers.

'A Lot of Confusion'

Fred Krebs, the director of the employee relations policy center at the United
States Chamber of Commerce in Washington, said the law has generated inquiries
from businesses all over the country seeking explanations of the verification
procedures. ''There's still a lot of confusion out there,'' he said.

Many employers, especially small and medium-sized businesses, are complaining
that they must hire additional clerical staff to keep track of the paperwork and
record-keeping requirements of the law.

''The cost impact will be significant because we see a high employee turnover
rate and the paperwork is going to be tremendously burdensome,'' said Michael
Kennedy, an official of the Association of General Contractors, a trade group
for the construction industry.

Not all companies are having problems. ''We're having to take a little bit more
time to make sure to get a birth certificate or something to make sure they are
legal,'' said Charles Harvey, the personnel manager for the Houston-based
Goodman Manufacturing Corporation, which makes heating and air-conditioning
equipment. ''But it only takes about five minutes per employee during the final
interview. You just tell them to bring it with them.''

The Affected Industries

Many experts think that in addition to the procedural changes the law is
bringing, there could be a lasting impact on the labor supply and on wage rates.
The industries most affected are those that need large numbers of low-paid,
usually unskilled workers, and include the garment business, restaurants and
hotels, janitorial and cleaning services and agriculture. At present, labor
problems appear to be most severe in California, but some executives say they
could worsen in other states. In New York, employers have had varying
experiences with the new law. Restaurants and hotels report no labor shortages,
although the paperwork has increased. ''So far it's only been a record-keeping
nuisance,'' said Sharon Cole, director of personnel at the Vista International
Hotel at the World Trade Center.

Supervisors at eight small garment manufacturers in New York's Chinatown said
they did not expect to be hurt by the new rules. ''Most of our workers are older
women who have worked for us for years and either have Social Security cards or
green cards,'' said one supervisor at a blouse factory three floors above Mott
Street.

'Employers Are Panicking'

But others in New York report that the new rules have hit the labor force hard.
''Employers in small factories all over New York, Brooklyn and the Bronx are
scrounging around for help,'' said George Weisberg, an immigration lawyer.
''Many employers are panicking, firing illegal aliens and looking for citizens
because there has not been sufficient education by the Government about the new
rules.''

The same situation has arisen in California, where executives say that confusion
and apprehension about the law have caused many illegal immigrants to flee the
United States, leaving unfilled the jobs they held. In addition, the law has
reduced the number of immigrants who have sufficient documentation to be hired
legally, making it hard for employers to fill the jobs or expand.

As a result, executives say, companies are scrambling to keep workers, with
wages for both new and current employees sometimes being forced up because of
the labor shortage. Some companies, however, cannot get enough workers even at
higher wages.

''When this legislation was drafted, the Congressmen and Senators did not see
the impact on the food-service industry,'' said Ruben Villavicencio, the
president of R&M Food Services Inc. of Brea, Calif., which operates a chain of
coffee shops and Mexican restaurants and employs more than 600 people. He said
the law will exacerbate a labor shortage already felt by restaurants because of
a drop in the teen-age population.

''It's going to be dramatic,'' Mr. Villavicencio said. ''Every fast-food
operator has help-wanted signs out already, and this will compound the pressure
on food-service operators.''

Farm Worries

In agriculture, many employers fear that after their workers become legal
residents, they will leave the fields for higher paid or less demanding jobs in
other industries. The immigration law allows temporary workers to enter the
country under a ''replenishment program'' to work in agriculture during periods
of peak labor demand, but some growers worry that they still will not have
enough labor.

''It's very, very important that Congress leave the replenishment program
intact,'' said Jim Poorbaugh, the production manager for the Monrovia Nursery
Company in Azusa, Calif. ''There may be shortages ahead, even with this
program.''

Wages may hinge on the severity of the shortage, he added. He also suggested
that agricultural employers may have to offer health and dental plans, vacations
and other benefits. ''Employers are going to have to be prepared to match the
benefits in other industries,'' Mr. Poorbaugh said.

Employers Offer Help

To avert shortages, some employers have taken steps to help workers understand
the law and qualify for legal residency. Mr. Villavicencio said his company was
helping its workers by writing to former employers to obtain proof of employment
and keeping managers informed of the latest twists in the law.

Similarly, a coalition of six large agricultural trade groups has formed Alien
Legalization for Agriculture, a group intended to help workers through the
process. So far, however, interest from workers has been spotty, and growers
remain concerned that employees either will leave out of fear they do not
qualify for legal residency or will indeed fail to qualify and be deported.

''From what I've seen so far, as far as agricultural-employer interest is
concerned, it doesn't bode well,'' said Daniel Haley, vice president of the
Western Growers Association. ''We're not seeing people clamoring at their
employers' doors asking for help. It looks as if a lot of people are sitting
back and waiting and watching.''

'Had to Turn Away Customers'

No industry appears to be harder hit by the new law than the garment makers of
Los Angeles. Like Mr. Ward of Fashion Sportswear, Ricardo Arciniega, the owner
of Terry Anne California Inc., has been trying for months to hire 100 sewing
machine operators, to no avail.

''Not only are we losing the people we have on board, but we are hard-pressed to
replace them,'' he said. ''We've had to turn away customers that would have
carried us into the spring of '89.''

Roland Kosser, the president of I.D.N, an apparel company that relies on
contractors like Mr. Ward and Mr. Arciniega to manufacture its clothing line,
said that because of the labor shortage, he received only 54 percent of the
goods he had wanted in April. That, in turn, meant that his deliveries to
retailers were late or smaller than expected. ''I calculate that this will cost
me $10 million in sales by the end of the year,'' he said.

Some contractors are trying to woo new workers by increasing wages, although
they say they are limited by the prices their customers will pay for finished
goods. Margaret Walter, the owner of Frank Walter Sportswear in downtown Los
Angeles, said she was offering employees as much as 20 percent more if they
could attain certain productivity goals.

Most garment workers are not unionized and make about $4.50 an hour, although
some shops pay illegal aliens less than the minimum wage of $3.35. Executives
say that union wages of $8 to $10 an hour are far more than they can afford.
They add that it is difficult to recruit workers other than immigrants.
''Americans just don't want to work in a factory environment,'' Mr. Ward said.

Some executives are trying to win approval from the California and Federal labor
regulators to bring at least 1,000 temporary workers to Los Angeles from the
Philippines. But that effort is sure to spark opposition from politicians and
local unions.

''This idea of bringing workers in is just nonsense to me,'' said Miguel
Machucha, organizing director for the Western states of the International Ladies
Garment Workers Union. ''There is no shortage of workers here in Los Angeles.
They just want to exploit people more than they already do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of workers in Los Angeles at the Fashion Sportswear Inc. factory
(Black Star/Bartholomew)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 13, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

173 Illegal Aliens Arrested

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 69 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, June 12


Immigration officials stopped a tractor-trailer Thursday and arrested its
passengers, 173 illegal aliens who were to pay up to $300 for the trip across
the border. ''Some already had jobs lined up,'' said Harold Ezell, Western
regional commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The driver,
identified as Eduardo Cardenas-Ventura, faced alien-smuggling charges. He is
also an illegal alien.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Alien Family: The Wait of a Lifetime

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

DATELINE: LEICESTER, Vt., July 3


Early Wednesday morning Mario Marquez put on his best shirt, climbed into his
old brown station wagon and drove two hours to St. Albans for the interview that
would help shape the rest of his life.

Mr. Marquez and his family, illegal aliens, have been living from month to
month, often on the brink of deportation proceedings, for more than a year. Last
month Mr. Marquez was one of thousands of illegal aliens who applied to the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service for permanent residence in
this country. He has been promised an answer within 90 days.

''We have been living 30 days, 30 days, 30 days,'' sighed Mr. Marquez, an auto
mechanic and farm worker in this tiny Vermont town. ''Now we are still waiting
and waiting for what is going to happen.''

From a Visit to a Lifetime

At his interview, Mr. Marquez told the immigration officers the same story he
has told over and over since the Border Patrol first cited him in September 1985
for violating immigration laws: that he and his family crossed the border
legally at Nogales, Ariz., in September 1984 on their way to a Mormon conference
in Salt Lake City, that they then drove to Vermont to see a friend they had met
at home in Los Mochis.

With several months left on his tourist visa, Mr. Marquez took a job at a large
dairy farm in Leicester, where he helped out in the fields or with milking as
needed. The rest of the time Mr. Marquez, who owned a repair shop for diesel
engines in Mexico, worked on the farm machinery.

By the time Mr. Marquez's visa expired, his older boys, Geraldo, 12 years old,
and Temoc, 8, were enrolled and doing well at the Leicester Central School. The
younger boys, Isaac, 5, and Lehi, 3, stayed at home with their mother, Maria.

Mr. and Mrs. Marquez, both 36, enrolled in the state's home tutoring program to
learn English. They joined the Mormon church in Middlebury. Mrs. Marquez made
pinatas for the school Christmas play. Mr. Marquez was known for volunteering
his mechanical skills throughout the community.

'They Were Good Neighbors'

''It was all the little things,'' said Raymond Lalumiere, the town agent, who
organized a petition and letter-writing campaign in behalf of the family. ''If
there was a fair or a church fund-raiser, the Marquezes were there. They were
always doing things for the community. They were good neighbors. We wanted
people like that in Leicester.''

By the spring Mr. Marquez had decided to stay. That September the Border Patrol,
apparently tipped off, arrived at the farm with a list of names. The family was
cited and hauled off to a local police station. A hearing before an immigration
judge in Boston was scheduled, and the Marquezes were allowed to remain on the
farm. The hearing took place in April 1986, and they were ordered to leave the
country voluntarily by August that year or face deportation proceedings.

By then the Marquez family was no longer standing alone. The community had taken
up their cause, gathering signatures on petitions and writing letters. Four
dozen friends rallied in the rain on a Sunday in September, and four times that
many people turned out for a second rally a month later.

Bringing Political Pressure

Meanwhile, the immigration service extended their deadline from Aug. 30 to the
end of October, then to the end of November. On Nov. 25, Mr. Marquez, with the
help of the Vermont Congressional delegation, won a reprieve until June 30 to
give the immigration service time to assess the impact that the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986 would have on his case.

''I think the public and political pressure had a bearing on this case,'' said
State Representative Langdon Smith, a Republican whose district includes
Leicester. ''It definitely helped slow it down.''

Mr. Marquez hopes to qualify as a special agricultural worker under the new
immigration law. To do that, he must prove he has worked with a perishable crop
for 90 days from May 1, 1985, to May 1, 1986, said Gary Edelson, an immigration
examiner in St. Albans. Both Mr. Marquez's past employer and his present
employer have submitted affidavits to that effect.

Mr. Marquez said he was grateful for what the community has done, grateful to
Eleanor Holsman, the school principal, for refusing the allow the Border Patrol
to take his boys out of school and for driving them home herself that day;
grateful to the small group that knocked on his door one night in November just
as he was preparing to leave for Mexico.

Help From Friends

''I am fixing my truck,'' he recalled. ''We had our luggage inside. That night,
somebody came from the town.''

The delegation handed him a folded piece of paper. Inside was a wad of small
bills, the proceeds of an impromptu fund-raising effort. On the outside was a
message: ''We all wish you the best of luck. Hope to see you soon. Your friends
in Leicester.''

Even with the help of his friends, the waiting and the uncertainty have been
hard. The worst time, he said, was when Mrs. Marquez's dying grandmother begged
him to return the family to Mexico before she died.

''She asking me many times to see my boys and my wife,'' he said sadly. ''We had
to promise the first time I am permitted to leave the country, I'll go down to
Mexico. But she died in February.''

For the family, a return to their homeland would not mean poverty or
imprisonment. They owned a home and a business in Los Mochis. Mr. Marquez said
his primary reason for wanting to stay was his boys.

''I want to get a full American education for my boys,'' he said. ''In Mexico,
there are many kids in the schools. Here I can get a better salary - I would
like to do my own diesel mechanic business in Leicester. I want to bring to my
boys a good education.''

If Mr. Marquez passes this hurdle, he will have a temporary residence permit,
good for two years, but only for himself. The immigration service has yet to
tell him what he must do for his family. In 1989 he would become eligible to
apply for permanent residence, and the process would start again.

''It's hard again to wait and wait,'' he said. ''We have more than two years in
this process. The boys sometimes asking what's going to happen. I don't know
what to tell them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Leicester, Vermont and surrounding area; photo of Maria and
Mario Marquez with sons, Lehi, Temoc, Isaac and Geraldo (NYT/Donna Light)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 10, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

FLOW OF ALIENS INTO U.S. RISES DESPITE NEW LAW

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 9


A rash of incidents involving illegal aliens, the worst the deaths of 18 aliens
in a torrid boxcar in Sierra Blanca, Tex., has focused attention on an
unexpected resurgence of illegal immigration along the nation's border with
Mexico, immigration officials say.

After declining dramatically earlier this year after the passage of this
country's new immigration law, illegal immigration increased last month and may
be accelerating in July, according to Border Patrol officials throughout much of
the nation. In at least one border sector, around Tucson, Ariz., total
apprehensions of illegal aliens have already surged ahead of the total in the
same period last year.

The recent increases are being viewed with increasing concern by Border Patrol
officials, although they say it is too early to conclude that progress in
reducing illegal immigration has been reversed.

Encouragement Dwindles

''We were really encouraged by the initial impact of the legislation,'' said
Silvestre Reyes, chief patrol agent for the Border Patrol sector in McAllen,
Tex. ''The concern I have now is that if there is a perception growing that the
law, and especially provisions like the employer sanctions, are so controversial
they won't be implemented, I think eventually we'll see the same situation as
last year where we saw just a mass influx of illegal entries.'' The new
immigration law seeks to reduce such entries by forbidding the hiring of illegal
aliens, with employers facing sanctions for such hiring.

The Sierra Blanca incident, in which 18 aliens died last week in 120-degree heat
in a locked boxcar, was the first incident to draw attention to the continued
stream of aliens across the border. On Wednesday 19 aliens were rescued from
similar conditions in a boxcar in Hebbronville, Tex., and 88 aliens were pulled
from a locked tractor-trailer rig in San Clemente, Calif. No deaths or serious
injuries were reported in either of those incidents.

Officials attribute the surge of aliens to several factors.

The most important factor, particularly in California, appears to be widespread
publicity in Mexico about shortages of farm workers in Oregon and Washington.
Gene Smithburg, assistant chief patrol agent for the San Diego border sector,
the nation's busiest sector, said apprehensions increased to 43,999 in June,
from 29,080 in May. Both figures were still below last year's figures, but for
the first eight days of July, apprehensions stand at 15,560 as against 14,867
for the eight days last year, he said.

'You Can Still Work Here'

''After the law was first passed there were reports put out in Mexico that there
would be mass deportations of illegal aliens,'' he said. ''Now the reports are
the opposite - that there aren't enough farm workers and crops are rotting in
the fields. I think the word is getting out that you can still work here, and
that's acting as a magnet.''

There has also been widespread publicity about delays in imposing the new law's
sanctions on employers who hire illegal aliens. The law also offers amnesty, or
legal status, to aliens who have lived in this country continuously since Jan.
1, 1982.

Rumors of a crackdown on aliens in the wake of the new law also deterred some
aliens earlier in the year, as did the high levels of the Rio Grande for those
crossing into Texas, officials said. When the crackdown did not materialize,
many decided to make the trip north, even though the river levels remained high.

And overhanging policy decisions on this side of the border has been the
worsening economic problems in Mexico and the allure of coming north where a
menial worker can still make more in a day that he can in a week in Mexico.

'Things Will Turn Around'

''The economies are not improving in Mexico and Central America, so the need is
still there,'' said Mr. Reyes of McAllen. ''If they can find work here, they'll
still come.''

Immigration is highly cyclical from month to month, and officials say it would
be unwise to overreact to the figures from a month or two.

''We're watching the situation carefully, and we're concerned about it,'' said
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, adding ''We feel confident that once it's demonstrated that
sanctions are going to work, things will turn around again.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows location of Pabellon de Arteaga and Hebbronvill, which are
associated with illegal aliens' entries into the U.S. (NYT)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Amnesty Won't Alter America

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 246 words


To the Editor:

Your report from El Paso that the lure of United States jobs is overcoming the
fears of illegal aliens (news story, July 5) had it right. Your report from New
York on the difficulties of farm workers with the new immigration law had it
wrong (news story, July 4).

''It'' is the ''amnesty'' program of the new Immigration Reform and Control Act,
which is really two programs: one for agricultural workers and the other for
aliens not engaged in agricultural work. Each program has its qualifying
standards, but neither results in citizenship.

As your El Paso story correctly points out, the amnesty program offers legal
status to a qualifying alien. Such a status is a far cry from the citizenship
referred to in your New York article. The successful amnesty applicant is, at a
minimum, six years away from citizenship and at least 12 months from permanent
residency (popularly known as the ''green card'').

These are not mere cavils. Many Americans, whether rightly or wrongly, are
apprehensive about a new flood of foreigners changing the political landscape of
the United States. The amnesty program buffers such a political shock, and it
should be noted that many aliens who live in the United States lawfully with
green cards never become United States citizens and therefore never have the
right to vote.

PETER HIRSCH
New York, July 6, 1987
  The writer is research director and legal counsel of the Association of
Immigration Attorneys.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 22, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

305,000 Aliens Are Seeking U.S. Legal Status

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21


About 305,000 aliens have sought legal status under the new immigration law,
according to Federal officials. They deny that applications are below what they
expected and that aliens are fearful of seeking legal status.

''We stand by our previous estimates of two million applications during the
one-year eligibility period,'' Alan Nelson, director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said Monday at a news conference. The application period
began May 5.

Mr. Nelson said there was ''no basis'' for suggestions from some members of
Congress and opponents of the new immigration law that applications for
legalization had been slower than expected.

Mr. Nelson also said the fact that more than 300,000 aliens had come directly to
the immigration service in the two and a half months ''should once and for all
rebut allegations'' that people are reluctant to seek legalization because of a
fear of deportation.

Apprehensions of illegal aliens at the borders rose 35 percent in June, but Mr.
Nelson denied that the increase, coupled with the deaths of 18 Mexican nationals
in a railroad boxcar, signified that the nation's new immigration law was not
working. The Mexicans died of the heat in a locked boxcar as they were being
smuggled into the country to look for work.

The newly implemented Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 was designed to
stem the flow of illegal aliens by imposing civil penalties of up to $10,000 on
employers for each such alien hired and providing prison terms for repeated
offenders. The law also offers legal status to aliens who can show that they
entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided here
continuously ''in an unlawful status'' since then. The law also provides for an
agricultural workers program allowing migrant workers to enter the United States
in the harvest season.

The June apprehension level of 93,790 illegal aliens was up more than 24,000
from May but below the June 1986 figure of 133,400. The rise in apprehensions in
June came after two months of sharp decline, which had marked the lowest level
in at least five years in border apprehensions in the spring months.

''We believe this upturn most likely resulted from information which mistakenly
led people to believe that the employer sanctions law will not be enforced,''
Mr. Nelson said.

In addition, some growers in the Northwest have been complaining of labor
shortages, which Mr. Nelson said ''may have contributed to the recent upsurge''
in apprehensions.

''Indications of agricultural shortages, whether true or not, have been a
certain magnet,'' the immigration director said.

He also said economic problems in Latin America ''continue to push job seekers
north to the U.S.''

Employer Fines Expected Soon

There was recently an unsuccessful effort in the Senate to delay until Oct. 1
the sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens. The delay was approved
by the House.

''I would expect in the next month to start seeing citations coming out''
against employers and ''I would expect to see fines coming out, if not by
August, certainly by September,'' Mr. Nelson said.

Mr. Nelson also said he was hopeful that ''tragic events'' like the deaths of
the Mexican nationals locked by smugglers in the boxcar earlier this month
''will disappear.''

''As people realize they can come legally, or not at all, and if the prospects
of unauthorized jobs diminish, such smuggling of aliens will no longer be
profitable,'' Mr. Nelson said.

He said that three people were charged last week who belonged to a smuggling
ring that might be linked to the Mexicans found in the the boxcar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 20, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Immigrant's Family Pins Hope on Amnesty

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 971 words


For Wilton Beach, a 61-year-old retired policeman from Trinidad, the Federal
amnesty program for illegal aliens has been nothing short of a blessing.

Since 1981, Mr. Beach and his wife, Bridget, have struggled to meet the
seemingly boundless needs of a family of 16 children -13 of them living
illegally in the United States. Lacking the coveted green cards issued to
foreigners approved for legal residence, the children have lived clandestine
lives of fear - hard-pressed to find work, unable to qualify for scholarships,
hesitant even to make friends.

But now, under the amnesty that came into effect last May, Mr. Beach's 13
children have been able to emerge from the shadows. They have been allowed for
the first time to live and work freely and openly, pending their qualification
for permanent residence in the United States. And they have begun lifting the
heavy financial burden from their father's shoulders.

Throughout the nation, immigration officials say the response to the amnesty,
while not overwhelming, has been close to its target. But in the New York
metropolitan region, a mere fraction of the predicted 20,000 aliens a month have
come forward.

Immigration officials are at something of a loss to explain the disparity. But
though they are unfounded, the officials say, the aliens' fears are many. Some
are afraid that the new immigration law is a ruse to deport them. Others fear
separation from family members who do not qualify. And others worry that they
cannot find the documentation needed to prove that they have lived in the United
States since the cutoff date of Jan. 1, 1982.

The Beach family, however, stepped forward promptly and confidently in the early
weeks of the program. On May 22, after presenting nearly a bushel of documents,
ranging from school records and yearbook pictures to employment affidavits, and
submitting to brief individual interviews at an immigration center in Queens,
the 13 Beach children who applied were issued temporary work authorizations and
cleared the first hurdle on the road to becoming permanent residents and United
States citizens.

The three other members of the Beach family, along with their parents, had
already become legal residents before the new immigration law took effect.

Wilton Beach, after many long years of child rearing and expenses, culminating
in $3,000 to pay for private counseling on the new immigration law, medical
examinations and application fees for his 13 children, jubilantly celebrated the
news that his 6 grown children could now legally seek employment.

Serve as Work Permits

At the immigration center, as his 13 sons and daughters received their laminated
plastic identification cards, he embraced them with shouts of ''Free at Last.''
Others in the crowd joined in the excitement, he said, as they received the
cards, which serve as temporary work permits.

''Some of the people just jumped in the air,'' he said. ''Others grabbed each
other and cried in joy. Even the officials were excited.''

For Mr. Beach, who now works as a real-estate agent in Brooklyn, financial
relief has come quickly in the wake of the preliminary work permits. ''My son
Mark has already started working,'' he said. Two other children had job
applications pending when their employment authorizations were granted and they
were optimistic about their chances.

For the other grown children, temporary work authorization and the mantle of
legality it confers came as welcome relief from years of employment in a series
of odd jobs and chronic insecurity.

'The Happiest Moment'

Janet, who is 23 years old, called the day in Queens when she was cleared to
work ''the happiest moment of my life.''

In an impeccable Brooklyn accent that she says she adopted so that ''nobody
would ever think that I wasn't from New York,'' she said she had lived six years
in fear that ''someone would track me down or make me produce an ID.''

''I worked for three months in an office building cafeteria at Cadman Plaza'' in
Brooklyn, she said.

''Immigration began asking for birth certificates and green cards from workers
there,'' she recalled. ''They told me to bring it in the next day, and I never
came back.''

Other jobs, as a cashier, yellow-cab driver and booker of clients for a
real-estate agency have all been paid ''under the table.''

'All Over Now'

''I graduated with great grades from one of the best schools in the Bahamas, and
I came here and couldn't get a good job because I was an illegal,'' she said.
''That's all over now.''

Francis, 22, who said he worked a series of construction jobs, always ''off the
books,'' said he has never had any problem staying employed. The trouble has
been getting an employer to pay a fair wage.

''When you are an illegal you can't question anything, because you fear being
dismissed,'' he said.

''I can sleep better at night now,'' Francis said. Employed legally for the
first time, he said would soon be asking for a raise.

The Worst Aspect

Many of the Beach children said the worst aspect of life as an illegal alien in
New York was the constant guard and distrust that had to be maintained to avoid
revealing the secret facts of their lives.

''Given my situation, my social life was distorted,'' Francis said. ''I didn't
go out because I couldn't trust people.''

According to Janet, even her best friends did not know that she was not from New
York. Childhood reminiscences, school histories and a host of experiences all
had to be convincingly invented - like her accent - and remembered.

For the 10 younger members of the family, temporary authorization to reside in
this country has had a less tangible impact. But the availability of schooling,
educational loans, scholarships and employment all depend on favorable decisions
from the Immigration Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo shows eleven of Wilton and Bridget Beach's children.

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 3, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Tense Times for Aliens as U.S. Clamps Down

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. KNUDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1410 words

DATELINE: ROCKY FORD, Colo.


Tension, turmoil and confusion are mounting for illegal aliens here and around
the country as the Immigration and Naturalization Service begins to carry out
the harsh second phase of the historic amnesty law: penalties against employers
who hire illegal aliens.

Thousands of undocumented aliens, from farmhands in Colorado and Texas to sewing
machine operators in Southern California, are being thrown out of work by
employers worried about sanctions, which the immigration service began enforcing
in August as a way to make aliens go back where they came from.

Here in the Arkansas River Valley of southeast Colorado, many are drifting from
place to place, looking for work, sleeping under bridges and begging for food
outside convenience stores.

''It's just a depressing situation,'' said E. J. Reed, migrant health
coordinator for La Clinca del Valle, a medical clinic that serves farm workers
in Rocky Ford. ''We had a little boy in here the other day with an ear infection
and when we asked his parents for their address, well, they had no address. They
were living in a pickup truck. We see families like that all the time.''

To the immigration service, the situation is an unfortunate but necessary step
in reaching the goals of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

That law has two major provisions. The first offers the chance for eventual
citizenship to millions of illegal aliens with a history of work or residence in
this country. The second, intended to discourage further illegal immigration by
denying jobs to aliens, imposes fines of up to $10,000 for employers who hire
undocumented workers.

But uncounted masses of aliens already in the United States do not qualify for
the amnesty provisions. And many who do qualify have not begun the legalization
process, because of poverty, fear or confusion. For the health care specialists,
social workers, clergy and others who work with these people, their troubles are
a sad drama, often filled with countless struggles and endless tears.

''Before, families at least had some steady income,'' said Carlos Marentes,
director of the Border Agricultural Workers Union in El Paso. ''Now they are
showing up at our offices with nothing. Every day there are people here asking
for food.''

The immigration service estimates there are six million illegal aliens in the
country; so far, 751,000 have started the amnesty procedure and the agency
expects about two million to apply before the deadline, next May 4.

Under the law, the rest are supposed to leave the country.

Here along the Arkansas River, scores of Mexicans who have historically found
work harvesting the fall crop of onions, tomatoes and melons are heading back to
Mexico - unless they are eligible for amnesty or are determined to hang on and
risk poverty or deportation. Many are hopping on drafty boxcars with little
clothing or money for the long, bumpy ride home.

''I'm sure there could be some more people on the move now,'' said Chuck
McClure, a special agent with the I.N.S. regional office in Denver. ''But
eventually they are going to realize that without documentation they won't be
able to work in the U.S. These people will have to go back home, wherever that
may be. That's the whole point of the law.''

'I Will Not Go to Jail'

The law has special categories for agriculture. While other aliens must show
that they have lived in the United States since before Jan. 1, 1982, most farm
workers can qualify for amnesty if they worked here for at least three months
from May 1985 to May 1986. Farmers are exempt from the employer penalties until
Dec. 1, 1988, but, like other employers, they must have documents on file
proving that their workers have started the legalization process.

Many farmers, though, are not taking chances. ''I will never use another
illegal,'' said Truman Lusk, a Rocky Ford melon grower, who this fall is
refusing to hire workers who do not have a temporary work permit, the first step
toward citizenship. ''I will not go to jail to feed this country.''

For employers, the deadline for filing Form I-9, documenting that employees had
begun the legalization process, was Sept. 1. About 50 members of the clergy in
Los Angeles, home to much of the nation's Hispanic population, announced Sept.
12 that they would not comply with the law and urged others to refuse as well.

''We have passed the zero hour -Sept. 1 - and hundreds of undocumented aliens
are losing their jobs,'' said the Rev. Luis Oliverez of the Queen of Angels
Church in Los Angeles, one of those making the announcement. ''They are trying
desperately to find other ways to survive. It is very important the church does
not abandon them.''

A Knife Separating Families

Confusion about the law is widespread, a situation for which many blame the
immigration service. ''People are terribly confused,'' said Dani Arck, a lawyer
with Colorado Legal Services in Denver. ''There is so much misinformation around
that people don't know what to believe. People are scared to death.''

But Mr. McClure, the I.N.S. agent in Denver, said: ''Anybody who says we haven't
done everything possible to inform the public is not correct. We are going full
bore, as fast as we can.''

In many areas the new law has fallen like a knife, separating friend from
friend, husband from wife. ''I am sad, very sad,'' said one farm worker,
Cipriano Garcia, a naturalized citizen who drove his wife and two children back
to Mexico from Colorado on Sept. 1 because they are illegal aliens.

''For some people, this new law is good,'' said Mr. Garcia, who earns about $15
a day picking onions near Rocky Ford. ''For me, it is bad because I do not have
the money to get my family legalized. I want to see my family very much.''

Anxiety and a Suicide

Mr. McClure said that most aliens had had ample time to raise money to meet
legalization costs.

''I don't think it's that big of a problem,'' he said. ''They don't seem to have
a problem getting money to get counterfeit documents or to pay smugglers to get
them into the United States.''

For Salvador Carrillo, the fear of being separated from his wife and five
children was so strong that it may have led to his suicide.

All summer, Mr. Carrillo, a naturalized citizen, worked hard in Rocky Ford at
two jobs, as a custodian and a farm worker, trying to raise the $1,100 he needed
for birth certificates, fingerprints and other items his family needed to
qualify for citizenship.

Then, on Sept. 3, still lacking $420 for an application fee required by the
I.N.S., and mistakenly fearing that Sept. 1 was a deadline for deportation, Mr.
Carrillo hanged himself in his home with an extension cord.

Double Blow to Family

''He was worried we wouldn't get our papers by September,'' said his wife,
Herminia. ''He thought we might have to leave him and go back to Mexico.''

For Mrs. Carrillo, who is 39 years old, and the children, who have lived and
attended public school here for seven years, the suicide was a double blow.

''The ultimate bad news is they may have lost their opportunity to get
legalized,'' said David L. Moore, legalization coordinator for Catholic
Immigration Services in Denver. ''Inasmuch as he was their reason for possibly
being able to stay, with his death they may have lost their one opportunity to
remain here,''

While many aliens are starting to leave, others are hanging on, hoping to eke
out a living underground. ''If I get deported, I will just come back,'' said
Ypaulito Torres, a 20-year-old illegal alien lucky enough to have found work
picking chili peppers on a farm east of Pueblo.

'Pressure Is Coming Down'

''I am a little afraid,'' said Mr. Torres. ''I feel awful. I don't want to go
home.''

Andrique Corral is not so lucky. Shortly after Sept. 1, he was laid off from his
job picking melons because he had no temporary work permit. Today, Mr. Corral,
who is 23 years old, spends his time sitting around a decrepit motel room,
waiting for word of work. The walls are bare, the refrigerator empty, the hope
all but gone.

''I need work in order to get my papers,'' said Mr. Corral, who has been doing
seasonal farmwork here since he was 15. ''Papers are expensive, but without
work, how can I get the money I need to get my papers?''

''People are afraid,'' said Nicholas Dominques, a friend of Mr. Corral. ''They
are all worried. Without papers, they can't make a living. The pressure is
coming down on them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of migrant farm workers picking onion near Avondale, Colo. (page
1); Benito and Maria Lopez with their children; Ypaulito Torres and Cornelia
Aguilar, illegal immigrants (NYT/Brian Payne) (page 16)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Staffs Reduced in Amnesty Program

BYLINE: By ALFONSO A. NARVAEZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J., Oct. 8


Because of the small number of people applying for permanent residency,
immigration officials in the New York region are reducing and redeploying staff
workers assigned to the amnesty program for illegal aliens.

In addition, private agencies and church organizations designated by the Federal
Government to assist in the application process are being forced to lay off
employees.

The tepid response, officials say, is being caused, in part, by the illegal
aliens' continued distrust of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
difficulty in obtaining the documents that are necessary to receive amnesty.

In New York City, efforts have shifted to an aggressive program that seeks out
aliens, with five mobile units carrying the message of amnesty into
neighborhoods where it is believed that undocumented aliens are living.

Rules Are Liberalized

To qualify for legal status, aliens must establish that they entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1982, and that they have lived continuously in this
country in illegal status until making an amnesty application.

The Reagan Administration liberalized the rules last week in an effort to
benefit many illegal aliens, particularly those living in the New York region.
People who were living in the United States illegally, left the country and
fraudulently used documents obtained overseas to re-enter the United States, may
now qualify for the program.

Nationally, more than 800,000 illegal aliens have applied for legal status.

With the staffs at the three offices in New Jersey already cut by 10, Joseph P.
Lloyd, assistant district director of the immigration service, said more staff
positions would be transferred to California, where legalization efforts have
been widely publicized and are progressing well.

Reaching Out

In Connecticut, where the 19-member staff at the legalization office in New
Haven had been expected to handle about 150 applications a day, only 862 cases
have been filed in the more than four months since the amnesty program started.
The staff there has already been reduced by three and is expected to be cut
further.

In the New York district, which covers the five boroughs in the New York City,
Long Island and seven other nearby counties, officials had hired 119 people to
work at three offices where they were expected to process 1,150 cases a day.

However, the offices have been averaging about 300 to 400 cases a day, with
34,410 persons applying for legalization at the offices in Manhattan, Queens and
in Hempstead, L.I., instead of the 125,000 that were anticipated by the
Government.

''We've received five mobile vans that we send out to the community where our
people give out information, applications and provide assistance,'' said James
A. Jasey, legalization officer for the immigration service in New York City.
''We're extending our outreach effort to try an encourage people to come in and
to reduce the fear factor.''

In New Jersey, only 8,233 applications for amnesty have been received at the
three Federal offices in the state. In Jersey City, 4,395 cases have been
submitted; in Camden, 1,066 cases have been filed, and here, 2,772 applications
have been received.

Substantial Loss

The legalization offices in Jersey City and Paterson had each opened with 19
staff members and had expected to handle about 150 cases a day, but an average
of 30 cases a day is being handled at each office and the staffs have been
reduced by 25 percent. The office in Camden had been prepared to handle about
100 cases a day with 14 employees. The staff has been reduced to 12. Recently,
with most of the harvesting season over in South Jersey, there has been an
increase in the number of applications from people who are agricultural workers,
according to James. M. Gray, director of the office there.

''The number of cases coming in has dropped by 20 percent in the past two
weeks,'' said Mary Mistrette, director of the office here. She anticipates
further reductions in staff.

Some of the private agencies are are questioning whether they can remain in the
program.

''We're taking a beating,'' said Nicholas V. Montalto, director of the
International Institute for New Jersey, an immigration counseling service in
Jersey City. He said the institute has lost $25,000 on the program.

Disheartened People

Representatives of Catholic Community Services in Paterson and in Newark, which
have a network of churches helping applicants with the paper work, reported that
they have had to reduce staffs.

Mary C. McGuire, director of refugee and immigration services for the Roman
Catholic Diocese of Paterson, said when the program first started more than 300
people came in for information. ''Most of them never came back,'' she said.

Representatives of other private agencies said many undocumented aliens are
disheartened about their inability to provide the required documentation of
their work history and their lives in the United States from before Jan. 1,
1982.

Maria L. Calderon, an immigration counselor, said many aliens were reporting
that employers would not give them affidavits showing that they had worked for a
company because they often worked off the books and the employers fear that they
will become liable for back taxes.

Other said some immigration attorneys on Spanish-language radio had warned
listeners to be wary about the program and had overly emphasized the need for
legal assistance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 17, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Farm Workers Win a Ruling on Immigration Law

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Oct. 16


A Federal district judge here has ordered that immigration officers who detain
farm workers must assure that those eligible to remain in the United States
under amnesty do not unwittingly accept deportation as illegal aliens.

The injunction by the judge, Robert Broomfield, applies only to aliens caught in
the official immigration district made up of Arizona and Nevada, the home of the
four undocumented aliens who are the main plaintiffs in the case. But the
plaintiffs' lawyers, from the Arizona Farmworkers Union and Southern Arizona
Legal Aid, said they would try to have the injunction broadened.

The ruling resulted from a suit filed on behalf of farm workers as a class that
contested the way the Immigration and Naturalization Service interpreted parts
of the complex 1986 Federal law that created amnesty for certain groups of
illegal aliens.

The judge said the immigration service had gone beyond the law's intent in
arbitrarily setting a cutoff date for aliens seeking special agricultural worker
status, which is granted to those who worked in certain crops for at least 90
days in the year that ended May 1, 1986.

'Irreparable Harm' Cited

The immigration service initially allowed such aliens to remain only if they had
been in the United States since Nov. 6, 1986, the day the Immigration Reform and
Control Act took effect. The service later moved the cutoff date to May 1, 1987,
and then to June 26.

''By setting a subjective magic date,'' the agency causes ''irreparable harm''
to some aliens, Judge Broomfield said, adding, ''Once deported or excluded, the
alien may never know of this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to legalize.''

The judge said that from now on Goverment agents must ask aliens whether they
are eligible for amnesty as agricultural workers and, if they are, must allow
them to remain in the United States if their case is not frivolous.

In addition, he said, the Government must advertise in Mexico to inform aliens
deported earlier about their right to seek amnesty again and must inform aliens
it arrests about their right to call a lawyer for help.

The amnesty program's application period expires Dec. 1, 1988. Judge
Broomfield's injunction affects those caught before that date.

Duke Austin, an immigration service spokesman in Washington, said he did not
know whether the Government would appeal. The agency also said it did not know
how many people would be immediately affected by the judge's order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 7, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Illegal Aliens Slowly Finding Path to Citizenship

BYLINE: By ALFONSO A. NARVAEZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J., Nov. 6


At the immigration office on Mill Street here, about 50 people gathered today to
receive their temporary-residency cards, the first step in achieving citizenship
under the amnesty law for illegal aliens.

Across the room, dozens of other aliens filed papers seeking to legalize their
status and obtain brown cards authorizing them to work. One, a Ghanaian who said
his name was Winston, watched from afar as the others received their green
temporary-residency cards.

''It's great to see some of them jumping up and down as they get their cards,''
he said. ''They'll be able to live their lives like civilized people.''

Similar scenes occurred across the metropolitan area and the nation today, the
first anniversary of the signing of the amnesty law, as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service sought to attract more aliens to its processing offices.
#953,078 Applications Received ''Every office is supposed to be doing
something,'' said Mary Mistrette, director of the Immigration Service's
Legalization Center here.

Immigration officials had estimated that about 3.9 million undocumented aliens
would take advantage of the amnesty provisions, but many have held back. As of
Wednesday, 953,078 applications for amnesty had been received nationwide.

In New Jersey, fewer than 10,000 applications have been received in offices here
and in Jersey City and Camden that had been prepared to accept 55,000 by now. In
Connecticut, an office in New Haven expected to process about 20,000
applications by now has handled 965.

In New York City and surrounding counties, including Long Island, 44,000 cases
have been processed, compared with an anticipated 149,000.

'I Felt Caged'

For those who had applied for amnesty, today was a big step forward.

''This means everything to me,'' said Yvonne McKenzie, formerly of Montego Bay,
Jamaica. ''It means that I will be able to visit my grandmother who I haven't
seen in nine years. I felt caged and now I'm free.''

That feeling of freedom, of having a heavy load lifted from their shoulders, was
expressed over and over again as people from Poland, Yugoslavia, Colombia, Peru
and a dozen other countries turned in their brown work authorization cards and
received green cards marked ''Temporary Resident.''

After 18 months, they will be eligible to apply for permanent residency under
the terms of the Immigration Reform and Control Act.

'This Is My Country'

The law permits those aliens who entered the country, either legally or
illegally, before Jan. 1, 1982, and who have lived here almost continuously
since then to apply for amnesty in order to remove the stigma of being
undocumented.

''I'm very happy,'' said Krystyna Smidoda, who came to the United States from
Poland seven years ago. ''I feel safe now. I'm not worried any more.''

For 23-year-old Louis Velkovski, the green card affirmed something he has felt
for a long time.

''This is my country,'' he said. ''I came here when I was 10 years old and it is
all I know. I went to school and to college here. Now I'll be able to live a
normal life without worrying if someone is going to question me.''

In the nearby community of Orange, the celebration at the Hispanic Promotion
Center took on the aspects of a graduation as 23 aliens received their green
cards, and, in some cases, Social Security cards issued in their rightful names.

Louis Galoppo, who served as an investigator for the immigration agency for 23
years before coming out of retirement to head the Legalization Center in Jersey
City, shook hands with each of the recipients as he handed them their temporary
resident cards.

''It's a great feeling,'' he said afterward. ''I like this. It's a lot different
from the feelings I had before when I was an investigator. I feel that I'm doing
something good for these people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of immigrants listening to a briefing before they received their
temporary-residency cards at the immigration office in Paterson, N.J. (The New
York Times/Edward Hausner)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 9, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Houston Journal;
Breakup of a Team and a Way of Life

BYLINE: By KATHY GLASGOW, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 8


Juan Chanax nods proudly toward the shiny soccer trophies on display throughout
his family's modest apartment: symbols of his life as an immigrant, and now of
the passing of a way of life.

The championship team that was responsible for the trophies has been disbanded,
a victim of events following the sweeping overhaul of the immigration law in
November 1986.

Last December, half the best players on Mr. Chanax's team, all of whom were
undocumented aliens, lost their jobs as a result of the new law, which imposes
fines on employers of illegal aliens. Many of the team members returned to
Guatemala after losing their jobs.

''I tried to form another team, but I knew it wouldn't work out,'' Mr. Chanax
said in Spanish, opening his palms and shaking his head. ''There's no security
anymore. People live day to day, rumor to rumor.''

Mr. Chanax, who is 32 years old, has applied for amnesty under the immigration
law, which offers it to illegal aliens who arrived in this country before
January 1982. He has received authorization to hold a job while his application
is being processed.

Meanwhile, he and a few other members of the team continue to practice at a
school playground. But they no longer compete in the area league that they once
dominated.


The small community of aliens from Guatemala that Mr. Chanax pioneered is also
breaking apart.

It was in 1979 that Mr. Chanax, ''out of pure economic necessity,'' brought his
family here from the remote highlands of western Guatemala.

In Guatemala, Mr. Chanax had been a weaver of the vivid patterned fabrics made
for centuries by Mayan Indians. Most of his neighbors there had also been
weavers or tailors, but warfare between leftist guerrillas and government forces
disrupted the textile and clothing markets.

So, Mr. Chanax came here and found work on the maintenance crew of a large
supermarket chain. Gradually, others followed him to the neighborhood of
apartment buildings and small shops in southwest Houston. He helped find jobs
for the men, and his wife, Florinda, helped the women find domestic work.

The community, numbering as many as 400, was adapting well to America's material
world.

''It's an irony,'' said Nestor Rodriguez, a sociologist at the University of
Houston who is studying Central American immigrants, ''that this group
represents the most remote group from modern urban industrial society, yet they
excel better than other groups.''

Driving new Nissans and carrying credit cards, Mr. and Mrs. Chanax have just
made a bid on a new home. They dream of their two English-speaking daughters,
now in public schools, becoming ''professionals.'' But many families with the
same dreams have already returned to Guatemala.


For those who remain, the disbanding of the soccer team represents a stark break
with the past. In a sense, it was a bridge between the rutted playgrounds of
Houston and the ruined ball courts of ancient Mayan cities, where soccer-like
games were played more than a thousand years ago. Today, 22 soccer leagues still
compete in Mr. Chanax's home province in Guatemala.

But even if there are no more soccer victories to remind them of home, there is
still the underground economic network linking those who settled here with their
friends and families back home. Fabrics and other materials make their way to
the United States and products such as televisions and appliances are sent back
to Guatemala.

Lately, television antennas have sprouted from clay tiled roofs in the
Guatemalan highlands, and dirt floors have become cement. A year ago, Victor
Navarro, a maintenance worker here, sent his brother a $1,000 industrial sewing
machine.

''It makes more clothing, which is more prestigious because it is of higher
quality,'' Mr. Navarro said.

And enterprises have sprung up back home that never had a chance before: one man
bought a car here and started a chauffeur service in Guatemala; another bought a
small bus and plans to start a bus line there.

No one is sure what will become of the children born in this country who have
returned to their homeland.

Dr. Rodriguez speculated, ''If they decide to come back as adults, it would
create an interesting category of people: U.S. citizens who are immigrants.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Juan Chanax (NYT/F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 30, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Restaurant Owners Adjusting To the New Immigration Law

BYLINE: By E. R. SHIPP

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 4; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words


THE restaurant industry has traditionally been a haven for immigrants, some of
them illegal aliens. But restaurants, like other American industries, now must
comply with a tough new immigration law. So far, restaurant owners say, the new
law has meant, mainly, an increase in paper work and a shortage of workers to
fill low-level jobs.

Glenn Rex, the executive director of the Houston Restaurant Association, said
the paper work required by the law ''is an administrative nightmare.''

But more serious problems could lie ahead, according to legal experts and labor
officials. There is uncertainty about how much access immigration officials will
have to employment sites. And some say there will be increased litigation as
illegal aliens try to hold onto their jobs.

Mr. Rex said that restaurants will be forced to pay higher salaries to attract
properly documented workers, an expense that will be passed along to customers.
''The Government is legislating a $15 hamburger before the customers are ready
to pay for it,'' he said.

The law, formally known as the

Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, is designed to stem the flow of
illegal aliens into this country and to preserve jobs for those who are lawfully
entitled to be here.

According to one Government estimate, 11 percent of illegal aliens are employed
by the apparel industry, 7 percent by restaurants and 6.5 percent by the
construction industry.

Each of these industries has a large number of lower-level jobs.

It is not surprising that aliens are drawn to restaurant work, said Fred
Sampson, the president of the New York State Restaurant Association, which
represents 6,000 restaurants, 1,700 of which are in New York City. ''The thing
about our industry,'' Mr. Sampson said, ''is that if you have been trained in
food service in Athens, Barcelona, Rome or wherever, and you come to this
country, you can fit right into a restaurant job. You scramble eggs the same way
all over the world; you make basic soups the same way all over the world.''

The new law signals a change in the enforcement of immigration policy. Rather
than merely penalizing undocumented aliens caught working in this country, the
law imposes sanctions for those employing these aliens after Nov. 7, 1986.
Employers must verify the identity of new workers, even those born in the United
States, and must make sure they are legally entitled to work.

Those who violate the law are subject to civil and criminal penalties.

Alan Nussbaum, the owner of

Club 1407, a restaurant at 1407 Broadway in the garment district of Manhattan,
said that complying with the new law is bothersome. ''Like a lot of the
regulations,'' he said, ''the problem is not abiding by them, but that the brunt
of the policing always comes to the restaurateur.''

Employers must walk a legal tightrope: they must insure that no illegal aliens
are hired but avoid discriminating on the basis of national origin or
citizenship.

Ned H. Bassen, a lawyer with the Manhattan firm of Kelley Drye & Warren, has
been counseling employers, including restaurateurs, in this matter. ''The
traditional rule used to be that you don't ask because if you don't ask, you
don't know,'' he said. ''And if you don't know, you can't discriminate. Now you
are required to ask.''

There has been some concern that teen-agers, who frequently work in fast-food
restaurants, may not have proper identifying documents. A spokeswoman for
McDonald's, however, said she has found no problem with young employees. A
spokeswoman for Kentucky Fried Chicken said problems concerning young workers
had arisen in New York, New Jersey and Mississippi, but were resolved by having
high schools issue work-authorization papers.

Mr. Bassen said that documentation will not be a problem for most workers.
''Documentation requirements resemble a Chinese menu because it's one from
Column A and one from Column B and one from Column C,'' he said. ''There are
enough alternatives that it's rare that someone who is legitimately authorized
to work will be unable to come up with something that is going to fit.''

Hans Hoeft, the owner of the Kleine Konditorei restaurant at 234 East 86th
Street in Manhattan, which has traditionally employed waitresses from Germany,
also finds the paper work objectionable. But his recent staffing difficulties,
he said, have less to do with the new immigration law than with an improvement
in the German economy. ''In northern Europe the living conditions have really
improved,'' Mr. Hoeft said, ''so no one is really interested in leaving their
country.''

Others in the restaurant industry are more concerned about the law's impact on
the labor pool for entry-level restaurant jobs. Many illegal aliens have worked
as dishwashers, pot scrubbers and deliverers.

Michael O'Neal, the owner of four restaurants in Manhattan, said the law ''is
creating pressure on the bottom.''

''The illegals are not getting in and the people who are legal are demanding
more money because they know there's a shortage,'' Mr. O'Neal said.

According to labor lawyers and restaurateurs, some restaurants must now pay $7
an hour to fill jobs with workers who have legal status. These jobs used to be
held by illegal aliens who were paid $2 or $3 an hour, or perhaps the minimum
wage of $3.35.

''It's inflating the value of jobs,'' said Cynthia R. Darrison, the executive
director of the Restaurant League of New York, an organization that represents
30 of New York City's more established, or ''white tablecloth,'' restaurants.

According to Mr. Bassen, highly regarded chefs can continue to qualify for
special work visas on the ground that they possess ''distinguished merit and
ability.''

Ms. Darrison agrees. ''I would imagine that the better restaurants would just
spend serious money with immigration lawyers to bring the person in,'' she said.
''It can be done.''

There is now something of a mad scramble afoot as workers who entered this
country illegally try to find records to prove that they have been here
continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982, a stipulation of the new law. With
documentation, they can be granted amnesty and can acquire legal status. But
many have avoided creating a paper trail for so long that it is now nearly
impossible to find proof of the length of their residence in this country.

''If they can't get anything together, I guess they will go back into the
woodwork and just remain as they have been,'' said Madelaine A. Shriftman, a
lawyer who is serving as immigration counsel to unions in the restaurant and
hotel industries.

Some aliens are relying on an exception in the law: a grandfather clause that
permits illegal immigrants employed before Nov. 6, 1986, to remain in their jobs
without acquiring legal status. What many of these workers apparently do not
know, according to legal experts, is that if they change jobs they will not be
protected; nor will they be legally employable.

''They are just going to have to find an employer who's willing to gamble on
getting caught,'' Ms. Darrison said.

Mrs. Shriftman said she believes that these workers might also be exploited by
some employers who take advantage of their status.

Mr. Bassen predicted more litigation, as workers, aware of their limited
options, fight to hold onto their jobs and challenge attempts by employers to
discharge them.

''The ultimate affect of that would be to drive prices up,'' he said, ''because
the restaurant owners will have to pay for defending the litigation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 15, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Administration Calls Law on Aliens Effective

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 32, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14


The Reagan Administration says the new immigration law is working, as shown by a
drop in apprehensions of aliens at the border, by a steady rise in applications
for legal status and in broad employer compliance.

From October through December, the first quarter of the fiscal year 1988, there
were nearly 173,000 apprehensions of illegal aliens at the United States-Mexico
border, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Wednesday.

That represented a 36 percent decline from the first quarter of the fiscal year
1987, the agency said. For the entire fiscal year, 1.1 illegal aliens were
apprehended at the border, a 30 percent drop from the previous fiscal year.

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said at a news
conference, ''The continuing decline is a clear indication that the law is
working, with aliens discouraged from attempting illegal entry by the knowledge
that it is more difficult to find work in this country.''

Fines for Employers

The immigration law, signed in November 1986, provides that illegal aliens who
have lived in the United States long enough can qualify for legal status, or
amnesty, and authorizes fines for employers who knowlingly hire illegal alines.
The fines range $250 to $10,000 for each such alien.

The authorities believe that fewer aliens will make their way into the country
illegally as jobs for them dry up.

Two groups of aliens are eligible for legal status. A general amnesty program
covers illegal aliens who have lived in the United States since before Jan. 1,
1982. A separate program covers agricultural workers who harvest perishable
crops who can show they lived in this country and worked in farm-related
industries for at least 90 days in the year ended May 1, 1986.

The immigration service said it had received more than 1.1 million applications
for legal status and had approved about 330,000.

About 303,000 of the approvals for legal status were in the general program, the
agency said.

So far, the immigration service has denied nearly 4,000 applications for amnesty
under the general program and about 2,500 under the agricultural plan. It
requires from two months to more than six months to process an application.

Mr. Nelson adamantly opposed any extension of the period in which illegal aliens
have to apply for legal status, asserting: ''There is no reason to believe that
extending the one-year application period will result in any significant
increase in the number of applications. It will only give the procrastinators
more time and spread the same number of applications over a longer period.''

Mr. Nelson said the agency was standing by its prediction that two million
aliens would apply for legal status under the general program by the deadline
May 4. The 18-month period for amnesty under the agricultural plan ends Nov. 30.


Bill Would Extend Period

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, said he was
disappointed that Mr. Nelson was not supporting a bill the Congressman had
introduced to extend the general amnesty program for a year.

Mr. Schumer said in a statement, ''At least 40 percent of immigrants eligible
for legalization have not yet applied, a figure which according to some
estimates may be as high as 70 percent.''

Mark Everson, Deputy Commissioner of the agency, said nearly 1,000 warning
citations had been issued to employers on illegal alien workers and 22 employers
had been ordered to pay fines. Through a one-year period that ended in May, only
warnings had been issued to first offenders.

Of employers who hired illegal aliens, Mr. Nelson said: ''We're going after them
in a very deliberate fashion. There's a high level of compliance.'' On Feb. 1,
the immigration service will begin a system of random audits of businesses to
see if they are complying with the law. The program will include audits of
particular industries that have hired large numbers of illegal aliens in the
past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 23, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Amnesty for Aliens Might Be Extended

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is considering an extension for
illegal aliens unable to meet the May 4 deadline to apply for amnesty, an agency
official said today.

The move could stave off a Congressional effort to extend the deadline for one
year, a move that was supported today at a meeting of American mayors. Heeding a
call by Mayor Koch of New York City, the mayors agreed that ''the amnesty
program has not worked'' and called for passage of the legislation to extend the
deadline one year.

The immigration agency said it was considering the extension for those who could
not meet the deadline for reasons beyond their control. The agency has found
that some prospective applicants for amnesty had been delayed in obtaining
documentation that would prove they had lived in the United States continuously
since before Jan. 1, 1982, according to the official, who asked not to be
identified. That would make them eligible for amnesty, or legal status.

However, immigration officials conceded early this month that the turnout for
the program had been disappointing in some parts of the country, particularly in
Northeastern cities like New York and Boston.

'Our Bill Pressured Them'

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, the sponsor of the
House measure, said when told that the immigration service was considering
extension: ''I think our bill pressured them to do something. In this case, one
should err on the side of humanism.''

Immigration service officials said that as of last week, 1,184,730 aliens had
applied for amnesty under the Immigration Reform and Control Act.

The agency had estimated that two million would apply before the deadline and
had given a 3.9 million figure as the most optimistic estimate of potential
applications. Although the total number of illegal aliens is unknown, agency
officials estimate that there are 6.5 million to 7 million in the United States,
many of them ineligible for amnesty.

A 'Reasonable' Extension

Under the immigration service's plan announced today, an extension ''for a
reasonable length of time'' would be granted if an alien indicated an intention
to apply for amnesty before the deadline May 4 deadline.''

An employer's delay in providing documentation of an alien's employment would
provide the basis for an extension, the official said.

Mr. Schumer said fear of the immigration agency had scared many illegal aliens
out of applying for amnesty. ''The I.N.S. has always been feared by immigrant
groups,'' he said. ''The best lure for people to apply for amnesty would be
seeing their friends become legal immigrants, a process that has been delayed
through no fault of the I.N.S.''

A bill similar to Mr. Schumer's has been introduced in the Senate by Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.

The measure is strongly opposed by the Reagan Administration and some key Senate
Republicans, including Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, a co-sponsor of the
immigration law. Opponents say that the extension would merely lengthen the
process without increasing the number of applicants.

The amnesty program is part of an approach to the illegal alien problem the
includes fines of employers who hire illegal aliens and increased efforts at the
border to keep aliens from crossing. The goal was to deter illegal aliens while
offering legal status to those who had lived here since the beginning of 1982,
in an effort to get them into the mainstream of American life. These are aliens
who are eligible for amnesty under the law's general provision. A more liberal
amnesty provision is included in for seasonal agriculture workers.

Mayors Respond to Letter

The move by the mayors came at the closing session of the midwinter meeting of
the United States Conference of Mayors. The mayors responded to a letter from
Mayor Koch, who said that of the 300,000 illegal aliens in New York City thought
to be eligible for amnesty, only 51,000 had applied.

''The consequences of a low turnout rate are devastating for both the
individuals and the city as a whole,'' Mr. Koch said in his letter to the
mayors.

''As you know, the employer sanctions provisions of the new law are expected to
effectively cut off employment opportunities for illegal immigrants,'' Mr. Koch
said. ''The act intended to balance these tough enforcement provisions with an
amnesty program for undocumented aliens who have lived in this country for over
five years. The amnesty program, however, has not worked, and the individuals
who could have taken advantage of this opportunity are in danger of becoming an
impoverished underclass.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a Washington article on Saturday about illegal
aliens misstated the status of a proposal to extend a May 4 deadline for
applying for legal status. The Immigration and Naturalization Service is
considering, but has not formally announced, action that would allow aliens who
have made known their intention to apply by May 4 to submit the necessary
documentation later; they could do so as long as they could show that the delay
was caused by reasons beyond their control.

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 9, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Alien Amnesty Effort Is Found to Be Falling Short

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 504 words


Participation in the Government's immigration amnesty program is likely to fall
well below original projections, according to a comprehensive study made public
yesterday.

The report by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says that major
policy and administrative changes are needed in the program's final months to
increase participation. It concludes, however, that even with major changes, the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 will fail to meet its goal of
eliminating the nation's underclass of illegal aliens.

''Even if an additional 300,000 to 400,000 applicants could be reached, the size
of the remaining illegal population in the country would be almost twice the
number who have been legalized,'' the report said. ''Congress's stated objective
of mandating legalization to enhance future immigration enforcement cannot be
achieved through the program it enacted.''

The amnesty program, which offers legal status to illegal aliens who can prove
they have lived continuously in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982, is one of
three main parts of the immigration law. The others are penalties against
employers who hire illegal aliens and increased enforcement by the Border
Patrol.

The amnesty program is scheduled to end May 4, but Congress is debating whether
to extend it by a year.

Overcoming Long-Held Fears

The report, compiled by Doris M. Meissner, a former Acting Commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and Demetrios G. Papademetriou, an
immigration expert, gives the immigration agency high marks for many elements of
the program.

The report said the agency had been particularly successful in overcoming the
long-held fears and suspicions of illegal aliens. Ms. Meissner added that when
the program is judged against similar efforts in other countries, it has been
relatively successful.

But the report says a lack of effective publicity and unresolved questions about
the law are damaging the program's effectiveness.

When the program began, immigration officials said they expected to receive 2
million applications for amnesty, but said that up to 3.9 million people would
be eligible.

But the Carnegie report estimated that 1.8 million to 2.6 million aliens were
eligible for the program. And it said that from 1.3 million to 1.4 million
applications were likely to be filed by the May 4 deadline. The figures, and the
original immigration service estimates, include only applicants under the
general amnesty provisions, the report said. More liberal provisions are
available for seasonal agricultural workers.

Thus far there have been 972,706 applications for general amnesty and 268,834
applications from agricultural workers.

Immigration officials and the Carnegie report both said that numbers alone
cannot be used to judge the program. ''I don't think the goal was 2 million -
that was the estimate,'' said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the I.N.S. ''It
doesn't mean we don't think the program was a success if we don't get that
many.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 9, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Breathe Life Into Amnesty for Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words


Time runs out for many undocumented aliens hoping to stay in the United States.
The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act provided amnesty for those in this
country since 1982. But it's a painstaking process, and they must apply by May
4. There would be real justice in extending it, but that means Congress must
act, and quickly.

The new immigration law aimed to deter illegal immigrants by forbidding
employers to hire them and to allow aliens in this country illegally for years
to come out of the shadows. By the end of January, about 1,221,000 had stepped
forward.

The process is long and cumbersome. Aliens are given temporary work
authorization cards when they first apply. Receiving a temporary resident card,
however, can take four to six months; the final permanent resident card takes 18
months more. Only about 392,000 alien applicants have received temporary cards.

The Immigration Service acknowledges that the process is taking longer than
anticipated. There were inevitable start-up problems; some of the I.N.S.
legalization offices were operating at less than full capacity. Now, F.B.I.
computer problems delay approvals. Meanwhile, outreach has been slow to alien
communities in cities where some fear a spouse or other relative might be
deported based on information on the application form.

Overcoming such fears understandably takes time. That's the aim of a sensible
bill first introduced by Representative Charles Schumer of New York. He would
extend the amnesty period for one year, to May 4, 1989. Senator Edward Kennedy
has introduced similar legislation.

The Immigration Service objects to dragging out the amnesty period and fears
that even the possibility of an extension will discourage applicants from
meeting the existing deadline. But Mr. Schumer rightly argues that society
should ''err on the side of humanity.'' Given the generous impulse behind the
1986 law and the difficulties in administering it, that approach makes sense.
With the amnesty deadline only three months away, there's good reason for
Congress to act, and promptly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. to Use Tortilla Packages To Send Amnesty Reminder

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 20


The government is sending message in tortilla packages to remind illegal aliens
about the deadline to apply for immigration amnesty.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has printed 80,000 Spanish-language
reminders on 4-by-6-inch pieces of paper, and next week it plans to send them to
tortilla factories in Brownfield, Odessa and Lovington, N.M., where they will be
inserted into packages.

The note says the deadline for applying for amnesty is May 4. ''For more
information,'' it adds, ''please contact your local legalization office.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 1, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Amnesty Sale: The Medium Is the Tortilla

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 29


With top officers wearing sombreros, immigration floats in Chinese New Year
parades, fliers placed in packages of tortillas, free videotapes and other novel
tactics, immigration officials are laboring to increase turnout as the nation's
amnesty program for illegal aliens enters its last 10 weeks.

It is all part of an effort to reach the vast, heterogeneous immigrant
underground that could be aided by the largest legalization program in history.
And it marks the stretch drive in an effort officials admit will fall well short
of their original estimates.

Ethnic Advertising

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service now expect perhaps 1.35
million applicants to file under the general amnesty provisions of Immigration
Control and Reform Act of 1986. Originally, they had predicted two million
general amnesty applicants.

Applications for seasonal agricultural workers and other specialized applicants
may bring the total turnout near the two million mark.

Officials hope that advertising in ethnic news and entertainment media and
gimmicks like the informational Spanish videotape that has been made available
at Hispanic markets will help increase turnout. William Slattery, assistant
commissioner for legalization of the immigration service said applications have
been increasing for three weeks and increasing numbers of aliens have come in to
pick up forms.

''We think the last-minute surge we expected is already starting,'' he said.

The 1986 immigration law offers the promise of legal status, or amnesty, to
illegal aliens who can prove they resided in the United States continuously
since Jan. 1, 1982. The application period began last May 5 and is to end this
May 4.Bills are pending in the House and Senate, however, that would extend the
program for a year. Immigration officials say they oppose those efforts.

Turnout is being watched carefully both as a way to gauge the program's success
and because of its financial implications. The program is supposed to be
financed by the $185 fee paid by applicants. Some experts have warned that
unless there is a late surge in applications, the immigration service will face
the choice of cutting staff sizes or looking for other sources of revenue to
support the program. Mr. Slattery said he is confident the number of applicants
will be sufficient to finance the program as planned.

In announcing their original estimates, officials said they expected two million
immigrants to apply, and put the most optimistic estimate of possible applicants
at 3.9 million. As of Feb. 25, however, the general amnesty program had
attracted just over one million applicants. The 290,000 applicants under more
lenient provisions for seasonal agricultural workers brought total to 1.3
million. But only the fees of the general amnesty applicants go to finance the
program.

Critics say the new publicity campaign is coming too late to be effective, and
that the immigration service needs to address fears that families may be split
if some members qualify for amnesty and others do not. A recent report by the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace estimated that after the amnesty
program is completed, illegal aliens will outnumber those granted amnesty by
almost two to one.

Tortillas and Boy Scouts

Whatever the reason for the dearth of applications, immigration officials have
been scrambling to come up with innovative approaches to increase turnout.

In South Texas, Art Zuniga, an immigration service employee, has recorded a
song, ''Amnestia'' to be played on Spanish-language radio stations. To allay
aliens' longstanding fears about the immigration service, officials have filmed
a Spanish-language television spot featuring the oldest amnesty applicant,
98-year-old Clara Escobedo de Martinez. She sits in a rocking chair, flanked by
two friendly Border Patrol officers, touting the program.

Harold Ezell, the immigration service's Western regional commissioner who has
often been at odds with Hispanic organizations in the past, now is photographed
wearing a sombrero. He answers questions on a Spanish-language radio station as
part of ''Trio Amnestia,'' a group that includes his deputy and a Hispanic radio
star called ''El Tigre.'' The immigration service has printed 80,000 reminders
about the program that are being inserted in packages of tortillas. Boy Scouts
are being sent to poor communities to spread the word.

Similar efforts are being made to reach less accessible ethnic groups. In
California, immigration officials have met with community elders and held small
informational meetings in Chinese, Korean, Philippine, Samoan, Thai and
Vietnamese communities. A few weeks ago, the immigration service had a float,
with Chinese lettering hawking the amnesty program, in the Chinese New Year
parade in Los Angeles.

'A Long Slow Process'

''Now the mountain has begun to come to Mohammed,'' said Gene B. Pyeatt, deputy
director of the immigration service's Los Angeles district. ''It's a long slow
process, but we have to do it that way.''

The problems of spreading the word are particularly difficult in the Northeast,
where the large number of heterogeneous communities of aliens has caused the
turnout to be disappointing. The Mexican-American barrios of the Southwest have
had the strongest turnout, and the older cities of the Northeast among the
weakest. Almost 60 percent of the applicants have come from the Western region
that includes Southern California. Only 9 percent have come from the Eastern
region that includes New York.

The Manhattan legalization office, for example, has been staging an array of
days devoted to different ethnic groups. They have included Indian, Pakistani,
Dominican, Haitian, Caribbean, and Chinese days in efforts to address the needs
of individual groups.

Sometimes, different ethnic constituencies intersect. For instance, March 17 has
been named Korean Day in Paterson, N.J., in an effort to spread the word to the
Korean community.

''It's kind of incongruous,'' said Lou Galoppo, chief legalization officer at
the immigration office in Newark. ''But apparently no one told them it was St.
Patrick's Day.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Ronald Chandler and Dan Stricklin Jr. (NYT/Jarold Cabluck)
(pg. B9)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 8, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Church Officials Join U.S. in Promoting Amnesty

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 7


With only 58 days left before the yearlong amnesty program for illegal aliens
expires, leaders of the Roman Catholic Church today joined with Federal
immigration officials here to urge all those eligible to take advantage of the
program before it is too late.

It was, in many ways, an extraordinary event that saw Archbishop Roger Mahony of
the Diocese of Los Angeles, long a champion of downtrodden Mexican immigrants,
climb up on the same public platform with Harold Ezell, the Western regional
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, long the nemesis of
illegal aliens.

''This is a once in a lifetime opportunity'' the Archbishop said. ''Come
forward. We need you. You need this program.'' Minutes later, Mr. Ezell, flanked
by his five district directors, also urged aliens to take up this ''historic''
opportunity.

More than half of the aliens eligible for the amnesty, which applies to those
living in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982, are believed to
live in Southern California. There have been concerns nationally that many who
are eligible have avoided applying, either out of procrastination, fear of
exposing family members or because of the cost.

The comments of Archbishop Mahony and Mr. Ezell came at the end of a meeting at
the Marriott Hotel near the Los Angeles International Airport between church and
immigration officials to map the final weeks of the campaign. March 19 has been
designated ''Amnesty Awareness Day'' in the region. On that day, churches will
hold amnesty fairs, and Mr. Ezell will travel about, giving talks.

Nationally, as of last Thursday, 1,335,915 aliens had applied for amnesty. The
Immigration Service now estimates that from 1.5 million to 1.7 million will
apply by May 4. This is lower than what had been expected.

''We thought we'd be seeing a little more than this, but the predicted upward
trend here at the end is beginning,'' said Duke Austin, spokesman for the agency
in Washington.

More than half of the applications, 792,623, have come from the Western regions,
which includes California, Nevada, Arizona, Hawaii and Guam, but the bulk are
from Los Angeles, 531,312.

Immigration advocates had originally feared that Mr. Ezell, who has a reputation
for being tough on illegal aliens, might attempt to thwart the spirit of the
amnesty, but he has become one of the program's most vigorous backers.

''It's the law, and it gives the Immigration Service the opportunity to wear a
white hat for a change,'' Mr. Ezell said. ''To show we have a heart, that we are
more than cops.''

The agency has prepared a videotype, is handing out calendars with the message
in six languages and is relying on Catholic parishes to spread the message. Mr.
Ezell said that 85 percent of the applicants so far were from Hispanic
countries, and that 95 percent of them were Catholic.

Fear Is Hard to Overcome

Despite assurances from government and church, thousands of potentially eligible
have been reluctant or slow to come forward.

One is a 30-year-old Guatemalan woman, who says she has lived in Chicago, Indio,
Calif., and Los Angeles since 1988 with her husband. They have two American-born
children. She said the couple had not applied because they could not afford the
fees, $185 for each adult, $420 maximum for a family. Her husband was recently
laid off, she said.

''At times I feel like I'm in an alleyway without any way out,'' the woman said.

Others are fearful that some family members will qualify and others not. Ernest
Gustafson, district director for Los Angeles of the Immigration Service, said
that the agency had not yet separated any families. By using the ''personal
discretion'' available to the agency in hardship cases, he said, close family
members with eligible persons had been granted ''extended voluntary departure''
status, a provision that allows an emigrant to remain legally at least for a
time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 14, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Drive on Alien Law Stepped Up as Response Lags

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 979 words


After Mass, the Rev. Octavio Cisneros moved outdoors to greet Spanish-speaking
parishioners and urged them to take advantage of the new immigration law
permitting many unauthorized aliens to apply for residency before May 4.

''I guarantee as a priest it is the right thing to do,'' the Cuban-born priest
assured parishioners, surrounding him on a recent Sunday on the steps of Our
Lady of Sorrows Roman Catholic Church in Corona, Queens. Many are immigrants,
who, like tens of thousands of others in New York City have lived for years in
fear of deportation.

''Nothing bad will happen as long as you tell the truth,'' Father Cisneros told
the group. ''Don't be lazy or wait until the last minute. We will help you.''

That message has been expressed more frequently in recent weeks as publicity
campaigns accelerate, especially in the New York metropolitan region, where the
response has been lagging.

The drive takes many forms. Some days, the Mayor's special assistant for
Hispanic affairs, Luis Miranda, attends as many as four Masses to talk to
worshipers.

Teen-agers of the City Volunteer Corps distribute leaflets at subway stations in
the Washington Heights area of Manhattan and to shoppers in bodegas.

Immigration lawyers who volunteer as unpaid advisers meet regularly with groups
of immigrants, usually on evenings and weekends.

Forecast of 2 Million

The number of people who might qualify under the special residency rules is
impossible to gauge, according to the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service. When the program began last May, officials said they expected two
million people to apply.

As of March 1, a total of 1,324,527 applied, a spokesman for the agency, Duke
Austin, said.

New York State has an estimated 12 percent of the eligible people and is the
source of 5 percent of the applications, according to Elizabeth Bogen, director
of the Office of Immigrant Affairs in the City Planning Department.

Officials expected to process up to 300,000 applicants in the New York District,
which covers New York City, Long Island and seven counties north of the city.
With less than eight weeks before the deadline, 64,000 have come forward,
according to the chief legalization officer for Manhattan, John J. Byrnes.

Of those, 33,000 cases have been adjudicated, and 98 percent have been approved,
he said.

Diversity of Population

''This should show applicants they need not be fearful,'' Mr. Byrnes said. ''And
chances of approval are overwhelming.''

The preponderance of aliens are in the five boroughs, and they come mainly from
Latin America, Asia and the Caribbean region.

The comparatively poor response was partly attributed to the diversity of the
alien population and the difficulty of explaining complicated legislation to
groups speaking at least 46 languages. Government and private efforts have
focused on Caribbean groups in Brooklyn and Latin Americans and Asians in
Queens, among others.

Groups helping the aliens criticized the Federal program, complaining that it
was slow in starting and in arranging posters, leaflets and radio advertising.

Help of Foundations

Many people from the Dominican Republic and El Salvador are attracted to Our
Lady of Sorrows, at 104-11 37th Avenue, and Mr. Miranda and a team from the
Mayor's office handed out leaflets about the program in Spanish to 1,100
parishioners.

The drive is also supported by a number of foundations. They are led by the New
York Community Trust, which created an organization, the Fund for New Citizens,
to train neighborhood groups to help the aliens.

As part of its program, the Federal immigration agency sent vans into areas with
large foreign populations and designated dozens of churches and other offices to
inform applicants about the law and help them with the paperwork.

The foundations also helped finance a hot line set up by the city's Victim
Services Agency, at (718) 899-4000. The service is also partly supported by the
immigration agency. It uses advisers who speak 10 languages and are trained to
answer questions about the new rules under the Immigration Reform and Control
Act.

The legislation, adopted in 1986, seeks to curb illegal entries. It also offers
a process for aliens living here unlawfully since before Jan. 1, 1982, to obtain
residency.

Move to Extend Deadline

Applicants are permitted to work while awaiting temporary residency documents,
which usually take six months to process. Temporary residency is the first step
toward citizenship, usually a six-year procedure.

The largest number of applicants are Haitian-born. By Feb. 12, 25,000 aliens had
applied in Manhattan, 23,000 in Queens and 4,957 in Hempstead, L.I.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Representative Charles E. Schumer
of Brooklyn, both Democrats, are seeking to extend the deadline one year. At a
recent meeting with people from India, Mr. Schumer put the chances for an
extension at 50-50.

Left in Limbo

Another volunteer in the program of the New York City Bar Association, Allan H.
Wernick, said the law did not offer benefits to aliens who came here after Jan.
1, 1982. On a trip to meet Haitian residents in Brooklyn, he said:

''The restricted offer of amnesty to aliens coming before Jan. 1, 1982, leaves
most undocumented aliens, meaning those who came after 1982, in limbo. They
don't qualify for legalization, and they have difficulty finding jobs, because
the new law penalizes employers hiring them.''

Aliens who have succeeded in regularizing their status are encouraging others to
act.

Standing with Father Cisneros on the steps of Our of Lady of Sorrows, a
Peruvian-born mechanic, Ernesto Raceto, proudly showed off his residency card
and said:

''With this card, I can travel freely and visit my parents in Peru for the first
time in years. I'm telling all my friends to register.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Angel Linares handing out leaflets (NYT/Sara Krulwich)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 19, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Get Extension for Amnesty Proof

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18


Reagan Administration officials announced today that illegal aliens seeking
amnesty would be allowed two months beyond the May 4 application deadline to
provide documentation.

The move was seen as a final attempt to gain additional applicants and stave off
a Congressional effort to extend the deadline a year.

Today's extension would be granted only to those who filed for amnesty before
May 4. Applicants then would have until July 4 to prove that they had lived and
worked in the United States continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982.

''All they have to do by the deadline is get the application on file,'' Attorney
General Edwin Meese 3d said at a news conference at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's Legalization Center in Arlington, Va. #1.4 Million Have
Applied He said 1.4 million illegal aliens had applied for amnesty under the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The immigration agency estimated
last summer that two million would apply before the deadline, and had given a
3.9 million figure as the most optimistic estimate of potential applications.

Although the total number of illegal aliens is undetermined, the I.N.S.
estimates that there are 6.5 million to 7 million in the United States, many of
them ineligible for amnesty. Of the 1.4 million applicants, more than 90 percent
qualify for amnesty. More than 70 percent of the applicants are Mexicans.

Mr. Meese said that he opposed a one-year extension of the deadline because
''people have ample time now to get that application in.'' He added that ''the
more confusion, hesitancy and lack of definiteness'' concerning the deadline,
the more illegal aliens would be tempted to delay applications.

''The whole purpose was to provide a broad window, within a year, in which
people could apply,'' Mr. Meese said.

Praise and Criticism

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, sponsor of a House
measure to extend the deadline for a year, praised the Administration for
acknowledging that it had problems persuading aliens to apply, but called
today's extension ''virtually meaningless.''

He said that the major reason illegal aliens had not applied was their fear of
the immigration service. ''To them, the I.N.S. is the agency that is supposed to
throw them out of the country,'' Mr. Schumer said.

''The Administration has now acknowledged that something should be done for
eligible aliens who have not yet applied for amnesty,'' he continued. ''Why be
miserly? Why not be fair and humane? Why not grant a straightforward
extension?''

Mr. Meese noted with pride that the I.N.S. had taken no punitive action while
processing the 1.4 million applicants. ''Not one person has been deported,'' he
said, ''and we have not heard of one incident in which breach of confidentiality
was reported.''

Other Changes Announced

In addition to the extension, Administration officials also announced that
community and church groups, called Qualified Designated Entities, need no
longer complete an illegal alien's application to qualify for a fee of $15 for
local groups or $16 for national groups. Henceforth, these groups need only
provide the applicant with an amnesty form, and direct him to an I.N.S.
legalization office.

In another innovation, all 50 states are to be Qualified Designated Entities,
which gives all state agencies an opportunity to identify legalization
applicants and direct them to the immigration service to collect the referral
fee.

The amnesty program is part of an approach to the problem that includes fining
employers who hire illegal aliens and increasing efforts at the border to keep
aliens from crossing. The goal is to deter illegal aliens while offering legal
status to those who lived here since the beginning of 1982, in an effort to get
them into the mainstream of American life. These are aliens who are eligible for
amnesty under the law's general provision. A more liberal amnesty provision is
included for seasonal agriculture workers.

Administration officials said today that 1,587 employers had been cited for
violating the law since it took effect, with fines totaling $250,000.

A bill similar to Mr. Schumer's has been introduced in the Senate by Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. The measure is strongly opposed by
some key Senate Republicans, including Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, a chief
architect of the amnesty law. He contends that an extension would merely
lengthen the process without increasing the number of applicants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d and Alan C. Nelson, head of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, announcing yesterday the two-month
extension of the amnesty program (NYT/George Tames)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 14, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

OFFICIALS TRY TO PREPARE FOR NEW IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 743 words


Less than a month before the sweeping new Federal Immigration Law takes effect,
officials are scrambling to prepare for the estimated 750,000 illegal aliens in
the New York metropolitan region who are expected to seek to legalize their
status.

A range of problems has slowed the preparations. Among them, officials said, are
that Washington has not issued final regulations and that the private agencies
to help pre-process applicants have not been announced.

Also, crucial renovations at the Queens office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, where 500 applicants a day are expected, began just last
week. The late start gives a short time to complete the work by May 5, when the
law goes into effect.

The task of processing the applications is particularly daunting in New York,
because the region has one of the largest populations of illegal aliens.

'A Yeoman's Task'

''I see anxiety on the part of everyone who is involved because of the upcoming
deadline, but it helps focus attention on the task at hand,'' according to E. B.
Duarte, director of the outreach program of the immigration service in
Washington.

The deputy district director for New York, James Jasey, insisted that everything
would be in place when the first applicants arrived.

''They have a yeoman's task ahead of them,'' a special assistant to Mayor Koch,
Jeremey Travis, said. ''They have taken a number of steps to meet the demand,
but they are starting a new and sizable operation as of May 5.''

For their part, city officials are in the early stages of planning how the city
can help the applicants. One of the services it will be called on to provide
will be filling requests for such documents as health and school records, to
prove an applicant has lived in the United States five years, officials said.

''School records, hospital records -anyone who tries to get this documentation
now has a fair period of time they have to wait,'' according to the Rev. Peter
Zinzian of the United States Catholic Conference. The city, he added, appeared
interested in speeding up the process.

Preparations for Assistance

Mr. Travis said other plans under consideration included a campaign to encourage
applications and a grant to the Legal Aid Society to provide help for applicants
who are rejected and subject to deportation.

The director of the office of immigrant affairs in the City Planning Department,
Elizabeth Bogen, said it was unreasonable to think a bureaucracy could be
prepared for such a major bill in the 180 days allotted under the law. ''The
city is lucky that it is officially not the city's job,'' Ms. Bogen said.

The bill that President Reagan signed last Nov. 6 may eventually make several
million aliens citizens. It calls for fines for employers who hire those
ineligible for the program.

To qualify, an alien must prove he has continuously lived in the United States
since January 1982.

Such organizations as the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York and hundreds of
volunteers will help prepare the documents. Once the papers are in order, the
applicants will be sent to one of three immigration centers, where they will be
interviewed and their papers reviewed.

Addresses of Offices

Mr. Jasey said the three sites in the New York area would be in Manhattan and
Queens and on Long Island. The offices in Queens and Manhattan will have 50
employees each, and the office on Long Island 19. About 95 percent of the
employees have been hired and are being trained, Mr. Jasey added.

The Queens site, where 500 applicants a day are expected to be interviewed, is
being renovated. Bathrooms are being enlarged and added, according to Mr. Jasey.
The City General Services Department approved the work late last week. The
office is at 28-10 Bridge Plaza South.

The Manhattan office, which is also expected to receive 500 applications a day,
is on the third floor of 201 West 24th Street. The Long Island office, which is
preparing to deal with 200 people a day, is in Room 150 at 250 Fulton Avenue in
Hempstead.

Although the immigration service is responsible for carrying out the law, much
of the work will fall to private agencies that pre-process applications.

About 300 applications have been received in Washington, and the qualified
designated entities - as the applicants are officially called - will be
announced Friday, according to Mr. Duarte.

Mr. Duarte said the final guidelines were due to be issued Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Freedom Day - and Year

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words


By coincidence, today in Mexico is Cinco de Mayo, a holiday commemorating the
1862 victory of outnumbered Mexican forces over Napoleon III's invading armies.
Today in the United States brings another kind of holiday, for millions of
illegal aliens, many from Mexico. Freedom Day, it might be called, because
starting today aliens who have lived here furtively since 1982 can claim
legality. Today, 180 days after it was enacted, the delicate bargain called the
Immigration Reform and Control Act begins to operate.

The first half of the bargain is to give amnesty to illegal aliens already here,
of whom one or two or four million will register, no one knows. The other part
is to start acting against employers who entice illegals across the border with
jobs. This historic act of humanity should not be tarnished either by
misunderstanding or mischievous manipulation to break the bargain at the last
minute.

The misunderstanding is to think of the amnesty as only a one-day occasion.
There has been criticism of the Immigration Service, for instance, for not
having completed preparations by this morning and for writing complex rules.
Still, the service has pleased its harshest Congressional critics with its
energy, flexibility and generosity.

Congress did not ordain just a day but a whole year during which frightened
illegals can register and during which word-of-mouth credibility can snowball.
The immigration study commission headed by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh found case
after fearful case, like that of the woman in Miami who refused to go to the
police even though she had been raped, and raped again. Or like aliens with
hepatitis and salmonellosis too scared to go to the hospital.

The other part of the immigration bargain is tougher enforcement. For aliens to
work has always been illegal. Finally, it will be illegal as well for employers
to hire them, effective June 1. Supposedly, but a trail of torpedoes is suddenly
visible. In recent weeks the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and others have urged a
four-month suspension of the civil sanctions against employers of illegal
aliens. Last week Senator Dennis DeConcini, Arizona Democrat, won approval from
his appropriations subcommittee for just such a delay.

The new immigration law was enacted only after six painstaking years of scrutiny
and compromise. To break the bargain now raises an instant odor of unfairness.
The proper Senate response to the DeConcini initiative is simple: too late.
Freedom Day, and Year, is a time for America to be proud, not tricky.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 12, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

HUMANITARIAN ADJUSTMENTS TO IMMIGRATION ACT;
Cheap Labor Provision

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words


To the Editor:

In Washington lobbying circles, what interest groups fail to obtain through the
front door of representative democracy they occasionally seize through the back
door of special-interest arm twisting. A case in point involves the pressures
exerted on the Department of Agriculture to increase the amount of cheap alien
labor in the United States by expansively interpreting the amnesty program in
the new immigration law (front page, April 6).

During the debate over the Simpson-Rodino immigration bill, nothing proved more
controversial than legalization, or amnesty. Opinion polls reflected a feeling
among the American people that those who break our immigration laws should not
be rewarded with citizenship, if at all. Thus, while their representatives in
the House passed employer sanctions - the provision designed to break the cycle
of illegal immigration - by more than 100 votes, amnesty survived by a mere 7
votes.

At the behest of powerful border growers, a second amnesty, the Special
Agricultural Workers Provision, offering legal residence to certain illegal
aliens working in agriculture, generated still more controversy. Because these
aliens will eventually be eligible for all the rights and entitlements extended
to citizens and legal resident aliens, and the agricultural interests will
profit most from their cheap labor, the provision smacks of private gain off
public domain.

But the hunger for cheap labor persists, and the agricultural amnesty is likely
to be expanded. If the Department of Agriculture defines ''fruits and vegetables
. . . and other perishable commodities'' to include such things as Christmas
trees and saxophone reeds, it will have folded before the special interests. The
department will have sacrificed the best interests of the American people, whose
mounting anger and frustration will be yet another legacy of the erosion of rule
of law.

ROGER CONNER
Executive Director, Federation
for American Immigration Reform
  Washington, April 19, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Reagan Rejects Duarte's Request

BYLINE: By Martha A. Miles and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 173 words


Approximately 10 percent of El Salvador's 5 million people are believed to be
living illegally in the United States. The country's president, Jose Napoleon
Duarte, wanted them to stay for a while.

Last month, fearing that the recently enacted Immigration Reform and Control Act
would cause many of these exiles to return home to El Salvador, further
straining an economy flattened by seven years of civil war, President Duarte
asked President Reagan to exempt them temporarily from the new law. On Thursday,
Mr. Reagan denied the request, though he assured Mr. Duarte that no mass
deportation of Salvadorans was planned. Most of the aliens came here after
January 1, 1982, and so are ineligible for amnesty under the new immigration
law.

El Salvador is beset by unemployment as high as 40 percent and an annual
inflation rate exceeding 30 percent. It has been estimated that illegal
immigrants send home more than $350 million a year, contributing at least as
much to the country as the United States does in direct economic aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 17, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

A Fearful Dilemma for Alien Families

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words


To the Editor:

That only a small number of undocumented aliens have applied for legalization
under the new immigration law is likely due to something more than ''early
administrative problems'' (news story, June 2). For many aliens the decision not
to apply is based on a fear of family separation.

The new law requires that aliens must individually meet the requirements for
legalization, such as having lived illegally in the United States since 1981.
But many who meet these requirements have spouses or children who don't.

For example, assume that an undocumented worker entered the country in 1981. In
1982, after finding a job and place to live, he was joined by his wife and
child. Under the new law only the father qualifies for legalization. What should
this family do? Separate? Or should the wife and child remain in the United
States illegally?

Aware that husbands and wives and parents and children are not treated as family
units, many aliens are afraid to apply for legalization. Their fear is
reinforced by several aspects of the process itself:

First, the applicant must list the name and location of every son, daughter,
brother, sister and present and former spouse. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service justifies collecting this information for statistical and
planning purposes. From an applicant's perspective, however, providing the
I.N.S. with the names and whereabouts of other aliens comes close to aiding and
abetting the enemy. Mistrust of I.N.S.'s motive is further enhanced by the use
of former border patrol agents as legalization officers.

Second, there is no clear I.N.S. policy on the issue of family separation except
that families will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. Applicants can take
little comfort in this assurance, however, since the I.N.S. has not made known
what criteria will be used.

Remedies to prevent family separation are available within American immigrations
law. Senator Alan Cranston has introduced a joint resolution urging I.N.S.
district directors to use their discretion under existing law to keep families
intact.

So long as aliens must choose between legalization and the integrity of their
families, it should be no surprise that participation in the program is less
than ex-pected. CAROL SANGER Associate Professor of Law Santa Clara University
Santa Clara, Calif., June 5, 1987 U.N. Might Stave Off Trouble in Burundi To the
Editor:

James Brooke's June 4 news article accurately silhouettes the ethnic divisions
in Burundi. The alienation is deeply rooted in the culture, and it will take
some time before any serious modification takes place.

I worked for almost three years as the U.S. Ambassador (1969-72) trying to
introduce ideas about dialogue and reduction of tensions. Leaders of both the
Tutsi and Hutu communities responded with interest to the standard techniques to
reduce tensions, but these efforts collapsed in the economic troubles of early
1972. Fear replaced reason, and the bloodbath of 1972 occurred. There were
previous ones. Unless something is done soon there will be another one.
Following the 1972 killings, I proposed geographic separation of the two
communities. It is only a temporary solution, but has been used in many other
countries.

Burundi, Sri Lanka, Uganda and Northern Ireland are witnessing killings and
chaos rooted in centuries of racial, ethnic or religious alienations. Could not
the United Nations take on a more active role in these situations, as it did
with some success in Cyprus?

THOMAS PATRICK MELADY
Fairfield, Conn., June 5, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 16, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Hopes of Immigration Act Died in a Texas Boxcar

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 659 words



To the Editor:

The tragic and unnecessary deaths of 18 young Mexican nationals in a railroad
car in Sierra Blanca, Tex., should move the leadership in Congress immediately
to recognize the mistakes in the Immigration Reform and Control Act. We really
needed two bills, one for the border states and one for the purists and
fundamentalists that Senator Alan K. Simpson, architect and promoter of this
''reform,'' seems to represent.

Legislation of criminal penalties for hiring Mexican nationals who enter the
United States illegally has simply forced the most desperate or entrepreneurial
of our southern neighbor's citizens into the hands of criminals in the United
States and along the border. Long before the act was passed, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, under Commissioner Alan C. Nelson, had begun a serious
tight-border policy. The Reagan Administration is not the first to experiment
with such policies. President Carter tried it with no success.

There is a direct correlation between the I.N.S. kick-an-alien-while-he-is-down
policy and the increase in violent crime along the United States-Mexican border.
I.N.S. has been responsible for a whole new subculture of Americans who become
nothing less than the 20th-century equivalent of slave traders. Not that they
are using illegals as slaves, but they are dealing with them as if they were
bricks or some other inanimate commodity rather than the good people that most
of them really are. The so-called immigration reform we have cannot change the
socioeconomic realities of Mexico, nor can it change Mexico's geographic
relationship with a nation that keeps sending signals that it is willing to hire
Mexico's young, ambitious, sometimes desperate workers.

An intelligent, supervised, large guest-worker program is a necessity. Such a
program could be eliminated as Mexico becomes able to produce more jobs for her
own. Mr. Simpson, Mr. Nelson and others in Washington who have no idea what is
going on along our Mexican border have their own consciences to live with each
time a tragedy such as the Sierra Blanca boxcar occurs. This case is just one of
a long series.

The law, as it relates to Mexican nationals seeking to work at the lowest level
of our economic structure, should be modified. I.N.S. implementation of the
immigration act has been a disaster. All the I.N.S. estimates and assumptions
were simply wrong! The vast majority of the Mexican workers in the United States
did not want amnesty. They simply wanted self-respect, an honest job and to move
back and forth between their temporary work and their families in Mexico. They
didn't come for our welfare system, and they didn't come to establish permanent
residency.

The few illegal aliens who have established themselves and their families as
permanent residents in Michigan or elsewhere and those that have assimilated to
the point of taking advantage of the services our Government offers should be
identified and deported. If an illegal alien has become so productive that he
can educate his children in the United States and buy cars and houses, then his
home country could certainly use his entrepreneurial spirit and his savings.
Those people are an insignificant percentage of the total illegal aliens from
Mexico working in the U.S. The typical illegal aliens are those tragic young men
in the boxcar.

We can control our border in an intelligent way for far less money than the
immigration act is mandating and certainly more humanely. We must not treat all
illegal immigrants as if the playing field is level. Mexico's relationships with
the United States are unique. Blanket worldwide policies don't apply.

Americans should be ashamed for allowing such a vicious law to get on the books
with so little thought to the human tragedy it would surely precipitate. The law
should be changed now.

GARY G. JACOBS
   President, Laredo National Bank
   Laredo, Tex., July 6, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 2, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Strong Fears Remain Over New Immigration Law

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 50, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 859 words


It seemed like a traditional revival meeting, with a lot of singing, swaying,
handshakes and hallelujahs in a large green tent on a vacant lot in Brooklyn.

Then the assistant pastor of the Maranatha Church of God, whose members are
mainly from Panama, appealed in Spanish to all undocumented immigrants ''to have
courage and come forward and let the church help you become legal.''

''If you qualify, you don't have to be afraid,'' the pastor, Efrain Aguilar
said. He announced that six members of the congregation have already obtained
their working cards through World Relief, an evangelical service organization
specializing in immigration and development, including himself.

''Amen!'' the crowd chanted. ''Praise the Lord.'' Fear of the Authorities Many
people are still afraid of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and are
not taking advantage of the legalization program under the new immigration law,
according to Dan Nicholas, spokesman for the New York branch of World Relief,
one of the main national groups designated by the I.N.S. to help process
applications.

Other community groups working on the legalization process have also expressed
disappointment in the generally slow response. Under the new Immigration Reform
and Control Act, which went into effect on May 6, illegal aliens who arrived
prior to Jan. 1, 1982, qualify for legal status.

For lack of applicants, World Relief has had to shut its legalization processing
site in northern New Jersey and is scaling back at its four New York City sites,
Mr. Nicholas said. The organization, which was prepared to handle 50
applications a day at each site, is receiving fewer than 10.

The World Relief processing centers are located at the Chinese Christian Herald
Crusade in Chinatown, the Joy Fellowship Church in the Bronx, the First Baptist
Church in Flushing, Queens, and the Clarendon Road Church in Brooklyn.

Below Targeted Numbers

''We have a 100 percent local acceptance record on our applications with the
I.N.S., which is the main step to approval,'' Mr. Nicholas said. But he added
that World Relief in New York has only submitted 100 applications, while the
target was 10 times that.

The legalization program has fallen far behind schedule in New York State, where
there have been only about 16,500 applications from a pool of 1.5 million
illegal aliens, according to Cesar A. Perales, who heads the Governor's Task
Force on Immigration Affairs. In a recent letter to I.N.S. Commissioner Alan C.
Nelson, Mr. Perales said the ''alarmingly low turnout'' was due first of all to
lack of adequate public information.

The 29-year-old Mr. Aguilar and his wife, who work as security guards in
Manhattan and have three children, came here from Panama in September 1979. A
representative from World Relief came to the church to help them with their
applications and they obtained their working cards on July 1.

A 34-year-old Haitian pastor, who was reluctant to give his name, said for the
past seven years, he has been ''living in fear of the I.N.S.'' In April 1980, he
and four other Haitian refugees flew in a small plane from the Bahamas to Miami,
and like the boat people, were detained on arrival. After three days in
detention in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., he was paroled and went to live temporarily
with a cousin in New York.

Lost Briefcase in Taxi

Shortly after his arrival, he left his briefcase, with vital documents, in a
taxi, he said. Among the items he lost were parole papers and his alien
registration number. Since then he has feared that the I.N.S. would view his
loss as a crime or cause for deportation.

He is one of 15,000 Haitians, who fled the country's repression and poverty in
1980. Like many of them, he is eligible for legalization and also for permanent
residence under the new law's Cuban-Haitian adjustment provision.

In the past five years, the pastor has built a new life for himself, always
haunted by the concern that he had no documents to prove when he came to this
country.

He settled in a town in upper New York State, where he is the leader of an
evangelical church. He also commutes regularly to New Jersey, where he works in
a print shop.

Lived With Constant Fear

But he has lived in constant fear that one day he would be caught in an I.N.S.
raid. He has told his employers and church board that he is here illegally, but
most of his neighbors and congregation do not know.

He said he was offered a job teaching English as a second language at a local
college but was afraid to take it because people would find out about his
illegal status.

When the new immigration law went into effect, the pastor contacted World
Relief's Bronx office. He explained how he had lost his entry number and was
afraid to go to the I.N.S. Promising confidentiality, Marta Estrada, a
legalization processor, called World Relief's office in Miami. They quickly
obtained the pastor's alien registration number.

Today, the Haitian minister is confident that he qualifies for legalization and
has gone on the radio with an urgent message for all his fellow undocumented
aliens: ''Drop all your fears and come forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Efrain Aguilar (NYT/Susan Farley)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 2, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

From New York Lawyers, Advice for Aliens

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 50, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words


At the New York City Bar Association the other evening, an immigration lawyer,
Marjorie Siegel, heard the cases of a live-in housekeeper from Singapore, a
student from Trinidad, two English nannies and several other illegal aliens.

A volunteer in the association's new amnesty counseling program, Ms. Siegel had
to tell some of the aliens they were not eligible for legal status under the new
immigration law but she suggested other ways that they might be able to stay in
the country: sponsorship, labor certification, immediate relatives and
litigation.

Like Ms. Siegel, about 200 lawyers have volunteered their services for the
association's counseling and outreach program to help aliens work their way
through the complicated process of attaining legal status.

Deluged by calls for help from community groups, the association set up a broad
program of free counseling and training in June. The goal is to assist with the
implementation of the new immigration law, which went into effect on May 5.

Sanctions for Employers

The law establishes sanctions for employers who hire illegal aliens and offers
amnesty to illegal aliens who can prove continuous residence in the United
States since Jan. 1, 1982.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service named a number of church and
community groups as ''qualified designated entities'' to help aliens apply for
legal status. This process, however, is turning out to be a complicated process
and in many cases the groups acknowledge that lawyers' assistance is required.

Laurie Milder, director of the association's amnesty counseling program, said
there has been ''tremendous confusion'' over the new law. She said many
community leaders and staff members of the church and community groups have
called the association because they did not know what to do in certain cases.
For this reason, several training seminars have been organized for them.

''People are holding back, either because they're confused or afraid or it's
taking time to get their documents together,'' an immigration attorney, Allen E.
Kaye, told some 100 members of religious and community organizations who
attended a recent training session.

Guidelines for Process

Mr. Kaye described the application procedure in detail. He suggested that the
alien's file should not be too large and should be carefully indexed and include
about four documents proving residence for each year, with backup material
available.

The district counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Steven R.
Abrams, who also spoke at the training session, urged groups helping illegal
aliens not to overlook categories of people for legalization: special
agricultural workers, close relatives, Cubans and Haitians with parole status
and residents since Jan.1, 1972, eligible for registry status.

The participants received the association's legalization training manual,
prepared in conjunction with Volunteers of Legal Service, American Immigration
Lawyers Association and New York Lawyers for the Public Interest. This manual,
which is also available in Spanish, includes application forms and lists of
possible documents to support applications; filing deadlines; lists of New York
District legalization offices, and qualified designated entities in the New York
region.

The bar association's amnesty counseling program opened on June 2 with a
training seminar for lawyers, willing to volunteer their services in the
legalization effort. More than 75 lawyers attended the session.

''We asked them for a minimum of one evening of free counseling, but some of
them volunteered to come out for a whole month,'' Ms. Milder said. Some of the
lawyers said they participated because they were interested in getting into the
field of immigration law, but others volunteered simply because their parents
were immigrants and they wanted to help out other immigrants.

The individual amnesty counseling is held every Tuesday from 5 to 8 P.M. at the
bar association, 42 West 44th Street. Lawyers are available for free advice on
gaining legal status. Appointments are not necessary. Officials said the program
will be continued through the month of August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS FIND FREEDOM AT IMMIGRATION CENTER

BYLINE: By ALFONSO A. NARVAEZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 44, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J.


''She says that she feels like she has wings,'' Park Yun said of his mother, who
hd just been given an employment authorization card - the first major hurdle in
the process for legalization of immigrant status under the new amnesty law.

''She said that now she can go visit relatives in Seoul,'' he said, ''relatives
that she hasn't seen in 10 years.''

Mrs. Park was one of seven people - three Koreans, three Colombians and one
Salvadoran - who were brought on a recent day to the Legalization Center at 22
Mill Street by the Rev. Hosea Lee., the assistant priest at Good Shepherd
Episcopal Church in Fort Lee.

The were among 50 people at the office, far below the 150 people a day that
immigration officials had expected.

When the group first entered, there was a feeling of anxiety. There were tense
moments as each was called to the counter where each person's papers were
scrutinized, where each person's proofs of identity, residency and eligibility
checked. They waited patiently as each one was processed. Each was called for a
cursory interview and each person's papers were accepted. Broad smiles lighted
their faces.

Despite the various language barriers, the feeling of anxiety turned to one of
jubilation as the news sank in. There was still processing to be done. They had
to be fingerprinted and photographed, and finally they were handed the much
sought after card that would allow them to surface.

With it they could end their hidden existence and openly seek employment, obtain
a driver's license or do the hundreds of things so many legal residents take for
granted.

''This means that I won't have to live like a second-class person,'' said Jorge
Rodriguez, a 21-year-old who had come to the United States from El Salvador by
illegally crossing the Mexican border when he was 13. ''I'm really happy. Now I
will no longer be at a lower level than other people. I can do what I want.''

Mr. Rodriguez, who works as a laborer for a demolition company, said he had been
afraid to seek amnesty under the legalization program, which began on May 5.

''In beginning a lot of people were saying that it could be a trick, that it was
going to be hard, that you needed so many papers and that you should go to a
lawyer,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''Then a friend of mine told me he had been helped
at the church. He said that it was easy and that the church did not charge any
money. I decided to try it myself. I used to try to forget that I was not here
legally, now I really can forget all about it.''

'Everything Worked Out'

Mr. Park said that the had first gone to a lawyer to seek help for his mother
because she was 72 years old and had not kept any letters or papers to show she
had been in the United States since 1978.

''The lawyer told me that it would cost about $2,000 to help her,'' Mr. Park
said. ''Then, a friend introduced me to Father Lee. He went step by step and he
helped us get hospital records from when she broke her leg and a letter from the
Korean Buddhist Won Kak Sa Church wher eshe was a member since 1979. She was
very much afraid when she came but everything worked out fine.''

Jorge Betancour, who had come from Colombia in 1979 and had overstayed his visa,
noted that he too had been afraid to seek amnesty because of the horror stories
he had heard, and because of the radio and newspaper advertisements that warned
that the process was very complicated and that the services of a lawyer were
needed.

''I was very doubtful that we could qualify,'' Mr. Betancour said, referring to
his girlfriend and her son. ''Then, a friend told me about Fathe rLee and I went
to see him. He looked over our papers and said that I had more than enough.''

Mr. Lee said that many of the people who come to his office on palisades Avenue
were fearful of coming to the immigration office because of the horror stories
they had heard.

''Some of them go into shock when they hear the name of the immigration
service,'' Mr. Lee said. ''There was one Filipino fellow whose family had been
apprehended in California by immigration officials. His father and the rest of
the family were deported but he escaped and went into hiding for seven years. He
just recently got his card.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Employers Warned on Alien Hiring

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 44, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 785 words


A senior immigration official reassured the managers of a curtain factory in
Long Island City the other day that he had come to explain the new immigration
law's provisions on employer sanctions, ''not enforce them.''

''No firm will be cited or fined until we have made an information visit,'' said
John O'Malley, senior special agent for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. He warned, however, that action would soon be taken against ''blatant
violators.''

The I.N.S. is currently engaged in a widespread door-to-door campaign to inform
employers about the Immigration and Reform Control Act, which went into effect
June 1, prohibiting the hiring of illegal aliens and providing stiff penalties
for continued violations.

Thus far, there have been no citations, fines or arrests for violations under
the new immigration law in the Eastern Region, according to Carol Chasse, the
I.N.S. assistant commissioner for Employer and Labor Relations for the region,
which includes the East Coast to the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
#5,000 Visits to Companies Since mid-June, I.N.S. investigative staff and border
patrols have been devoting about 50 percent of their time to the Information and
Education Program, Ms. Chasse said. Nearly 5,000 on-site visits to employers
have been made in the Eastern Region.

The second phase of the program will be audit visits, based on ''neutrally
produced lists'' and should begin sometime in the fall, according to Mr.
O'Malley. The third phase will be investigation, coming generally as a result of
the audits and complaints.

But fines could be imposed almost immediately on ''blatant violators,'' Mr.
O'Malley said, referring to employers who had either openly refused to comply
with the new law, evaded information visits or were subject to strong
complaints.

In the stark, white-washed conference room at Karpel Curtains, the personnel
manager and three supervisors voiced the main concerns of employers trying to
comply with the new immigration law. Their questions focused on the calendar and
paperwork required for the new I-9 form and the responsibility for fraudulent
documents.

Increase in Fines

''We're asking employers to do two things with the I-9 form: verify the
employee's identity and authorization to work in this country,'' Mr. O'Malley
said. He outlined the procedure now required for all new employees, including
American citizens, with the exception of independent contractors, self-employed
or people hired for domestic work on a sporadic basis.

Employers are not required to fill out I-9 forms for employees hired before Nov.
6, 1986, when the immigration law was signed, he said. Employers have until
Sept. 1, l987, to fill out I-9 forms for all employees, hired after Nov. 6,
1986, and still in their employ by June 1, 1987. As of June 1, 1987, employers
must fill out I-9 forms for all employees, within three business days of hire,
with a possible 21-day extension.

Mr. O'Malley noted that employers continuing to hire unauthorized workers after
a warning citation, risk fines of up to $2,000 per employee for the first
violation, $5,000 for the second violation and $10,000 for subsequent
violations. In addition, employers failing to keep records of I-9 forms face
fines of up to $1,000 for each employee.

Discussing documents required for the I-9, Mr. O'Malley pointed out that some
American citizens, particularly teen-agers, were having problems. He said the
I.N.S. would accept school, medical or parental identification for people under
16 and working papers from the Department of Education for youths 16 and 17
years old.

On the question of fake documents, Mr. O'Malley said that employers were ''not
expected to use a microscope but the documentation must look reasonably
genuine.''

Other problems were raised during an I.N.S. informational visit to the Manhattan
advertising agency, Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon & Eckhardt, which hires hundreds of
people temporarily as talent each year and scores of freelance writers and
producers.

Would artists and freelance people, sometimes hired for only one day, have to
fill out the I-9 forms? asked Armand Fabiano, director of the firm's Human
Resources Operations. He was concerned about the cost of the three-day grace
period for filling out the forms. Couldn't an employment agency or the Screen
Actors Guild take care of the I-9 forms?

Agencies may handle verification procedures, but employers continue to bear the
responsibility for compliance with the law, Mr. O'Malley said. He added that the
I.N.S. has begun discussions with the Screen Actors Guild about the problem.

''How do we ask Frank Sinatra to fill out an I-9 form?'' one of the supervisors
asked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of John O'Malley, senior special agent for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, explaining the new immigration law's provision on
employer sanctions to a group from an advertising agency (NYT/Fred R. Conrad)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 2, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Law Deadline Passes

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 79 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1


Today was the deadline for illegal immigrants hired after Nov. 6, 1986 to prove
to their employers that they have filed for amnesty under provisions of the new
immigration law. They are also required to prove that they are authorized by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to work. The 1986 law requires employers
to make ''a good faith effort'' to verify employees' statements, or face fines
ranging from $250 per illegal employee to $10,000 for repeat violators.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 4, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Koch and U.S. Trade Blame on Amnesty Turnout

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 621 words


Mayor Koch and Federal immigration officials traded accusations yesterday over
why relatively few illegal aliens in New York City have applied for amnesty
under the new immigration law.

The accusations came at a City Hall news conference at which the Mayor and
officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced a new
telephone hot line and an advertising campaign aimed at encouraging more aliens
to come forward to gain legal status.

The Mayor blamed the immigration service for the scant applications. ''While I
appreciate everything that the I.N.S. is doing now,'' he said, ''I think they've
done more in other areas, frankly.''

Stanley E. McKinley, the service's eastern regional commissioner, in turn blamed
New York City leaders.

Something to Share Around

''We are looking for greater support in the New York area from the political
arena,'' he said. ''The political force of the program in the East has been less
than overwhelming. Maybe that's our fault, but I think it's something we can
share around.''

While the immigration service had estimated that at least 250,000 illegal aliens
would apply for amnesty in New York City during the year ending May 1988, only
29,000 have come forward in the first four months of the program.

The immigration service was prepared to handle 1,100 applications a day in New
York City, but has been receiving about 300 a day. That rate is low for major
cities nationwide, but in line with those of other cities in the Northeast. In
Boston, for example, where the immigration service set up offices capable of
processing 450 applications a day, they have received fewer than 50 a day.

In contrast, in Houston, where offices were set up to handle 300 applications a
day, they have been receiving 400.

Mr. McKinley said a study to determine why the application rate on the East
Coast was so low had found one of the major reasons to be a greater fear of
deportation.

Seriousness of Deportation

Since many of the illegal aliens in the West come from Mexico, Mr. McKinley
said, they are likely to be less concerned about the consequences of deportation
because of the possibility that they can return to the United States legally or
otherwise. But in the East, he said, most illegal aliens are from countries not
adjoining the United States and deportation is viewed as a more serious matter.

Officials stressed, though, that the fear of deportation was unfounded. Under
the law, any information obtained from aliens seeking amnesty may not be passed
on to law-enforcement officials.

The Mayor suggested that another reason for the low numbers in the East may be
that illegal aliens who have been absent from the country for more than 45 days
at a time since January 1982 are ineligible for amnesty.

Mayor Koch said that he did not want to ''get into a battle'' with Mr. McKinley,
adding, ''It's very nice that he's here and we're on the same side.'' But he
repeatedly accused the immigration service of having given short shrift to the
amnesty program in New York.

Mr. McKinley denied this. He said that the immigration service was eager to find
local leaders in the city who would allow immigration agents to use their
offices ''so that people might feel more secure.''

Assemblyman Jose Serrano, Democrat of the Bronx, said he thought officials at
both the Federal and local levels had failed to live up to their
responsibilities. ''One group has a reputation for discouraging people from
staying in this country,'' he said. ''And the city folks have left the issue to
the local agencies.''

The number for the new immigration hotline is (718) 899-4000. Information will
be available in Spanish, French, Korean, Chinese and Haitian Creole.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Boston Plans Help for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 3, Page 67, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 9


The city government here has launched an effort to help illegal Irish immigrants
with their legal problems, prompting questions from representatives of other
immigrant groups.

While the city program is open to Haitians, Central Americans and other
foreigners, officials have emphasized the city's Irish heritage and have focused
attention and publicity on Irish churches, neighborhoods and community
organizations.

This has vexed some in other ethnic enclaves who, while welcoming any help for
immigrants and acknowledging Boston's historical link to Ireland, contend that
the city's first efforts on behalf of illegal aliens should have a broader
focus.

No Budget, One Lawyer

''To target the Irish has to do with race and is not helpful across the board,''
said David E. Johnson, director of the Hatian Multiservice Center. ''We have
strong cultural and ancestral ties to Ireland but we also have strong business
and foreign policy ties to Haiti and Central America.''

The city opened its Immigrant Rights Unit on Oct. 1 in City Hall. It has no
budget yet and only one lawyer from the Corporation Counsel's office, but plans
to organize a network of 30 volunteer lawyers in neighborhood offices to give
free advice on the 1986 immigration law, employment opportunities and other
legal matters.

It will encourage illegal aliens to use the city's free health care facilities
and help lobby for changes in Federal laws to allow more immigration from
Ireland, Italy, Haiti and elsewhere, said Mayor Raymond L. Flynn. #9 of 12
Mayors Are Irish City officials emphasize that the office will be available to
all illegal residents. But in announcing the program, Mayor Flynn cited ''the
city's special relationship to Ireland,'' and worked out a cooperative agreement
with the Irish Government. No such contacts were made with other countries like
Haiti, which sends at least as many illegal immigrants to Boston as Ireland.

While statistics are uncertain, H. Susan Freireich, director of volunteer
programs at the International Institute, an immigrant aid group, estimated that
about 30,000 Haitians, 25,000 Irish and 20,000 Central Americans live in Boston
illegally.

But about 40 percent of the residents in the city and state claim Irish ancestry
and in this century, nine of Boston's 12 mayors have been Irish, including Mayor
Flynn, whose grandparents came from Galway and Cork.

That the new city program focuses on the Irish is hardly surprising, said Frank
Costello, the Mayor's Adviser on Irish-American Affairs. ''Per capita, we have
the largest number of illegal Irish, the highest percentage of Irish residents
and with 2.5 percent unemployment, we have jobs for everybody,'' he said.

Applause and Doubts

Despite their concern about the program's focus on the Irish, advocates for
other immigrants hailed the program as a way to heighten public awareness of the
problems of all undocumented aliens. ''It's impressive that a city is responding
to a Federal law and important that it protect its residents,'' said Frank P.
Sharry, director of Centro Presente, which works with Central American refugees.

Martha N. Murdock, a lawyer for the International Institute, said, ''This is
positive because so many people feel they cannot get any help from the city.''

But these spokesmen also voiced doubts.

''We do not expect this program to comfort the confusion and panic that the new
law has sparked among Central Americans who fear they'll lose their jobs and
have to leave,'' Mr. Sharry said.

Muriel A. Heiberger, director of the Massachusetts Immigration Reform and
Advocacy Coalition, said that the city has always permitted illegal aliens to
use its adult literacy programs, youth services and job training opportunities.

New Law Stirs Concern

But she said the new program is the first intended specifically for illegal
immigrants.

''The political power of the Irish may have precipitated it but the Mayor
genuinely wants the program to reach all groups,'' she said.

For Irish immigrants who have flocked here in recent years of high unemployment
in Ireland, any help in dealing with the new immigration law is welcome. The
law, which offers amnesty to illegal aliens who have been in this country
continuously for five years, also punishes employers who hire undocumented
workers.

''Already I can see that the new law has made it extremely difficult to get work
because business is falling off,'' said a young bartender who gave his name only
as Bryan.

In fact, the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Boston issued its first
warning citations last week for improper documentation of workers at a hospital,
a rehabilitation center and a food plant, said Timothy A. Whelan, the I.N.S.
Deputy Director here.

''Most of us work construction,'' Bryan said. ''The girls are granny minding or
baby minding. We tend to think of America as a fairyland where the Irish before
us made millionaires.'' He added, ''This is the first time I've ever had any
money.''

But there have been problems of Irish workers who are not getting paid by
employers and who are afraid to report crimes. ''One lad was cut with a bottle
but didn't go to a hospital for fear of the I.N.S.,'' Bryan said.

''But if the new law stays, the I.N.S. won't have to do any work,'' he
continued. ''Without money here you don't exist. People will have to leave. But
nobody likes the thought of going home -there it's just the dole.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 5, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Wide Fraud Is Found Among Illegal Aliens Who Seek Amnesty

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4


Immigration officials said today that they had detected fraud in thousands of
the applications for legal status filed by illegal aliens who said they had
worked in the United States as farm laborers.

Mark W. Everson, Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said officials believed that more than half the farm worker
applications in Florida alone contained fraudulent or untruthful statements. He
said the Government would ''bring vigorous prosecutions'' against some of the
aliens involved.

From June through October, the agency said, it received 42,856 applications
under the farm worker program in Florida.

''We have become concerned about the increasing level of fraud in applications
under the program for seasonal agricultural workers,'' Mr. Everson said at news
conference. Many of the fraudulent applications were filed by Haitians and
Jamaicans, he said.

Aliens who are convicted of lying on an application for legal status can be
imprisoned for up to five years and fined thousands of dollars.

The new immigration law prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens and
establishes two programs offering legal status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens.
The eligibility standards for farm workers are much more liberal than those for
other illegal aliens.

Under the program for farm workers, illegal aliens may qualify for legal status
if they can prove that they ''performed seasonal agricultural services in the
United States'' for at least 90 days in the 12-month period that ended May 1,
1986. Other aliens must demonstrate that they entered the United States before
Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since that date.

Mr. Everson said the fraudulent nature of some applications became evident in
interviews with applicants. For example, he said, some aliens in Florida said
they had worked for a particular farm labor contractor, but incorrectly
described his race, saying he was white when in fact he was black.

As another example, Mr. Everson said some illegal aliens had told ''very
creative stories'' about using a stepladder to pick strawberries. In fact, he
noted, strawberries grow on the ground. Another immigration official quoted
illegal aliens as saying they had harvested a crop of baked beans.

Richard E. Norton, an Associate Commissioner of the immigration service, said
there had been very little fraud in the program for other aliens.

'Satisfied With Quality'

Mr. Everson added, ''We are very satisfied with the quality of applications we
are receiving'' in that program.

The officials described their experience under the Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which was signed by President Reagan on Nov. 6, 1986. The
Government has received a total of 935,547 applications from illegal aliens:
177,160 under the special program for farm workers and 758,387 under the main
amnesty program.

Mr. Everson said the immigration service had approved 120,000 applications for
legal status and denied 2,300. The remainder are still under review, he said. In
the main program, the application period runs from May 5, 1987, through May 4,
1988. The special program for agricultural workers runs from June 1, 1987,
through Nov. 30, 1988.

Mr. Everson predicted that the Government would receive a total of 2 million
applications before the amnesty programs end. The immigration service said the
programs were designed to handle up to 4 million applications, but officials
said they had never expected more than 2 million aliens to apply.

Under the law, the Government may not divulge information in an application for
amnesty and may not use it to locate or deport aliens. However, aliens may be
prosecuted if they knowingly make ''any false, fictitious or fraudulent
statements'' in their applications.

Immigration officials also reported these data:

* From June 1 through Oct. 31, the Government has issued 318 citations accusing
employers of hiring illegal aliens. Of the total, 136 were in California, 48
were in Texas, 22 were in New York State and 28 were in other Northeastern
states.

* Fifty-three percent of the citations were issued to employers in service
industries like restaurants and hotels. Thirty percent were issued to employers
in light industries, including apparel. The construction industry received 13
percent of the citations; heavy industry, such as automobile manufacturing,
accounted for 3 percent, and farmers and ranchers received 1 percent of the
citations.

* Of all the applications for legal status, 516,056, or 55.2 percent, were filed
in California. There were 131,704 applications from Texas, representing 14.1
percent of the total, and 66,090 from Florida, accounting for 7.1 percent.

The Government received a total of 44,592 applications from New York State,
representing 4.8 percent of all the applications filed through October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 26, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

I.N.S. Ruling Benefits Illegal Immigrant Children

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 463 words


Undocumented immigrant children who are or have been in foster care will no
longer be disqualified from becoming legal residents of the United States,
according to a modification of immigration policy.

In a policy reversal, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has ruled that
cash assistance to foster parents will no longer be considered as public cash
assistance, which would have disqualified foster children for legalization under
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1987.

The revision, dated March 23 and signed by the immigration agency's associate
commissioner, Richard E. Norton, follows a Federal suit to protect the right of
children under foster care to become legal residents. The suit, in which New
York City and the Legal Aid Society joined, was filed earlier this month.

''It's a terrific victory for Peter Zimroth and the children of New York,''
Mayor Koch said, referring to the city's Corporation Counsel. The Mayor had
called the original policy ''another example of the Federal Government's
mean-spirited approach to the needs of the most helpless members of our
society.''

Mr. Zimroth added: ''The I.N.S. did the right thing, in the spirit of
Congressional intent for the amnesty program.''

Under the immigration act, undocumented aliens were given one year, ending May
4, to apply for legal status. To be eligible for legalization, aliens must prove
continuous residence in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982, and demonstrate
that they are ''not likely to become a financial charge.''

Review of Entire Issue

In its policy memorandum, the I.N.S. declared that, as a result of many
inquiries on the eligibility of foster children for legalization, the agency had
reviewed the entire foster care issue and concluded that children in such
programs would ''not be considered to have received public cash assistance.''

In summary, the memorandum stated: ''Due to the fact that no monetary payment is
made to the child or the child's family in a foster care environment and that
the benefit received by the child from the program is a result of judicial
order, the services received should be considered in-kind assistance.''

Lynne Kelly, a Legal Aid lawyer, expressed delight with the immigration
service's decision, saying it applied nationwide. An estimated 1,000
undocumented immigrant children are in foster care.

In New York City, the Human Resources Administration's Special Services for
Children has already identified 30 to 40 foster care children who should qualify
for amnesty immediately, according to Elissa Hutner, the deputy general counsel
for the department.

Legal Aid estimates that the service's action could affect 100 to 300 children
who are in New York State's foster care system or have gone through it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 2, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK ENFORCEMENT BEGINS ON ALIEN RULES

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 729 words


Federal officials have begun enforcing the new immigration law in the New York
region, saying they will investigate 18 businesses believed to have knowingly
violated the law.

Investigators of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York said
that the 18 employers had been briefed by the agency on the law, but that agents
had ''reason to believe violations were continuing.''

Under the law, described as the most sweeping change in immigration regulations
since 1952, businesses were given until yesterday to verify that employees hired
since Nov. 7, 1986, are either American citizens or aliens approved for work in
this country. Also under the new law, any alien who can prove continuous
residence in this country since before 1982 is eligible for legal residence.

The employers are required to collect and verify immigration forms -known as
I-9's - from all employees, regardless of their nationality or origin, who were
hired since Nov. 7, 1986. Employers are not required to verify the status of
people hired before then. #500 Briefings a Week Two months ago, acting to
counter widespread confusion about corporate responsibilities and workers'
rights under the new law, the immigration agency began educational visits by its
agents to employers, and has since announced that early enforcement would be
limited to companies that have been briefed on the law.

In the New York district, which includes New York City, Long Island and seven
other counties in the southern part of the state, immigration officials said
more than 3,000 educational visits to employers had been made. The briefings,
officials said, have recently been stepped up, reaching about 500 a week.

The businesses in the New York region expected to be most affected by the law -
including textiles, hotels, restaurants and light manufacturing -have complained
of the paper work that compliance will require and expressed fear they would be
the target of lawsuits filed by aliens who are dismissed because they fail to
produce their work authorization documents.

Others predict a shortage of workers in unskilled service and manufacturing jobs
that Americans typically shun, and many have asked for a postponement of
enforcement.

Businesses Investigated Before

Dimitrious Georgakopoulos, an agency official who supervises employer
investigations in the New York district, said the 18 employers were suspected of
''knowingly violating the law'' and had been notified that they would be
inspected ''in the next few days.'' If they fail the inspections, he said, they
will be warned that they are risking fines.

Mr. Georgakopoulos said the 18 employers, whom he declined to identify or
describe, had been investigated by the immigration agency before.

Fines under the new law range from $250 per employee for the first instance of
''knowing'' violation, to $10,000 per employee in the case of recurring
violations.

In cases where a company has failed to collect and store I-9 forms as an
''oversight,'' the immigration agency will levy fines ranging from $100 to
$1,000, Mr. Georgakopoulos said.

Warning Issued in Los Angeles

Nationwide, the agency is not keeping track of warnings, said a spokesman, Verne
Jervis. But he said several more warnings have been issued to employers since
the first one was issued in Los Angeles on Aug. 21.

He said the pace of citations should pick up, and he expects that the first
fines for repeat or flagrant offenders will probably be issued this month.

The agency's director for the New York district, Charles C. Sava, said that
during the first eight to 10 months of enforcement, random inspections of
employers who have been briefed by the agency will be performed, along with
audits of businesses prompted by written complaints of violations.

Mr. Georgakopoulos said the random inspections would begin this month.

Muzaffar Chishti, director of the immigration project run by the International
Ladies Garment Workers Union, complained that the educational efforts by the
immigration agency had not been aggressive enough. ''I just started hearing
about these educational visits in the last two weeks,'' he said.

Mr. Chishti criticized the educational visits as cursory. ''The I.N.S. agent
will come, provide the I-9 forms, and say, 'Look, we will be back, so you should
get rid of any people who are not legal,' '' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Anne Fiore, Lynn Vigliotti, Mary Ann Decesare and Hal Floyd
(NYT/David Bookstaver)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 17, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Tokyo Journal;
Like It or Not, Japan Has 20,000 Fugitive Guests

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 16


Behind an unvarnished message that Japan is for Japanese, the Government is
trying hard to shut the door on unskilled laborers who have flocked here from
other Asian countries to find work.

The door will not stay closed, though.

Having fled grim job prospects back home, and lured by high Japanese wages, a
fast-growing number of men and women from Southeast Asia and the Indian
subcontinent are living and working in Japan unlawfully.

Their numbers are not large compared with those of illegal aliens in the United
States or ''guest workers'' in Western Europe. Government officials estimate
that there are 20,000 illegal immigrants here, barely noticeable in a population
of 121 million.

But on a percentage basis the increases in the last few years have been
substantial, and that worries many Japanese, for it touches a xenophobic nerve
that is rarely far from the surface in this essentially homogenous society. The
concern is fanned whenever there is startling news, such as a recent police
report that crimes by foreigners rose sixfold over the last decade - twice the
growth rate for the foreign population.

Illegal aliens have been rounded up in periodic sweeps of workplaces and houses,
such as one a few months ago that led to the expulsion of 1,316 Filipinos,
Pakistanis, Bengalis, Thais and others. More commonly, the immigrants surrender
voluntarily to the authorities, and are then deported.

The Lesson of Europe

The crackdown on Asian immigrants comes at a time when Japan is relaxing
standards to make it easier for foreigners with special talents to work here,
mostly to the benefit of American and European bankers and lawyers. ''But we
don't think that that sort of campaign requires us to let in unskilled
workers,'' said Yasuji Ishigaki, a senior official in the Justice Ministry's
Immigration Bureau.

''We don't like to see our social conditions - our working-class conditions -
filled with particular foreigners as we see in some European countries,'' Mr.
Ishigaki said. ''We learned lessons from the European experience.''

For the illegal immigrants -known here as Japayuki-san, or Japan-bound people -
life can be rough. They fill jobs that Japanese tend to consider unsavory or
dangerous, in construction gangs, shipyards, kitchens and brothels. They are
often forced into crowded, substandard living quarters. But for many of them,
the work and personal surroundings are irrelevant. All they want is to elude
capture long enough to build substantial savings in a well-developed underground
job market.

A large majority are young women, mostly Filipinos recruited by Japanese
gangsters to work as bar hostesses and prostitutes. Although a common stereotype
here is that these women come as predators, some bearing AIDS, people familiar
with Japan's underworld say that, in fact, they tend to be badly exploited and
often beaten by thuggish operators of the sex and entertainment industries.

An expanding number of Japayuki-san, however, are men. They are people like
Danilo, a Filipino who sat one recent morning in the corridor of Tokyo's main
immigration office, waiting to be questioned by inspectors before expulsion.

Enters on a Tourist Visa

Danilo - his family name was his own affair, he said - had come to Japan on a
15-day tourist visa, but stayed for five months, working on a construction site
in Yokohama. He lived in a tiny room, he said, paying the equivalent of $9 a day
in rent from his $37 in daily wages.

A Japanese laborer could expect to earn appreciably more. But Danilo, who sent
most of his earnings to his family in Manila, figured that the pay was at least
10 times what he would have made in the Philippines. ''It was hard, but I did
O.K.,'' he said.

When he decided it was time to leave, he turned himself in, as scores of illegal
aliens do every week. He knew that after a brief period of questioning and
detention he would be put on a bus, taken to the airport and sent on his way.

Immigration officials say the number of Japayuki-san who surrendered or were
caught has risen markedly this year. Most had entered the country with valid
visas as tourists, entertainers, students or businessmen. But then, once in
Japan, they became illegal aliens by overstaying or working in unauthorized
jobs.

Why did they choose such a high-priced country? According to officials, it is
because Tokyo is a relatively short plane ride away, because well-paying jobs in
the Middle East have dried up for East Asians and, most of all, because the
strong yen makes salaries seem huge when converted into other currencies.

In the first six months of this year, foreigners accused of various immigration
law violations totaled 7,211, a 66 percent increase from the same period in
1986.

Of the 1987 first-half total, 5,802 were charged specifically with working
illegally, more than three-fourths of them women who were bar hostesses. But the
number of men had doubled from the year before, to 1,917.

Filipinos the Biggest Group

Over all, Filipinos accounted for 76 percent, about the same as in years past.
Year-to-year increases were far more dramatic in the case of other Asians -
14-fold for Pakistanis, 12-fold for Bengalis.

A few Japanese say it is time that their prosperous country started
accommodating a few needy outsiders. Several Christian and feminist groups have
taken Japayuki-san under their wing, especially women mistreated by yakuza,
Japan's organized criminals. Now and again, a businessman argues publicly that
Japan needs imported labor to remain competitive against low-wage nations and to
fill jobs that Japanese will not touch.

But these voices are whispers in a din of tongue-clucking newspaper editorials
and get-tough official statements.

At Japanese embassies, prospective migrants are getting the cold shoulder more
and more. In the Philippines, the rejection rate among visa applicants is now 40
percent. One young Filipino said that to get a tourist visa he had to produce a
bank statement showing that he could afford to spend at least $70 a day in
Japan.

And nothing is likely to change soon. What foreigners - legal or otherwise -
must remember, officals say, is that they are guests in Japan. They are all
expected to leave, sooner or later.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Japanese immigration officials with illegal aliens being taken
to airport for expulsion (Yomuiri Shimbun)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

'ONE OF LIFE'S FEW OPTIONS'

BYLINE: By T. D. ALLMAN; T. D. Allman is the author of ''Unmanifest Destiny''
and ''Miami: City of the Future.''

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words



COYOTES
A Journey Through the Secret World of America's Illegal Aliens. By Ted Conover.
264 pp. New York: Vintage Books. Paper, $6.95.

COYOTES of the four-legged variety, a Spanish-speaking friend tells Ted Conover
toward the end of this honest, funny, touching and important book, are ''the
most suspicious creatures on earth. Sometimes you see them in the orchard . . .
but only if you're alone, for two people will always scare the coyote off.
Before they leave the trees to cross a road, they look both ways. . . . They
hate the daytime. And they trust nothing, nobody.''

Two-legged coyotes smuggle Mexican farm workers into the United States, and it
is only one of this book's many revelations that these coyotes are by no means
the worst peril migrants encounter as they run the gantlet between their
villages in southern Mexico and the United States farmlands where they harvest
the potatoes, oranges, tomatoes and cucumbers we buy in supermarkets.

The coyotes take money and often fail to deliver. But failure to cross the
border only means another chance to try. As they keep trying, the migrant
workers who are the real subjects, and heroes, of Mr. Conover's book, encounter
far worse threats to life and limb. There is the empty, cold desert that - in
spite of an international border as artificial as a line on a graph -unites
their homeland with ours as far north as the arid lands of eastern Oregon and
where, occasionally, human beings in search of jobs die terrible deaths of
exposure and thirst. Mr. Conover writes of some Salvadorans who perished in the
same desert he traverses with a band of Mexicans heading north to the farm of a
devout American Mormon: ''Moments before their deaths, they poured cologne,
deodorant, and even their own urine down their throats in a last-ditch effort to
survive.''

Fortunately for him, the migrants Mr. Conover accompanies are ''at home in the
desert.'' In fact, after slipping across the border into southern Arizona, they
cross the wilds of Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument the same way they
negotiate, in derelict station wagons and castoff Cadillacs, the interstates
from the Pacific Northwest to the Everglades - resourcefully, successfully,
without maps. Real terror intrudes when a gang of judiciales, the Mexican
version of the F.B.I., first tortures several members of the party, then steals
their savings.

In comparison, La Migra (the Border Patrol of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service) is an amiable and affluent bunch of Keystone Kops,
flying prisoners in chartered planes from Utah to the California border, at
enormous expense, just so they can try again. ''We flew right through the
clouds!'' a young woman named Evangelica exclaims following her deportation.

As Mr. Conover's deft, authentic portraits of these migrants show, it's not just
the dollars that keep them coming back. It's also the challenge and sense of
adventure: for them, heading to an America ''full of mystique and danger'' is
''one of life's few options.'' They seize that option with an existential verve
those with passports and airplane tickets might well envy.

This is the most objective account of illegal immigration from Mexico I've read,
and one reason is that the writer - the author of ''Rolling Nowhere,'' an
account of riding freight trains with hobos - is so subjective. Interviews with
''experts,'' ranging from an American labor organizer to a Mexican priest, are
there for those who want sociological analysis. But they're interjected
naturally and gracefully into Mr. Conover's first-person account of his travels
with the migrant workers who start out as the subjects of his book and wind up
friends he respects, admires and, in probable violation of United States
immigration law, sometimes helps to reach their destinations.

Another reason this book is so good is that Mr. Conover has such a true eye for
human and topographical detail. ''The road was a ledge, chiseled into the steep
mountainside; [the] deep valley, a vast volume of air,'' he writes of his bus
ride through the mountains of Mexico to the home village of many of his migrant
friends. During a harrowing, cold drive from Arizona to Florida, his companions
see snow, up close, for the first time. ''There was some debate as to whether
the white glow we could see between the trees was snow or just moonlight shining
on the earth.'' Following ''the discovery that the ground was, indeed, covered
with snow . . . the younger guys chatted excitedly about the discovery. . . .
Chucho even brought in a snowball, and it was gaily passed around like a reverse
hot potato.''

When the sere Southwest gives way to fecundity, Mr. Conover gets the transition
just right. ''As we crossed Arkansas [the] frozen roads and barren vistas
gradually disappeared, yielding to greenery and air with just the right touches
of fragrance, humidity, and warmth to be the South at its best.''

MR. CONOVER'S description of his friends' flight, on a cut-rate airline, from
Phoenix to Los Angeles is a picaresque masterpiece of a journey across two
cultures. It's enough to break your heart when, after surviving the judiciales,
the coyotes and the desert, another band of migrants gets stopped for speeding
in Utah and so gets deported. That is, it would break your heart, except for one
thing: ''Getting back took them all of four days.''

There is grace in this book, even more wisdom. What makes it really glow on
every page is Mr. Conover's realization that he is dealing neither with a crime
nor a tragedy, but with another of those human adventures that make America a
country that is constantly renewing itself.

The highest praise I can give this remarkable book is to point out that there is
not a stock figure, Hispanic or Anglo, to be found in it anywhere. As Mr.
Conover writes at the end: ''I was not selective about the Mexicans I chose to
include in this story - no chapter was censored that included ones I met who
were less desirable. These are the guys. They're not perfect, but the majority
would make good neighbors; I'd welcome them as mine. I found the illegal
immigration monster to be the sort that's less scary up close than it is from a
distance. Immigration, you could say, is America's history book. This is the
latest chapter, and I am left eager, not frightened, to see what comes next.''

I am left eager to see what Mr. Conover writes next.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of United States border patrolman conducting illegal aliens to a
holding center in Southern California (AP)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 10, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Books of The Times;
Border Drama

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 955 words



COYOTES. A Journey Through the Secret World of America's Illegal Aliens. By Ted
Conover. 264 pages. Vintage Departures. $6.95.

The title of Ted Conover's absorbing new book is really something of a misnomer,
for ''coyotes'' refers to the smugglers who ferry Mexican workers across the
border for a fee (''They can get you to Houston for five hundred dollars,'' says
one informant. ''San Antonio? Four hundred fifty. L.A., seven hundred
dollars.'') The real heroes of this volume are the clients of those coyotes -
known in border slang as ''pollos,'' or their chickens. In Mr. Conover's sharply
observed and sympathetic account, these pollos - who risk arrest, injury and
even death to find work in the States - emerge not as illegal aliens but as
immigrants, much like preceding generations of workers, who have endured all
manner of hardship and sarcrifice simply for the opportunity to chase the
American dream.

The author of an earlier book on railroad hobos (''Rolling Nowhere''), Mr.
Conover set out to try to tell the story of these farm workers from their own
point of view. Toward that end, he spent a year (1984-85) traveling and hanging
out with them. He crossed and recrossed the border, disguised as a Mexican, and
even did a stint as a coyote himself. He worked alongside Mexican laborers in
the citrus orchards of Arizona and Florida, where he learned the rigors of
working 65 to 70 hours a week, filling sacks with fruit (each 80-pound bag of
lemons brought in $1.15; each bag of oranges, 63 cents). And he also journeyed
down to central Mexico to visit his colleagues' hometowns and to speak with the
women and children they had left behind.

It is here, he finds, that the consequences of Mexico's economic problems and
United States immigration policy become most apparent. In going north to work,
the men are able to send much needed money home, but in doing so they leave
behind fragmented families and a dwindling sense of community. If and when they
return, it is often with an utterly changed view of the world.

''Six months, a year, or two years later, when they come back, they are
disgusted at what they see,'' a local priest tells Mr. Conover. ''Ahuacatlan
suddenly looks to them like a pigsty: livestock in the streets, no plumbing,
dirt roads. They are ashamed. And this is the beginning of their inferiority
complex - they think everything there is better. They see Americans as very
high, themselves as very low. Of course, though, they can never be Americans, or
even pass for them at their age - it's too late to learn English well enough.
But many feel stupid because of it. And they are ashamed to be Mexican.''

After his visit to Mexico, Mr. Conover realizes that distinctive emigration
patterns have evolved, linking communities there with communities in the United
States. The men from Ahuacatlan and other villages in the state of Queretaro
tend to migrate to the orchards of Arizona or Florida, those from San Luis
Potosi usually head for California and Texas, while workers from Michoacan tend
to favor Arkansas.

Though the sheer distances involved in this migration might seem to preclude
communication, Mr. Conover discovers that the Mexicans he works with stay in
close touch with other friends and relatives who have made it to the States,
relying on one another for job tips as well as loans, food and shelter. It is
not uncommon for a distant uncle or cousin to wire a week's salary to someone
attempting to cross the border, or for a fellow worker to offer a two-room
apartment as a crash pad for six or seven friends of friends.

This sort of support system, we learn, is not only helpful but necessary, given
the difficulties of surviving in the States and crossing ''la linea divisoria.''
One time, Mr. Conover and his companions are floated across the Rio Grande by
coyotes using an inflatable yellow raft. Another crossing involves a bus trip, a
long hike through the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument desert (where 13
Salvadorans died in 1980, after their efforts to drink cologne, deodorant and
even their own urine failed to prevent dehydration), and several cramped car
rides, only to end in deportation. One of Mr. Conover's companions who is caught
is subjected by the Mexican authorities to a form of torture known as the
''tehuacanazo'' in which carbonated water is poured up his nose, into the
sinuses.

Because of surveillance by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (referred
to as ''La Migra''), travel within the United States can be equally hazardous
for Mexican nationals trying to get from one job to another. Indeed Mr.
Conover's description of what would normally be a routine plane flight from
Phoenix to Los Angeles becomes a perilous, frightening journey for these
workers; and a cross-country drive from Arizona to Florida (without a map)
similarly takes on the nervous coloration of a thriller. In fact, the workers he
gets to know are constantly on their guard - even when they are ensconced at a
workers' camp on a farm they must be prepared to flee at a moment's notice of a
raid.

In relating these events, Mr. Conover combines a sociologist's eye for detail
with a novelist's sense of drama and compassion; and as one of the principal
characters in the story, he is able to turn his own observations and reactions
into a kind of index of the cultural differences between Mexico and the United
States. There is no attempt on his part to objectively report the complicated
facts involved in our country's immigration policy, but then he makes no
pretense of doing so. His aim is simply to show the ''human side of the men and
women'' that La Migra arrests, ''the drama of their lives,'' and in that he has
defiantly succeeded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Ted Conover (Richard Larson)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

BUSINESS AS USUAL AT MEXICO BORDER

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, May 5


At the busiest illegal crossing points on the United States border with Mexico
it was business as usual today, with both the Border Patrol and immigrants
playing their accustomed roles in the game of hide and seek that is the routine
here.

At dusk on Monday several hundred would-be immigrants from Mexico began
assembling at Canon Zapata, a major staging point on the California border.
Throughout the night they set out in small groups as helicopters with
searchlights flew overhead and cars equipped with infrared detecters patrolled
the area.

Such illegal immigrants do not qualify for the amnesty provisions of the new
immigration law, which went into effect today. Most of those gathered here said
they were aware that they were excluded but were determined to cross over and
were certain the law would collapse in the face of more powerful economic
forces.

''There have been other laws in the past but none of them mean much,'' Angel
Gonzalez said as he waited in the dark with his wife and 11-year-old son. ''The
Americans are not going to want to let all those strawberries and grapes rot in
the fields, and who is going to do that work if Mexicans don't?''

'Boss to Vouch for Him'

Other immigrants predicted it would be impossible to enforce the law because
many employers were conniving with them to evade it.

''My husband arrived after 1982 and is not eligible for the legalization,'' said
Marta Padilla, 31, who was expelled from California last week. ''But his boss
has promised to vouch for him because he is such a good worker.''

Nearby, 10 peasants from the Mexican state of Oaxaca said they were on their way
to work in the fields near Fresno, as they had done for the last 15 years.
Although they had been turned back at the border the night before, they were
confident of reaching their destination.

''We have been promised help both by the boss and the pollero,'' said Juan Ortiz
Lopez, using the slang term for the smugglers who guide immigrants across the
border for fees of several hundred dollars. ''They tell us they will find a way
for us, and we have confidence in them.''

'A Typical Week Night'

One of the vans used by the Border Patrol suddenly appeared from around a bend,
and the Mexicans scattered. The agent in the van, Dennis G. Brady, who has spent
seven years with the Border Patrol, surveyed the crowd, then pronounced the
scene ''a typical week night.''

The staging area where this reporter interviewed Mexican nationals, after
crossing from Mexico, lies on the American side of the unmarked border. But Mr.
Brady and other Border Patrol agents made no effort to disperse the Mexicans who
would soon tread well-worn paths leading to nearby communities in California's
San Diego County.

In recent months, Mr. Brady said, arrests in the area have ''dropped by more
than 30 percent.'' But he added that he did not know if this was because of the
new law or economic factors.

''I hope they enforce the law, as far as the hiring provisions go,'' Mr. Brady
said when asked what impact the new law would have. ''If they use the sanctions
this will be an effective law. I just hope we don't get bogged down in the paper
work on amnesty, which I am afraid might happen.''

Fewer Expulsions Last Month

Alfredo Alvarez, the local director of Mexico's department of Migratory
Services, said the number of people expelled from the United States to Tijuana
had dropped from an average of 1,200 a day last year and early this year to
about 800 a day last month. But he attributed most of this to a decline in
immigration from Central America.

Of the Mexicans apprehended crossing the border, Mr. Alvarez said, more than 70
percent ''try to return to the United States as soon as they can.''

''I personally believe that is not going to change,'' he added. ''We have seen
nothing so far that indicates Mexicans are giving up.''

Jorge Bustamante, director of the College of the Northern Border, a major
research institution here, said the new law ''has had a psychological effect''
on migration, and conversations with immigrants at Canon Zapata seemed to
confirm that.

Difficulties and Questions

The Oaxaca group, for example, said that only 40 men from their village had
decided to borrow the nearly $400 required for the trip to Fresno. Last spring,
Mr. Ortiz said, 100 men made the trek northward.

Other immigrants waiting here were eager to illustrate the difficulties and
unanswered questions the law poses by telling their stories. Ms. Padilla's older
sister, Carmen, complained that both of them had been expelled to Mexico even
though three of their four children, ranging in age from 6 years to 10 months,
were American citizens, born in the United States.

The sisters said their children had been expelled with them last week but had
already been smuggled back across the border and into the family apartment north
of San Diego. It was only a matter of time, the women said, until they rejoined
their husbands.

''They may catch us again tonight but that doesn't matter,'' Carman Padilla
said. ''We will just keep on trying until we get across.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

535 PASS FIRST HURDLE ON FIRST DAY OF THE AMNESTY PROGRAM

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7


The Immigration and Naturalization Service gave temporary legal status to 535
illegal aliens on the first day of its year-long amnesty program, the service
said Wednesday.

An estimated 50,000 people picked up applications at the 107 special
legalization offices around the nation, said Verne Jervis, a spokesman.

But only 571 people produced completed applications and paid fees of $185 for an
individual or $420 for a family. Of those, 535 also completed interviews and
took home temporary work authorization cards, Mr. Jervis said.

Light Turnout Confirmed

Those given temporary legal status will be able to apply for permanent legal
status after 18 months and can eventually apply for American citizenship.

The first-day numbers confirmed reports of a light turnout from around the
country Tuesday.

''There were no huge numbers anyplace,'' Mr. Jervis said. ''It was a smooth and
relatively light day, which was good for us as well. We had new people, new
equipment.''

Tuesday was the first day that illegal immigrants could apply for amnesty under
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The service has said that as
many as 3.9 million illegal aliens could be eligible to apply under rules that
require they arrived in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982.

Final regulations were not published until last Friday, giving most people
little time to study them and collect all the necessary documents. Many people
are first consulting with social service agencies approved by the Government to
help the immigrants with their applications.

Mr. Jervis said that he expected more activiity next week, when those who had
sought help would begin coming forward. ''And some people have a tendency to
hang back until they see that others have gone through it,'' he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LURE OF NORTH OUTWIEGHS ALIENS' FEAR

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, July 4


It was the economic disparities on the two sides of the Rio Grande that drove
Miguel Tostado Rodriguez into the torrid boxcar in which 18 of his companions
died Thursday in Sierra Blanca, Tex.

The same forces lured Vicente Castro Garcia, who has been crossing the river
illegally for the last 15 years. He became one of hundreds of aliens arrested by
the Border Patrol the next day.

The riches north of the Rio Grande and the worsening poverty south of it are at
the heart of the Sierra Blanca tragedy and the dominant fact of life on
America's Southern border, for Mr. Castro and other poor Mexicans like him.

Arrest figures show that the new immigration law, which offers legal status to
aliens who have lived in the United States continuously since before Jan. 1,
1982, slowed the tide of illegal immigrants. But there are indications that it
may be increasing again.

Penalties on Employers

The law attempts to deter further illegal immigration by imposing stiff fines on
employers who hire illegal aliens. Nationally, it led to a drop of about 50
percent in the number of aliens apprehended over the first six months of 1987.
In Texas alone, the number of aliens apprehended dropped from a record 360,508
for the first half of 1986 to 194,151 for the same period this year.

In June, however, the figures began to rise again in most parts of the border
with Mexico. In the nation's busiest border sector in San Diego, arrests were up
around 50 percent. Smaller monthly increases were seen across much of the
border.

To those who counsel aliens, and those who pursue them, the reasons for the
continued flow are no mystery.

''What do they have there?'' asked Norma Plascencia Almanza, Southwest
Coordinator for the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum. ''If
you look at the unemployment situation in Mexico, this is still their only hope.
People who have always lived a life of hiding will continue to hide.''

The Trends That Matter

Officials say the June increases could have been caused by news of farm worker
shortages in the Pacific Northwest. They caution that illegal immigration is
highly seasonal, and it takes far more than one month's figures to detect any
trends.

For many Mexicans, the only trends that matter are the disparate economies on
both sides of the border.

Mr. Castro, who was arrested here Friday for crossing the river illegally, can
only shake his head and say ''countless times'' when asked how many times he has
been apprehended. Each time he is deposited back on the Mexican side, only to
cross again to do yardwork or other odd jobs in El Paso.

Mr. Castro, who is 56 years old and has nine children ranging in age from 4 to
26, is vaguely aware of the new American law making it illegal for employers to
hire him. But he is more aware that the price of a package of tortillas has gone
from about 60 pesos to almost 400 pesos in recent years, and that he can make
about $3 a day working in Juarez and $25 a day in El Paso.

'Children Need to Eat'

''My children need to eat,'' he said. ''As long as there is work here and not in
Mexico, I will come over.''

Immigration officials say it may take years for the law's impact to become
clear.

''The sanctions are not even being enforced yet, so you can't tell whether the
law is working or not,'' said Richard Marroquin, deputy chief patrol agent for
the Border Patrol sector in Laredo, Tex.

''My bet is that the law will work,'' he continued. ''If you have to choose
between being without a job at home or without a job in a place where you have
no family, I think most people would choose to stay home.''

But there is widespread doubt whether the Immigration Service will have the
manpower to enforce sanctions against employers nationwide. Many illegal aliens
are known to have false documents, another factor making sanctions difficult to
enforce.

Confusion About Law

Many experts and groups that deal with aliens say that the law has caused enough
confusion and fear among illegal aliens that many are waiting to see how it will
develop. Many of these same observers feel that the law will prove
unenforceable, and the flood of illegals will resume.

''I think it will be a year, year and a half, before they start coming back
in,'' said Ralph Carrasco of the Centro de Informacion, a Tyler, Tex., group
that counsels aliens. ''I don't see a big number coming back right now, because
the employers are not hiring. But employers are already saying to me, 'I've
barely got enough people. What am I going to do?' They're going to start
bringing them back in.''

A measure of the pull of the North is the terrible risks aliens continue to
take. If large-scale tragedies such as the one at Sierra Blanca are rare,
smaller tragedies are a daily fact of life in the freight yards, bridges, and
crossings along the Rio Grande.

Perils in Freight Yards

''I watch those people crossing the bridge across the river and it gives me the
willies,'' said Mr. Marroquin of Laredo. ''They're crossing on pylons, open
pipes and girders.''

The most dangerous spots are the freight yards like the one where Mr. Tostado
and his friends clambered into a boxcar they thought would bring them to Dallas
Wednesday night.

In Laredo last year, 12 aliens died and 27 were maimed in freight yard
accidents. Most lost arms, legs or feet when they were trapped between freight
cars, crushed by couplers, or run over while trying to catch trains. Those who
survive in one piece, face blistering heat in the summer - the daytime
temperature has been above 100 degrees here for much of the past week - and
killing cold in the winter.

Because of the risks they take, the aliens are viewed with grudging respect and
a touch of admiration even by the agents who hunt them.

Trying Again and Again

''I don't think of them as criminals, I think of them as people who are trying
to better themselves,'' said Albert Cruz, who has worked the freight yards for
the Border Patrol in El Paso for the last three years. ''They're very gutsy
people. I catch them, and they'll say, 'See you later. See you tomorrow. See you
tonight.' They'll try five or six times until they make it.''

It is just that tenacity that gives a special poignancy to the Sierra Blanca
tragedy, Mr. Marroquin said.

''What makes this so difficult is that this is an issue people are deeply
divided on,'' he said. '' We know these are people fleeing economic problems,
and that they're suffering. Just because you work for the Border Patrol doesn't
mean you don't feel for them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of border patrol agents watching a slow moving freight train
leaving the freight yard in El Paso (NYT/Ruby Gutierrez)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 10, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

BOXCAR VICTIMS BURIED, AS MIGRATION GOES ON

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: PABELLON DE ARTEAGA, Mexico, July 9


As six young men were buried here, a week after they and a dozen other illegal
immigrants from Mexico suffocated in the 120-degree heat of a sealed boxcar,
seven men and women boarded the daily train to Ciudad Juarez, on the border with
El Paso.

Like thousands before them, they were on their way to seek their fortune on the
north side of the Rio Grande, according to the stationmaster, Ignacio Mancilla
Visoso, .

''They just keep going up,'' said Mr. Mancilla, who watched the six who later
died board the same train June 29. ''In their hearts they may not want to go,
but they cannot resist the lure of the dollar and a better life.''

In this close-knit farm town of 17,000 people in the arid highlands of central
Mexico, there is consternation at the tragedy that has befallen six families and
fear that the same thing could happen again. But there is also an underlying
conviction that nothing fundamental is going to change as a result of the
deaths.

''The United States has always been an alternative for families that have no
money or work,'' Victor Solis said as he walked in the funeral procession
Wednesday from Our Lady of Guadalupe Church to the local cemetery alongside the
casket of his friend Jose Antonio Ramos Lopez, a 24-year-old agricultural
technician who had gone north only after being offered a job at a fish market in
Dallas. ''Until there is something better to keep them here, people are going to
continue raffling their lives.''

The Rev. Casimiro Serna Esqueda, who celebrated the funeral mass, said that
going north to work is ''a rite of passage'' for men here, ''an activity that is
part of daily life, like going from one county to another.'' At any one time,
residents say, up to half the able-bodied males of Pabellon de Arteaga are in
the United States.

Indeed, a group of 10 young men scheduled to leave here Monday for the border
postponed their departure Wednesday to attend the funeral. But one of them, an
18-year-old who was a high school classmate of several of those who were found
dead on a railroad siding in West Texas, said the group planned to head north in
the next few days.

All over Mexico, now in the sixth year of its worst economic crisis in five
decades, much the same seems to be taking place. Though the immigration reform
act signed by President Reagan last November was intended to stem the flow of
illegal immigrants, Mexicans appear to be undeterred by the new law.

Father Serna, who was born near here and spent three years ministering to
Mexican migrants in Chicago before returning last year, said that economic
imperatives made young men like those buried here or the 19 found semiconscious
in another boxcar in Texas on Wednesday willing to run any risk, however high.

''We've got galloping inflation and an astronomical exchange rate here, and then
someone comes back from up there saying that it is pretty and you can do well,''
he said. ''If you are looking for the fundamental reasons why this coming and
going to the United States has become a way of life for the people of
Aguascalientes and other states in central Mexico, you need look no further.''

Of late, the economic situation in this farm town, never healthy even in the
best of times, has been worse than usual. The clothing factory where two of the
victims once worked along with several hundred other people closed this spring,
and other job opportunities are few and pay little.

''If you get a job in a factory, the bosses never let you work full time because
they don't want to have to pay the benefits,'' said Jose Alba Sandoval, whose
21-year-old brother Angel was one those buried. ''In the countryside, there may
be work, but most of it pays below the minimum wage'' of just over $3 a day.

Drought Adds to Debt

Last year, lack of rain and no system of irrigation meant pitiful yields of the
garlic, grape, peach, and oat crops that are the backbone of the economy here.
This year, with the rains two months late and many farmers already deep in debt,
there is fear of a drought that would simply wipe out many families.

''From February to October, there is always a lot of traffic,'' said Mr.
Mancilla, who speaks from 18 years of experience in running the train station
here. ''But with the rains still not having come this year, the movement is
especially heavy these days.''

For Angel Alba Sandoval, that dim outlook stood in the way of his desire to make
a better life for himself and his new family. One of the 10 children of a
farmer, he had been unable to find steady work since leaving school, having to
content himself with temporary work whenever it came along.

But his father, Adolfo, had recently given him a small parcel of land, and
Angel, family members say, was determined to come up with the money that would
enable him to build a simple house of his own and move out of the one room he
shared with his wife, Marta, and 11-month-old-son Uriel in the Alba family home.

''It was hunger that drove him from here,'' the elder Mr. Alba said as he sat in
his backyard Wednesday afternoon receiving condolences from neighbors on the
death of his second youngest son. ''I told him that with this new law it was
going to be no joke getting to the other side, but he was desperate to go
because there was nothing for him here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of family members viewing coffins of illegal aliens found dead in
boxcar (AP) (Pg. A12)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 11, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Links 3 to Boxcar Deaths

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, July 10


Federal charges were filed today against three Mexicans thought to be part of a
smuggling ring linked to the deaths of 18 illegal aliens in a locked boxcar. One
of the men was being held in El Paso, but the authorities believe the other two
have fled to Mexico.

Ronald Chandler, the district director for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said Arturo Hernandez Garcia was arrested here on charges of
transporting and encouraging aliens to enter the United States illegally.

Mr. Hernandez Garcia is the brother of Enrique Hernandez Garcia, known as ''el
Chapulin'' or ''the Grasshopper,'' who the authorities say locked the boxcar
door before the train left an El Paso freight yard July 1. He and a third man,
Manuel Hernandez Hernandez, were also charged.

''We believe 'Chapulin' is the one who did close the door on the boxcar, and the
guy in custody is one of the principals of the operation,'' said Mario Ortiz, an
immigration service spokesman.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is ofering a $5,000 reward for the
capture of the two men, as is the Union Pacific Raildroad Company, said Stephen
Martin, the agency's commissioner for the southern region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Illegal Aliens No More

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 72 words


Ashraf and Zahida Rizvi and their children after receiving temporary green cards
at the Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in Manhattan.

The Pakistani family was among the first group of aliens in the metropolitan
region to receive legal status under new immigration laws. Children are, from
left, Furkhunda, Anila and Rukshinda. Anila was born in the United States and
thus is a citizen. (NYT/Chester Higgins Jr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 3, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AMNESTY PROGRAM FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS GAINING MOMENTUM

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1638 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 2


After a slow start three months ago, the nation's amnesty program for illegal
aliens is gaining momentum with more than 40,000 applications being filed each
week, according to immigration and counseling officials around the nation.

Still, officials say, the program, the largest legalization effort in history,
is operating at just half its capacity.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say the program is
expected to reach their original estimate of two million aliens, but they
concede it is extremely unlikely to process anywhere near the 3.9 million
originally viewed as the upper limit of potential applicants.

Response Varies by Region

Even so, by reaching 40,000 applications a week last month, the program, which
is intended to pay for itself through application fees, is now breaking even.

While the amnesty program is reaching more people than some critics had
expected, its ultimate success remains to be seen. But so far, these trends are
apparent:

* Response has differed dramatically in various parts of the country. Some
officials say the program appears to be succeeding in the Mexican-American
barrios of Texas and California but struggling elsewhere, particularly in the
Northeast.

* So far, 98 percent of the applications have been recommended for approval by
local offices of the I.N.S., although that figure could change when final
decisions are made at regional offices, which will check for criminal records or
other problems.

* Many aliens are holding back from applying because of fears that the
immigration service will break up families in which some members are eligible
for amnesty and others are not.

* Church and counseling centers that were supposed to process most applications
continue to struggle financially and some are considering dropping out of the
program.

* The Government's advertising campaign, intended to educate the public about
the immigration law, is only now getting started, three months after the program
began.

But despite widespread skepticism before the program began, illegal aliens and
immigration officials -until only recently the hunted and the hunters - seem to
be slowly building enough trust to allay the worst fears.

''For the aliens, the I.N.S. has turned from the enemy into something else,''
said Representative Charles E. Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat who helped draft
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. ''It's not necessarily seen as a
friend, but given all the perils involved, I'm not disappointed by the progress
thus far. Color me sanguine.''

Carrot and Stick Approach

The law, signed by President Reagan last November after years of debate over the
nation's immigration policies, offers legal status to illegal aliens who have
resided here continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982. The amnesty program began
last May 5, with the application period to last a year.

The other main part of the law, an effort to deter further illegal immigration,
is a system of penalties against employers who hire illegal aliens. Despite
recent efforts in Congress to delay the sanctions, I.N.S. officials say they
will probably begin assessing penalties this month.

The program got off to a extremely slow start amid charges that neither the
immigration service nor the network of private centers set up to help process
applications were ready. Applications in May averaged about 11,000 a week or
about a quarter of the amount needed for the program to break even.

The program is intended to be financed by fees paid by aliens applying for
amnesty. Application fees are $185 per person with a smaller fee for members of
families applying together.

But applications picked up sharply in the first week in June, reaching a peak at
49,528 for the week ending July 17. They declined a bit to 44,468 the following
week, and appeared to be dropping again last week.

Providing Documentation

''The wait-and-see attitude is over,'' said Arthur Alvarez, director of
legalization at the immigration service office in East Los Angeles, one of the
nation's busiest centers. It is operating at or above its capacity of 250
applications a day.

For many applicants, the biggest delay has been in collecting documentation to
prove continuous residency.

''It took time to get all the affidavits I needed,'' said Adan Cardines, a
25-year-old maintenance worker from Mexico, who filed his application in Houston
this week along with his wife, Gloria Scott. ''I hired a lawyer to help me
because you have only one shot, and you don't want to lose it.''

The program has been most successful in the I.N.S. Western Region, dominated by
California: The 36 offices have processed more than 200,000 applications and are
operating at more than 50 percent of capacity. In the Southern Region, where the
key states are Texas and Florida, there have been more than 120,000
applications, and the 22 offices are operating near 50 percent of capacity.

But offices in the agency's Eastern and Northern regions are operating at around
20 percent of capacity.

Difficulty Spreading the Word

In New York, five offices with a combined daily capacity of 1,400 aliens are
seeing about 435 a day, with the Manhattan office handling a major portion. New
Jersey's three offices, with a combined capacity of 450 applicants a day, are
seeing about 90. The only Connecticut office, in New Haven, has a capacity for
150 applicants a day and is seeing about 10.

''We are doing the same things the other districts are doing, but we aren't
seeing the same results,'' said David W. Wolfe, the deputy director for
legalization for the Eastern Region. ''I believe that the aliens are out there.
But what it takes to bring them forward, I don't know.''

Some experts say the diverse nature of the alien community and the absence of
homogeneous barrio communities has made it more difficult to spread the word on
the East Coast. The best response nationally, officials say, has been in such
cities as Los Angeles, Houston, Dallas and Albuquerque, all of which have
homogeneous Mexican-American neighborhoods.

Still, there have been mixed results within the regions as well. Some of the
biggest disappointments, immigration officials say, have come in poor border
communities like Laredo and El Paso.

Lag in Education Campaign

The problem of informing the public has been aggravated by the immigration
service's slow start in beginning a $10.7 million public education program.
Public service advertisements about the program are just now beginning to
appear, and most have focused on employer sanctions, not on amnesty.

The education program has been so slow to begin and turnout so low that the New
York State Office of Immigration Affairs has asked the I.N.S. for $300,000 for
its own education campaign and $400,000 to train workers at the designated
counseling centers.

In the areas where amnesty program has succeeded, the I.N.S. has managed to
overcome the aliens' fears and has won praise from critics who questioned its
ability to judge applications fairly.

''The I.N.S. has bent over backward to be fair,'' said Maria Laing with the
Catholic Social Action Office in Midland, Tex. ''I think a lot of people have
been surprised by that.'' But other major worries remain. One is the uncertainty
about I.N.S. policies for families in which some members qualify under the new
law, but others do not. Organizations working with aliens say widespread fears
that the agency would split up families have kept thousands of aliens from
applying. So far, immigration counselors and others say, the agency appears to
be handling such cases liberally. But its refusal to specify its policy
apparently is keeping many people away.

Problems With Private Network

Also troublesome is the failure of the network of private counseling and
processing centers to live up to expectations. Officials at first expected that
80 percent of applicants would file through the centers because of fears of the
I.N.S. Instead about only 10 percent have come that way, although officials
noted that there was a backlog of cases at the centers that had not yet reached
the immigration service.

Some of the Government-designated centers, which are paid for each application
they process, are losing money on the program and others are thinking of
eliminating their operations. That could hurt the program more in the future as
the cases become more difficult, some experts say.

''The earliest cases are going to be the easiest ones, the ones with the fewest
legal problems,'' said Rick Swartz, president of the National Immigration,
Refugee and Citizenship Forum, a private organization that works with
immigration issues. ''When the tougher cases come along is when the need for
help will be greatest, and it might not be there.''

From the start, the program has grappled with the uncertainties of gauging
participation from an illegal community whose overall numbers can only be
guessed. To some of those involved with the effort, two million applications
would be a major success.

''Two million applicants would be a successful program,'' said Doris Meissner, a
former acting commissioner of the I.N.S. and now a senior associate with the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. ''All the other
amnesty programs ever tried fell significantly short of the numbers expected to
be eligible. If two million come forward it would essentially be 100 percent of
expectations.'' Others are less enthusiastic. ''All the other programs were
described as failures,'' said Mr. Swartz. ''Saying you've done somewhat better
than relative failures is hardly a great success. Considering the program's goal
to maximize applications, I don't think getting two million applicants out of a
potential 3.9 million makes it a great success.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo family from El-Salvador holding temporary residency cards at the
Houston office of the immigration service (NYT/F. Carter Smith) (Pg. A15)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 20, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

From Illegal Alien to Temporary Resident at the Wink of a Card

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 48 words


Jesus Antonio Arias, originally from Peru and now living in Astoria, Queens,
with his newly issued temporary resident identification card. With him were his
daughters, Antuanette, left, and Noelia, and John Byrnes of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 29, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Rules Are Set Barring Aliens Who Test Positive for AIDS Virus

BYLINE: By Kenneth B. Noble, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28


The Reagan Adminstration today issued final rules that bar aliens who test
positive for infection with the AIDS virus from immigrating to the United
States. But it left unresolved some details on how illegal aliens and refugees
who are already here will be treated.

If illegal aliens and refugees already living in the United States are found to
test positive for the acquired immune deficiency syndrome virus, they can be
excluded from permanent legal status in the United States, unless they are
granted a waiver from the Attorney General.

Such waivers are granted on three grounds: for humanitarian purposes, to assure
family unity, and when it is ''otherwise in the public interest.'' But the new
rules left unresolved the grounds for determining whether a waiver shall be
granted.

Rules Sharply Denounced

The rules, which were developed by the United States Public Health Service and
outlined in the Federal Register, were immediately denounced by civil
libertarians and advocates for the rights of homosexuals. They said the testing
would be ineffective in curbing the spread of AIDS by driving some who have been
exposed to the virus underground where they would continue to spread infection.

''The Attorney General should make it clear in advance that the waiver will be
applied in a generous and across-the-board fashion so that people will not be
deterred from seeking the medical counseling that is critical in combatting the
disease,'' said Lucas Guttentag, head of the American Civil Liberty Union's
Immigration Task Force.

The effective date for the new rules is Dec. 1, but those who have applied for
amnesty under the new immigration law, about 560,000 to date, will be required
to undergo AIDS testing before they can become permanent residents. According to
the procedure established under the the immigration law, persons seeking amnesty
must first become temporary residents, and 18 months later, can apply for
permanent residence.

The new rules would not apply to tourists or visitors, nor would they be used to
deny a temporary visa to a foreigner. Plans for the rules were announced in June
by Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d.

Mandatory Examinations

Aliens seeking immigrant visas abroad and aliens applying for permanent
residence in the United States, like those seeking amnesty under the new law,
already undergo mandatory examinations to determine if they are drug addicts,
chronic alcoholics or victims of a ''dangerous contagious disease'' such as
infectious leprosy and active tuberculosis. If they test positive, they are
excluded.

Medical experts estimate that 20 percent to 30 percent of people infected with
the AIDS virus will develop symptoms of the deadly disease within five years.

While an illegal alien who tests positive will be ineligible for legal status or
amnesty, he cannot be deported on the basis of such data because all information
obtained in connection with an application for amnesty must be kept confidential
under the new immigration law.

AIDS cripples the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to serious
infections and cancers. It is caused by a virus that spreads through sexual
intercourse with an infected partner or exchanges of blood, such as in shared
hypodermic needles.

The test detects antibodies to the AIDS virtus. Antibodies are substances the
body produces to defend against invading microorganisms. People can be infected
with the AIDS virus and not become ill for many years.

Elaborating on the new rules, the Federal Register report said that the
Government does not ''anticipate false positive testing to be a particular
problem.''

False Testing Seen as Rare

''False positive are extremely rare if two screening tests and a confirming
supplemental test are performed and all are positive,'' the report said. It
added that ''while this regulation does not specify what test will be used, the
Centers for Disease Control prepares and distributes medical screening manuals
to examining physicians that will address the issue.''

The report acknowledges, however, that in requiring that aliens applying for
legal status take the tests before coming to the United States ''a positive
result could have other consequences in the country of testing.''

''Confidentiality will be safeguarded to the extent possible,'' the report said.
''However, in a worldwide testing program, the United States Government can
neither guarantee confidentiality of all HIV test results nor assume
responsibility for any possible consequences of a positive test result.''

The report said that in the event of a positive test, persons applying for legal
status overseas ''will be counseled.''

As for critics who contend that illegal aliens already living in the United
States might find the new testing requirements a deterrent to seeking help, the
report said, ''Although some applicants who have reason to believe that they are
infected may go underground and not apply for legalization, such individuals
will still be able to seek counseling and testing anonymously.'' The report,
however, did not say how this can be accomplished.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 17, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Western Group Aiding Aliens Is Reported Set to Trim Staff

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 16


Catholic Charities of Los Angeles, the largest charitable organization helping
illegal immigrants to gain amnesty, is planning to lay off workers and close
one-third of its centers, according to a published report.

The cutback is being prompted by heavy financial losses sustained by the program
to help the aliens gain legal status under the new immigration law, The Los
Angeles Herald Examiner reported today, citing a coordinator at one center as a
source.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 7, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Amnesty Law Is Slowly Attracting Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 37 words


Louis Velkovski and his father, Peter, with their new immigration cards. The
number of aliens taking advantage of the amnesty law provisions have been fewer
than expected. Page 30. (The New York Times/Edward Hausner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: CAPTION

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 21, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Illegal Aliens Need More Time to Emerge

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 214 words


To the Editor:

Your Nov. 3 editorial ''Don't Let the Amnesty Door Slam,'' urging extension of
the legalization program for illegal aliens, is to be applauded.

The legalization program, enacted for one year, began May 5, 1987. Regulations
defining its terms were not promulgated until several days before the program
opened. To this date only a small percentage of what we perceived to be the
illegal alien population in the New York area has applied. Even today, there are
many problems involved in the program that discourage illegals from emerging.

Illegals are concerned that their spouses and children, who may not be here long
enough to qualify for legalization, will be deported. Only last week did the
Commission of Immigration informally set forth a policy describing which spouses
and children might be permitted to remain. This has still not been incorporated
into the official regulations.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has made a genuine effort to handle
legalization cases. However, illegal aliens don't become convinced quickly that
they ought to come out of hiding. Clearly, a prolongation of the program is
indicated.

LEON WILDES
  New York, Nov. 9, 1987

The writer is past president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 25, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Correction

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 84 words


Because of an editing error, a Washington article on Saturday about illegal
aliens misstated the status of a proposal to extend a May 4 deadline for
applying for legal status. The Immigration and Naturalization Service is
considering, but has not formally announced, action that would allow aliens who
have made known their intention to apply by May 4 to submit the necessary
documentation later; they could do so as long as they could show that the delay
was caused by reasons beyond their control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

JERSEY CHURCH HELPS REGION'S ALIENS

BYLINE: By ALFONSO A. NARVAEZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 50, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

DATELINE: FORT LEE, N.J., May 15


For the last few weeks, scores of undocumented aliens have come through the
doors of the Episcopal Church of the Good Shepherd here seeking information on
the amnesty program that will permit many of them to legalize their status in
this country.

They are natives of many countries, including Korea, Japan, Poland, Iran, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Vietnam and the Philippines.

''This has been very encouraging,'' said the Rev. Hosea Lee, associate pastor of
the Church of the Good Shepherd and the minister in charge of the program here.
''People are slowly coming in. Many are still afraid - afraid of the authorities
- afraid that this is some sort of a hoax and that it is the Government's way of
identifying aliens for an eventual round up.''

He said hundreds of telephone inquiries had been received and that 82
applications were being processed.

The church is one of 40 agencies in the New York region that has been approved
by the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service to help illegal aliens
fill out the application forms. They are in addition to the Government offices
that opened this week in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. #7 Years in
Hiding Mr. Lee said that the most pathetic case he had found was that of a woman
who had read about the program in a Korean-language newspaper in New York.

''After I spoke with her she asked me 'Can I go out now?' '' Mr. Lee said. ''She
had come here seven years ago and had not left the house because she was afraid
of being picked up and deported.''

Mr. Lee's mastery of foreign languages - he speaks Korean, Japanese and Chinese
- has attracted aliens from outside Bergen County. Some from as far away as Long
Island came to the church this week.

Although immigration authorities allow organizations to charge up to $75 for
each application processed, the Rev. Richard L. Gressle, the rector of the
church, said that no fees were being charged for the services they were
providing, three hours a morning, six days a week.

''We feel it is just part of the work of the church,'' he said. ''The church is
not in business.''

Government Offices

Mr. Lee and others directing the programs at different churches and social and
civic organization, have either undergone training offered by the immigration
service or by immigrant advocacy groups.

Applicants whose papers appear to be in order will be sent to the immigration
legalization offices set up in Paterson and Jersey City, where Government
employees will go over the applications to check the information and
documentation, personally interview applicants and then recommend approval or
disapproval.

Once the applicant has turned over his documents and paid the fee of $185 for an
adult and $50 for a child (a maximum of $420 for a family) they will be given a
temporary permit allowing them to work pending a final determination of their
case. The final decision will be made by immigration service officials at a
regional office in Vermont.

For one 34-year-old man who came to the church this week, the path to
legalization, temporary residency and eventual citizenship, will be fairly easy
- if all his proof are accepted by immigration. He came to the United States in
1979, using a friend's passport and immediately began to work. He found a place
to live, is employed as a security guard and has paid income taxes over the
years.

Terms of Law

His documents appear to qualify under the terms of the amnesty law - entry prior
to 1982, no arrests for a felony or three misdemeanors, steady work habits and
continuous residency, with no extended trips out of the country from the time he
arrived.

''My reason for wanting to legalize my position here is so that I will have a
feeling of security living here,'' the man said. ''It will also allow me to go
and visit my parents who I haven't seen in eight years.''

Despite assurances that all information is confidential and cannot be used in
deportation hearings or by other government agencies, some applicants are still
reluctant to be photographed or to speak openly.

''No, no, no,'' said a woman when asked if a photographer for a newspaper could
be taken at an angle that would show just the back of her head as she spoke with
Mr. Lee. ''Something could be made of it.''

She is already a permanent resident of the United States but was seeking to
legalize the status of her 41-year-old daughter and her granddaughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Rev. Hosea Lea helping out Freddie Flores to fill out
forms for amnesty (NYT/Sara Krulwich)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 26, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Helsinki Pact Offers Hope to Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 285 words


To the Editor:

In your newspaper and elsewhere in the American press, I have read in recent
weeks that very many families of illegal immigrant aliens fear that they face
the threat of being broken up because some of their members are not entitled to
benefit from the amnesty conditions in the Immigration Reform and Control Act.
Nowhere have I seen it mentioned that the United States is a signatory of the
Helsinki Agreement on European Security and Cooperation, according to one of
whose clauses our Government pledged itself to a general policy of reuniting
families scattered in different nations and under different political regimes.
Such a pledge should include, if only in theory, one of not breaking up families
living in the United States.

At follow-up conferences of this Helsinki Agreement in Belgrade, Madrid and
elsewhere, I was one of the simultaneous interpreters and thus heard United
States delegates reproach delegates from other signatory governments for their
failure to implement this clause fully.

Those responsible in our Government for the legalization of the status of
illegal immigrants who are entitled to benefit under the existing amnesty
provisions should be reminded of our Government's international commitment on
this subject, so that no families of illegal immigrants should be broken up by
deporting any of their members who fail to qualify for the amnesty.

All American lawyers or benevolent welfare organizations advising such immigrant
families should likewise be reminded that the Helsinki Agreement grants them, at
least in theory, a presumably valid right of appeal in any case of an officially
adverse decision.

EDOUARD RODITI
New York, May 10, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS FREED IN TEXAS FROM LOCKED RAILROAD TRAILER

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: HEBBRONVILLE, Tex,, July 8


Border Patrol agents freed 19 illegal aliens locked in a sweltering railroad
trailer today, preventing a tragedy like the one that left 18 aliens dead in
West Texas last week, officials said.

The men had stripped to their shorts in the 120-degree heat and lapsed into
semi-consciousness, but none required medical assistance, said a Federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman, Mario Ortiz.

''In the wake of what happened in Sierra Blanca, this is pretty serious stuff,''
Mr. Ortiz said from his Dallas office.

As in the July 2 incident outside El Paso, the men had been locked in the
trailer by a smuggler just before the train left Laredo for Corpus Christi, Mr.
Ortiz said. #120 Degrees Inside ''It's the same thing,'' he said. ''They were
latched in and couldn't get out. It was 95 degrees outside and easily 120
degrees inside by the time they were found at 11 A.M. If they had been in there
much longer, they would have been dead.''

During a routine inspection stop in Hebbronville, 60 miles east of Laredo,
Border Patrol officers found the group inside the trailer, which was perched on
a flatbed railroad car.

''The men, who we believe to be Mexicans who came across the border from Nuevo
Laredo, were taken to the Border Patrol station in Laredo,'' Mr. Ortiz said.
''They'll be deported, but not before an intensive investigation. This is
another smuggling case. But luckily, we were able to save them.''

Mr. Ortiz said the officers arrested five other aliens who apparently jumped off
the train as it approached Hebbronville.

''We don't know if they're connected to the 19 who were locked in,'' he said.
''We're investigating that.''

Smuggler Tossed in Tools

The smuggler in the Laredo case had tossed in some tools before latching the
trailer door shut, but the people inside could never have chiseled through the
metal walls, Mr. Ortiz said.

In the El Paso incident, the smuggler provided railroad spikes for the aliens to
chip through the airtight car's heavy wooden floor. Only one of the men aboard,
however, lived long enough to poke through for air.

The wife of that survivor has denied that her husband, Miguel Tostado Rodriguez,
21 years old, of Pabellon de Arteaga, recruited Mexican youths to go to the
United States for work.

Some relatives of the dead have told a government official from the Mexican
state of Zacatecas that Mr. Tostado urged the victims to head north.

But Mr. Tostado's wife, Maria del Rosario Chavez, said that when he went to the
United States this time he had been home for only two months since his last trip
north, when he had worked for 11 months at a Dallas restaurant.

''If he was there, how from the United States was he going to bring together
people here so he could take them?'' she asked Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of coffins of aliens who died in boxcar, being blessed (AP); Map
shows where aliens were freed from trailer (NYT)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SIKHS WADE ASHORE IN CANADA CLUTCHING ATTACHE CASES

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

DATELINE: HALIFAX, Nova Scotia


AMID concern in Canada last week about the arrival of another boatload of
illegal immigrants on the Atlantic coast, a story in The Toronto Star seemed
illuminating. While the Government in Ottawa was reporting an avalanche of
telegrams and telephone calls demanding that the 174 Sikhs who waded ashore from
an aging freighter in Nova Scotia be sent home to India, the newspaper looked
into the history of the 155 Tamils from Sri Lanka who arrived last August in
similar fashion.

The Tamil men who were dropped into lifeboats off Newfoundland a year ago have
all found work, the paper discovered, and most did so within a month of
arriving. Many of them have two jobs and work 80-hour weeks. The group's salary
level is higher than the national average. Indeed, three of the Tamils have
started a business that now employs 20 Canadians.

Against this background, it seemed appropriate that many of the Sikhs who sailed
from Rotterdam on the freighter Amelie, paying $1,500 to $2,300 for passage,
came ashore clutching attache cases. And when several voyagers emerged from the
predawn fog to ask for taxis to Toronto, 1,700 miles away, their unfamiliarity
with geography seemed less telling than their urge to get on with building new
lives.

Since Canadian law guarantees them hearings that can drag on for up to five
years, there seemed little prospect that the Sikhs would be leaving soon.
Moreover, their prospects appeared enhanced by the presence outside the military
base where they were sequestered of a group of wealthy Sikhs and immigration
lawyers. Over the last 20 years, legal immigrants have helped build what was
once a sparse scattering of Sikhs into a thriving community, mainly centered in
Vancouver, of 250,000 people, with one of the best educational records and
employment rates in Canada.

Investigating Air India Crash

Much the same can be said for many recent arrivals. Relatively few end up
without jobs. A disproportionately high number, particularly among Asians, who
are now the largest group of new settlers, become entrepreneurs. Native
Canadians grumble that immigrants are changing nation's demography. At least one
Canadian in six was born somewhere else. But no one argues that this nation of
26 million people, with the second-largest land mass in the world, cannot absorb
them.

For the Sikhs, however, acceptance has been complicated. As tensions between
Sikhs and Hindus in India have worsened in recent years, there have also been
violent incidents in Canada. There have been several major criminal trials,
including one in Montreal in January in which two Sikh men were convicted of
conspiring, unsuccessfully, to blow up an airplane departing from the United
States. The airline was not identified in court. However, the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police are still working on the bombing of an Air India flight from
Montreal that fell into the Atlantic near Ireland in June 1985, killing all 329
people aboard.

At least one Sikh leaders who was in Halifax last week to work for the release
of the freighter's passengers has been questioned in the Air India
investigation. And if Canadian security officers needed another reason for being
here, it may have been that the Amelie's passengers included adherents of Sikh
groups that have been at the center of unrest in India. Silver badges pinned to
turbans, frayed photographs of Sikh leaders and hand luggage with labels
promoting ''Khalistan,'' the independent South Asian state sought by many Sikhs,
were prominent.

But while the Government worried about security, it also had to contend with
broader immigration issues. Impelled by the arrival of more than 15,000
self-proclaimed refugees this year, twice as many as in all of 1985, Canada has
begun tightening the rules. Already, claimants arriving along the 4,500-mile
border with United States, many of them Central Americans uprooted by the new
American immigration law, are being held in border towns awaiting adjudication
of their status.

A new Canadian law likely to be enacted this year would at least partially close
some loopholes. Under the new law, refugees would have their claims reviewed -
and, if rulings go against them, be deported - in a matter of months. Where the
new arrivals can be shown to have had an opportunity to obtain refugee status in
another country, or to have come from a country considered ''safe,'' they could
be promptly turned away. Humanitarian organizations have protested strongly, but
the Government, sensitive to polls that show declining public tolerance for
illegal arrivals, has vowed to hold course.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of illegal Sikh immigrants waiting to be processed by Canadian
immigration officials (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 11, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Hispanic Population Growing 5 Times as Fast as Rest of U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10


The nation's Hispanic population has increased 30 percent since 1980, five times
as fast as the rest of the population, the Census Bureau reported today.

The Hispanic population now totals 18.8 million, up 4.3 million from 1980, the
bureau said.

Census officials listed several reasons for the rapid increase, which has broad
social, political and economic implications.

''Hispanic Americans have a relatively high birth rate, and their life
expectancy is about the same as for the rest of the population,'' said Jorge H.
del Pinal, a demographer at the Census Bureau.

The Hispanic population, on the whole, is younger than the rest of the
population, and it has been swollen in recent years by a steady stream of
immigration, legal and illegal, census officials said.

The Census Bureau also said that in general Hispanic Americans lagged behind
non-Hispanic people in education, employment and income. In fact, earnings for
Hispanic men failed to keep pace with inflation from 1981 to 1986, according to
today's report. The decline may reflect the influx of Hispanic immigrants or the
difficulties of Hispanic men in pulling out of the economic recession, census
officials said.

The Census Bureau estimated that illegal aliens accounted for 23 percent of the
increase in the Hispanic population since 1980, raising the total by an average
of 141,000 a year, or 987,000 over seven years. These figures are smaller than
the unofficial estimates of illegal immigration often cited by members of
Congress and others. Asked about this today, the Census Bureau said its
estimates were based on rigorous statistical techniques.

In the same seven-year period, the non-Hispanic population has increased 6
percent, to 220 million this year from 208 million in 1980, the report said.

The population figures exclude military personnel, prisoners and people who live
in nursing homes.

A Challenge Seen

Hispanic Americans said the growth of the Hispanic population posed an
extraordinary challenge to the Hispanic community and to the country as a whole.
Antonia Hernandez, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said, ''The numbers in and of themselves don't mean much if
our community is not participating in the fabric of American life, not voting,
not being educated properly.''

''Some people,'' she said in an interview, ''will use the numbers to fuel fears
of Hispanic Americans, to suggest that the complexion of the country is
changing. But in a practical economic sense, the Hispanic people are the future
workers of this country, who will have responsibility for supporting an older,
aging white population.''

Joseph M. Trevino, executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, said the new census figures showed why Hispanic Americans, as
potential consumers and voters, were becoming ''a very important market for
businesses and for political candidates.'' The league has 100,000 members in 40
states.

Political and Educational Impact

Representative Esteban Edward Torres, the California Democrat who heads the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said that 14 members of the House were Hispanic.
''That number might double by the year 2000,'' he said.

Further, the increase in the Hispanic population poses a special challenge to
educators, according to Michael D. Casserly, a lobbyist with the Council of the
Great City Schools, which represents 40 of the largest urban school systems.
Many Hispanic students have limited proficiency in English, he noted, and many
also drop out of school to take jobs supporting their families.

The Census Bureau said there were 11.8 million Americans of Mexican origin,
accounting for well over half the Hispanic population. People of Puerto Rican
origin, numbering 2.3 million, are the next largest group.

The fastest-growing subgroup consists of people who trace their origin to
Central or South America. They now total 2.1 million, up 40 percent in the last
five years, the bureau said. Many Salvadorans and Nicaraguans have migrated to
the United States in that period, largely as a result of the political upheaval
in their native countries.

The remaining subgroups are the one million people of Cuban origin now living in
the United States and the 1.6 million Hispanic people who, the bureau estimated,
do not specify their origin.

High Fertility Rate

The fertility rate is more than 40 percent higher for Hispanic women than for
non-Hispanic women, according to the National Center for Health Statistics.
Stephanie Ventura, a statistician at the center, said that in 1984, there were
91 births for every 1,000 Hispanic women 15 to 44 years old. For non-Hispanic
women, the corresponding figure was 64 births, she said.

Child bearing by Mexican women accounts for most of the disparity, she said. By
contrast, the Cuban population is older than the population as a whole and has a
lower fertility rate (45 births for every 1,000 women), according to Government
data.

Data in the report are based on interviews, completed in March, with 58,000
households chosen to be representative of the entire population. The sample,
which included 6,000 Hispanic households, was not large enough to permit
reliable estimates of the increase in the Hispanic population in specific cities
or states.

The report, one in a series issued periodically by the Census Bureau to describe
the growth and social characteristics of various ethnic groups, also made these
points:

* Average earnings for Hispanic men declined from $13,081 in 1981 to $11,958 in
1986, after adjustment for inflation. Both figures are expressed in terms of
1986 purchasing power. Average earnings for non-Hispanic men rose in the same
period, to $19,588 from $18,517.

* Twenty-five percent of Hispanic families had incomes last year below the
Government's official poverty level, which, for a family of four, was $11,203.
By contrast, the poverty rate for non-Hispanic families was 10 percent.

* Educational attainment of Hispanic people has increased but still lags behind
that of other Americans. Of Hispanic people 25 years old and over, 51 percent
are high school graduates, up from 45 percent in 1982. For non-Hispanic people,
the corresponding figure is 77 percent. Only 9 percent of Hispanic people 25 and
older are college graduates, as against 8 percent in 1982. Among non-Hispanic
people, the corresponding figure is 21 percent.

* The median age of the Hispanic population, 25.1 years, is much lower than the
median for the non-Hispanic population, 32.6. The median age for the predominant
Hispanic group, Mexican-Americans, is 23.5, far lower than the median for people
of Cuban origin, for example, which is 35.8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph shows that since 1980, the U.S. Hispanic population has grown
five times faster than the non-hispanic population (Source: Census Bureau) (Pg.
A26); graph breaks down Hispanic American groups, with Mexican being the
largest, followed by Puerto Rican, Central and South American, those who
identify themselves only as Hispanic, and Cuban (Source: Census Bureau) (Pg.
A26)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

4 REFUGEES ACCEPT SANCTUARY

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 16, Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1299 words


ALTHOUGH they received a personal invitation to attend, representatives of the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service did not arrive and arrest
any of the undocumented aliens at a recent conference on sanctuary at the
Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America in Ossining, known informally as
Maryknoll.

The I.N.S. agents also ignored the news conference introducing the Garcia
family, Guatemalans who are the first refugees to be offered public sanctuary in
Westchester.

Anna and Federico Garcia and their two children, Carlos and Oscar, will live at
Maryknoll indefinitely, seeking to focus attention on what they said was two
decades of kidnapping and assassination in their country. The Garcias' presence
in the county is receiving the active support of the Greater Hudson Valley
Coalition for Sanctuary and Refugees, composed of 15 institutional and
individual members, some of whom represent churches and synogogues in
Westchester, Putnam and Rockland Counties. The coalition is providing clothing
and money for the family, which is here under an assumed name to avoid reprisals
against relatives at home.

''I appreciate that they want us to provide free publicity'' - by making arrests
- a spokesman for the Immigration Service said last week. He added: ''Maybe they
should have taken out an ad.''

The Immigration Service has a limited number of agents, the spokesman said,
''and we are scrambling around to be sure we catch those illegal aliens who have
committed crimes in this country.''

Charlie Troy, the press spokesman for the eastern region of the service, said in
reference to those in the sanctuary group: ''While we recognize that what they
are doing is against the law, quite frankly their activities are not that high
up on our priorities.'' The Immigration Service, he said, ''does not go into
churches to apprehend illegal aliens.''

''If these folks should happen to be apprehended in the course of our normal,
law-enforcement operations outside the church, so be it,'' he added. Asked
whether this would mean the Immigration Service intended to increase its
surveillance of the Garcias, Mr. Troy replied that ''these are operating
initiatives that we cannot go into.''

I.N.S. surveillance of a church led to a celebrated case in Tucson, Ariz., in
May last year. In that case, agents ''infiltrated church meetings and recorded
materials, although the evidence was not allowed in court,'' according to the
Rev. Emmett Farrell, the Maryknoll father coordinating the public sanctuary
effort.

However, the case resulted in the conviction of eight church workers, who were
found guilty of criminal conspiracy to harbor and transport illegal aliens.

Despite that verdict, and with the help of a recent Supreme Court ruling, the
sanctuary movement has grown to include more than 400 churches and synogogues
nationwide. All are providing aid to aliens who allege persecution by the
governments of El Salvador and Guatemala.

The Supreme Court ruling said that illegal aliens had only to demonstrate a
''reasonable'' rather than a ''clear'' probability that they would suffer for
their beliefs if they returned home.

Maryknoll's decision to become a public sanctuary, Father Farrell said, is the
result of a three-year process of study and prayer, a process that concluded
last month with a vote by the Eighth General Chapter of the Catholic Foreign
Mission Society that overwhelmingly endorsed ''the sanctuary movement as a
gospel response to the situation of Central American refugees.'' The ''chapter''
is a religious term referring to a gathering of the delegates of the worldwide
membership of Maryknoll, an event that occurs every six years.

Maryknoll had delayed its decision to declare public sanctuary until it could
welcome a Guatemalan family, Father Farrell said, representatives of a country
whose government he said was guilty of atrocities. While estimates vary, Father
Farrell said human-rights organizations worldwide generally agreed that tens of
thousands of people had been killed in Guatemala in the last decade, most of
them Indians. Maryknoll fathers have worked longer in Guatemala than in any
other country, Father Farrell said, and they have witnessed ''the massacre of
the Indian population there.''

The sanctuary movement, Father Farrell said, opposes the United States
interpretation of various international agreements on refugees. The laws are
fine, Father Farrell said, but the interpretation is wrong. That interpretation,
he said, allows the American Government to classify the Garcia family as
economic rather than political refugees. The United States should, Father
Farrell said, ''grant political asylum or extended voluntary departure'' to all
Central Americans ''fleeing political repression.''

Although the sanctuary movement has remained strong, the focus has changed,
observers agree. ''Five years ago, 'sanctuary' meant refuge, safety and material
aid,'' said Geoffrey Martin, past co-chairman of the sanctuary movement at the
Riverside Church in Manhattan. Such emergency help, he said last week, was no
longer as important as before.

The Garcia family, Mr. Martin said, had spent two-and-a-half years in public
sanctuary at the Riverside Church before coming to Maryknoll. The family is
moving to Westchester, Mr. Martin said, because the apartment house that Mr.
Garcia was helping to renovate and where the family lived is about to be sold
and also because the family wants to reach a new audience.

''The movement has matured,'' Mr. Martin said, ''and refugees like the Garcias
did not just cross the Rio Grande. They are accepting sanctuary because they
consider themselves grass-roots ambassadors with a responsibility to inform.
They aren't any safer, but the appearance of an emergency has changed.''

The Maryknoll decision coincides with last month's statement by the National
Council of Catholic Bishops at the United States Catholic conference, which
urged local churches and religious communities ''to increase their already
commendable assistance to refugees in need, regardless of their standing before
the law.''

At Maryknoll, Mr. Garcia will perform handyman jobs, Father Farrell said,
because the mission is not allowed to officially employ him, because he is an
illegal alien. Both Mr. and Mrs. Garcia will be available to fulfill speaking
enggements throughout the New York City area. ''Their work here is to teach and
to educate,'' Father Farrell said.  Members of the Hispanic community in the
county said they hoped the presence of the Garcias would also focus attention on
the problems faced by the county's 20,000 to 25,000 illegal aliens.

Because these groups do not speak publicly about their own political
persecution, ''undocumented aliens are often seen as those who are taking
something from us,'' said Rosa Calderon, a social worker who is active in
Hispanic affairs in the county.

The silence of these aliens leaves them open to continued victimization in
Westchester, Ms. Calderon added, although she said help was available.

This summer, a Mount Kisco man who employed at least 60 undocumented aliens in
domestic work refused to pay them, she said. Most employees were afraid to
complain, Ms. Calderon said, but representatives of the Hispanic Advancement
Program at Grace Church in White Plains learned about the situation and
persuaded the owner to settle his debts.

Ms. Calderon has helped establish Hispanics 2001, a county coalition that seeks
to address Hispanic problems in Westchester. Ms. Calderon and other members of
the coalition plan to meet tomorrow evening with officials of Mount Kisco to
discuss the problems of the Guatemalans and El Salvadorans living there - a
group of mostly undocumented aliens that Ms. Calerdon said numbered 1,000 to
2,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Rev. Joseph Veneroso, the Rev. Stephen DeMott and the Rev.
Emmett Farrell (NYT/Suzanne deChillo)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 10, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TO KEEP ALIENS OFFICE

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 32, Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 225 words


THE sole office in the state for helping illegal aliens obtain amnesty has
escaped an early closing and will continue processing applications until next
May, United States Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of New Haven, has
announced.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had planned to close the office last
Dec. 31 because fewer applicants than expected had applied for legal status
there, according to the director of the office, Mark Feldman.

Mr. Morrison said he had asked the I.N.S. to reverse its decision because it
would be more difficult for aliens to file for authorization. The closing would
also have indicated a lack of Federal commitment to the program, he said.

If the office had closed, the immigration office in Hartford would have accepted
the applcations. But, Mr. Morrison added, the Hartford office could have
intimidated applicants because the agency also has an enforcement unit in it.
There are no enforcement employees in New Haven.

The I.N.S. had estimated that the New Haven office would work with 150
applicants a day, Mr. Feldman said. However, only 1,200 have gone to the office
since it opened last May.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act gives illegal aliens who can prove they
have lived here since before 1982 the right to apply for legal status. The
yearlong program is to expire in May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 12, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Raids by Housing Inspectors Anger Jersey Neighborhood

BYLINE: By JESUS RANGEL, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1196 words

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J.


When city officials, acting on a tip, found that illegal immigrants were
crowding into houses in a poor neighborhood here, they began a campaign to crack
down on building-code violations.

Since last fall, surprise inspections have resulted in eviction notices issued
to more than 120 people in 19 homes in the neighborhood known as Ward 2.

But to many residents of Ward 2, particularly its Mexicans, Dominicans, Central
Americans and Puerto Ricans, the inspections have been raids aimed at the
neighborhood because it lies in the path of New Brunswick's urban-renewal plans.

Tension has grown between city officials and the neighborhood, and residents are
beginning a campaign of their own to resist the evictions. #23 Living in 4-Room
House The inspections began last September, when inspectors found 16 people,
mostly from Mexico, in a two-bedroom apartment, said Michael Gupko, the city's
chief building inspector.

In one case, 23 people were living in a four-bedroom home, while in others,
people were found in vermin-infested homes with improper wiring and no smoke
detectors.

''We found 7 children among 11 adults living in a small basement,'' Mr. Gupko
said. ''The stove was on and the ceiling was hot and could have burned the place
down in seconds.''

''We determined that we needed to better monitor and maintain our housing stock
to keep it safe and clean,'' he said. ''This city is in the midst of a
revitalization and we need to get the message out that if you want to make a
killing warehousing people, this is not the place to do it.''

In the last four weeks, the crackdown has intensified, with surprise inspections
on early Sunday mornings by city inspectors with warrants. The inspectors told
people they had from two days to two weeks to move out.

Push for Redevelopment

In one house that was entered, two men and a woman from Mexico discussed the
inspection recently while waiting for a van that would carry them to a night
job. One said the inspectors came while the 11 occupants were sleeping. They
were told that only one person could live in each of the house's four rooms.

''We don't know what we are going to do,'' he said.

The inspectors' tactics have been denounced by neighborhood leaders, who have
organized civil-rights and housing advocates to fight back.

''The city is using the issues of overcrowding and illegal immigration as an
excuse to further its redevelopment goals,'' said Rosalind Torres, chairwoman of
the local chapter of the National Congress for Puerto Rican Rights.

The state Department of Community Affairs, which regulates building codes for
multifamily dwellings, has expressed concern that the city has not followed
regulations that require it to relocate those displaced.

The agency has told community groups that they should consider taking court
action if the relocation law is violated, said Lawrence B. Weitzner, the
agency's deputy commissioner.

Efforts to Deter Illegal Aliens

''The law applies to aliens and citizens alike,'' said Mr. Weitzner. ''There is
no distinction.''

But the state agency cannot act, he said, because New Brunswick is enforcing
local, not state, building codes.

The city has tried to enlist the Immigration and Naturalization Service on its
side to deter illegal aliens from living in New Brunswick.

''We gave investigators the names of where the people worked, where they are
being picked up and names and addresses of people who are processing them,'' Mr.
Gupko said.

Inquiry Into Evictions

But Martin R. Greenfield, assistant director for investigations for the
immigration agency, said what the city is doing ''is not my business.''

''They have a housing problem and I feel bad for them,'' said Mr. Greenfield.
''I will not provide immigration agents to illegally enter homes.''

Felipe Chavana, a lawyer for Legal Services of New Jersey, a nonprofit group
investigating the legal procedures used in the evictions, questioned why all but
two of the raids involved Hispanic residents.

''I believe it's an attempt to transform this town until there's no room for
poor folks,'' he said.

Increase in Homelessness

Mr. Gupko and Mayor John Lynch said the inspections were not aimed at Hispanic
residents.

''The issue is not that the people are illegal or Hispanic,'' Mr. Gupko said.
''Our concerns lie in the manner in which they live.''

Other residents worry about increasing the number of homeless people in the
city.

''We are concerned about the lack of procedures at a time when we have a severe
problem of homelessness,'' said Paul Mullin, a lawyer for Middlesex County Legal
Services, a nonprofit legal-aid group.

Commercial District Abandoned

New Brunswick, a city of 50,000 people, is highly attractive to workers seeking
jobs in the many service and manufacturing industries surrounding it. But it has
not always been that way. Like many urban areas, large numbers of middle-class
white residents fled to the suburbs after World War II while poor black and
Hispanic residents, who are 32 percent of the population, came in.

After racial disturbances in the late 1960's, many large companies abandoned the
George Street commercial district for suburban malls, leaving a depressed,
blighted New Brunswick to fend for itself.

Two huge anchors remained, however: Johnson & Johnson and Rutgers University.

In an effort to turn around the decay, the city, which is about five square
miles along the Raritan River, and Johnson & Johnson in 1979 announced a
redevelopment project known as New Brunswick Tomorrow.

Bulldozing Neighborhoods

It's cornerstone was the redevelopment of downtown, a $30 million Hyatt hotel
and conference center, new retail and office complexes and housing.

The Rev. Orrin T. Hardgrove, president of New Brunswick Tomorrow, said the plan
had resulted in almost $400 million in new investment projects, creating jobs
and reversing the city's economic and social decline.

From the beginning, however, black and Hispanic residents attacked the plan as
an attempt to provide for a white middle class by bulldozing neighborhoods
without providing new housing the residents can afford.

The raids have reinforced that perception.

Ward 2 is on the edge of downtown New Brunswick and gentrification has already
displaced some residents.

Fear of Displacement

Two weeks ago, the Rev. George Cruz of the Suydam Reformed Church, which has
helped Central American refugees, called on his parish to speak out against the
raids, saying it was a matter of time before their neighborhood was
''destroyed.''

According to Mariam Merced, a counselor at the community outreach center, which
provides social services in the minority communities, the idea of gentrification
displacing residents is not just a suspicion.

The site of the hotel and conference center used to be the Hiram Street market
area, a predominantly Puerto Rican and Dominican neighborhood.

''That area began deteriorating years ago when buildings were allowed to be run
down and landlords failed to make improvements,'' she said. ''The immigration
started making raids at night. Slowly people began leaving, then the bulldozers
came.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Rosalind Torres, head of the New Brunswick, N.J., chapter of
the National Congress for Puerto Rican Rights; The Rev. George Cruz, pastor of
the Suydam Reformed Church, which has helped Central American refugees (NYT);
Michael Gupko, New Brunswick's chief building inspector, at house on Hale Street
that was raided (NYT/Edward Hausner)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 3, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Chemicals, Fruit and Coolies

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 413 words


''We are just meeting the needs of the market, like importing chemicals or
slippers. It happens that the need of the market now is for labor.'' So says
Cheeon Fung, manager of a new cooperative venture, by the Chinese Government and
a Chinese-American company in New York, to bring farm workers to America.

Mr. Fung's project recalls the late 1800's, when Chinese laborers helped build
the West's railroads, mine its gold and harvest its crops. Coolies, they were
called, after a Hindu word for servant. Yet the new plan meets quite a modern
need: the 1986 immigration act forbids employers to hire illegal aliens. As a
result, legal channels are opening up for temporary workers. What's surprising
is which channels.

Employers have for decades been allowed to bring in temporary farm labor if they
could show that American workers weren't available. Thus about 25,000 legal
workers a year have come recently. Now, under a more permissive provision of the
new law, the number may swell to 250,000.

It is logical to assume that most of the new workers would come from the
countries that sent most of the illegal workers, particularly Mexico. But this
logic ignores other countries' pride and philosophy. Mexico protested the new
law's effects on Mexican workers. Yet officially, the Government likes to think
it can provide jobs for its citizens, so it doesn't recruit and organize them to
go abroad to work. Other countries, notably China and the Philippines, are
practiced at doing so. Indeed, they have laborers, returned from better days in
the Middle East, waiting for new work. American agriculture may provide it.

If these accommodations to changing immigration policy are unpredictable, they
are nonetheless accommodations. In contrast to last summer's news of farm labor
shortfalls, they show that the process of adjustment is working. Setbacks like
the lost strawberry crop in the Pacific Northwest are not inevitable. At worst,
they are transitional effects of the new law.

What does seem inevitable is that Americans accustomed to Jamaican apple pickers
and Mexican grape pickers will have to grow accustomed to their Chinese and
Filipino counterparts. Pressures and networks to supply American labor needs
will be built up in additional countries. Thus the immigration act will need
careful enforcement if provisions for allowing temporary farm labor are not,
perversely, to become a new channel for illegal aliens that the new act is
intended to deter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS READY TO STAKE AMERICAN CLAIMS

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2689 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 2


Decades of bitter debate over the vexing problem of controlling American borders
will come to a historic climax Tuesday. That is the day when the first of an
expected 3.9 million illegal aliens all across the country are expected to
emerge from the legal and social shadows to claim amnesty under the new
immigration law.

Among the first will be Alejandrino Arriaga, 25 years old, and his fiancee,
Imelda Vega Cruze, 24, rural Mexicans who waded across the Rio Grande into Texas
as teen-agers and have called Houston home ever since. They have been gathering
church and school records, driver's licenses, affidavits from employers and
other evidence that they lived in the United States continuously since before
Jan. 1, 1982, as the law requires.

'I'm Ready,' Toolmaker Says

Two hundred miles west in San Antonio, Melesio Sidon, a 49-year-old toolmaker
from Monterrey, Mexico, who says he has lived as an American since 1979, echoed
the feelings of millions of others:

''I'm ready. This is home for me. I've lived here a long time, and the condition
of life is much better here. I want to get this taken care of so I can visit my
family in Mexico.''

He displays a black briefcase bulging with all the proof of the American
existence he has long been officially denied: telephone and utility bills, pay
stubs, bank statements, income tax returns and a contract to buy a used car.

Wrenching Dilemmas for Many

The aliens are not just Mexicans. Indeed, Mark W. Everson, executive associate
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, says
there will be surprising numbers of Irish, British, Italian and other Europeans
who overstayed tourist visas.

In Chicago, Tom Baglajewski, a chemical laboratory technician who says he came
in 1981 on a tourist visa and never left, is among thousands of Poles expected
to apply. Yogesh Patel, a salesman from India, and his wife, Shridevi, are
preparing their documents in Houston. In New York, Laurence Barrera, a
Salvadoran who arrived in 1978 and now owns a restaurant and baby-furniture
store in Washington Heights, is applying along with his wife, parents, brother
and sisters.

But the law presents wrenching dilemmas to thousands of others. Because each
claim for legalization must stand on its own, many married couples and families
face possible separation. Thus, Hilda Weston, who came to Houston from South
Africa seven years ago on a tourist visa and stayed on illegally, appears to
qualify, but not her British-born husband, Colin, a businessman, who by
carefully keeping proper temporary visas through the years now finds himself
unable to take advantage of the amnesty offered to illegal aliens alone. ''We've
got the choice of separating or going to another country,'' said Mr. Weston.

Similarly, a Salvadoran business owner in Houston, his wife, and several of
their children are eligible, but not two other children, 15 and 11 years old,
who came to the United States after the 1981 cutoff. A Daunting Task, With Vast
Impact These are some of the human results, joyful and painful, of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which in effect clears the slate by
giving legal status to established aliens but seeks to deter more from entering
by imposing criminal penalties against employers.

While no one is sure how many will come forward and be accepted under the
complex restrictions, many believe the amnesty will have enormous social impact
in parts of the country.

''I believe the new law will allow between one-quarter and half a million
residents of New York to come out of the underground society and become a part
of the body politic,'' said Cesar A. Perales, Commissioner of New York State's
Department of Social Services.

And Bishop Francis J. Mugavero, of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn,
predicts the amnesty will have a ''radical impact'' there, easing the plight of
thousands living illegally in ''abhorrent conditions.'' In Brooklyn and Queens
alone, more than 500 priests and 400 church volunteers have been trained to aid
the immigrants.

The amnesty in itself has become an enormous nationwide social program. To cope
with the crushing load of paperwork expected over the 12-month amnesty period,
the Federal ImmigraDozens of agencies in the New York region are offering help
to applicants. Page 57. tion and Naturalization Service is opening 107 special
offices in major cities, with a staff of 2,000, and plans to send special vans
to more remote places.

In addition, more than 200 private church and social service agencies, with 440
or so offices nationwide, are helping aliens prepare their applica-tions, and
many report they are already overwhelmed by inquiries. In Los Angeles, believed
to have the largest concentration of illegals of any city, Catholic Charities
had pre-registered 287,000 people by Friday and will have 11 centers open by
Tuesday.

Meanwhile, to help provide the needed documentation, utility companies in many
areas are offering to exhume old billing records. In Texas, which is expected to
account for nearly one-fourth of all applicants, Southwestern Bell, Houston
Power and Light, and Dallas Power and Light already have hundreds of requests.
And, predictably, unscrupulous operators are filling the void where legitimate
documents are unavailable. In San Diego an immigration consultant, William
Givens, was charged last month with selling forged rent receipts. Is a Welcome
Likely At Agency They Eluded? There is no small irony in all this. After years
of hiding from the dreaded immigration police, the aliens are now going to the
same agency to be documented, if not always welcomed, as Americans.

The contradictions are no less pointed for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, long intent on deporting illegal aliens, which is now holding seminars
for aliens on the new law and plans to run public service advertisements whose
message is, in Spanish, ''to live legally here is to live in peace.''

Ronald G. Parra, the immigration director for the Houston district, who has won
high marks from immigration rights groups for improving relations with the
Hispanic community, talks of according ''human dignity'' to ''our international
friends.''

Although the law says information provided by rejected applicants cannot be used
for deportation, distrust persists. ''We have a horrible image,'' conceded
Richard M. Casillas, San Antonio district immigration director. ''Many people
think we are going to use this procedure to corral them in the legalization
centers and arrest them. We've been trying to dispel that fear, but it isn't
easy.''

For this reason, as well as confusion over the complex law and delays in
carrying it out, many aliens are holding back. ''Many will wait and see what
happens to the first ones,'' said Gus Catuogno, a retired immigration officer
who runs Catholic Services for Immigrants on the West Side of San Antonio. ''If
the water is too hot, the others won't follow.''

The Rev. Carmen Guerrero, pastor of the Santa Fe Episcopal Church in San
Antonio, designated by the immigration service to aid aliens, said some would-be
applicants drove around the church several times scouting for law-enforcement
officials before entering. For a Diverse Lot, Hope Replaces Hiding Still,
millions are getting ready, and their stories are as diverse as America.

There's Joe Martin Endicott of Freeport, Tex., born Jose Martin Cruz in
Cerritos, Mexico. Now 21, he emigrated at the age of 8 and was adopted by his
aunt's family. Few friends knew that the youth, energetic, articulate, educated
at Brazosport High School, was an illegal alien.

He works today making plexiglass cabinets and cubes, but his illegal status has
thwarted his college plans. Without a proper Social Security number, he says, he
was afraid to apply for student loans. He appears to have an ironclad case, with
high school and job records. ''I can really set forth in my life now,'' he said,
adding that he hoped to study political science and economics in college.

Laurence Barrera, who started as a dishwasher in a Manhattan restaurant after he
left El Salvador in 1978, hopes to be one of the first to be legalized, along
with his large family. He owns two businesses now, and has a long paper trail to
prove his residence, including tax forms and, ironically, two arrests by
immigration offficials in 1982 that did not result in deportation.

''We have all the papers from when we got caught by immigration,'' he said. ''I
guess paying taxes and getting arrested were very lucky for me. I don't feel
afraid. I'm just waiting and waiting. I've been waiting for over nine years.
What's a little more?''

Yogesh and Shridevi Patel of India already seem quite American. They live in a
brick home in suburban Baytown, Tex., give money to the United Way and have two
daughters in local schools.

Mr. Patel, from Ahmedabad, came in 1974 as a student and remained when his visa
expired in 1979. Their lawyer advised them it would be quicker to claim amnesty
than to pursue normal immigration channels. In front of their fireplace is a
large file full of copies of house payments, tax forms, their daughter Ahshu's
report cards, even a newspaper clipping mentioning her academic achievement.

Once legalized they hope to open an electronics business. ''This is just one
more formality for us,'' Mr. Patel said. ''Because we are already Americans.''
Finding the Records Of Undocumented Lives The story of Melesio Sidon, the
toolmaker in San Antonio, is typical of the personal sacrifices many illegals
have made. Mr. Sidon, a slim man with large wrinkled hands, has seldom seen his
wife and five children in Monterrey in recent years. He says he earns $8.70 and
hour plus overtime, and sends $200 home every two weeks. Once he gains permanent
residency, he hopes to bring his family to San Antonio.

Mr. Sidon's lawyer, Ruben Montemayor, calls this case ''ideal,'' but he is less
certain about the many others who may have difficulty proving they have been
here since 1982. ''I'm worried about the people who have been paid in cash and
don't have employers willing to write letters for them or children in school,''
he said.

For example, in San Francisco, Rubidia Gallegos, a maid from El Salvador, says
she entered in December 1981, just before the cutoff date. She says she threw
away her W-2 wage forms from 1983 and 1984 because she did not make enough to
pay taxes, but may be able to get copies from the Internal Revenue Service. But
the real impediment is her first employer, a Salvadoran family who gave her
lodging and $24 a week in exchange for babysitting and other tasks. She left
them in 1983, and the family so far has been unwilling to provide an affidavit.
''It's the only proof I have,'' Ms. Gallegos said, ''and if it's denied it's
because she doesn't sign.''

Similarly, Marieanne, a 27-year-old Haitian ''boat person'' in Miami, says she
is eligible but has little proof to give the Immigration and Naturalization
Service that she has lived there since 1980, apart from a receipt for a doctor's
visit. She has always lived with friends and has no personal documents. ''She's
like a lot of people who come here,'' said Ersa Charles, who works at the
Haitian Refugee Center. ''She has no documents and no record with I.N.S.,
nothing to prove she existed here.''

Immigration lawyers and advocates are divided over whether the immigration
officials will treat the aliens fairly. Some fear they will interpret the law
and rules very narrowly. Mr. Montemayor, the San Antonio lawyer, advises
caution: ''I simply don't believe immigration when they say people who don't
qualify won't be deported. The poor people in my waiting room have been lied to
before by the I.N.S.''

But Annie S. Garcy of the Houston law firm Gordon Quan & Associates is more
optimistic. ''I don't think people will come out immediately, but when they see
others getting legalized they will,'' she said. Thomas S. Esparza Jr., a lawyer
in Austin, agreed: ''I think I.N.S. will be looking for reasons to approve them.
Neither political party will want to be responsible for mass deportations.''
Trickiest Problem: What About Families? The most politically explosive issue is
likely to be the family question. The law does not permit ''derivative''
legalization for family members. Thus Eliseo, a Mexican in Los Angeles who would
not give his full name for fear of repercussions, is certain he is eligible, but
not his wife, because she has not lived continuously in the United States since
1981. Yet his five children were all born in Los Angeles, and are therefore
citizens.

''Do you know if they will send the children back because of the mother?'' he
asked. ''I heard on the radio that the children will get to stay.''

Similarly, Jose and Marie Gomez of Houston - the names are disguised -face a
painful dilemma. Mr. Gomez personifies the American dream. He left his meager
subsistence as a farmer in El Salvador nearly 10 years ago with only a
sixth-grade education. He started as a kitchen worker in Houston, working 60 to
80 hours a week for the minimum wage. Devout, hard-working, the Gomez family
today -though illegal - are part-owners of a prosperous business.

But two of their children joined the family here after 1981 and cannot qualify
for amnesty. The Gomezes plan to conceal the children from the immigration
service, a risky course since false statements can result in deportation for
all. ''We will act as though they don't exist,'' said Mr. Gomez. ''They have our
protection.''

Thousands of others are in the same boat. ''There is really, really fear,'' said
Luz Marie Vargas, spokesman for the Centro Tejana Para Immigrantes, an agency
here run by the Catholic Church. ''If the father qualifies and the mother does
not, what are they going to do with the children?''

Legal residents, including those who gain permanent residence under the amnesty
program, can sponsor close relatives for legal status, but it is a lengthy
process. The relatives must return to their native country and, after completing
application procedures, can be put on a waiting list that in some countries is
20 years long.

The Commissioner of the immigration service, Alan C. Nelson, has said that no
blanket amnesty would be offered to such family members. But his assistant, Mr.
Everson, said each case would be examined individually.

Mr. Parra, the Houston district director, said that as an ''informal interim
policy,'' his office would grant ''extended voluntary departure'' status to many
such family members. This procedure allows them to remain indefinitely, but in
legal limbo, unable legally to take employment. ''We will definitely keep the
family together,'' he said. ''If the family is already here, we will try to
stabilize them.''

In the meantime, Mr. Everson urged all eligible people to apply, saying that
would not adversely affect ineligible family members.

Edward R. Roybal, a Democratic Congressman from Los Angeles, has filed two bills
to include the spouses and children of eligible aliens and ease requirements for
illegal aliens who have borne children in the United States, and are thus
citizens. No quick passage is expected.  Meanwhile, many thousands wait
nervously. Said Charles Gordon, a Washington expert on immigration law and
former general counsel of the I.N.S.: ''Congress will have to do something about
it. The families are in limbo.''

TO BE AMERICAN: IT HAS ITS PRICE
  The benefits of legal residence in the United States are not free.

Each adult seeking legal status under the amnesty plan will pay a $185
application fee; the cost for each child under 18 is $50, with a maximum of $420
per family.

Beyond these charges are the costs of required medical examinations and
photographs and any expenses of getting required documentation. Further, the
social service agencies that have been approved to help aliens apply - agencies
the Government is calling ''Qualified Designated Entities'' - can charge a fee
of up to $75.

And some applicants may well need the services of a lawyer; no limit is placed
on those fees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Hilda and Colin Weston (NYT/F. Carter Smith) (page 30); photo
of Joe Martin Endicott (NYT/F. Carter Smith) (page 30); photo of Imelda Vega
Cruze and Alejandrino Arriaga (NYT/F. Carter Smith); photo of Tom Baglajewski
(NYT/F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 17, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

The Editorial Notebook;
It's Not Tia-Wanna Anymore

BYLINE: By Jack Rosenthal

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif.


Peer south from Otay Mesa in this southernmost part of California and you can
see the future. Scrub grass and bare canyon stretch to the border. Then,
suddenly, on the hilly Mexican side, the vista is transformed into city. Twin
40-story hotel towers rise from an urban center. The receding hillsides bristle
with thousands of tents, shacks and concrete block houses. The flats below are
packed with hovels, sticks and blue plastic.

This is Tijuana, stunning symbol of the third world that overhangs America's
borders.

The new Immigration Reform and Control Act is about to take effect, and seeing
Tijuana puts the law into perspective. Already there are encouraging signs that
the law will help slow the flow of illegal aliens. But even the new law can only
begin to control the borders.

''Tia-Wanna'': it's the gringo name for what used to be a seedy border town of a
few thousand, a place where tourists were entreated to buy ''feelthy
peectures,'' among other things. The tourists still arrive, in bermuda shorts
and white sneakers, drawn by places like the Chicago Club, the Disco Salsa and
Chuty's House of Beer. But the tourist strip now is only one facet of something
vastly larger.

What's the population of Tijuana? Some say two million. That's easy to believe,
looking south from Otay Mesa. At twilight, the two million seem to unravel at
the edges. All across the grassy slopes, people gather in twos, threes and
dozens. They are mostly men, mostly young, in bright shirts that read ''L.A.
Rams'' and ''Smiley.'' Some sit and smoke, or start cook fires, or play soccer,
waiting for the larger game. Come nightfall they will dash and scramble across
the canyon, hundreds of them, trying to elude the helicopters, horses and sixth
sense of the Border Patrol.

But it's not night yet and it's the overhanging city that still commands
attention. It is varied. Yes, poor migrants cluster in the shabby Hotel de la
Paz waiting for the ''coyotes'' who'll try to smuggle them in. But there are
thousands who commute legally to San Diego, and who have to wait 90 minutes
during rush hour at the border station. Modern Japanese electronics factories
stand out. At the sleek Comercial Mexicano supermarket, well-dressed shoppers
crowd all 36 checkout lanes. ''Tijuana is at the beginning of an industrial
age,'' Richard Rodriguez wrote in Harper's last month, ''a Dickensian city with
palm trees.''

Tijuana may be as much an engine as a place, an engine of transition. Cheap
labor spurs construction of plants to assemble the products trucked over to the
other side. And cheap labor exports itself, at a pace that can be gauged by
numbers like the ''1146'' chalked on the money changers' booths. There was
incentive to sneak across two years ago when a dollar bought 240 pesos. Consider
the incentive now, when a dollar buys 1,140.

America's response to the illegal tide so far has been to rely on the patient
professionals of the Border Patrol. They know they can't stop the tide. The
officers are human: ''Hell,'' said one, ''if it were me, I'd be doing it too.''
But their job is to slow it down; and they do.

The new law, about to take effect, should slow it down some more. Now it will be
illegal to hire undocumented aliens; so far, it has only been illegal for them
to be hired. That should weaken the magnets. Big employers seem eager to comply.

The knowledge that jobs will be harder to get may explain why border
apprehensions are already down a little, especially those involving
''O.T.M.'s,'' other than Mexicans, migrating from dozens of other countries. But
the new law can't turn the magnets off.

Their pull can be measured in another way. The United States minimum wage is
$3.35 an hour. The Mexican Government has just ordained a 20 percent increase in
its minimum wage for big cities and border areas. The new amount is $3.30 a day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MUGAVERO ASSAILS HIGH FEES FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section D; Page 28, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 628 words


Illegal aliens applying for amnesty under a new Federal law are being
overcharged for assistance with their documentation and exploited in other ways,
Bishop Francis J. Mugavero of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn said
yesterday.

With a new law taking effect today, under which aliens who have been in the
country continuously since January 1982 can obtain permanent residency, diocesan
officials announced that they were establishing a commission to evaluate reports
of abuses. The commission plans to discuss with law-enforcement authorities and
professional associations ways to penalize those who exploit the law.

At a news conference, Bishop Mugavero and his staff discussed reports of a
number of abuses, including the sale of false rent receipts and other spurious
paperwork to aliens to prove their continuous residence in the country. Diocesan
officials cautioned that applicants who submitted such ''documentation'' could
face deportation.

They also said illegal aliens had been dismissed by employers who believed the
new law required them to do so. The law does not prohibit employment of illegal
aliens until Sept. 1, diocesan officials said.

Diocese to Charge $100 Fee

The Diocese of Brooklyn, which embraces Brooklyn and Queens, has begun one of
the nation's largest programs of assistance for aliens applying for amnesty: it
is training more than 400 priests and 600 lay people to process applications.
The diocese expects to help more than 100,000 illegal aliens.

The cost for diocesan assistance will be $100 a person, which is in addition to
the processing fees of $185 charged by the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Volunteers in each of the 220 parishes will help applicants gather the necessary
paperwork and fill out required forms. The parishes will also fingerprint and
photograph each applicant, and have each application reviewed by a lawyer or law
student.

Auxiliary Bishop Rene A. Valero, who is chairman of the new commission, said
that on a parish visit Sunday he met a Hispanic couple who paid a lawyer, who
was also a friend, a $1,200 fee to process their application.

The bishop said he had also learned of lawyers who charged $2,000 and $3,000 for
such services.

'It Is Exploitation'

''It may not be illegal, but it is exploitation,'' Bishop Valero said. ''Some of
these people have been working at a very low wage and have been saving up money
for this situation. It's unfair and unjust for people to take advantage of
that.''

The bishop said he hoped to discuss the amount of an appropriate fee with local
bar associations.

Anyone can help an illegal alien process an application, and the law sets no
limits on what can be charged, Bishop Valero said. Those who are offering and
advertising such services include lawyers, travel agents and notaries public.

A number of private and nonprofit agencies like the Diocese of Brooklyn have
been designated by the Immigration Service to provide assistance.

''All an undocumented alien needs to do is walk down to the Catholic church on
the corner and say, 'I need your help,' '' Bishop Valero said.

Diocesan officials contended that distrustful aliens were more willing to seek
help from a priest than a government official.

The intensity of interest in the new law, officials said, is evident in the
3,000 people who have turned out at the half-dozen parish ''information nights''
held so far. This has been true of some neighborhoods that have not been widely
known for having large numbers of illegal aliens.

Expecting a light turnout, the heavily Polish parish of St. Stanislaus Kostka
Church in Brooklyn's Greenpoint section set up 20 chairs for the audience at its
information night. It found it had to deal with 300 people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Bishops Francis Mugavero and Rene Valero and the Rev. Ronald
Marino (NYT/Dith Pran)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 27, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

COURT BACKS ILLEGAL ALIENS IN A DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26


The Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 today that an alien re-entering the country after
being deported cannot be convicted if he can show the original deportation order
was invalid.

Justice Thurgood Marshall's majority opinion ruled that although there was no
evidence Congress had intended to allow illegal aliens to contest the validity
of their previous deportations in such prosecutions, the ''constitutional
requirement of due process'' mandated such a rule.

The Court rejected Justice Department arguments that no matter how unfair the
deportation procedures may have been, defendants could never use their
invalidity as a defense to a subsequent prosecution for illegal re-entry.

The case involved a Federal statute making it a felony punishable by up to two
years in prison and a $1,000 fine for an alien to re-enter the United States
illegally after being deported.

Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, in a dissent joined by Justices Byron R.
White and Sandra Day O'Connor, said the evidence showed that the deportation
orders in the case at hand had been valid. Justice Antonin Scalia, in a separate
dissent, said, ''I think it clear that Congress may constitutionally make it a
felony for deportees - irrespective of the legality of their deportations - to
re-enter the United States illegally.''

But Justice Marshall said, ''Where a determination made in an administrative
proceeding is to play a critical role in the subsequent imposition of a criminal
sanction, there must be some meaningful review of the administrative
proceeding.''

The decision, United States v. Mendoza-Lopez, No. 85-2067, invalidated the
indictments of two Mexican men arrested in Lincoln, Neb., on Oct. 23, 1984, and
deported eight days later after being told that returning to the United States
without permission after deportation would be a felony.

The men, Jose Mendoza-Lopez and Angel Landeros-Quinones, who had lived illegally
in Nebraska for more than seven years, were arrested in Lincoln again on Dec.
12, 1984, and indicted for illegal re-entry.

A Federal district court dismissed the indictment on the ground that the
immigration judge had denied them fundamentally fair deportation hearings by not
advising them fully of their rights to counsel and to apply for suspension of
deportation.

Labor Law Preemption

In another case, the Court ruled unanimously that Federal labor law preempted an
employee's suit against her union under state law for allegedly failing to
provide her with a safe workplace.

The decision, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers v. Hechler, No.
85-1360, came in a lawsuit against the union by a woman working as an apprentice
electrician for Florida Power and Light Company who lost both arms in a 1982
accident, in which she came into contact with highly charged components of an
electrical substation where she worked.

Her lawsuit argued that the union had violated a duty to make sure that
employees as inadequately trained as she were not assigned to work in such an
''inherently dangerous'' place.

Justice Blackmun's opinion for eight members of the Court, citing ''the need for
uniformity'' under Federal law in interpreting labor contracts, required that
the suit be tried under Federal law if at all.

The Court sent the case back to a lower Federal court to consider whether any
Federal law claim was barred by the statute of limitations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 3, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

18 ALIENS, TRAPPED IN A BOXCAR, DIE IN BUNGLED SMUGGLING ATTEMPT

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: SIERRA BLANCA, Tex., July 2


Eighteen illegal aliens trapped in a locked steel-walled boxcar were found dead
today in stifling 120-degree temperatures in what the authorities called a
bungled smuggling effort.

A 19th alien survived by using a spike to punch a hole through the wooden floor
and breathe through the opening, said Mike Williams, the chief Border Patrol
agent in El Paso. [Mr. Williams later said that two of the dead were smugglers.]
''They appear to have gotten excessively hot,'' William Harrington, assistant
chief patrol agent for the Border Patrol, said of the aliens. ''Some appeared to
have gone into convulsions, evidenced by nasal bleeding in their mouths and they
were dehydrated.''

Train on Siding Overnight

The aliens had boarded an eastbound Missouri Pacific freight train late
Wednesday afternoon at El Paso, about 90 miles northwest of Sierra Blanca on the
Mexican border, Mr. Williams said. They were apparently headed for the
Dallas-Fort Worth area, he said.

The freight train apparently stayed on a siding Wednesday night and was delayed
for some mechanical problem, he said.

Mr. Williams said the temperatures in the boxcar probably exceeded 120 degrees.
The bodies were found about 8 A.M. in a routine Border Patrol inspection of
boxcars.

''It is definitely an organized smuggling effort,'' Mr. Williams said.
''Possibly one of the smugglers was planning on riding the train on the outside,
in a different boxcar, with the idea of opening it up the first chance they
stopped.''

The dead were men believed to be in their 20's or 30's, said Harvey Bustamante,
a dispatcher with the Hudspeth County Sheriff's Department.

Mr. Harrington said the bodies had probably been inside the boxcar 12 to 14
hours. He said Government agents might never positively identify the bodies.

Clothing Scattered in Boxcar

Clothing was scattered around the boxcar, making the process of identification
difficult, he said.

The 21-year-old survivor, Miguel Tostado Rodriguez, was examined by a doctor in
the town of Van Horn and was helping the authorities piece together what
happened.

''He had no injuries,'' said Dr. Bill Lipsey. ''He had apparent dehydration and
oxygen deprivation, but he appeared to be largely recovered. His only complaint
was that he felt weak.''

Mr. Tostado was expected to spend the night in a shelter for illegal aliens in
El Paso, said James Selbe, associate chief of the El Paso Border Patrol.

Survivor 'Very Worn Out'

''He's very worn out and as the day passes on, it will sink in what he's been
through,'' Mr. Selbe said. Mr. Harrington said illegal aliens usually used El
Paso freight yards to leave the border area.

''Our agents do a routine check of all boxcars when the train officials sign for
them,'' he said. ''I am sure that once the survivor knew of anyone in the area,
he would have started screaming and making noises.''

''It is not uncommon to find aliens in a boxcar,'' he said. ''But we just don't
find them locked inside.''

Mark Davis, a spokesman for Union Pacific, the parent company of the Missouri
Pacific, said the railroad's agents did not open the car in El Paso because it
was supposed to be empty. An aluminum identification tag missing from one side
of the car prompted Border Patrol agents to check it, he said.

''On this particular train, the Border Patrol took 52 illegal aliens from the
train prior to departure from El Paso,'' Mr. Davis said.  In April 1984, five
Salvadorans were killed and six other aliens seriously injured when a train
drove through the group as they were being led by smugglers on a forced march on
a narrow railroad trestle near Kingsville, Tex.

On the Fourth of July weekend seven years ago, a report of a man lying by the
side of a remote Arizona highway led to the rescue of 12 Salvadorans and two
Mexican smugglers. Thirteen other people died in the attempt to cross the Organ
Pipe Cactus National Monument, where sand temperatures reached up to 150
degrees.

7 From Same Town

EL PASO, July 2 (Special to the New York Times) - Mr. Williams of the Border
Patrol said Mr. Tostado, the survivor, told the authorities that at least six of
the victims were from his hometown of Pabellon de Arteaga in the state of
Aguascalientes, in central Mexico. , ''The scene is grim,'' Mr. Williams said,
shortly after returning to El Paso from Sierra Blanca. ''They stripped off all
their clothes and tried to punch a hole in the door with a steel spike but it
was a steel door, and they couldn't do it.'' Mr. Tostado survived by punching a
hole in the floor of the car.

Mr. Williams said two of the dead were smugglers. He said it was normal practice
for smugglers to accompany their clients in a locked boxcar. He said there was
usually someone at the other end to let the aliens out.

Mr. Williams said the three smugglers apparently led the men to the freight yard
in El Paso, which he described as ''a real popular spot'' for illegal aliens to
begin their trip to the interior of the United States. The freight yard is about
a half-mile from the Mexico border, across from Juarez, a city of more than a
million people.

Mr. Williams said two of the smugglers climbed into an empty boxcar around 5
P.M. Wednesday along with their clients. He said the third smuggler, who
remained outside, slammed the door shut after locking the door.

He said investigators were trying to learn the identity of the third smuggler.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows location of Sierra Blanca, where 18 illegal aliens were found
dead in a locked boxcar (NYT)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Aliens Take a Death Train

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 52 words


In a bungled smuggling effort, 18 of 19 illegal aliens from Mexico died in
120-degree heat last week, trapped in a locked steel-walled boxcar. They had
boarded an eastbound freight at El Paso; the boxcar was opened the next day at
Sierra Blanca, Tex., because an aluminum identification tag was missing. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HOMETOWN MOURNS 7 FOUND IN BOXCAR

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: PABELLON DE ARTEAGA, Mexico, July 5


A black bow hung on City Hall in this central Mexican farm town that was home
for seven of the 18 illegal aliens who suffocated in a boxcar in Texas.

''It's the first time something like this has happened,'' Mayor Sergio Ortega
Ramirez said Saturday, adding it was the most tragic incident this town of
17,000 had ever suffered.

Local officials said seven of the victims were from here. They said that the
identities of six had been confirmed. The only survivor, Miguel Tostado
Rodriiguez, 21 years old, also was from this town.

Trapped for 14 Hours

The victims were found Thursday morning by a United States Border Patrol unit in
a locked boxcar that had heated up to 130 degrees under the desert sun. They had
been trapped for 14 hours in the car parked in Sierra Blanca, about 90 miles
east of El Paso.

People took up collections to help families bring back the bodies, and the mayor
said about $270 had been collected by Friday night.

Meanwhile, the Mexican Government is arranging and paying for the return of the
bodies because the families of the dead cannot afford the expense, said Beatriz
Lopez, spokewoman for the Mexican Consulate. A funeral home in the Mexican city
of Ciudad Juarez, across the Rio Grande from El Paso, had donated caskets to
carry the bodies home.

Mr. Ortega Ramirez said parents of several of the victims went to Texas with
documents and photographs of the others who died to help identify them.

Tragedy Causes Mixed Emotions

Tostado Rodriguez's mother, Socorro Rodriguez Gallegos, said the news of the
deaths and her son's survival created mixed emotions.

''On one hand, it made us very happy'' that her son had lived, she said. ''But
there is sadness for all of the mothers who know that their sons'' went to the
United States and died.

She said her son went to the United States ''to try to earn a living. Work is
very scarce here.'' Tostado Rodriguez had previously worked at a Dallas
reastaurant but returned to Mexico two months ago.

He and the other victims from here boarded a train Monday that took them from
Pabellon de Arteaga in the central state of Aguascalientes to the border. Three
other townspeople, planning to cross into the United States, also took the same
train, according to Rosa Rom Reyes, the mayor's secretary.

A Sister's Futile Hope

The sister of Mario Garcia Alvarez, 19, said he was among those who left the
town Monday, and she hoped he was not among the victims.

''My husband's aunt called and said Mario Garcia doesn't appear on the list'' of
the dead, she said. But Mr. Garcia, the father of a 1 1/2-year-old girl, was
later identified by the Mayor's office as one of the 18 who had suffocated.

The hope was also gone for the family of 17-year-old Hector Carrillo Flores. He
had gone to the United States for the first time to earn money to study music,
according to his aunt, Maria del Carmen Carrillo Zapata.

She said her nephew had trouble with some courses in high school and she had
encouraged him to pursue his interest in guitar.

''We supported him financially,'' she said. ''He didn't have to go and we didn't
want him to go.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 16, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Boxcar Survivor Freed

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 98 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Tex., July 15


The only survivor of a bungled smuggling attempt in which 18 illegal aliens died
has been released, according to Border Patrol agents. The survivor, Miguel
Tostado Rodriguez, 21, had been held as a material witness by Border Patrol
agents in El Paso. Agents found Mr. Tostado and the bodies of the 18 aliens, all
from central Mexico, in a boxcar on July 2 in Sierra Blanca, 90 miles east of El
Paso.

Mr. Tostado was released Monday on a permit that allows him to remain in the
United States temporarily, said William Harrington, assistant chief of the
Border Patrol's El Paso sector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 18, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Lawsuit Challenges Census on Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17


Forty members of Congress, arguing that including illegal aliens in the 1990
census would deprive some states of seats in the House, plan to file a lawsuit
to force the Census Bureau to exclude the aliens from calculations for the next
Congressional reapportionment.

The suit, to be filed Thursday in Federal District Court in Pittsburgh, adds a
new dispute to the debate already swirling around the plans for the 1990 census.
Bills are pending in both the Senate and House to require the Census Bureau to
make a statistical adjustment for what is expected to be an inaccurately low
count of members of minority groups in inner cities.

The Commerce Department, of which the Census Bureau is a part, announced last
October that it would not make an adjustment for the minority groups. #13 States
Represented The 40 members of Congress who are filing the suit on the illegal
alien question are a bipartisan group representing 13 states. The States of
Pennsylvania and Kansas have also joined the lawsuit as plaintiffs, as has the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national organization active in
immigration issues.

Census results are used every 10 years to determine the apportionment of seats
in the House.

Representative Tom Ridge, a Republican from Erie, Pa. who is the chief
plaintiff, said that his state, already likely to lose two of its 23 House
seats, could lose a third seat unless illegal aliens were excluded from the
reapportionment count. Kansas could also lose a seat in the reapportionment.

At a news conference here today, Mr. Ridge said that in the reapportionment
based on the 1980 census the inclusion of an estimated two million illegal
aliens resulted in an extra House seat for California and the retention of a
seat that would otherwise have been lost by New York.

'Vote Dilution' Seen

He said that including illegal aliens in the calculations ''increases the weight
and value of some citizens' votes and decreases the weight and value of other
citizens' votes.'' He called the resulting ''vote dilution'' unfair and
unconstitutional.

Illegal aliens are concentrated in a relative handful of urban areas. According
to estimates from the 1980 census, Los Angeles County contained a third of all
illegal aliens in the country, about 685,000 people. Five states, California,
New York, Texas, Illinois and Florida, had over 80 percent of all illegal
aliens.

Census Bureau estimates of the number of illegal aliens in the country have
ranged from 2.5 million to 4 million people.

The lawsuit does not seek to stop the Census Bureau from counting illegal aliens
in the census itself. Mr. Ridge said the plaintiffs had no objection to counting
illegal aliens for purposes of calculating the money that state would receive
from various Federal aid programs. The Supreme Court has ruled that illegal
aliens are constitutionally entitled to certain public benefits, including
education.

Views of Madison

The census does not include a question about citizenship, and bureau experts
have warned in the past that adding such a question would be likely to induce
illegal aliens to lie or to avoid returning the form altogether.

Maury Kagle, a spokesman for the Census Bureau, said the agency had a policy of
not commenting on litigation. A pamphlet published by the bureau several months
ago, entitled ''Counting for Representation: The Census and the Constitution,''
addressed the general issue, noting that James Madison had stated that
Congressional apportionment was to be ''founded on the aggregate number of
inhabitants.'' The bureau's pamphlet observed, ''Equal representation is for
everyone, citizen or not, and everyone must be counted for that.''

Two bills are pending in the House to require the Census Bureau to exclude
illegal aliens from the reapportionment count. But Mr. Ridge and several of the
other Congressional plaintiffs said that as a matter of political reality, there
was not likely to be a legislative consensus on a situation that promises to
benefit some states even as it threatens others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

TOPICS OF THE TIMES;
They Are Not Non-Persons

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 228 words


Some legislators and citizens, and the states of Kansas and Pennsylvania, have
brought a suit demanding that illegal aliens not be counted when Congress
redistricts after the 1990 Census. They claim that undocumented aliens in states
like New York and California will skew the results and perhaps cost their states
a House seat. To win, they must persuade the courts that the aliens are not
''persons,'' since persons, not citizens, are what the Constitution requires to
be counted.

The suit is an unworthy means to a dubious end. It asks the courts to mangle
both the original Constitution and the 14th Amendment, whose framers chose their
words carefully. It asks the courts to create a new class of non-persons,
contrary to one of the finest themes of constitutional history, the recognition
of people whose personhood has been denied. The Supreme Court has made clear
that whatever else America may do to protect its borders, it may not deny
illegals basics like a public education.

Even if successful, the suit could only frustrate the Census Bureau, which
relies on voluntary cooperation, by further frightening away people who already
fear the enumerators as suspicious agents of authority. Congress can and should
tell the Census Bureau to adjust for the unequal undercount, but neither
Congress nor the courts should treat people as less than persons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 20, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Kenya's Police Begin Seizing Illegal Aliens for Expulsion

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, March 19


The Kenyan police have started a nationwide roundup of illegal aliens after
President Daniel arap Moi's statement that the aliens were troublemakers who
should be expelled.

Mr. Moi announced a crackdown on illegal aliens on his return on Tuesday from
official visits to Britain and the United States, and the police actions began
Wednesday.

Officials said the authorities had arrested more than 100 of an estimated 10,000
foreigners living illegally in the Indian Ocean city of Mombasa.

Similar operations have been carried out in Nairobi, the capital, although no
word has yet emerged of their result. The official Kenya News Agency said
several foreigners had been rounded up in the western town of Kisumu.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 29, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

21 Injured in Crash of Van Chased by Border Agents in San Diego

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 67 words


Paramedics helping injured passengers of a van that was carrying illegal aliens
after accident in San Diego near the U.S.-Mexican border. A baby was killed and
at least 21 people were injured when the van rolled over while being chased by
Border Patrol agents. Officials said the passengers spilled out onto the center
divider when the van turned over as the driver tried to make a U-turn. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 7, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NBC Correspondent Applies for Amnesty

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, May 5


An NBC News correspondent, James Makawa, joined thousands of other illegal
aliens Tuesday in picking up applications under the new Federal amnesty program.

Mr. Makawa, 27 years old, said he came to the United States in 1977 on a student
visa to escape the war in his native Rhodesia, which is now called Zimbabwe.
After the visa expired that year, he stayed, telling no one of his illegal
status.

''It's been like living in a pressure cooker from day to day,'' he said. ''You
never knew whether the immigration van would show up. It's something you just
kept to yourself. It's a living hell.''

Mr. Makawa settled in Westville, Ind., and majored in journalism at the
University of Evansville in Indiana. After graduation he worked for television
stations in Evansville; Abilene, Texas; Mobile, Ala., and New Orleans before
joining the NBC bureau in Chicago in March 1986.

Mr. Makawa's story was revealed by Tom Brokaw, the anchorman on ''NBC Nightly
News'' Tuesday.

''Much to our surprise, James today was on line applying for amnesty,'' Mr.
Brokaw said. ''None of us knew he has been an illegal alien since his student
visa ran out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SOME VICTIMS' KIN SUSPICIOUS OF BOXCAR SURVIVOR

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, July 6


Families of some of the 18 Mexicans who suffocated in a boxcar say that the sole
survivor helped recruit some of the group for the trip to Dallas, a Mexican
state official said today.

''There are indications he was a human smuggler,'' said Benito Lopez Dominguez,
the Under Secretary of the state of Zacatecas, who was at the Mexican consulate
here.

Friends and relatives of some of the victims from the central Mexican hometown
of Miguel Tostado Rodriguez said that he was ''the one who invited them to go to
the border and to go across,'' Mr. Lopez said.

Mr. Lopez said he did not know whether Mr. Tostado Rodriquez was paid by other
smugglers for recruiting the group, whether he was to receive free passage to
Dallas from the other smugglers, or if he was merely seeking companions on the
trip. Mr. Tostado Rodriquez and six of the dead were from Pabellon de Arteaga,
which is in the state of Aguascalientes, neighboring Zacatecas.

One Smuggler Identified

The authorities say two smugglers were among the 18 who died in the boxcar last
week.

Heriberto Spindola of the Mexican consulate in El Paso identified one of the
dead smugglers today as Rafael Zamarron Torres of El Saucito, Zacatecas. The
authorities have not been able to determine the identity of the second smuggler,
although 17 of the 18 bodies have been identified, Mr. Spindola said.

Eighty-seven illegal aliens were arrested in local freight yards on Saturday and
100 more on Sunday, said William Harrington, assistant chief of the El Paso
sector of the Border Patrol. He called that a typical weekend.

The medical examiner completed the identifications of the 17 through dental
studies, fingerprints, tattoos and scars, said an El Paso Mortuary owner, Jim
Weatherly.

Troubles With Names

Mr. Tostado Rodriquez said last week that he had not paid the smugglers to take
him north but that he was going to pay them $400 when he arrived in Dallas-Fort
Worth.

He said one of the victims was like a brother to him and the others were
friends, but officials said he had been able to identify some of them only by
first name or nickname.

Two smugglers were said to be in the boxcar when a third smuggler locked the
doors. The authorities believe the third smuggler is a Mexican national who
operated out of Mexico, and that he has fled into his country.

''After his name showed up in the paper, he might be in South America,'' said
Mr. Harrington.

As the Border Patrol continued its investigation, holding the boxcar's only
survivor at its detention center in El Paso as a material witness, the Mexican
consulate worked today Monday to prepare to return the bodies.

''We are getting special coffins,'' Mr. Spindola said. ''They are preparing
them. The coffins are ready, yes, but not the bodies. They definitely won't be
shipped today.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN SANCUTARY MOVEMENT'S STATE UNCLEAR A YEAR AFTER COURT CASE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., July 6


A year after eight church workers were placed on probation for helping to give
sanctuary to Central American illegal aliens, there is disagreement over the
status of the movement.

The prosecutor, Assistant United States Attorney Donald M. Reno, said the
verdict ''was the death knell for the sanctuary movement'' and its sympathizers.

But the Rev. John M. Fife, a Presbyterian who helped found the movement, said it
was alive and growing. He pointed to its continued growth, its international
recognition and the honors it has received from religious, academic and other
groups for its human rights work.

Although the Federal Government sought to criminalize and discredit the
sanctuary movement, Mr. Fife asserted, ''The opposite occurred.''

Protection by Churches

Sanctuary activists have helped aliens whom they regard as political refugees
entitled to asylum to enter the United States and in many cases to stay here,
often under the protection of churches.

Many of those given sanctuary say they are fleeing the ravages of conflicts
between leftist guerrillas and forces backed by the United States in El Salvador
and Guatemala.

Last July, Mr. Fife, along with two Roman Catholic priests, the Rev. Anthony
Clark and the Rev. Ramon Dagoberto Quinones, and a Catholic nun, Sister Darlene
Nicgorski, were given suspended sentences and placed on probation after a
six-month Federal trial.

Also placed on probation were four church lay workers: Philip Willis-Conger,
Margaret Hutchison, Maria del Socorro Pardo de Aguilar and Wendy LeWin.

All but Father Clark and Ms. LeWin were convicted of conspiracy. Father Clark
was found guilty of concealing, harboring and shielding an alien, and Ms. LeWin
was convicted of transporting an illegal alien. Some of the other defendants
also were convicted of similar charges.

Three others, including James Corbett, a co-founder of the movement, were
acquitted of all charges.

Verdict Called a Precedent

Mr. Reno said that while those convicted ''can posture'' and make speeches about
the movement's growth, ''The Government prevailed on the most important issue:
Their conduct was a crime.''

But Ms. Hutchison said, ''As long as the United States continues to fund the war
in Central America, as long as Guatemalans and Salvadorans continue to be bombed
and continue to flee, that's what causes the sanctuary movement to continue.''

Sanctuary workers themselves disagree on how the trial may have affected Federal
immigration policy.

''The Federal Government, as far as we can tell, has been willing to live with
sanctuary'' since the trial, Mr. Corbett said. His lawyer, Stephen Cooper of St.
Paul, said more asylum petitions were being granted and fewer people were being
deported.

But Mr. Fife said new national figures show that over the last seven months,
asylum has been granted to only 3 percent of Salvadorans, no Guatemalans and 85
percent of Nicaraguans applying for it.

Mr. Fife, who received a human rights award in December presented by former
President Jimmy Carter, said he spends about half his time in sanctuary-related
work and has resumed his pastoral duties with the Southside Presbyterian Church
in Tucson.

Status of Current Work Unknown

As whether his current sanctuary-related work breaks the law, Mr. Fife said, ''I
don't know, the judge doesn't know and my probation officer doesn't know.''

Ms. Hutchison has continued to work with the United Methodist Church in a
ministry along the Mexican border. She, too, has accepted awards and made
numerous speeches.

Ms. Nicgorski, who is working at the Dominican Sisters Women's Center in
Plainville, Mass., was named one of Ms. magazine's women of the year.

Pointing to symposiums held by various law schools as well as one sponsored in
May by the Harvard Divinity School, she said that sanctuary efforts have ''moved
mainline, in a sense, very quickly,''

Mr. Corbett, who works in Tucson helping Salvadorans get counsel to determine
their legal status, said that if anything, the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Arizona may be ''more humane'' now in its grants of
asylum than in other districts.

He said Father Quinones, a priest in Nogales, Mexico, was working with homeless
people and trying to raise $12,000 to build a two-story extension to his church
to house at least 30 people.

Father Clark, after a stint in Rome, has returned to a parish in Davenport,
Iowa; Mrs. Aguilar, lives in Nogales, helping Father Quinones; Ms. LeWin took
training in emergency medical services, and Mr. Willis-Conger is at a San
Francisco seminary, training to become a Methodist minister.

Meanwhile, the sanctuary workers said, suffering continues in Central America.
Mr. Fife termed their trial a tragedy because so much money and effort went into
it ''and none of the issues were settled in that courtroom.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 30, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Plea on Firearms Charge

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 73 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., July 29


A man who led a paramilitary patrol along the Mexican border that reportedly
held 16 illegal aliens at gunpoint pleaded guilty Tuesday to a Federal firearms
charge under a plea agreement. The man, J. R. Hagan, 37 years old, of Tucson,
former regional director for Arizona and Utah in the conservative group Civilian
Materiel Assistance, pleaded guilty before Federal District Judge William D.
Browning. Sentencing was set for Sept. 21.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

In Sanctuary Movement, Unabated Strength but Shifting Aims

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1012 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 26


After a year of studying Central American issues, the 186 members of the
Dominican Sisters of the Congregation of the Sacred Heart recently announced
that their Roman Catholic order would provide sanctuary to undocumented aliens
from the region.

The nuns are not now harboring any aliens, they say, but their declaration is a
reminder that, more than a year after a widely publicized court defeat in
Tucson, Ariz., the sanctuary movement remains very much alive.

That is not to say that the movement, which provides aid mostly to aliens who
allege persecution by the American-supported Governments of El Salvador and
Guatemala, is unchanged. For one thing, there has been a shift in focus.

Organizers say that while the movement has grown, from a nationwide total of
about 270 churches and synagogues in the early 1980's to more than 400, there is
less emphasis now on actually transporting the aliens into the country and
sheltering them here. Instead, stress is being placed on efforts to assist those
already here through counseling and legal representation, in part to help win
legal status for those previously barred as not qualifying for political asylum.


Resettlement Efforts

Sanctuary churches have also become active in efforts to resettle Central
Americans trying to return to their homes from refugee camps in the region. In
some ways, the loosely knit coalition has also become more overtly political in
its opposition to the Reagan Administration's policies in the area, and,
organizers and outsiders agree, has played a role in bringing Central American
issues to the attention of thousands of other churches and synagogues.

''I think they have been influential on a political level in making people aware
of the situation in Central America,'' said Doris Meisner, a former Acting
Commissioner of Immigration who is now with the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace. ''They have been far more successful than expected. Having
refugees tell their story is very compelling. It's a marvelous organizing
technique.''

The movement received further attention when Pope John Paul II, on his visit to
the United States last month, praised those who have aided ''suffering brothers
and sisters arriving from the south'' and who have shown ''compassion in the
face of complex human, social and political realities.'' There was widespread
speculation that the Pope was referring to the sanctuary churches, although
Vatican officials said the remarks were not directed at any particular group.

Legal Setback Last Year

All this success comes despite a major legal setback in May 1986, when eight
church workers, including some of the movement's founders, were found guilty at
a Federal trial in Tucson of criminal conspiracy to harbor and transport illegal
aliens.

Still, those convicted were all given probational sentences, and most are still
involved with some phase of the movement's activities. Since then, the movement
has been bolstered by a Supreme Court ruling, in a case that was not tied to its
activities. In that ruling, last March, the Court rejected the Administration's
position that to qualify for asylum, aliens had to prove a ''clear probability''
that they would be killed, tortured or otherwise persecuted for their beliefs if
returned home. The Court said they need prove only a ''reasonable possibility.''

Organizers of the sanctuary coalition say the aliens they help are fleeing
political persecution and thus should be viewed as refugees and accorded
political asylum under immigration laws. They say their actions are proper
because the Government has not been fairly enforcing those laws, favoring asylum
applicants from Marxist countries at the expense of those from nations friendly
to Washington.

Criticism From Government

The State Department estimates that there are now 500,000 to 800,000 Salvadorans
and 150,000 Guatemalans in the United States, most of whom arrived illegally.
The department generally characterizes them as victims of economic distress
rather than political refugees, and asserts that the sanctuary movement has been
little more than an organized attempt to smuggle illegal aliens.

Other criticism come from Donald Reno, the Government prosecutor at the Tucson
trial, who says the proceedings there showed the political underpinnings of what
he said had been presented as a religious and moral movement.

''The movement has been exposed for what it was, a political movement that was
designed to viciously attack the Reagan Administration's policy in Central
America,'' he said. ''The masquerading behind a religious facade was an
effective way to attract congregations into the movement.''

''Our agenda is the well-being of the refugees from Central America,'' said
Sister Jane Abellof the Dominican Sisters here, whose order has been involved in
church work in Guatemala. ''One way to do that is to offer food, shelter and
clothing, and another is to offer them a voice so they can tell their own story.
We don't see ourselves as being involved in politics. But we are social beings,
and there is a political dimension to social engagement.''

The Rev. John Fife, a Presbyterian minister in Tuscon who was one of the
founders of the movement, said that partly as a result of the Supreme Courtr
ruling last March, as many as 60 percent of Central American applicants in his
area are now accorded asylum status as opposed to none in the past, so that
legal representation is an increasing priority.

Others point to what they say is the profound effect the movement has had in
increasing attention given by churches to Central American issues.

''In terms of influence, it is perhaps the single most successful effort to help
people become aware of our policies in foreign countries,'' said Dr. William R.
Farmer, a professor of the New Testament at the Perkins School of Theology at
Southern Methodist University. ''It's a powerful movement. When people see and
listen to the refugees, they are transformed. It's not mainstream, but it's
having an effect on the mainstream.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Sister Jane Abell (NYT/F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 11, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTIONS

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 36 words


Because of an editing error, a headline in some copies on Saturday about a man
charged with harboring illegal aliens misstated his occupation. He is an
investigator for the Brooklyn District Attorney's office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Reinstated '84 Plan Provided For Return of 2,700 to Cuba

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22


The immigration agreement that set off the riot by Cuban inmates at a detention
center in Louisiana reinstated an understanding between the two countries that
was reached in December 1984. The State Department announced the reinstatement
Friday.

Under the accord the Cuban leader, Fidel Castro, agreed to take back 2,700 Cuban
criminals and mental patients who had come here in boats from the Cuban port of
Mariel in April 1980. In return the United States agreed to admit 3,000 Cuban
political prisoners and up to 20,000 regular immigrants a year.

Mr. Castro suspended the agreement in May 1985 after the United States began
broadcasts to Cuba over Radio Marti, a Voice of America outlet that the Cubans
said was a vehicle for anti-Castro propaganda.

In the months the agreement was first in effect 201 Cubans were returned by the
United States, according to Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. ''There have never been any indications or charges by
anyone that they were mistreated after they were sent back,'' he said.

Castro Denied Sending Criminals

Cuban officials said at the time that a number of the people who were returned
had been allowed to go back to their communities after they were cleared by
health authorities. A person who answered the telephone today at the Cuban
Interests Section, which is the diplomatic office representing Cuba in the
United States, said no officials were available to discuss the situation.

American officials said the refugees sent back to Cuba had histories of criminal
offenses or of mental illness, but Mr. Castro has repeatedly denied that he
ordered the release of prisoners or mental patients to join the 1980 emigration
from Mariel.

Thus, Cuban officials have said, people who were listed by the United States as
criminals or mental patients, but who had not been charged with crimes while
they were in the United States, were permitted to return to their communities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Cuban Inmates Riot in Louisiana Over New Threat of Deportation

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1620 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., Nov. 22


More than 1,000 Cuban inmates, outraged at the prospect of being deported under
a new immigration agreement, took over a Federal detention center here Saturday
night, seized about 30 hostages and set fire to most of the prison.

The authorities said that the inmates were still holding 28 employees hostage
tonight and that they remained in control of the prison compound. Thirteen
people were hospitalized, although their injuries were not believed to be
serious.

Mario Ortiz, a spokesman for the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said negotiations were going on with the inmates and had ''reached a
very concentrated phase.'' He said ''it's my understanding'' that two or three
inmates he saw talking with Federal officials ''represent all the other
inmates.''

In Washington, officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the
Federal Bureau of Prisons said that senior officials of the two agencies were
monitoring the situation in Louisiana, but had taken no actions to placate the
Cuban inmates.

Jim Stevens, a spokesman for the Bureau of Prisons said tonight that a letter
from Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d was delivered to the inmates this
afternoon. ''I do not know the contents,'' he said. ''I assume it was
reassuring.'' He said the inmates had not responded.

Central Demand

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, and Kathy L. Morse, a
spokeswoman for the Bureau of Prisons, said they had no information to suggest
that the Government was making concessions on the Cubans' central demand: that
they not be sent back to Cuba.

The outbreak followed the State Department's announcement Friday of an
immigration agreement that would allow the deportation of nearly 2,600 Cubans
from the United States. Until the agreement was reached, many inmates here
believed they would soon be released to halfway houses, according to immigration
lawyers.

Most inmates here have completed prison sentences for crimes committed after
they arrived in the United States, but because of their crimes, they are subject
to deportation.

The agreement reinstated an understanding between the United States and Cuba
that dates from December 1984. Under the accord, Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader,
agreed to take back 2,700 Cuban criminals and mental patients who had come here
in the 1980 Mariel boatlift. In return, the United States agreed to accept 3,000
Cuban political prisoners and up to 20,000 regular immigrants a year.

Mr. Castro suspended the agreement in May 1985 after the United States began
broadcasts to Cuba over Radio Marti, a Voice of America outlet that the Cubans
said was an anti-Castro propaganda vehicle. While the agreement was in effect,
201 Cubans were returned to Cuba, Mr. Jervis said.

As of late this evening prison officials said that about 42 inmates had chosen
to leave or had been transferred to a hospital with injuries. They responded to
a call over the prison loudspeaker offering ''food, security and relocation to
other American facilities to all detainees who come out peacefully,'' according
to spokesmen for the prison.

While prison officials negotiated with the Cubans through the gates, hundreds of
law-enforcement officials were patrolling the 12-foot high fence surrounding the
38-acre compound. Families of those held hostage gathered gathered at a church
in the town.

''The inmates have been demonstrative in showing their concern for not hurting
the hostages,'' said Mr. Ortiz. He said that at least two hostages with medical
problems had been released since the takeover, which officials called a
''gesture of their willingness to talk.''

Mayor George B. Mowad of Oakdale said today that the State Department's
announcement on Friday of the accord with Cuba had fallen on the Federal
Detention Center ''like a bomb, because of the suddenness of it.''

''It changed the whole environment because nobody wanted to go back to Cuba,''
said the Mayor, who is also a surgeon here.

When the United States and Cuba entered into the original immigration agreement,
a list containing the names of 2,746 Cubans who were to be returned to Cuba was
agreed upon. That list has not been made public and it was not known how many of
the Oakdale inmates' names appeared on that list, according to immigration
officials. #305 Sent to Halfway Houses The Oakdale detention center opened in
April 1986 to process people seeking political asylum and as an expulsion point
for illegal aliens. That mission was changed last fall, when it became a jail
for Cubans, brought to Oakdale from the Federal prison in Atlanta.

However, it also became a processing point for a program to rehabilitate and
release prisoners to halfway houses. Since the Cubans first arrived in Oakdale
last December, 305 had been sent to halfway houses and 10 or so had been sent to
live with their families in this country, an immigration spokesman said earlier
this month.

Immigration officials review each inmate's case every six months for possible
release to a halfway house or to family members residing in the United States.
However, even those inmates who are released remain subject to deportation
proceedings.

Dr. Mowad said that he was told on Friday by prison officials that they feared a
reaction to the immigration accord but that they did not know how significant it
would be.

''They brought in extra employees,'' he said. He said that there was a minor
incident in the cafeteria Friday night but the prison was quiet Saturday until
about 7 P.M., when the riot was said to have started.

'Like a Disaster Area'

The Federal Penitentiary in Atlanta, where 1,392 Cuban prisoners are detained,
was described as calm today. Officials said the prison, which is holding the
largest number of Cuban detainees in this country, had taken no unusual security
steps after the Louisiana rioting.

This morning Dr. Mowad said that the $17.5 million detention center, run by the
Bureau of Prisons and the immigration service, ''looks like a disaster area,
like it's been bombed out.''

He said all that was left of the prison's two main administration buildings were
''some walls.'' He also said that the prison's cafeteria and the infirmary were
destroyed.

In addition, the prison's main switchboard was wrecked. An emergency telephone
system has been set up but communication into the prison is difficult, he said.

Warden J. R. Johnson said this morning that fires were burning in virtually all
of the 12 or 13 buildings in the prison compound.

Mr. Stevens, the Bureau of Prisons spokesman who works as a unit manager at
Oakdale, said four dormitory buildings appear to be relatively intact.

Photographs of Hostages

Some families of those believed to be held hostage maintained a vigil in the
fellowship hall of the Sacred Heart Catholic Church here. Twice the families
rose and surged toward the Police Chief, Vigil Chandler, as he showed them
Polaroid photographs that were taken by the inmates and given to negotiators.
Chief Chandler's son is among the hostages.

Lisa Chamberlin, with tears in her eyes, clutched a picture of her smiling
husband, Webster Chamberlin, Written on the glossy border of photograph was his
message to her:

''Take it easy.''

''It's a real smile,'' sobbed Mrs. Chamberlin.

For many families, the photographs and news briefings provided the only
information about what was going on inside the compound.

State police, Border Patrol officers, the local police and Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents have sealed off the facility, making it impossible to get
within a mile of it.

Aside from the fence layered with razor wire that surrounds it, the facility
looked like a college campus before the riot. It is situated in Central
Louisiana's piney woods outside this small city of 7,000.

Almost 1,000 Cubans with criminal records have been jailed in the center. Also
about 50 United States citizens have been working there while serving Federal
sentences.

''There are two basic reasons why the Cubans don't want to go back to Cuba,''
said Arthur C. Helton, director of the Political Asylum Project of the Laywers
Committee for Human Rights. ''They are afraid of political persecution and some
do not want to leave their American families.''

Leonard E. Rowland, an Oakdale immigration official, said in an interview last
month that the inmates' crimes ranged from shoplifting and illegal use of credit
cards to manslaughter, but the majority had served sentences for drug possession
and other drug-related offences.

Luz Molina, a New Orleans immigration lawyer, said today that until the
agreement was reached between Cuba and the United States on Friday, the Oakdale
inmates believed that ''it was a matter of time before they were released.''

Gary Leshaw, an attorney for the Legal Aid Society of Atlanta, said that as
recently as last week officials of the Justice Department's Community Relations
Division told attorneys for the inmates that 570 Cubans, many of them at
Oakdale, had been approved for release to halfway houses.

Dr. Mowad said that before the riot there had been little unrest at the prison,
which has held Cubans for almost a year.

Dr. Mowad met Department of Justice officials last November and was given
assurances that the Cubans, despite their criminal records, constituted no
danger to the community. ''They told us that because of the incentives they were
offering these people, they didn't expect any problems,'' the Mayor said. ''The
Cubans were told that if you act good, you'll be taught English, taught a job,
parolled out to a halfway house in a major city and given a green card. But if
you act bad, you'll go back to the Atlanta prison for the rest of your life.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of the administration building at the Federal Detention Center
(AP); Sandy Ray and her fiance Aubrey Fuselir (AP) (pg. B14)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 20, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Editor's Note

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 100 words


An article yesterday about the new immigration law discussed implications for
the employment of child-care helpers in American households.

It noted that some foreign women on tourist visas were working, illegally, as au
pairs.

Betty Richardson, proprietor of

Betty's Nannies, a Houston-based do-mestic recruitment agency, was quoted as
saying, ''If they took all the unauthorized nannies away we'd all come to a
screeching halt.''

Ms. Richardson says the article should have specified that her agency places
only American nannies, all of whom are legal workers, and no foreign au pairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editor's Note

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 2, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Employers' Confusion Costs Aliens Jobs

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words


To the Editor:

Your May 25 news account of the impact on employers of the new alien employment
controls in the Immigration Reform and Control Act neglected to mention an
important protection that exists for both employers and employees:

Not only are employers immunized from sanctions with respect to employees who
were on the payroll before last Nov. 6 (not Nov. 1), and consequently employers
need not check the documents of those workers, but even aliens hired after Nov.
6 can gain automatic authorization to work until next Sept. 1 if they certify to
their employers that they intend to apply for legalization under the new law.
Thousands of alien workers are affected by these saving provisions.

A New York State task force report last March documented more than 64 cases of
unnecessary and abusive firings of employees over the first two months of the
new law. Employers, out of self-protective motives, sometimes act in ways that
unnecessarily deprive alien workers of an opportunity to subsist in the United
States, with the result that many are forced to leave, like the large numbers of
Central Americans who recently have sought admission into Canada.

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service authorities have not yet
provided sufficient education to employers, particularly to smaller businesses,
and many innocent individuals are suffering because of that omission.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Chairman, Advisory Committee
New York State Interagency
Task Force on Immigration Affairs
  New York, May 26, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

STRAWBERRIES ROT IN OREGON'S FIELDS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 29, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., June 6


Up to a third of Oregon's strawberry crop may rot in the fields because the
fruit is ripening early and a new immigration law has discouraged Mexican
workers from coming here, officials and workers say.

''We have a strawberry crop being harvested right now with as many as 50 to 60
percent fewer workers than are needed,'' said Rick Stevenson, director of the
Oregon Farm Bureau Federation's Information and Commodity Division.

The Federal immigration law's farm worker program, which began Monday, grants
temporary resident status to aliens who can prove they worked in United States
fields for at least 90 days each year from 1984 to 1986 and to those who worked
90 days in perishable commodities in the year ended May 1, 1986.

To avoid deportation this year, aliens must complete a form saying they are
eligible for temporary legal status.

Many Migrants Fearful

But many migrant workers mistakenly believe they will lose their chance for
legal residency or farm work visas if they are caught in the United States this
year, said Jose, a 24-year-old Mexican picking strawberries near Portland.

''Most of those people that crossed the border at about the same time I did are
already back in Mexico,'' said Jose, who entered the country illegally last
month and spoke on condition that his surname not be used. ''Some got caught
along the way and others went back because they feared being caught and losing
the chance for amnesty.''

The situation is complicated by an early-ripening strawberry crop that is
expected to total 80 million pounds on 7,500 acres. Last year Oregon produced
63.5 million pounds on 7,300 acres.

After California, Oregon is the nation's second-largest strawberry producer,
responsible for about 20 percent of the United States crop.

A spokesman for the State Agriculture Department, Dalton Hobbs, warned that
about a third of the state's crop would be lost.

Cross Losses Foreseen

Roy Malensky, owner of the Oregon Berry Packing Company in Hillsboro said:
''We're going to lose 800,000 pounds. That's 20 to 25 percent of our grower
crop.''

Mr. Malensky said he had tried to rely on legal pickers but had found them slow
and unwilling to work.

''I've tried to do everything by the book,'' he said. ''Others who haven't gone
to the same trouble and just went after the illegals from the start are doing
better.''

Doreen Bradshaw, a grower in southern Oregon, said she had had to pay much
higher wages to lure pickers and weeders.

Growers in California had fewer problems getting their berries picked because of
a large population of resident pickers, but there is also concern in that state
about the new law.

Larry Carter, head of the Stanislaus County Farm Bureau in Modesto, said many
seasonal workers stayed in Mexico this year because of the confusion over the
amnesty program.

''I still hear reports that they're afraid they'll get picked up if they come
in'' to apply for work permits, said Mark Hill, chief of the Oxnard office of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Mobile Information Center

The service rolled out a motor home in Los Angeles on Wednesday as a mobile
information center to reach agricultural workers in California, Oregon officials
decided Tuesday to start a publicity campaign to explain the new law to
potential pickers.

While the campaign may help later for crops such as raspberries and pears, it is
already too late to save the strawberries, which are too perishable to wait for
pickers, growers say.

Mr. Malensky, whose processed berries go into products such as yogurt and ice
cream, says that next year, growers will have no choice but to plant fewer
acres.

''I wouldn't be surprised if two years from now the state would be down from 70
million pounds to just 30 to 35 million,'' he said. ''There's nobody to pick
'em, so why plant 'em?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SHORTAGE OF FARM WORKERS PUTS PRESSURE ON THE HARVEST

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex.


LONNIE De LEON spent his days last week meticulously verifying the documents of
thousands of farm workers hired by Griffin & Brand Inc., the largest grower of
fruits and vegetables in the Rio Grande Valley here. It is a dreary job, but one
that growers elsewhere would be happy to do - if only they had the workers to
check.

Severe labor shortages last week left early-ripening crops rotting in the fields
across the Northwest. In Oregon alone, officials expect the lack of pickers will
cause the loss of about 30 percent, or $8 million worth, of the strawberry crop.
And the California Farm Bureau reported last week that the supply of seasonal
farmhands was 25 percent to 30 percent below the demand.

Officials in both states said the dislocations were brought on by the nation's
new immigration law, which provides stiff penalties for the employers of illegal
aliens.

In the years of heated debate that led up to the new law, the farm worker
question was one of the most difficult to resolve. The labor shortages, which
have also affected such urban employers as garment makers, janitorial services
and hotels, are bringing home with surprising speed the complexities and
unforeseen consequences of the law that President Reagan signed in November.

The United States has depended on imported labor to do much of the least
desirable work for much of its history. But immigration policy has seesawed,
trying to balance the allure of cheap foreign labor against the demands of
American workers, ever since the Alien Contract Labor Law of 1885 was enacted to
regulate the flow of Asian workers to the United States.

In the early decades of this century, demand for farm workers boomed. Government
figures show 23,991 Mexicans immigrating from 1900 to 1909; 173,663 from 1910 to
1919, and 487,527 from 1920 to 1929. Many left or were deported during the
Depression, only to be lured back by the labor shortage of World War II. The
boom that followed prompted the so-called bracero program, which recruited
Mexicans to work in farms and factories from 1946 to 1964 It was popular with
growers and unpopular with American farm workers, who said it depressed wages
and enabled the growers to maintain substandard working conditions.

Last year's law attempted to balance those pressures. For farm workers, it
offers legalization provisions far more lenient than those for other aliens:
They need only prove they worked here for 90 days in the year prior to May 1,
1986, to win permanent residence. For growers, there was the ''guest worker''
plan, which dramatically streamlined existing procedures for importing Mexican
workers to fill seasonal needs.

Still, no one was entirely pleased. Farm workers say the guest-worker provisions
are an open invitation to bypass American farmhands. ''There are thousands of
workers out of work in the Rio Grande Valley,'' said Dolores Huerta, first vice
president of the United Farmworkers of America. ''Yet they haven't gotten any
job orders from Washington or Oregon. The employers are trying to get around the
law with this big propaganda campaign, so they can bring in foreign workers who
can't protest.''

Harold Ezell, the Western regional director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said growers have resisted using guest workers, because
the program requires that they be given adequate living quarters and wages
comparable to what a citizen would make. ''Growers have been so hooked on the
opiate of illegal workers for so many years that they don't want to take the
cure,'' Mr. Ezell said.

But growers and agriculture officials say the new law has changed employment
patterns so drastically they have not been able to adapt. Dalton Hobbs of
Oregon's Department of Agriculture said that only half of the 20,000 migrant
workers needed to harvest huge strawberry and cherry crops have showed up. And
many of the workers available were not the skilled pickers of the past.
''Traditionally, these producers have had very longstanding, stable groups of
people showing up at their doors for the past 20 years,'' Mr. Hobbs said. ''Now
they're wondering where these people are. And it looks like most of them are
trapped in Mexico.''

If so, part of the reason is bureaucratic problems with the guest-worker program
there, as well as fear and confusion among Mexicans who might have applied.
Quite a few who had worked illegally in the United States have been fired and,
back at home, are causing others to doubt their chances of getting work across
the border.

By all indications, the tumult over this first harvest under the new law is only
the beginning. Analysts say that many newly legal aliens will look for nonfarm
jobs. Combined with a sharp drop in the hiring of illegal aliens, said Libby
Whitley, executive vice president of the National Council of Agricultural
Employers, that may cause ''a very significant shortfall sooner rather than
later.''

Growers say increased costs and smaller harvests will inevitably be passed along
to consumers in the form of higher prices.

Many analysts fear that, under these pressures, the guest-worker program will be
inflated into something akin to the bracero program. A Labor Department
spokesman estimates that it could grow tenfold to bring in 220,000 workers by
1990. Such a huge increase would likely draw angry protests from American farm
workers' groups.

The biggest losers figure to be the producers of livestock, poultry, cotton,
sugar cane, sugar beets and forest products, whose workers were excluded from
the more lenient agriculture amnesty provisions because their goods were not
considered perishable. Also hard hit will be small growers who do not have
enough seasonal jobs to make the paperwork of the guest-worker program
worthwhile.

West Texas ranchers say the illegal aliens who routinely came to their doors in
recent years asking for work are virtually nonexistent this year. John Cargile,
a rancher in San Angelo, Tex., said he had been unable to find summer help for
brush control. ''The ranching industry has become so dependent on these aliens
from Mexico,'' he said, ''that when they are no longer available it's going to
create a void in the labor supply.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Mexican guest workers waiting for transport buses in El Paso
(NYT/Bruce Herman)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 3, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE VOTES TO REQUIRE TEST OF ALIENS FOR AIDS VIRUS

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


The Senate voted overwhelmingly today to require immigrants to be tested for the
AIDS virus and to exclude them if they showed evidence of infection.

The proposal, approved 96 to 0, was the first move in Congress to require
testing for AIDS virus infection. The vote backs up the decision President
Reagan made to instruct the Immigration and Naturalization Service to add the
AIDS infection to the list of dangerous diseases immigrants are tested for
currently. The immigration service has the power to do this under current law.

Mr. Reagan announced this move when he called for routine testing of prisoners,
those in drug treatment programs and couples applying for marriage licenses in a
major speech on AIDS last Sunday.

House Acceptance Expected

Because of the action taken by the President, the House is expected to accept
the AIDS testing amendment.

The vote reflects the desire of the Senate to be recorded as taking action to
restrict the spread of AIDS. But several senators, while voting for the
proposal, objected to the Senate's fast action and without a study on AIDS
legislation. ''This is not an issue that has enjoyed the analysis of
committees,'' said Senator John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri. ''It has
not enjoyed thoughtful debate.''

The Senate proposal would require the test for legal immigrants coming into the
country and for all the illegal immigrants expected to seek amnesty under the
new immigration law. The proposal does not indicate what would happen to illegal
aliens already here who tested positive for the AIDS virus but were otherwise
eligible for amnesty under the new immigration law. Mr. Reagan did not raise
this issue either.

Special Committee Sought

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, co-author of the new immigration
law, called for the immediate establishment of a special Congressional committee
to make recommendations on how to deal with illegal aliens who test positive for
the AIDS virus.

Mr. Simpson, saying that as many as three million people may apply for amnesty
in the next year, said the options include trying to deport them, some form of
detention or allowing them to stay here illegally with a communicable disease.

Mr. Simpson also said that Congress had to decide whether the Government would
disclose the fact that an immigrant tested positive for the AIDS virus. ''This
issue has just started,'' he said.

The testing proposal, which was offered by Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of
North Carolina, was approved as an amendment to the $9.6 billion supplemental
appropriations bill for the fiscal year 1987, which ends Sept. 30.

The Senate subsequently approved the entire appropriations bill, 71 to 23. The
bill now goes to a House-Senate conference to work out the differences. The
House approved a $9.3 billion version in April.

The supplemental bill includes $77 million in money for AIDS. Of this, $20
million is for the mailing of a Government pamphlet on AIDS to every household;
$27 million is for AIDS counseling in minority programs and $30 million to help
people with AIDS to pay for drugs that might prolong their lives.

Under current law, immigrants are tested for five venereal diseases, infectious
leprosy and active tuberculosis. If they test positive they are excluded.
Members who supported the proposal argued that it was logical to add AIDS to
this contagious and dangerous disease list.

Test Detects Antibodies

Acquired immune deficiency syndrome cripples the body's immune system, leaving
victims susceptible to serious infections and cancers. It is caused by a virus
that spreads through sexual intercourse with an infected partner or exhanges of
blood, such as in shared hypodermic needles.

The test detects antibodies to the AIDS virus. Antibodies are substances the
body produces to defend aginst invading microorganisms. People can be infected
with the AIDS Virus and not become ill for many years.

This was the second attempt by Mr. Helms to get an AIDS testing amendment
approved. Two weeks ago, he offered an amendment to the supplemental
appropriations bill that would have required testing for immigrants and
applicants for marriage licenses. But the Senate defeated that amendment, 63 to
32. At the time, many members said they were not ready to make up their minds on
the issue so they preferred to do nothing.

But today Mr. Helms worked out an agreement with Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr.,
Republican of Connecticut, that opened the way for approval. Mr. Helms limited
the amendment to immigrants and agreed to drop a proposal that would have
delayed the distribution of $30 million to the states to pay for drugs to
prolong the lives of people with AIDS who can not afford the treatment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WESTCHESTER JOURNAL;
IMMIGRATION REFORM

BYLINE: By Penny Singer

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 3, Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 308 words


The Westchester Personnel Council of the County Chamber of Commerce is
sponsoring a half-day conference tomorrow that will address employer compliance
with recent immigration reform legislation, at the Stouffer Westchester Hotel in
White Plains. The special half-day conference, to be held from noon to 5 P.M.,
is designed to familiarize area employers with the new employment verification
and hiring procedures as mandated by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986.

Representative Benjamin A. Gilman has been invited to participate in the
luncheon segment of the conference, which will begin at noon. Then the
conference will hold a workshop that will address the new employment
verification and hiring procedures.

The workshop will be presented by John O'Malley, coordinator of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986 for the New York District Immigration and
Naturalization Service, and Mark Sussman, a partner in Jackson Lewis Schnitzler
& Krupman, a law firm specializing in labor and employment law that has an
office in White Plains.

In terms of potential impact the Immigration Reform and Control Act is the
widest sweeping piece of legislation to affect employers in the last 20 years,
according to Mr. Sussman. ''Every employer, regardless of size, is affected,''
Mr. Sussman said. ''What we will do at the symposium is to focus on how
employers can establish preventive programs to assure compliance and minimize
liability. Employers will learn about the new procedures that must be
implemented to bring their companies into full compliance and avoid financial
and criminal sanctions.''

The conference, which includes luncheon, afternoon coffee break and printed
materials, costs $45 for chamber members and $75 for nonmembers. For
reservations and information, call the County Chamber of Commerce at 948-2110.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 4, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

FARM WORKERS CONFOUNDED BY IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 897 words


Under the new Federal immigration law, three Haitian farm workers who came to
this country a year and a half ago as boat people should be eligible for United
States citizenship.

But the three, who have worked picking apples and harvesting cabbage and corn on
farms in western New York, are having problems - like many farm workers -
reconstructing even the last year of their lives.

''The trouble is they worked for different growers, were paid cash by crew
leaders for man-hours, and there are no records,'' James Schmidt, executive
director of Farm Worker Legal Services in Rochester, said recently.

The Haitians, who range in age from 24 to 40, live in migrant camps on the farms
and so have no proof of residence. They went to Florida last winter but could
not find work and have come back to New York for the apple season.

Unwilling to Provide Documents

Legal Services is trying to find the Haitians' crew leaders to get affidavits,
Mr. Schmidt said. But he noted that crew leaders and growers were sometimes
unwilling to provide these documents because they had failed to pay their Social
Security. If they refuse to provide the affidavits, the only options left to the
Haitians would be to go home or stay and risk deportation.

On the surface, becoming a citizen under the special agricultural workers
program would seem easy. The general Immigration Reform Act requires illegal
aliens to prove that they lived in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982. But
farmworkers need only prove they worked in a perishable-crop industry for at
least 90 days, in the period from May 1985 to May 1986.

Applications for legal status under the new Special Agricultural Worker program
have been ''very slow'' in the New York area and the whole Eastern Region,
according to John O' Malley, New York District Coordinator for the Immigration
and Naturalization Services' legalization program.

Mr. O'Malley said only 229 applications for special agricultural status had been
filed from the Eastern Region and just 52 from the New York District since the
program began June 1.

Fear of a 'Sting'

On the other hand, about 20,000 applications have been turned in from the
Eastern Region under the general amnesty program, which began May 6.

Mr. Schmidt, estimated that 5,000 to 10,000 illegal farm workers should be
eligible for legalization in New York State under the special agricultural
provision.

In fact, the new immigration law, which reportedly has caused a crisis on farms
on the West Coast, seems to have had little impact in this area. ''We haven't
gotten any complaints of shortages - but maybe that's a fact of geography
because our growing season is later,'' Mr. O'Malley said.

A few labor shortages have been reported in the Oswego area, causing some
disruptions in strawberry production. Long Island nurseries seem to be managing
this year but are concerned about next year's labor supply.

'Afraid to Come Here'

''We're getting calls from Jersey now; some Mexicans and Central Americans who
usually come for the lettuce season are afraid to come here and don't want to
move,'' said Mildred Ruiz, a project director for Rural Opportunities, a
nonprofit organization designated by the immigration agency to help with the
legalization of farm workers. But she said there were many contract workers with
temporary visas - Jamaicans, Haitians and Mexicans - working on cabbage and
apple farms in the area.

''Possibly down the road there will be production shortages, maybe late
summer-early fall with the apple harvest,'' Gerald Moore, a spokesman for the
New York State Department of Agriculture said this week, ''but at this point we
have no significant problems.'' He noted that while West Coast growers
traditionally used a lot of illegal labor, growers in this area used a good deal
of contract labor, including Puerto Ricans and black Americans.

Undocumented farm workers have special problems, stemming from their mobility,
isolation, and difficulty in meeting the cost of legalization, according to Nyla
Gaylord, the deputy director of Rural Opportunities, which has seven sites in
New York and two in New Jersey.

''Many farm workers don't even know where to apply for legal status because they
need to move on when seasonal work is done and can't wait for their applications
to be processed,'' Ms. Gaylord said. Also, she said, some workers were afraid of
cold weather and had no suitable clothing.

Other farm workers are intimidated by the cost of legalization and sometimes not
properly informed, according to Lucy Santiago, community service specialist for
Rural Opportunities in Rochester.

She cited the case of a Salvadoran couple in their early 30's who work on a farm
in Wayne County, trimming apple trees. Although they are eligible for
legalization, they sent their seven children home to El Salvador because they
thought they would have to pay $185 to legalize each child. They did not know
there is a cap of $420 per family.

Some farm workers do not meet the required time frame because they have taken
other jobs, according to Beth Arnold, a regional manager of Rural Opportunities
for the Lower Mid-Hudson, at Newburgh, N.Y.

She said isolation poses another problem for farm workers. She added that there
was no doctor in the area qualified to give a medical exam and no immigration
service office to process applications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 26, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

First U.S. Employer Charged Under Alien Law Pays a Fine

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25


A Virginia inn that was the first employer to be charged with violating the
nation's new immigration law has reached a settlement with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

In the settlement announced Tuesday, the Quality Inn in Arlington, Va., admitted
to employment of aliens not authorized to work and various paperwork violations.
The inn also agreed to pay $11,000 in lieu of $16,500 in fines, to withdraw its
request for a hearing before an administrative law judge and to stop violating
the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 17, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Senate Bars Denial of Visas on Political Grounds

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16


The Senate approved and sent legislation to President Reagan today that
temporarily prohibits the Government from denying visas to foreigners because of
their political beliefs.

The provision, which overrides part of a highly restrictive 1952 immigration
law, the McCarran-Walter Act, is included in the budget bill governing State
Department operations. It was approved by a voice vote. The House approved the
bill Tuesday.

Sponsored by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, and
Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, the provision would be
in effect from Jan. 1, 1988, to the end of February 1989. By then both Mr.
Moynihan and Mr. Frank hope to win approval of new legislation that would
permanently repeal the McCarran-Walter Act.

'Respect for Free Speech'

The act allows the State Department to deny visas to foreigners based on their
political beliefs or associations. Among the people who have been denied
entrance under the law are two Latin American Nobel Prize winners, a former
general of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a Philippine priest and a
Canadian naturalist and author.

In a statement, Mr. Moynihan said: ''For the past 35 years, legislation to bar
non-immigrant aliens on ideological grounds has exposed our nation to needless
ridicule and undermined the respect for free speech we hope to promote around
the world.''

The temporary provision also bans any deportations based on political beliefs
that are pending in 1988. The provision would allow the denial of visas to
people suspected of terrorism.

The State Department authorization bill also includes a provision requiring the
closing of the Palestine Liberation Organization's observer mission to the
United Nations in New York and the organization's office in Washington. The
State Department has already closed the Washington office.

The measure would allow for the full payment of the American contribution to the
operating costs of the United Nations. The contribution has been limited in past
years. It also requires the President to certify that steps are being taken to
prevent the Soviet Union from using its new embassy in Washington, which is
situated on high ground, to gather intelligence.

The Administration has opposed some of the provisions in the bill, including the
closing of the P.L.O. office at the United Nations. But Administration officials
have not made clear their position since House and Senate negotiators agreed on
this final version of the legislation.

The provision relating to the Soviet Embassy originally would have required
breaking the agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union that
allowed each country to build a new embassy, thereby preventing the Russians
from using their new embassy here. This effort came in response to the discovery
that the Russians had hidden high-technology listening devices in the new United
States chancery in Moscow.

Senator Claiborne Pell, the Rhode Island Democrat who heads the Foreign
Relations Committee, said in a statement that he believed that the prohibition
on the P.L.O. office could be overturned if challenged in the courts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 24, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Reagan Signs Measure Easing Entry to U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23


President Reagan has signed legislation that will prevent immigration officials
from barring foreigners because of their political beliefs for at least the next
14 months.

The provision, which revises the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952, was part of a bill
granting the State Department and related agencies more than $8 billion in
spending authority over the next two years. The bill was signed by Mr. Reagan
late Tuesday, after House and Senate conferees had approved a final version.

The McCarran-Walter Act has been used repeatedly to bar entry to certain
foreigners because of their associations, political beliefs or statements they
might make while in the United States. Among those who have been kept out are
Hortensia Allende, the widow of President Salvador Allende Gossens of Chile;
Bernadette Devlin McAlisky, the Irish political activist; Dario Fo, an Italian
playwright, and the Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes.

The new provision extends to foreigners the same constitutional protections
granted American citizens in such matters. The changes will expire in March
1989, by which time the House and Senate Judiciary Committees plan to look at
the issue again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 3, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

AMNESTY REQUESTS BY ALIENS DECLINE

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1533 words


The number of aliens applying for legal status under the new immigration law has
dropped steadily in recent months, raising serious questions about whether the
program will reach its envisioned total of two million applicants before it ends
May 4.

Requests have been made that the one-year program be extended. The situation is
also contributing to a debate about the effectiveness of the immigration law and
to calls for expanding the number of aliens eligible for amnesty. The law led to
the largest amnesty program in history.

Thus far 1.2 million aliens have applied for legal status under the terms of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act, passed by Congress in November 1986. The
number includes 240,000 seasonal agricultural workers and 904,000 aliens
applying under the measure's provision for general amnesty.

Fewer than a quarter of the applications have been fully reviewed, with 92
percent of the 1.2 million, or 249,000 people, approved to be issued cards that
prove their lawful status.

Applications have been steadily declining since September. At that rate, they
would fall below the Immigration and Naturalization Service's estimate of 2
million and the total would not approach the 3.9 million figure that immigration
officials used as the most optimistic estimate of potential applicants.

Immigration officials attribute part of the decline to the holiday season. They
also say they expect a deluge of applicants in the final month, noting that such
programs elsewhere have seen a frantic rush as they wound up.

While immigration officials oppose an extension, they concede that the turnout
continues to be disappointing in some parts of the country, particularly
Northeastern cities like New York and Boston.

The slow pace and relatively low number of applications that have been reviewed
have led to calls for extension. Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of
Brooklyn, introduced a bill in December calling for a one-year extension of the
application period until May 1989. Members of Congress returning from the
holiday recess will find the bill in committee.

'Out of the Shadows'

''The original intent of this program was to get the underclass out of the
shadows and into the mainstream,'' said Muzaffar Chisti, who heads the
legalization program for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union in New
York. ''That is not happening. We need more time.'' Immigration officials are
not alone in opposing extension. ''I think there's something un-American about
breaking a deal, and that's how people will see extending or expanding the
program,'' said Patrick Burns, assistant director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a nongovernmental, nonprofit organization that opposes
efforts to liberalize immigration policies.

''Instead of being thanked for an act of beneficence,'' Mr. Burns went on,
''we're hearing the whining of the ungrateful. It's patently obvious this is a
bottomless pit. They'll be damned lucky if amnesty isn't repealed altogether if
they push this too far.''

The Basics of the Law

The immigration law offers legal status or amnesty to illegal aliens who can
prove they have resided continuously in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982.
More liberal amnesty provisions are included for seasonal agricultural workers.

The amnesty program is part of an approach that includes sanctions against
employers who hire illegal aliens and stepped-up Border Patrol and immigration
service enforcement agents. The goal is to deter further illegal immigration
while offering the protection of legal status to aliens who have lived here
since the beginning of 1982.

The amnesty program began slowly last May, amid criticism that the immigration
service and counseling agencies set up to assist aliens were not prepared to
take up their tasks at the beginning. But applications picked up in July and
August, culminating in a record of 64,574 in a week at the end of August.

Aliens applying for jobs had to apply for amnesty by the end of August to be
hired to work, but applications dipped below 40,000 a week in mid-September for
the first time since the beginning of July. They have continued to plunge since
then, running below 30,000 a week since the beginning of November.

Problems Are Cropping Up

Interviews with counseling agencies across the nation and reports by groups
involved with the matter in Boston, San Francisco and New York suggest that the
program has a number of nagging problems: inadequate publicity, overly strict
interpretation of some parts of the law, fear of the immigration service and
difficulties in documenting residence.

Most people involved agree, however, that the biggest barrier to broader
participation is a failure to clarify the status of family members who are
ineligible for amnesty on their own. The issue has raised fears that families
will be split up if one member is eligible for amnesty but a spouse or child is
not.

''We've found that a lot of people are simply disqualifying themselves because
of the family unity question,'' said Lavinia Limon, executive director of the
International Institute of Los Angeles. ''It's very clear the law is not
resulting in the balanced approach that Congress had in mind.''

But Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said Congress had voted down proposals last year to clarify and broaden the
family unity provisions. ''It's time to get that issue off the I.N.S.'s back,''
he said. ''It was brought up in Congress and voted down. They couldn't pass it.
It's totally unfair to keep carping at I.N.S. when Congress has made its intent
clear.''

Hardship for the Helpers

The decline in applicants has caused particular hardship to the church and
counseling groups established to aid aliens in applying.

The low turnout, coupled with a lower than expected percentage of applicants
using the counseling groups, have resulted in strains on the groups' resources.
Many of the agencies, which receive fees for processing the applications, say
they are losing money because they established costly operations that are not
bringing in as much income as had been projected. Many agencies have radically
cut back their services.

In Los Angeles, Catholic Charities has cut back from 14 legalization offices to
5. Ms. Limon said her organization had been reduced from 20 to 6 legalization
workers.

There is a fear that the applicants still to come are the weakest cases that
will need the most help, and that the agencies will not be prepared to offer it
by the time the program ends. Most of the support for extension is from groups
that work with aliens. These groups range from organizations working with
Hispanic people to organizations in Boston that help Irish aliens.

'Threat to Small Businesses'

Some business groups question the program's effectiveness. ''This law is not
working,'' said Tom Rowland, executive vice president of the 1,200-member
Restaurant Association of Metropolitan Washington. ''There are jobs which are
going unfilled. If we are going to get extra attention for employer sanctions,
then we want extra attention for amnesty. We are saying this is not a temporary
discomfort but a serious threat to small businesses.''

But beyond the the issue of extension, which critics and proponents alike agree
has a good chance of passage, is an assessment of the amnesty program as a
whole.

Amnesty was the most disputed element of the immigration legislation. Even those
who wanted to see the applicant pool expanded by setting a later eligibility
date admit they faced long odds. But some familiar with the matter say that so
many aliens entered the United States after 1982 - or do not apply under the
current law - that the program will still leave a huge residue of illegal
aliens. That appears most likely in the Northeast, where the turnout for
applications for legal status is the worst.

In a report on the program in New York state, Dr. Josh DeWind, director of the
Immigration Research Program of the Center for the Social Sciences at Columbia
University, concluded: ''A major implication of the low legalization application
rate for New York will be the continued existence of a large undocumented
population, probably 80 percent of those currently here, which will be even more
vulnerable to poverty and exploitation than in the past.''

In an interview, he said: ''The real problem is not in the program's time period
or in the public education program, but in the bill itself and who it restricts.
I would advocate a real amnesty to a recent date.''

Groups like FAIR say extending or expanding the program would send out the worst
possible signal.

''It would make a mockery of the immigration law and encourage illegal
immigration to the United States,'' said Mr. Burns, the assistant director of
FAIR. ''There are a lot of folks in El Salvador and Mexico and Korea and the
Philippines looking at us and asking, are we serious about enforcing the law? If
we extend or expand it, not only are we telling them we're not serious -we're
telling the 2 million people waiting to come here legally they were fools to
believe in the American system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article last Sunday about the new
immigration law incorrectly described the number of aliens whose applications
have been approved for lawful status. About 1.2 million aliens have applied so
far, and fewer than a quarter of their applications have been fully reviewed. Of
those that have been reviewed, 92 percent, or 249,000 have been approved.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Lavinia Limon, Executive Director of the International
Institute of Los Angeles (NYT/Michael Tweed); Patrick Burns, Assistant director
of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (NYT/Paul A. Saunders); graph
of total number of applications for amensty by immigrants each week, May
1987-Dec. 1987 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. 18)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 14, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

KEY SENATORS BACK IMMIGRATION SHIFT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13


The Senate's two leading experts on immigration policy have agreed on a new bill
that would make major changes in the system for deciding who can legally
immigrate to the United States.

The bill, a compromise between Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Alan K. Simpson,
would establish an overall limit on legal immigration of 590,000 people a year.
That is about 80,000 above the current level. Under current law, certain types
of immigrants are subject to a numerical limit but other types, include
immediate relatives of United States citizens, are not.

Under the bill, a larger proportion of immigrants would be selected on the basis
of occupational skills rather than family ties. The new proportion would be 20
percent, up from the current 10 percent.

Mr. Kennedy said he expected the bill to facilitate immigration from countries
in Western Europe that he described as ''the older sources of immigration.''
Senator Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Immigration, has taken a particular interest in the Irish. But
other Europeans feel they, too, were placed at a disadvantage by a 1965
immigration law.

What the Kennedy Bill Does

That law, which was strongly supported by Mr. Kennedy, abolished the use of
national origin as a basis for issuing visas and setting or quotas on
immigrants.

Under the new bill drafted by Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Simpson, the Government would
select 55,000 immigrants each year with a point system meant to identify aliens
who could best contribute to the American economy. Points would be awarded on
the basis of age, education, occupational training, work experience and English
language skills.

The bill is to be considered next week by the Judiciary Committee.
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, has introduced a similar
bill in the House. ''It is not going to be easy, but it is possible that we
could have such a bill passed by the House this year,'' he said.

For Those Left Out in '86 Bill

Mr. Kennedy said the bills ''pick up where we left off in 1986,'' when Congress
approved a comprehensive measure to combat illegal immigration. That law
penalizes employers who hire illegal aliens and offers legal status to many
illegal aliens who are already in the United States, but offered almost nothing
for millions of people around the world who want to emigrate legally to the
United States.

Mr. Simpson, who is from Wyoming and is the assistant Senate Republican leader,
said that about 90 percent of legal immigrants qualified for visas because they
had relatives in this country. ''Only 10 percent are admitted because they
possess skills that are specifically needed by U.S. employers or skills that the
Government has determined would well serve our society,'' he said.

Asia, Latin America and the islands of the Caribbean account for little more
than 70 percent of legal immigration to the United States.

In supporting the Kennedy bill, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New
York, said: ''Family reunification is a goal we all support. But what about
those who have no immediate relatives in the United States? The law shuts them
out because they are from countries like Ireland or Italy, whose great days of
immigration are long in the past. People from those countries do not have
immediate relatives who are American citizens or permanent residents.''

Reuniting Families a Goal

Family reunification would remain an overriding goal of immigration policy under
Mr. Kennedy's bill; 470,000 visas would be issued each year to people with
relatives in the United States. The bill would make more visas available to the
spouses and young children of permanent resident aliens, but it would curtail
eligibility for married brothers and sisters, in-laws, nieces and nephews of
United States citizens.

The bill would set aside 120,000 visas each year for immigrants selected for
their talents. That group includes the 55,000 to be chosen through a point
system. It also includes certain aliens eligible for preferences under current
law: those who can show ''exceptional ability in the sciences or the arts'' or
skills in short supply here.

On its face, the proposed point system favors no specific nationality. It may
help West Europeans. But State Department officials predicted that many
well-educated, English-speaking citizens of China, India and the Philippines
would also score well and qualify for immigrant visas.

Jerome C. Ogden, a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, expressed concern about
the bill, saying the State Department was in the midst of a ''financial crisis''
and could not handle any significant increase in visa applications.

In negotiations on the bill, Mr. Kennedy said that if there was to be an
increase in visas for skilled workers, there also had to be an increase in the
overall level of legal immigration. Mr. Simpson said the increase was more than
offset by the decline in illegal immigration since passage of the 1986 law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 21, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

McCarran-Walter Strikes Again

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 515 words


No, the Immigration and Naturalization Service insisted, it is not persecuting
eight immigrants it seeks to deport. Evidence that the immigrants are dangerous
troublemakers would be revealed at a court hearing, officials promised.

Well, at the hearing in Los Angeles the Government refused to present its
damning evidence in public. It may yet show good reason for its harsh treatment
of seven Jordanians and the Kenyan wife of one. But for the moment the I.N.S.
remains wide open to plausible accusations of recklessness. The only dependable
remedy is to reform the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act.

That 1952 law permits barring or deporting alien visitors or migrants who might
engage in or advocate terrorist, anarchist or subversive activities. The
Government claims that the eight immigrants, most of whom are students in their
20's and 30's who have resided in America for several years, belong to the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. The Popular Front is a
self-described Marxist organization that was involved in several airplane
hijackings during the 1970's, most notably that of an Air France jetliner flown
to the Entebbe airport in Uganda, where Israeli commandos killed the hijackers.

The eight immigrants deny membership in the Popular Front. They insist that the
deportation proceedings are part of a larger Government campaign of political
persecution against Arabs in the U.S. They cite Government documents outlining
contingency plans to identify, detain and deport aliens linked to terrorist
organizations. Though the I.N.S. admits preparing ''option papers'' on the
handling of dangerous aliens, it denies that any plans have been completed or
approved.

Even without such plans, however, McCarran-Walter allows the Government to
deport these immigrants if it can prove that they advocate offensive ideas. That
shouldn't be sufficient. A top priority of the 100th Congress should be to
overhaul McCarran-Walter, to make it less sensitive to dissenting views while
preserving its protections against dangerous acts.

Legislation recently re-introduced by Representative Barney Frank, a
Massachusetts Democrat, seems a reasonable starting point. It would limit
national security grounds for removal or restricting entry to persons whom the
Government ''knows or has reasonable grounds to believe'' are likely to engage
in espionage, sabotage, subversion, terrorism or any criminal activity that
would endanger public safety or national security.

Such a stricter standard seemed to influence the Federal immigration judge who
ordered the eight immigrants released from jail. He said the Government had
failed to show that the immigrants, through any actions of their own, ''engaged
in violent activity or espoused the violent overthrow of the United States
Government.''

The Government will have another chance to make its case at a deportation
hearing scheduled in April. But if it cannot show that these individuals might
cause actual harm, it should transcend McCarran-Walter's puny, nervous fear of
free speech and allow the immigrants to remain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PROBLEMS PLAGUE AMNESTY PROGRAM FOR AIDING ALIENS

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1343 words


A week before the start of the amnesty program established under the nation's
new immigration law, many of the information and counseling networks designed to
guide aliens through the legalization process are confused and in disarray.

Although problems vary from city to city, officials with church and counseling
groups say the Immigration and Naturalization Service has had to struggle to
organize the amnesty program, which begins May 5, in the six-month period
mandated by Congress.

They say logistical problems and inadequate preparation are adding confusion and
uncertainty to the legalization process, much of which will rely on volunteer
workers, under which as many as 3.9 million aliens could apply for legal status.


'At the 10th Hour'

''We're at the 10th hour,'' said Joe Murray, chairman of the North Texas
Immigration Coalition in Dallas. ''We are about to go over the dam, and we can't
do anything about it. If the bill goes into effect in May, we will discriminate
against the people we are trying to help.''

Mr. Murray's organization recently asked Texas Congressmen to try to get the
amnesty program delayed for a year to allow the immigration service, churches
and agencies enough time for education and planning. The attempts to gain a
postponement have been unsuccessful, and officials are scrambling to be ready
for May 5.

I.N.S. officials acknowledge that there have been problems in starting the
program, but they say it has proceeded relatively well, considering its
complexity and the time constraints.

Most local immigration offices will hold briefings and training sessions this
week for their own employees and for counseling groups to try to resolve the
confusion.

Working Day and Night

''I'm convinced most of the people are ready to go,'' said E. B. Duarte,
Director of the I.N.S. Outreach Program. ''The most productive agencies will be
up and running on that day. Some others may not be ready until May 15 or June 1.
I'm amazed at what has been accomplished in these six months. We've literally
had people working day and night to get ready.''

Some immigration officials say the problems with the amnesty program are minor
when compared with the swelling tide of illegal immigration the new law was
designed to address.

''Nothing could be more of a mess than what we have now with a country full of
illegals,'' said the service's Chicago district director, A. D. Moyer.

The new law, which was signed by President Reagan Nov. 6, offers legal status or
amnesty to illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and
have lived in the country continuously since then. The application period runs
from May 5 of this year until May 4, 1988. Under another section of the law,
immigration officials on June 1 will begin enforcing provisions in the law that
prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens.

Many Groups Trying to Help

One key to the amnesty process is a network of churches and other agencies. They
will advise aliens on the law and on how to document residencies and help them
prepare applications. Those organizations include churches and counseling groups
operating independently and designated groups called Qualified Designated
Entities, or Q.D.E.'s, selected by the I.N.S. to help in legalization.

Most of the Q.D.E.'s were only announced in the past week. The list is still
being completed.

Many groups have been counseling aliens for months, and will continue to aid
them regardless of whether they receive qualifying status. But the delay in
designation, which confers some additional processing responsibilities and
brings a modest Government payment of $15 or $16 per application, has caused
problems for others.

''It leaves these groups with many, many questions,'' said the Rev. Ronald T.
Marino, director of legalization for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and
Queens. ''Do they hire staff? Do they print stuff or not? Do they start
training? No one knows.''

Getting the Offices Ready

There have been logistical problems as officials have rushed to get processing
offices ready. The Dallas Regional Office is not scheduled to open until May 4,
the day before the process begins. Officials in New York say they are working
around the clock to finish an alien processing center in Queens. They hope to
have the work done by Friday.

A contract for a national advertising campaign to inform aliens about the
amnesty program was only awarded two weeks ago. Immigration officials said
advertisements had begun running around the nation, and information about the
program is getting out.

In some cities, such as Houston, where the immigration service's local office
has sponsored 104 forums for aliens and employers, officials have made concerted
efforts to spread information on the new law. That effort is being praised by
immigrants' groups.

But the slow pace of the national educational campaign has frustrated and
angered many organizations working with aliens.

Learning From Other Countries

Ira Kurzban, a Miami immigration attorney and president-elect of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, said studies in other countries had shown that
advance notice and education were key factors in the number of aliens who
applied for legalization.

''The Government has defaulted in its responsibility to educate the public about
legalization,'' he said. ''One can only wonder about the Government's sincerity
in insuring that many aliens come forward. There are many aliens who won't come
forward because of a lack of education about it.''

Still, there appear to be huge differences in readiness between different cities
and even within different alien communities within cities.

For example, in the Chicago area, where an estimated 200,000 to 300,000 Hispanic
residents will apply for legal status, organizations working among Hispanic
people are critical of the program.

Praise From Polish Community

''The process has been a real disaster all the way along,'' said Cecilia Munoz,
project director of Legalization for Catholic Charities. ''We've been trying to
put together a program without any information.''

But Richard Reeder, executive director of the Polish Welfare Association in
Chicago, said his group has good rapport with the Federal service, and he is
optimistic about the process. An estimated 32,000 Poles are expected to apply
for legal status in Chicago.

''In the Polish community, there's a genuinely positive feeling for what the
legalization process is going to do,'' he said.

In Los Angeles, 285,000 aliens already have registered with the Los Angeles
Archdiocese alone. Church officials there are hopeful they will be able to
handle the demand. The I.N.S. says it anticipates anywhere from 800,000 to one
million applicants in the seven-county Los Angeles region.

Attempts to Help Backfire

The uncertainties and poor communication so close to the program's start have
heightened the uncertainties about legal representation that have been present
since the law was passed.

Dozens of organizations, large and small, have jumped into the breach offering
advice and assistance for a fee. One El Paso-based group, National Amnesty
Consultants Inc., has opened 13 offices in nine cities around the nation to help
aliens file amnesty petitions. The Texas Bar Association has filed suit charging
the group with practicing law without a license.

Similar suits have been filed against other groups around the nation. Even
church groups are still grappling with their legal options and liability as they
prepare to advise aliens on applications that could be the difference between
legal status and eventual deportation. The dilemma underscores the high stakes
as the amnesty process, however ready, begins.

''The whole process has been a little bit disorganized,'' said Bretton C.
Gerard, a lawyer in Dallas involved with the suit against National Amnesty
Consultants. ''But these people only have one bite at the apple, and they should
know what they're doing and what their options are.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of the Rev. Ronald T. Marino (NYT/David A. Cantor) (page B7);
photo of Richard Reeder (NYT/Richard Derk) (page B7)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

GROUPS TO OFFER HELP FOR ALIENS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 57, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 724 words


Following is a list of religious, civic and community groups in the New York
metropolitan region that will help process the applications of aliens for legal
status under the new immigration laws:

MANHATTAN

Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services, 360 Park Ave. South.
Episcopal Mission Society, 14 E. 109th St.
Presiding Bishop's Fund, 815 Second Ave.
Private Immigration Agency Inc., 601 W. 156th St.
International Ladies Garment Workers Union, 1710 Broadway.
United States Catholic Conference, Migration and Refugee Services, 902 Broadway.

Polish and Slavic Center Inc., 119 E. 15th St.
Japanese American Social Service, Inc., 275 Seventh Ave., 12th floor.
Ethiopian Community Mutual Assistance Association, 225 Park Ave. South.
United Haitian Association Inc., 2700 Broadway
Multicultural Immigration Center, Inc., 689 Columbus Ave.
Chinatown Planning Council, 13 Elizabeth St.

BRONX
Hunts Point Presbyterian Church, 719 Coster St.
Congress of Racial Equality, 4128 White Plains Rd.

BROOKLYN
St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church, 1227 Pacific St.
South Side Community Mission, 280 Marcy Ave.
Catholic Migration Services Inc., 75 Greene Ave.
America's Grateful Immigrants Inc. 281 Classon Ave.
Congress of Racial Equality, 1463 Flatbush Ave.
Congress of Racial Equality, 304-A Utica Ave.
Polish and Slavic Center, 176 Java St.
Polish and Slavic Center, 119 Greenpoint Ave. Caribbean/American Media Studies
Inc., 968 49th St.

QUEENS
St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, 89-16 168th St.
Concerned Citizens of Queens, 82-14 Roosevelt Ave.
Hellenic American Neighborhood Action Committee Inc., 31-14 30th Ave.

NASSAU COUNTY
St. George's Episcopal Church, 319 Front St.,Hempstead.
Congress of Racial Equality, 125 Botsford St., Hempstead.

SUFFOLK COUNTY
Catholic Charities, 143 Schliegel Blvd., Amityville.
Christ Episcopal Church, 155 Third Ave., Brentwood.
Rural Opportunity, 145 Griffine Ave., Riverhead.

WESTCHESTER COUNTY
Westchester Hispanic Coalition Inc., 200 Mamaroneck Ave., White Plains
United Slavonian American League Inc., 240 McLean Ave., Yonkers
Spanish Community Progress Foundation, Inc., 201 Palisade Ave., Yonkers

ROCKLAND COUNTY
World Relief, 201 Route 9W North, Nyack.

UPSTATE
Albany - International Center of the Capital Region, West Mall Office Plaza, 875
Central Ave., Albany
Albion - Rural Opportunity Inc., P.O. Box 24.
Binghamton - American Civic Association, 131 Front St.
Buffalo - Catholic Charities, 531 Virginia St.; International Institute of
Buffalo, 864 Delaware Ave.
Corona - Concerned Citizens of Queens, 40-03 National St.
Highland - Rural Opportunity Inc., 74 Vineyard Ave.
Newburgh - Rural Opportunity Inc., 346 Broadway.
New Hampton - Rural Opportunity Inc., Rd.

No. 2, Box 522.
Ogdensburg - Rural Opportunity Inc.
Rochester - Catholic Family Center, 50 Chestnut St.; Rural Opportunities Inc.,
339 East Ave., Suite 305.
Sodus - Rural Opportunity Inc., 32 W. Main St.
Syracuse - Episcopal Church, 437 James St.; Catholic Charities, 1654 W. Onondaga
St.

NEW JERSEY
Camden - Catholic Social Services, Migration and Refugee Services, 3098 Mount
Pleasant.
Dover - Monmouth County Organization for Hispanic Affairs, 95-95 Bassett Highway

East Orange - Caribbean Haitian Council, 410 Central Ave.
Elizabeth - Red Cross of Eastern Union County, 203 W. Jersey St.; Haitian
Advancement Association, 64 West Grand St.
Fort Lee - Church of the Good Shepherd, 1576 Palisade Ave.
Jersey City - International Institute of New Jersey, 880 Bergen Ave.
Newark - Catholic Community Services, 1 Summer Ave.
Orange - Hispanic Promotion Center, 439 Main St.
Paramus - Hispanic Institute, 368 Paramus Rd.
Paterson - Catholic Family and Community Services, 10 Jackson St.; Trinity
Episcopal Church, 86 Marion St.
Perth Amboy - Catholic Social Services, 103 Center St.
Trenton - Lutheran Social Services, 189 South Broad St.
Union City - North Hudson Community Action Agency, 507 26th St.
Vineland - Rural Opportunity Inc., 535-537 Landis Ave.

CONNECTICUT
Bridgeport - International Institute of Connecticut, 670 Clinton Ave.
New Britain - International Institute, 274 Broad St.
Stamford - International Institute, 28 Soundview Ave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 4, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW ALIEN LAW PUTS PRESSURE ON AGENCIES

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words


Churches, neighborhood groups and government agencies in the New York region are
scrambling to set up counseling networks that will guide aliens through the
amnesty program established under the nation's new immigration law, which takes
effect tomorrow.

Hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens in New York and its suburbs may qualify
for permanent resident status if they can demonstrate that they have lived in
the United States continuously since January 1982.

But logistical problems abound. While dozens of nonprofit groups prepare to
counsel aliens and assist them through a complex maze of document retrieval,
they are racing to enlist volunteers, get telephone lines connected and spread
word of the program through a wide array of alien groups.

New York's Task

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is administering the
program, is straining under deadline pressure. Despite delays in the completion
of its processing center in Queens, one of three that are scheduled to open
tomorrow in New York City, immigration service officials said that they are
confident that all the centers will be open ready to begin taking applicants.

In New Jersey, immigration service centers are to open tomorrow in Paterson,
Jersey City and Camden. One center will open for Connecticut residents in New
Haven. Last-minute preparations are being made at these sites.

''In the private sector, any company operating at this level would already be in
bankruptcy,'' said Robert E. Juceam, a partner at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver
& Jacobson, a large Wall Street law firm that is planning to do volunteer legal
work in the amnesty program.

If it is successful, the program in the New York region will take on staggering
proportions. Although no one knows how many illegal aliens live in the region,
estimates range from 800,000 to more than 1 million.

Those who qualify for resident status must apply between tomorrow and May 4,
1988.

''New York has a bigger task on its hands than any other city, and it has a lot
of catching up to do,'' said Klein Wells, executive director of the American
Council for Nationalities Services.

Fee Is Questioned

Administering the program will be particularly complex in the New York region
because of the huge variety of languages and nationalities in its alien
population. Even though Los Angeles is believed to have a higher number of
illegal aliens who may qualify for amnesty - most from Mexico and the Central
American region - New York's job may prove tougher.

''A lot of us are afraid that New York is inadequately covered,'' Mr. Wells
said, indicating that more volunteer services may be needed for aliens.

New York City officials last week criticized Congress, saying it allowed too
little time to prepare for the amnesty program. The officials also criticized
the immigration agency, which they said had been too slow in getting ready, even
under its tight deadlines, and the Justice Department, which has written
detailed regulations covering application procedures.

''The regulations are narrow, mean-spirited,'' said Peter L. Zimroth, the city's
Corporation Counsel. He added that the city may challenge some of the Justice
Department regulations in court, including a $185 application fee for aliens who
seek amnesty.

Meanwhile, Mayor Koch has appointed more than a dozen leaders of ethnic
organizations, unions and churches to a new Immigration Advisory Committee. The
group, headed by Rene Valero, Auxiliary Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of
Brooklyn, will study ways to speed up document gathering in the schools, the
Metropolitan Housing Authority and other city agencies.

'The Biggest Problem'

Officials who work with immigrants fear that the amnesty program will be
seriously hindered unless the complex bureaucracy it relies on is quickly put in
smooth running condition. Because illegal aliens tend to distrust the
immigration service and other government agencies, problems with the program may
make them more reluctant to step forward, identify themselves and their
employers, and seek residency status.

''The biggest problem is fear itself,'' said Roy Innis, president of the
Congress of Racial Equality, which is setting up counseling centers in Brooklyn,
the Bronx and on Long Island. CORE is one of the groups in New York City that
have been sanctioned by the Federal Government to assist aliens.

Those applying for amnesty can be disqualified if they have been convicted of a
felony, have been on public assistance, have left the country for more than 45
consecutive days at any time since 1982, or on several other grounds specified
in 310 pages of regulations that were approved by the Justice Department on
Thursday.

For many aliens, officials said, gathering sufficient rent receipts, payroll
records, medical bills, and other documents may prove an immense task. Many will
require help from their employers, who may resist involvement because they fear
their employment policies will be monitored more closely by the immigration
service.

''You'd have to be Alice in Wonderland to expect employers to go out of their
way for people with whom their only relationship has been exploitation,'' said
Muzaffar Chisti, director of the Immigration Project for the International
Ladies Garment Workers Union .

Counseling at Parishes

In large measure, the Federal Government has turned over responsibility for
publicizing the program, counseling aliens and gathering documents to nonprofit
groups. Immigration officials, expecting a crush of amnesty applicants, said
their staffs will only be equipped to record information brought in by the
aliens, look over their documents and question them about their authenticity.

Nonprofit groups, selected as ''Qualified Designated Entities'' by the
immigration agency, are setting up offices and telephone lines in New York City,
and others are preparing to open in the suburbs.

Some have already opened. The Diocese of Brooklyn, for example, has been
counseling aliens at each of its 221 parishes for more than a month, while CORE
opened a counseling center on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn last month that
provides counseling services, fingerprinting, photographs, referrals for medical
exams and other services necessary to guide aliens through the amnesty process.

Differing Accounts

But several groups that plan to help aliens are still waiting for phone lines to
be installed and volunteers recruited. Adding to the confusion, some groups
identified by the immigration service as Qualified Designated Entities say they
are not.

''If an alien walked in the door, I wouldn't know what to tell him,'' said Mr.
Wells of the American Council for Nationalities Services, which was mistakenly
identified as one of New York City's designated agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: BRIEFING;
Helping the World Bank

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 226 words


Congress sometimes works in mysterious ways. Thanks to new immigration
legislation, for example, the World Bank may now find it easier to carry out
staff cuts and reorganization plans.

The key is a provision of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 that
permits foreign nationals who are international civil servants to maintain their
United States residence should they lose their jobs, provided they have lived in
this country 15 years.

Previously, these foreign nationals and their dependents had to pack their bags
within 30 days of a notice of dismissal. And so the bank and other international
organizations based in the United States were reluctant to press reorganizations
plans that would to impose such hardship, Barber B. Conable Jr., after taking
over as president of the World Bank last July, pushed for the change. But
lobbying seeds in fact had been sewn five years earlier, according to Lester
Nurick, a lawyer at the firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering.

Mr. Nurick, an alumnus of the bank, was retained as a lobbyist by a coalition of
civil servants from that institution and such others as the International
Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Organization of American
States and the United Nations.

''With their pensions and education these are very desirable people to have
around,'' Mr. Nurick said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AMNESTY PROGRAM GETS OFF TO SLOW START AT CENTER IN HOUSTON

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 5


Arturo Perez has been carefully saving his pay stubs ever since he waded across
the Rio Grande from Mexico to Texas six years ago. Today they helped provide the
documentation that could make him a legal resident here for the first time.

''I thought this was going to come one day,''said Mr. Perez who operates a
forklift in a lumberyard in the town of Huntsville, about 80 miles north of
here. ''I'm not scared to be here anymore.''

Along with Romelia Salazar de Ortiz, Orasio Ramon Sanchez and others, he was one
of the first aliens here to be granted a temporary work permit that is the first
step toward legal status under the nation's historic immigration law whose
amnesty provisions went into effect today.

Year-Long Drama Opens

The scene at the immigration center, set up in a strip shopping center in a
Northside barrio, was repeated at 107 immigration centers around the country. It
is the opening act in a year-long drama that could see as many as 3.9 million
aliens apply for legal status under the most ambitious legalization program ever
attempted.

The law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, offers legal status to
aliens who can prove they entered the United States before Jan. 1 1982, and have
resided continuously here since then.

Although a handful of aliens waited through the night to pick up forms and about
50 were in line when dawn broke, the number of applicants was well below what
officials had expected. Only 11 people applied for legal status. All were given
tentative approval and issued temporary work permits. A final ruling on each
application is expected within 120 days.

'Applicants Aren't Ready'

Officials said delays in the issuance of final application forms, which became
available only a week ago, had slowed the program's debut. But 1,050 aliens
showed up to pick up application forms and be briefed on the program.
Immigration officials said they were pleased with the first day and expected
applications to pick up in the new few days.

''The stumbling block was that the applicants aren't totally ready,'' said
Ronald Parra, the director of the immigration service for Houston district. ''We
anticipated that we would have 1,000 people ready to file. We geared up for
that. Fortunately, that didn't happen.''

Unlike other Texas cities such as El Paso or San Antonio, where Hispanic groups
marched in protest against the new law, there was no hint of discord at the
center here. But a group of local lawyers and Hispanic officials held a noon
press conference to criticize one of the most controversial aspects of the new
law, the provisions that would split up families if some members are granted
legal status and others are not.

If the first day was a little slower than expected, its tone was sunnier than
the overall program is expected to be. Those who applied for legalization today
had impeccable documentation of their residency status. Officials said the more
ambiguous applications will probably come later.

Mrs. Salazar de Ortiz, 36 years old, was the first person to be issued a
temporary work permit and given tentative approval for her application. Married
for 16 years and the mother of three children, she has lived and worked in the
United States since 1973 and had documentation ranging from tax returns to real
estate transactions for house sales. uf30>

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Why Mexico Fears Our Immigration Law

BYLINE: By Jorge G. Castaneda; Jorge G. Castaneda, a professor of political
science at the National University of Mexico, is a senior associate at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The only certainty anyone can hold about the Simpson-Rodino immigration act,
which went into effect this week, is that no one in Mexico or in the United
States knows what its results will actually be.

Supporters of the law hope it will deter further immigration through employer
sanctions while legalizing presently undocumented foreigners (who entered the
United States before 1982) through its amnesty provision.

Yet because of loopholes, flexibility in the law's regulations and exceptions
for different categories - for example, agricultural workers harvesting
perishable produce - the law may satisfy those who need cheap, unskilled labor
from abroad. Low salaries, poor working conditions and leeway in hirings and
firings will endure, though perhaps with modest improvements, helping
sweatshops, growers and the service industry in California and the Southwest to
stay in business. But the law also attempts to placate the believers in the
''silent invasion'' scenario - those who, as a matter of principle, oppose the
continuation of large-scale immigration. Simpson-Rodino aspires to be a law for
all seasons.

Needless to say, the view from Mexico is somewhat different. Most Mexicans'
feelings toward United States immigration reform are negative, skeptical and
possibly inconsistent. There is an undeniable fear that the law will hurt
Mexico. Mexico understands the United States' sovereign right and undeniable
need to assert control over foreign entries, but the potential benefits for
Mexico are so low, and the hypothetical costs so many, that it has inevitably
bred deep resentment.

While a sizable number of deportations is unlikely, a temporary dip in new
arrivals from Mexico may occur in the short term, aggravating employment
problems south of the border. Because of the increase in risks and costs at the
border that the new law will entail, many ''coyotes'' -those who, for a price,
help undocumented Mexicans and Central Americans enter and find jobs - have
raised their fees, payable in dollars. Given the continuing weakness of the
peso, aspiring immigrants may initially be reluctant to pay the entry fee.

The Simpson-Rodino law has also been criticized for imposing a unilateral
American approach on an essentially bilateral problem. But Mexico has always
refused - and rightly so - to even talk about a binational agreement regulating
migratory flows: Any accord would inevitably require Mexico to prevent its own
citizens from moving to the border, and this in turn would imply unacceptable
restrictions on Mexicans' freedom to circulate in their own country.

Again, the Mexican complaint may seem somewhat disingenuous, but the underlying
attitude on which the law rests does involve a one-sided approach, as if the
United States had been doing Mexico a favor all these years by accepting
hundreds of thousands of its citizens who, in fact, performed jobs that
Americans no longer wanted.

Moreover, the very use of the term ''amnesty'' is offensive: It implies
forgiveness for the commission of a crime that in Mexican eyes was never
committed. Finally, the law is suspected of being a new instrument that present
and future United States Administrations will use in dealings with Mexico,
opening or closing the migratory spigot in the light of other issues and
conflicts.

In the last analysis, immigration reform springs from the traditional American
predilection for orderliness, legalism and clarity. The United States would
clearly prefer a situation where immigrants who come to stay do so legally;
where those who are not within the law either regularize their standing or
leave, and where new entries fit into neat, well-defined categories. But modern
immigration, particularly from a neighboring nation, does not welcome this sense
of order.

Mexican immigration has been untidy. Some newcomers are legal, others are not;
some stay for very short periods, others for longer periods; some settle in the
United States, some don't; some bring their families, others come alone. This
messy, disorderly state of affairs, filled with ambiguities and gray zones, has
served both countries well for many years. It has helped Mexico manage its
employment problems, and provided the American economy with a cheap, unskilled
labor force it direly needs.

The new law, with its built-in penchant for order, will not, one hopes, inflict
lasting damage on this mutually beneficial arrangement. Mexico must eventually
resign itself to whatever changes it does bring. But the United States should
remember that the international damage of domestic policies may sometimes
outweigh their internal benefits.

Washington would therefore be well advised to leave ideological rigidity at the
door when actually applying the law. A good place to start would be to clarify
blind spots and ambiguities in the law's regulations, and address with
compassion its cruelest consequences - for example, family separation through
the legalization of some family members and the rejection of others.

Strong fences make good neighbors, but realism and humility make friendlier
ones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 12, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Humanitarian Adjustments to Immigration Act

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words


To the Editor:

''Refugees Are Not Subsidies'' (editorial, April 30), on the effects of the new
Immigration Reform and Control Act on Salvadorans at home and in the United
States, was ill conceived and out of character for you. It would appear that
exceptions to the new immigration law can only be justified on political
grounds. You argue that the same exceptions made for personal suffering and
hardship are economic subsidies.

As you note, the new law's amnesty provisions will apply to very few of the
hundreds of thousands of Salvadoran citizens living and working in the United
States. Their forced departure will have severe economic implications for El
Salvador.

The economic recession, 40 percent unemployment and the violence that exist
today in El Salvador, place a great strain on our economy. The devastating
earthquake of last October and the worst drought in recent history made matters
worse. Salvadorans returning just now would only exacerbate the immense problems
with which we are already faced.

To label a temporary reprieve for these individuals an economic subsidy and
argue for a case by case exception for political reasons is to confuse the
issues. The economic implications you dismiss as unworthy of consideration are
far more real, more immediate and more important to the liberty, security and
happiness of Salvadorans than the dubious claims of political persecution by a
handful of asylum seekers.

The millions of dollars remitted to El Salvador each year by hard-working
Salvadorans feeds babies, educates children, buys clothes, repairs homes damaged
by the earthquake and cares for the elderly. Those dollars ease, to some small
extent, the suffering of an entire nation.

The people of the United States have repeatedly demonstrated their generosity.
We have nothing but admiration for the principle of political asylum and the
tradition of liberty it represents. I myself once sought and found political
refuge.

But certainly, we should not reduce to economic statistics and subsidies the
tremendous suffering of a generation of citizens. Certainly, humanitarian claims
are no less valid. Our support for a temporary change in the law is primarily
made for humanitarian, not ''economic,'' reasons.

Why should an opponent of democracy in El Salvador, a knowing or unknowing
supporter of Marxist terrorists, be granted permanent political asylum, while
the son who sends three-fourths of his income to his mother in a small
Salvadoran village is denied even temporary reprieve. Why should those who have
chosen to oppose a struggling democratic government receive special treatment,
while the poor worker who had no choice be consigned to hardship?

Moreover, a temporary exception costs the U.S. taxpayer little or nothing. You
appear to prefer to deport to El Salvador a productive resident who is helping
his family at no cost to the U.S. taxpayer, so that U.S. taxpayers may later
send him a ''subsidy'' when he arrives home without a job and little chance of
finding one.

We recognize the hard work and difficulties of lawmakers in enacting the new
immigration bill. Laws enacted after such lengthy and thorough reviews should
not be amended frivolously. But a decent humanitarian concern for the hardships
of individuals and their families is a legitimate basis for seeking flexibility
and adjustments to laws. To dismiss the humanitarian concerns and ignore the
economic argument would appear to run con-trary to the compassion and common
sense for which your newspaper has stood.

JOSE NAPOLEON DUARTE
President of El Salvador
San Salvador, May 1, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

AU PAIRS' EMPLOYERS RUN AFOUL OF ALIENS LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1324 words


After Jayne Kraman's third child, Max, came along two years ago she was
desperate for a mother's helper, so she hired a live-in au pair from West
Germany. The young woman came on a tourist visa, meaning it was illegal for her
to work here, but not for Mrs. Kraman, a freelance writer who lives in Brooklyn,
to employ her.

But starting June 1, under the new immigration law, Mrs. Kraman and her husband,
Richard, along with millions of other people who rely on foreigners to mind
their children, clean their houses or cook their meals, will risk fines ranging
up to $10,000 if they hire aliens who lack work authorizations.

For now, Mrs. Kraman has an American live-in helper from Oregon, but she is
angry because she is no longer able to get foreign help. ''I cannot afford to
pay someone $250 a week to live in,'' she said. ''Au pairs are affordable, and
there is cultural exchange.''

In a provision that was little noticed when the immigration law was approved
last year, the legislation promises to create a painful clash between demands
for tighter immigration control and the new realities of American middle-class
life, in which working wives and single parents have become the norm.

Wealthy people have always been able to afford legal foreign help, such as
professionally trained nannies from Britain. But increasingly in recent years,
families of more modest means have depended on these British, Irish, German,
French and Scandanavian au pairs, as well as Spanish-speaking maids from Mexico
and Central and South America to care for their children and households. Many of
these workers entered the country illegally, but the European au pairs are
typically young women who are here legally on tourist visas but not authorized
to work during their stay. The French term au pair means as an equal.

Federal officials say there is no way of knowing how many au pairs there are in
this country. But agents who place these people in jobs say there are certainly
tens of thousands of them, if not hundreds of thousands. They are usually
middle-class Europeans who want to spend a year in the United States in exchange
for providing child care. They work in return for room, board and, in most
cases, spending money.

Price of Legal Help Rises

''You can't get Americans for $150 a week,'' said Betty Richardson, proprietor
of Betty's Nannies, a Houston-based recruitment agency that places au pairs
nationwide. ''If they took all the unauthorized nannies away we'd all come to a
screeching halt.''

Although it is not certain how strictly the penalties for hiring unauthorized
household workers will be enforced, the new law is already affecting the market
for domestic help. The price of legal help has increased to about $300 a week in
New York and other cities.

Thus the law is likely to exacerbate an already desperate child-care problem for
many working couples. An early version of the bill permitted an exception for
employers of three or fewer illegal aliens, but the final law permits none.

Penalties Up to $10,000

Beginning June 1, both employers and employment agencies will receive warnings
the first time they are found to have hired an illegal alien knowingly. After
that, they face civil fines of from $250 to $2,000 for each alien on the first
violation, $2,000 to $5,000 for the second and $3,000 to $10,000 for further
violations. In addition, those convicted of a larger ''pattern and practice'' of
violating the law face criminal fines of up to $3,000 per alien and imprisonment
for up to six months.

The penalties apply only for newly hired illegal aliens, not for those hired
before President Reagan signed the immigration law last Nov. 6. People who
already employed an illegal au pair may continue to employ that person but may
not hire another one.

While it is unclear how strictly the Immigration and Naturalization Service will
be able to enforce the law on individual families, employment agents say they
are certain to be targeted. ''A lot of the smaller agencies will go out of
business,'' said David Wexler, former president of the Household Agencies and
Nurses Registry Association in New York. ''With the fines and the jail
sentences, it just doesn't pay.''

The matter is further complicated by sensitive considerations of social class
and race, since most of the Americans available for this work come from minority
groups. According to Ms. Richardson of Houston, her clients prefer young
European women of similar middle-class background to look after their children.

Looking for 'Qualified Clones'

''They want qualified clones of themselves,'' she said. She and other agents
want Congress to restore the exemption for small employers.

But the new law has given a boost to a fledgling domestic nanny industry that is
trying to produce a corps of home-grown Mary Poppinses to supply a distictively
American market.

''Most Americans cannot afford to pay $250 to $350 per week for live-in child
care help,'' observes the current issue of The National Nanny Newsletter.
''Despite good pay, many young American women do not want to take nanny jobs
because they view in-home child care as domestic employment and lower status
than that of a 'teacher' in a private preschool working for minimum wage.''

Deborah Davis, the publisher of the newsletter, who operates a referral service
in Chicago, says there are 20 to 40 clients for every available nanny.

In the past the only risk in employing an au pair was that the helper could be
picked up by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and deported, but the
employer was not liable legally.

Ellen Campbell, a Chicago investment banker, and her husband Ray, a lawyer,
spent five months looking for a live-in helper to take care of their
20-month-old daughter. They say they found the foreign applicants better
qualified and would have hired one of the experienced European candidates had
not Ms. Richardson found a young American to do the job. The couple said they
much preferred legal help.

''It got kind of depressing after a while,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''You don't want
to gamble with your kid. There's really no alternative to a live-in. There are
times when both of us have to work real late.''

It can be costly. Pat Villareal and her husband, Tom Leatherbury, both lawyers
in Dallas, say they pay double the going rate for au pairs for a trained legal
nanny, Lynn Moeller, who not only cares for their children, Collin, 8 months
old, and Sean, 3, but also helps manage the household.

'You Take the Risk'

The Kramans in Brooklyn say they were pleased with their German au pair. ''I
hesitated because it was basicallly illegal,'' Mrs. Kraman said. ''I had mixed
emotions, both for me and for her. I didn't want her to be liable. But you take
the risk.'' It is not clear how great the risk is now under the new law. James
Farris, an enforcement officer with the district office of the immigration
service in New York, said the agency would probably not put top priority on au
pairs.

''The person who wants an illegal maid will probably have a better chance of
keeping her than a restaurant hiring illegal dishwashers,'' he said.

Many of the au pair agencies and parents are resentful over a special new
program under which 3,100 foreign au pairs are legally brought to this country
each year by a private company, the American Institute for Foreign Study, under
a cultural exchange program sponsored by the United States Information Agency
and the Experiment in International Living.

Some say the solution is an American nanny industry, and it is growing. But in
the meantime many parents see au pairs as the only solution, legal or not.

''We ought to relax the law,'' said Ms. Davis of Chicago. ''I don't see why an
au pair visa is such an unreasonable thing,'' said Mrs. Kraman.''This way they
have to sneak in. They are going to come in anyway. I don't see that it is such
a liability for the country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 21, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition and May 20,
1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the new immigration law and its implications for
child-care employment, and an accompanying picture caption, misidentified the
city where Deborah Davis runs a referral service for nannies. It is Pomona,
Calif., not Chicago.

EDITORS' NOTE

An article yesterday about the new immigration law discussed implications for
the employment of child-care helpers in American households.

It noted that some foreign women on tourist visas were working, illegally, as au
pairs.

Betty Richardson, proprietor of

Betty's Nannies, a Houston-based do-mestic recruitment agency, was quoted as
saying, ''If they took all the unauthorized nannies away we'd all come to a
screeching halt.''

Ms. Richardson says the article should have specified that her agency places
only American nannies, all of whom are legal workers, and no foreign au pairs.

GRAPHIC: photo of the Leatherbury family with Lynn Moeller (NYT/Mark Perlstein)
(page B8); photo of Deborah Davis and her son Toby (NYT/Michael Tweed) (page B8)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 25, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK BUSINESSES PRESSURED BY REQUIRMENTS OF NEW IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1237 words


The nation's new immigration law is placing added burdens on business people in
the New York City region.

The law, which offers resident status to aliens who have lived in the United
States continuously since 1982, requires all employers to record and keep on
file identification documents for new employees, citizens and aliens alike.

Beginning June 1, the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service can issue
first offense warnings to employers who are not in compliance. Subsequent
violations will result in fines.

The law is certain to have an impact on economic growth in the New York City
region, which has one of the nation's largest and most diverse alien
populations. But experts are divided on whether it will help or harm business.
More 'Baloney'?  In Washington, Federal officials are being besieged by
questions and complaints. The immigration service said it had received more than
5,000 calls a day, most of them from employers.

''A lot of business people think this is all another layer of administrative
baloney,'' said John Schroeder, the assistant commissioner of the immigration
service and director of a newly formed Division of Employee and Labor Relations.

Meanwhile, sanctions against employers could be delayed by legislation.

The legislation, pending in the Senate and sought by business groups around the
country, would put off the start of penalties until Oct. 1. It has not been
introduced in the House.

No Enforcement Push

But even if the immigration service is authorized to begin enforcing the law
next month, Mr. Schroeder said, ''We are going to be very careful not to over
enforce something that was designed to be a cooperative effort between business
and the government.''

The June 1 deadline for employers is a second step in the implementation of the
most sweeping changes ever in United States immigration policies. The changes
were signed into law last November. Since May 5, immigration service offices
have been taking applications from illegal aliens for amnesty and resident
status.

Those who have not lived in the United States long enough, have been convicted
of a crime or are disqualified for other reasons, face tougher sanctions as the
immigration service cracks down on businesses and their hiring practices.
Federal officials say thousands of illegal aliens will either be deported or
leave the country voluntarily because they cannot find work.

Before the new law, the responsibility of employers was ambiguous. It was not
illegal to hire undocumented aliens, but the aliens themselves could be deported
if they were caught.

Uncertain Economic Impact

Under the new regulations, employers will be taken into account. The immigration
service will have authority to randomly select businesses, visit their offices
and check for forms certifying the identity of their employees.

Employers will be required to conduct the same document review procedures and
file forms on everyone hired since Nov. 1. Workers who were on the payroll Nov.
1 will not be required to present documentation.

In the New York region, some experts say that the economic impact will be mixed.
Ultimately, some argue, the new law will benefit business because thousands of
aliens, having received bona fide resident status, will be free to pursue job
training and careers that would be off-limits to those trying to hide their
identities and backgrounds.

Although business people are chafing at the prospect of reviewing documents and
filing forms, the procedure will soon become routine, said Jack Fraser, vice
president of the National Retail Merchants Association in New York.

Every Business Must Comply

Still, in an urban economy whose growth has always relied on waves of immigrants
and aliens to fill low paying jobs, some economists say the labor pool is bound
to shrink.

''New York has been the frontier of 20th century jobs, a place to come and be a
cowboy,'' said Audrey Freedman, a labor economist for the Conference Board, a
business research organization. ''To whatever degree the new law succeeds, that
is going to change.''

Hardest hit may be businesses that hire many aliens, pay low wages and have high
employee turnover. Construction concerns, restaurants, janitorial services,
garment manufacturers and messenger services are scrambling to comply.

''It is going to be a nightmare,'' said Murray Rosenzweig, president of the
Linden Maintenance Corporation, a taxi company in Queens. Linden hires dozens of
people each month and must now file the special forms on each new employee
Employers must check the documents of everyone they hire. As a result, the job
application process will be more complicated. Experts said most citizens are
still unaware of the new rules, and many who have been hired since November are
being surprised by orders that they present identity papers to their new
employers.

Compliance Problems Foreseen

''A properly registered alien is going to have an easier time than many honest
American citizens,'' said Robert Foster, the vice president for personnel at the
Grumman Corporation on Long Island, which last week began asking more than 300
of its employees to submit their documents.

For most workers, meeting the requirements of the law will be little more than
an inconvenience. Passports, certificates of citizenship or naturalization and
resident alien cards will provide sufficient proof of identity.

If none of these documents is available, workers will have to provide a
combination of other papers, including one with a photograph, such as drivers'
licenses, birth certificates, or Social Security cards.

But in some cases, employers fear that workers who do not drive, have lost their
birth certificates, or are unable to locate other documents, may have a
difficult period of document retrieval.

Forgeries and Discrimination

For newly hired workers, the law says documents must be presented within three
days of their first day on the job. However, for those searching for documents,
the immigration service said it will extend the employer's deadline to three
weeks from the employment date.

Some experts are worried that companies, through misunderstanding or malice, may
respond to the new law by discriminating against aliens.

At the same time, executives say, the law is likely to spawn a growth industry
in forged identity papers. Although the immigration service is not requiring
employers to spot finely forged documents, the rules are hard to interpret
because they require ''obvious forgeries'' to be rejected.

''We are not qualified to play the role of policemen,'' said David Belka, vice
president for human resources at the Ogden Allied Corporation, a large office
and airport maintenance company with 10,000 employes in the New York region.
Ogden Allied employees, many of them immigrants, work at La Guardia Airport, the
World Trade Center, and dozens of other large office buildings.

Business analysts say some large companies, particularly banks and financial
services concerns, may turn increasingly to temporary workers to fill clerical
and secretarial jobs. Since most of these workers are employed by their
temporary service agencies, rather than the offices where they are sent on
short-term assignments, the larger companies might use their services as a way
of bypassing the administrative burden of documenting every new worker who comes
in the door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

VOTE IN THE SENATE ON ALIEN MEASURE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28


Following is the roll-call vote by which the Senate reaffirmed an earlier vote
to delay the June 1 enforcement date for portions of a new immigration law.

FOR THE DELAY - 47
Democrats - 33

Adams, Wash.
Baucus, Mont.
Bentsen, Tex.
Bingaman, N.M.
Okla.
Breaux, La.
Bumpers, Ark.
Chiles, Fla.
Conrad, N.D.
Cranston, Calif.
Daschle, S.D.
DeConcini, Ariz.
Dixon, Ill.
Exon, Neb.
Harkin, Iowa
Heflin, Ala.
Inouye, Hawaii
Johnston, La.
Lautenberg, N.J.
Leahy, Vt.
Levin, Mich.
Melcher, Mont.
Mikulski, Md.
Mitchell, Me.
Pell, R.I.
Pryor, Ark.
Reid, Nev.
Sanford, N.C.
Sarbanes, Md.
Sasser, Tenn.
Shelby, Ala.
Stennis, Miss.
Wirth, Colo.

Republicans - 14

Chafee, R.I.
D'Amato, N.Y.
Domenici, N.M.
Garn, Utah
Hatch, Utah
Hecht, Nev.
Helms, N.C.
Karnes, Neb.
McCain, Ariz.
McClure, Idaho
Nickles, Okla.
Stevens, Alaska
Symms, Idaho
Wilson, Calif.

AGAINST THE DELAY - 43
Democrats - 16

Bradley, N.J.
Burdick, N.D.
Byrd, W.Va.
Dodd, Conn.
Ford, Ky.
Fowler, Ga.
Graham, Fla.
Hollings, S.C.
Kerry, Mass.
Metzenbaum, Ohio
Moynihan, N.Y.
Nunn, Ga.
Proxmire, Wis.
Riegle, Mich.
Rockefeller, W.Va.
Simon, Ill.

Republicans - 27

Armstrong, Colo.
Bond, Mo.
Boschwitz, Minn.
Cochran, Miss.
Cohen, Me.
Danforth, Mo.
Dole, Kan.
Durenberger, Minn.
Gramm, Tex.
Grassley, Iowa
Hatfield, Ore.
Heinz, Pa.
Humphrey, N.H.
Kassebaum, Kan.
Kasten, Wis.
Lugar, Ind.
McConnell, Ky.
Packwood, Ore.
Pressler, S.D.
Quayle, Ind.
Roth, Del.
Rudman, N.H.
Simpson, Wyo.
Stafford, Vt.
Thurmond, S.C.
Trible, Va.
Weicker, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION LAW PORTENDS UNCERTAINTY IN 'MEXAMERICA'

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


AS the day drew near when enforcement of the new United States immigration law
was to begin, protests from factory owners, farmers, ranchers, hotel owners and
restaurateurs natiowide rose to such a pitch that the Senate voted to delay it.
But nowhere is there more apprehension than along the United States-Mexico
border, whose residents fear the law may disrupt a remarkable process of
economic and social integration.

In his 1981 book, ''The Nine Nations of North America,'' Joel Garreau was
already writing of ''MexAmerica,'' a binational and bicultural combination of
the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. By 2000, he predicted,
MexAmerica could become the continent's economically dominant and most populous
region.

Although the forecast is still far from reality, inhabitants on both sides are
conscious of forging a new entity and way of life. ''On the border, we live
together more and more intimately and intensely every day,'' said Jorge
Bustamante, director of the College of the Northern Border in Tijuana. ''The
relationship we have is not one of equality, but it is harmonious, and we do
understand each other.''

One central measure of interdependence - the enormous flow of people back and
forth across the border -is likely to be severely affected when enforcement of
the new law begins, probably next month. At the San Ysidro-Tijuana crossing, the
busiest of the 1,952-mile frontier, an estimated 50,000 Mexicans cross legally
to jobs on the American side. An unknown but significant number make the daily
crossing illegally, and it is their employers who would face penalties under the
new law.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reported a sharp decrease in the
number of illegal aliens apprehended along the border here last month. But Jorge
Castaneda, a specialist in bilateral relations at the National University of
Mexico, noted that ''the only certainty'' about the new law ''is that no one in
Mexico or the United States knows what its results will actually be.'' A likely
outcome, Dr. Castaneda predicted, is that loopholes will allow the legislation
to ''satisfy those who need cheap, unskilled labor from abroad.''

As much as by human contacts, the region is tied together by flows of capital, a
situation that is not expected to change with the new law.

American border communities have learned the hard way that, despite their higher
standard of living, they are vulnerable to the wild swings of Mexico's economy.
The oil boom in the 1970's produced an overvalued peso that brought Mexican
shoppers and new prosperity to towns such as McAllen, Tex., Nogales, Ariz., and
Calexico, Calif. Then, in 1982, came Mexico's economic crisis, which drove many
American enterprises into bankruptcy but also prompted capital flight from
Mexico, estimated at more than $35 billion, mostly to banks in the American
Southwest.

The most important factor knitting together the two sides may be the
maquiladora, or duty-free assembly industry. Factories in Mexico, 80 percent of
them American-owned, assemble components from the United States and send them
back; duties are based only on the value added through the assembly. The
maquiladoras employ more than 300,000 Mexicans, 95 percent of them in six states
along the border. And, as Raul Garcia Perez, president of the Baja California
Maquiladora Industry Association, noted, many ''spend their paychecks on the
American side.'' A study by the University of Texas at El Paso found that the
maquiladora industries ranked second only to government spending as a source of
economic growth in the El Paso area.

In some respects, the border is already fulfilling predictions that it will
eventually seem invisible. With enthusiastic support from Tijuana, for instance,
San Diego recently sent a trade delegation to Japan. The idea, said an American
diplomat, was ''to sell the two cities as parts of a single metropolitan area.''

Hundreds of thousands of people on each side of the border have relatives on the
other side. Approximately 50,000 Americans live in the Mexican state of Baja
California Norte, mainly people who have retired to such resorts as Ensenada and
Rosarito. But there is also the San Diego automobile dealer who commutes to work
from his home in Mexico, less than 30 miles away. The symbiosis may be even more
advanced along the Texas border, where the income gap between the two sides is
less pronounced than in California.

The intricate and growing web of commercial and personal ties has produced
disputes over water rights and use, and over environmental issues such as the
dumping of toxic wastes. Perhaps of most concern, however, is the inability of
border inspection stations to handle the constantly increasing flow of
pedestrians and vehicles. Waits of up to two hours are common. One American
official calls the problem ''a bottleneck that could inhibit further growth.''

Frustrated by the inability or unwillingness of the two national governments to
deal with basic problems, many state and local authorities have made their own
informal arrangements covering police, fire, health and education services. For
instance, California and Baja California recently organized joint disaster
relief exercises. That, however, does not always play well at the national
level. ''Washington and Mexico City look at all of this with suspicion,'' Dr.
Bustamante said. ''The feeling in both capitals is that if we understand each
other, then something must be going wrong.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Mexican workers at plant in Tijuana, Mexico (NYT/Larry
Rohter); map of S.W. United States and Northern Mexico

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 18, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN-AMNESTY SNAG: FINDING PROPER PAPERS

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 898 words


George Colon, sitting in his office at the International Ladies Garment Workers
Union in Manhattan, held up two Manila envelopes, one bulky, the other slim.

The envelopes were full of papers that Mr. Colon, a counselor in the education
department of Local 23-25 of the I.L.G.W.U, hoped would prove that two of his
clients were eligible for amnesty under the new immigration law. But though one
contained documents dating from the 1930's, the other was almost empty and held
mostly personal letters in air-mail envelopes from the client's friends in
Central America.

A 500-Case Backlog

Mr. Colon shook his head. Since the immigration law took effect a little more
than a month ago, he said, his most distressing task has been telling aliens
without sufficient documentation that unless they find it, they have little
chance of amnesty.

At union headquarters on Seventh Avenue between 25th and 26th Streets, a handful
of workers in two offices were struggling through a backlog of almost 500 cases
of aliens seeking amnesty, each requiring 10 or more hours to process. Working
most nights and many weekends, they said that, though fewer aliens than expected
have sought help, the last few weeks have been very difficult.

Many garment workers are immigrants and the union has counseled them and their
families about naturalization for years. But there is a whole new set of people
requiring assistance under the new law.

Among the problems, the counselors said, are that aliens are confused about the
rules and fearful of coming forward; that the immigration service has not been
particularly helpful in carrying out the law, and that their office is
understaffed.

''More than 80 percent of our cases are not clear-cut, but in the very gray
area,'' said Angelica Aquino, a legal assistant in the union's Immigration
Project.

The new law provides legal status to aliens who can prove that they have been
living in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. It does not punish
illegal aliens directly but prohibits people from hiring them.

A Problem for Freddy

At the garment workers union, one of dozens of groups in New York helping
illegal aliens prepare their cases for presentation to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, many of the aliens who came in last Thursday said that,
despite confusion and fear, they continued to hope.

Freddy, a native of Ecuador who asked that his last name not be used, said he
had lived and worked in New York City for seven years. This would qualify him
for amnesty under the law - until next May 4, when the amnesty ends - which
stipulates that anyone who has lived continuously in the United States since
1982 and has not been on public assistance is eligible for legalization.

But Freddy has a problem. He has no record of having worked before 1982 because,
he said, his first employer, the owner of a fast-food store, paid his weekly
salary in cash and has since moved to Florida without leaving an address. ''I've
tried so long to find him,'' Freddy said.

Freddy has saved the receipt from every bill paid since he came to live with his
sister and three brothers in Brooklyn, however, and Ms. Aquino has told him that
his case looks promising. Still, ''everybody's scared,'' he said. ''This is a
nightmare.''

A Cautious Approach

Counselors agree that documentation has been one of the most difficult aspects
of the program, in part because the immigration service has not specified what
papers are required. As a result, they have been advising clients to bring in
whatever they can.

''Some people come in with four documents, others with four garbage bags of
documents,'' said Ms. Aquino.

Counselors at the union said they had been careful to present only cases with
enough documentation to insure success. If an application is denied, the alien
is still charged the $185 fee.

''We err on the side of caution,'' said Muzaffar Chishti, director of the
union's immigration project. ''If it passes my desk it's going to be passed by
the I.N.S.''

Because of the painstaking work required, he said, his counselors so far have
presented only about 10 aliens' applications to the immigration agency, all of
whom were granted temporary work permits, the first step in the legalization
process.

Those applications have been sent from the immigration office in New York City
to a processing center in Vermont, where the decision will be made to accept or
reject the case.

To a large extent, the union members and their relatives are luckier than the
bulk of illegal aliens in this country. Many have worked continuously for years
and have the documents to prove it. But the counselors say that for every
probable success, there are scores of people who may not make it.

On Thursday, Mr. Colon interviewed Mario Cortes, a 39-year-old Salvadoran. Mr.
Cortes had a slew of documents, including income tax records, and a very good
case. But two years ago, his wife left the country for 18 months - longer than
the law allows - and so does not qualify for amnesty.

''She's scared about the family and afraid that she'll be deported,'' Mr. Cortes
said.

''In January, I interviewed 267 people, and only nine qualified for amnesty,''
said Kathy Andrade, educational director at Local 23-25. ''The worst thing for
them was the agony of knowing they had to go back to countries where the
situation is so bad.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph of Angelica Aquino (NYT/Fred R. Conrad) (page B7)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 24, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Lawsuit Challenges Alien Re-Entry Rule In Amnesty Program

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 22


An aspect of the immigration service's amnesty program that blocks amnesty for
some aliens who briefly left the United States in the last five years has been
challenged in Federal District Court here by a coalition of rights groups.

Under the amnesty program, aliens who entered the United States illegally and
lived here for at least five years can apply for permanent residency, and,
ultimately, citizenship.

The aliens affected by the part of the program challenged in the suit filed
Wednesday are those who left for a short time, re-entered with visas allowing
for a temporary stay, and resumed long-term residence.

Under Immigration and Naturalization Service rules, aliens who re-entered with
the visas are not eligible for the amnesty program. The suit notes that the same
rules allow other aliens who left the United States and re-entered secretly
without visas to apply for legal status.

Rules Called 'Arbitrary'

Peter A. Schey, executive director of the National Center for Immigrants'
Rights, who is representing the groups that filed the suit, called the
regulations governing re-entry situations ''illegal, arbitrary and capricious.''
He said the rule kept thousands otherwise eligible for amnesty from applying for
it.

The aliens affected, he said, should not be penalized for their brief absences
or for the way they returned to the United States.

''These are people who went home for a few hours for Mother's Day, or for one or
two days to bury a dead parent, and who did not abandon their continuous
residency in the U.S.,'' Mr. Schey said. He estimated that 250,000 aliens were
in this situation.

An immigration service spokesman in Washington, Duke Austin, said the agency was
reviewing the regulation for possible amendment. While denyng that it was
arbitrary, he said no applications had yet been denied on the ground that the
person re-entered with a nonimmigrant visa.

According to documents filed in court, the named plaintiffs in the suit include
a Mexican, Mario Villa, who first entered the United States with a Mexican
border crossing card in January 1979. He returned to Mexico for 10 days
beginning May 17 last year ''because of a family emergency.'' Mr. Villa applied
for legalization on June 3, but, according to the document, was told his ''May
27, 1986, entry with a border crossing card rendered him ineligible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

YOUNG HAITIAN REFUGEE STYMIED AS HE TRIES TO ESCAPE PAST

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 41, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 604 words


Michael came to the United States four years ago - fleeing from Haiti in a small
boat, a frightened 14-year-old arriving in Florida in Levis and a Michael
Jackson T-shirt.

Since then, he has tried to build a future. So he has had to wipe out his past.

Michael is among the more than 100 Haitian boat children who have been given the
chance for a new life with foster parents through New York City's Special
Services for Children.

But he is also among the 17 who arrived with the boat people after Jan. 1, 1982,
and, as such, is not qualified to become a permanent resident under the new
Federal immigration law. Michael is subject to deportation. One girl has already
been forced to leave and two boys face deportation hearings in the next few
days.

The Mayor Makes an Appeal

Mayor Koch has taken up the case of the Haitian children, appealing to Senators
Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Alfonse M. D'Amato to sponsor special legislation in
Congress.

''These 17 children are young people with a purpose and a goal who have adjusted
admirably, becoming educated, employed and responsible,'' Mayor Koch said in a
letter to the legislators. ''Their deportation would wholly disrupt their
progress towards a new and better life.''

The New York Senators recently sent a letter to Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, referring to the Mayor's appeal and
calling for ''an administrative exception for these children on humanitarian
grounds.'' The I.N.S. chief has not yet responded.

All of the Haitian children have been placed in Haitian homes and if possible,
with relatives, said Patricia Adler, administrative supervisor at Louise Wise
Services, one of the foster-care agencies under contract with the city. ''We're
trying to maintain their cultural identity,'' Ms. Adler said.

Most of the children have learned English rapidly, obtained jobs and settled
into their new lives, the social worker said. Indeed, some of the children have
become ''too modern or too American'' for the tastes of traditional Haitian
foster parents, she said.

Michael's New Life

Over the last three years, Michael, now a strapping 18-year-old, has fashioned a
new life for himself. He lives on a quiet street of the Borough Park section of
Brooklyn with a foster family who treat him like their own child.

He graduated from Samuel Tilden High School among the top students in his class.
This year, he entered Hunter College on a grant from New York State and plans to
study medicine.

His best friends have enlisted in the Army and keep asking him when he will join
them.

''I never told them I'm illegal because I was afraid they wouldn't accept me,''
said the Haitian youth, who called himself Michael and was reluctant to give his
real name.

Michael is trying to forget how he fled from Haiti when the military took away
his father and brothers, how he has received no word from any of his family and
believes they are all dead.

Michael told his story in an interview last week at the Louise Wise townhouse on
East 94th Street in Manhattan.

His parents were separated and he had been raised by his father. In November
1983, three military men came to the house, arresting his father, three older
brothers, a sister-in-law and her three children. Michael, who had hid in a
neighbor's home, fled to Port-de-Paix, Haiti, where his mother helped him escape
by boat.

''I can't go back to Haiti because they would kill me,'' Michael said, echoing a
widespread concern among Haitians here that security has not improved since the
departure of the dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

2 HELD BY I.N.S. HURT IN ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE HOTEL

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 376 words


Two men from India being held by immigration authorities in a Kennedy
International Airport hotel were injured after they tried to escape by tying
their turbans, bed sheets and pillow cases together, lowering the makeshift rope
from their fourth-floor hotel window and climbing down, the authorities said
yesterday.

The two men were hurt, one critically, during the escape attempt Saturday night
from the Viscount Hotel, when the rope ripped apart and they plunged to the
ground, officials said.

The man whose injuries were less serious escaped for a few hours. He was
recaptured at 6 A.M. yesterday, according to the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The two had been confined for more than three weeks to a section of the hotel's
fourth floor that is leased by the immigration service. The agency uses rooms at
the hotel for people who are facing deportation charges or who have visa
problems, officials said. #2 Denied Admission to U.S.

Richard Thut, an I.N.S. associate regional commissioner, said the pair had
arrived at Kennedy and had been found ineligible for admission to the United
States. He said he did not know why they were denied entry but said they could
have had fraudulent visas, phony passports or criminal records.

Mr. Thut said he did not know why the men tried to escape because no decision
had been made on whether they should be deported. ''They had a number of avenues
on the administrative side before a decision would be made,'' Mr. Thut said.

One of the two men was identified as Kuldip Dhariwal, 28 years old, who arrived
at the airport Aug. 2.

He suffered massive head trauma with possible brain injuries, internal bleeding
and broken bones in the fall, the Port Authority police said. He was listed in
critical condition at Jamaica Hospital.

Weight Is Too Much for Rope

Mr. Thut said the other man, identified as Kaval Khurana, 25, had climbed out of
the hotel room first. He was near the ground, Mr. Thut said, when Mr. Dhariwal
started down.

The weight of both men was apparently too much for their makeshift rope,
officials said, and it ripped while Mr. Dhariwal was still near the top.

Mr. Khurana was captured later in a wooded area near the airport, the Port
Authority police said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

PERSONAL FINANCE;
New Hassles in Hiring Household Help

BYLINE: By Carole Gould; Carole Gould writes on finance from New York.

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words


AS of last Tuesday, people seeking to hire housekeepers, au pairs and other
types of household help have a new layer of red tape to contend with: the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

A key provision of the law took effect Sept. 1. It calls for the imposition of
possible criminal and civil penalties on anyone hiring immigrants who are not
authorized to work in the United States. (The law applies to all people hired
after Nov. 6, when the law was enacted.) Add this to the payroll taxes and
insurance that employers already must pay, and many people hiring household help
will find that their legal responsibilities have become ''a major hassle and a
mountain of paperwork,'' said Gerald H. Ranzal, a partner with the accounting
firm of Oppenheim, Appel, Dixon & Company.

Some people may be tempted to pay help off the books, but it invites an
expensive run-in with Federal and state agencies. Employers who do not pay
Social Security for their workers, for example, face penalties of 5 percent a
month of the tax due, up to a 25 percent maximum, plus interest, now 9 percent
annually.

To comply with the new immigration law, employers must file Form I-9 with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service beginning this month. The form requires
an employer to document the employee's identity and permission to work - whether
or not the employee is a United States citizen - by looking at certain papers.
Citizenship papers or a United States passport are sufficient; so is an alien
registration card, commonly known as a green card, or some other authorization
from the I.N.S. granting permission to work.

This documentation requirement ''is the most surprising part of the law,'' and
has the most impact on employers, said Allen E. Kaye, a New York City
immigration lawyer. ''You can't even hire your brother or sister, even though
you know they were raised in the good ol' U.S. of A., unless you see certain
papers.''

Until May 31, 1988, first-time offenders will receive citations. After that,
they can get hit with civil penalties ranging from $250 to $2,000 for the first
violation, $2,000 to $5,000 for subsequent violations and criminal sanctions as
well.

Will parents who hire foreign au pairs become the targets of Government raids?
While the new law theoretically applies to all employers, large and small, it is
doubtful that in practice the I.N.S. will harass someone employing a domestic,
Mr. Kaye said. But he points out that Form I-9 is fairly easy to complete, and
thus a small price to pay for peace of mind. (The Employers Handbook and Form
I-9 are available at the I.N.S. district offices or by calling 1-800-777-7700.)
One legal way to sidestep the new rules is to hire an au pair through the
Experiment in International Living, Au Pair Homestay U.S.A. (1522 K Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005; 202-371-9410) or the American Institute for
Foreign Study, Au Pair in America, (102 Greenwich Avenue, Greenwich, Conn.,
06830; 203-869-9090).

These federally approved pilot programs bring young Europeans to the United
States on cultural exchange visas. The au pairs are expected to perform about 45
hours of child-care work weekly. In return, the American host families provide
room and board, and pay an average $150 weekly, of which the au pair receives
$100. The balance is used for insurance and other administrative expenses,
round-trip air fare and support programs. (Au pairs are placed in regional
clusters under the supervision of a community counselor.) The new immigration
law is expected to increase participation in these au pair programs because
''people will think twice about hiring illegal aliens,'' said Mary W. Brady,
director of Au Pair Homestay U.S.A. She says that more people ''are applying
just for that reason.''

Parents who choose this route get an added bonus: Because the au pairs come to
the United States under special visas, their stipends are free from income and
employment taxes, exempting employers from payments and paperwork.

Otherwise, anyone hiring household help, domestic or foreign, must contend with
a thicket of payroll taxes. First, Social Security is due whenever earnings
exceed $50 in a calendar quarter. The rate for 1987 is 14.3 percent on the first
$43,800 of wages. Employers contribute half, or 7.15 percent; the balance is
withheld from the employee's paycheck. Taxes, due quarterly, are paid with Form
942, available at I.R.S. offices.

Most people do not withhold Federal income tax for their help. Nonetheless,
employers must file a Form W-2 with the Social Security Administration,
Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 18769, by Feb. 28 of each year. Employers of more than one
person must also file Form W-3.  Federal unemployment taxes are due when workers
earn more than $1,000 in a calendar quarter. The tax rate for 1987 is 6.2
percent of the first $7,000 of wages. However, employers can claim up to a 5.4
percent credit for amounts paid for state unemployment insurance. Since most
states have some form of insurance, in practice the combined maximum rate is 6.2
percent. Payments are reported to the I.R.S. on Form 940.

New Yorkers are liable for state unemployment insurance totaling 3.7 percent of
the first $7,000 of wages. Payments are made on Form IA-5, filed quarterly with
the New York State Unemployment Insurance, P.O. Box 1589, Albany, N.Y., 12249.
New employers may request forms at that address.

Anyone who reports employment taxes must have an employer identification number.
To get one, file Form SS-5 (application for Employer Identification Number) with
the I.R.S.


WHILE the blizzard of paperwork is onerous, it is the price people pay to claim
the child care credit, now worth a minimum of $480 for one child. To catch
cheaters, the I.R.S. can cross-check information on forms used to claim the
credit against employees' tax returns.

Non-complying employers who do not claim the credit are vulnerable to discovery
when household workers try to claim disability or retirement benefits, for
instance, and find out they are not covered, said Hanno D. Mott, a partner in
the New York City law firm of Koenig, Ratner & Mott.

The I.R.S. may also catch cheaters when noncomplying employers who claim the
home office deduction write off a portion of wages paid to a housekeeper.
Sometimes I.R.S. auditors stumble upon off-the-book payments to household help
when they examine checkbooks while looking into another aspect of the taxpayer's
finances.

Penalties and interest on unpaid employment taxes can build up over the years
and, since the 1986 Tax Act, interest charges are no longer deductible. These
changes ''significantly'' increase the cost to those who get caught paying off
the books, Mr. Ranzal said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
The Personal Finance column Sept. 6 misidentified the Internal Revenue Service
form used to obtain an employer identification number. It is Form SS-4.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
Yearning to Breathe Free

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Rules of procedure can look like lawyers' technicalities. But freedom often
depends on whether the rules are fair. ''The history of liberty,'' Justice Felix
Frankfurter said, ''has largely been the history of observance of procedural
safeguards.''

An issue rumbling in Washington now shows how much questions of procedure can
mean in human terms. The issue is how to decide pleas for asylum in America: the
pleas of men and women who say they are fleeing from persecution in another
country.

Not just liberty but life may be at stake in asylum cases. Torture, religious
persecution, political death squads - such fates may await a refugee whose
appeal to stay here fails.

In the Refugee Act of 1980 Congress wrote into law the tradition of granting
asylum to those seeking refuge from persecution. But not all claims of
persecution are genuine. Someone has to sort them out.

Two months ago the Justice Department issued proposed new rules for handling
asylum cases. They make a number of changes. One has aroused deep concern among
the agencies and lawyers who deal regularly with requests for asylum and who
know the heart-rending human stakes.

Today anyone claiming asylum has the right, before being deported or excluded
from the U.S., to press the claim at a hearing before an immigration judge. The
hearing includes the usual protections of due process: representation by a
lawyer, the right to call witnesses and so on.

The proposed new rules eliminate the role of immigration judges. Instead, those
who seek asylum would go to the agency that polices the borders of this country,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

I.N.S. employees designated as ''asylum officers'' would consider the cases.
They could dismiss applications as ''frivolous.'' In ''non-frivolous cases''
they would have what the rules describe as a ''non-adversarial interview'' with
the person seeking asylum. That would seem to be less than a full hearing. A
lawyer could be ''present,'' but apparently without power to subpoena witnesses
or documents or to cross-examine.

The crucial change is in the fact-finder: the person who decides whether the
applicant has really suffered persecution or has reason to fear it. Instead of
an independent judge there would be an employee of the Immigration Service - an
agency whose principal function is to exclude and expel aliens from the United
States.

As a matter of appearance alone the proposal seems dubious. How can a refugee,
someone who already feels weak and frightened, have any confidence in asking an
officer of the very agency that arrests and deports aliens for asylum?

And it is not just a question of appearance. No American would think it fair to
be tried on criminal charges by a police department employee.

The president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, John Gossart
Jr., has made the point in a comment to the Justice Department on the proposed
new rules. He and some other judges filed their individual views, taking
different positions on various proposals.

''I think asylum is a humanitarian act and should be resolved in a
non-adversarial setting,'' Judge Gossart said. ''But the setting should not be
in the agency whose function is the apprehension and expulsion of aliens. There
would always be a credibility problem. An agency denies someone asylum - and
then the same agency seeks to deport him or her.''

Many immigration lawyers are skeptical about the idea of ''non-adversarial
interviews.'' Pleasant as that sounds, they think it will work in practice to
allow rushed and routine denial of asylum requests, without adequate
fact-finding.

There is also concern that the granting of asylum will become even more
politicized. The Reagan Administration's focus on left-wing tyrannies heavily
influences the process now. Persons seeking asylum from the Sandinista
Government of Nicaragua almost always win, for example, while fewer than 3
percent of refugees from El Salvador do.

Ever since the passage of the 1980 Refugee Act, immigration officials have
worried about the possibility of floods of aliens seeking asylum. They have
considered various proposals to shortcut the process. But there is no great
backlog of asylum cases now, no reason for panic.

The proposed new rules include some that are sensitive to the fragile situation
of those who seek asylum. The time for comment on the proposals ends this week.
It should be possible, then, for Justice Department officials to work out needed
changes with those who know the human realities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Asylum Plan Is Under Attack

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 606 words


A Reagan Administration proposal to have the Justice Department rather than the
courts rule on applications for political asylum is being opposed by lawyers and
others working with immigrants.

Today is the deadline for comment on proposed regulations under which an
immigration official would decide which illegal aliens are allowed to stay in
the United States because of fear of torture, murder or persecution in their
homeland.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says the proposal is intended to make
the system more efficient. Opponents say that the asylum process is already
politicized and that the proposed regulations would make it worse.

According to the American Immigration Lawyers Association, half of all Soviet
citizens and 40 percent of all Nicaraguans seeking asylum from 1983 to 1986 were
successful, as against only 1 percent of applicants from Guatemala and 1.8
percent from Haiti.

Amnesty International, the international human rights organization, argues that
having an immigration official rule on asylum cases would be like having the
police or prosecutors serve as judges in criminal cases.

Once today's deadline passes, the Justice Department will review the comments.
It could be months before a decision is made on whether to impose the rules,
said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service. Even then, Congress
could overrule the new regulations. Asylum Plan Is Under Attack By The
Associated Press A Reagan Administration proposal to have the Justice Department
rather than the courts rule on applications for political asylum has run into
opposition from lawyers and others working with immigrants.

Today is the deadline for comment on proposed regulations under which an
immigration official would decide which illegal aliens are allowed to stay in
the United States because of fear of torture, murder or persecution in their
homeland.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says the proposal is intended to make
the system more efficient. Opponents say that the asylum process is already
politicized and that the proposed regulations would make it worse.

According to the American Immigration Lawyers Association, half of all Soviet
citizens and 40 percent of all Nicaraguans seeking asylum from 1983 to 1986 were
successful, as against only 1 percent of applicants from Guatemala and 1.8
percent from Haiti.

''The regulations would inject an ideological basis for granting or denying
asylum,'' said Amy Novick, associate director of the lawyers' association.

Amnesty International, the human rights organization, argues that having an
immigration official rule on asylum cases would be like having the police or
prosecutors serve as judges in criminal cases.

Once today's deadline passes, the Justice Department will review the comments.
It could be months before a decision is made on whether to impose the rules,
said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service. Even then, Congress
could overrule them.

''What we're trying to do here is make a more efficient system,'' Mr. Austin
said. ''The immigration judges clearly have calendars loaded with other matters.
We would like to create a corps of officers who will focus their attention only
on political asylum cases.''

The proposed regulations would sharply limit the information that the new
''asylum officer'' could consider. A ''country report'' supplied by the State
Department would be the principal basis for deciding. If an asylum request were
denied, Mr. Austin said, immigrants could raise issues of persecution before the
judicial Board of Immigration Appeals in a deportation hearing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 17, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Balk at Old 'Skeletons'

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words


Neftali Valencia, a Colombian who has worked steadily since he arrived in New
York City in 1980, should have been the perfect candidate for citzenship under
the new United States immigration law. Instead he believed that applying would
alert agents to an earlier run-in with the law and end with his being thrown out
of the country.

''I thought it would be impossible,'' Mr. Valencia said of his chances of
becoming an American citizen. ''All of us immigrants living here have problems
of one sort or another that make it risky to apply.''

An immigration counselor at his union finally persuaded Mr. Valencia to apply,
and in October he received a work permit. His temporary residence papers are
expected soon. In Mr. Valencia's case, it was a sham wedding to an American that
prevented him from applying.

But other complications - arrests, unpaid parking tickets or spouses who do not
qualify for citizenship under the new law - are keeping thousands of immigrants
in the Northeast from taking advantage of the country's sweeping new immigration
law, according to city officials and immigration lawyers.

Most of these complications are easily remedied, lawyers assigned to review the
citizenship applications say.

A felony conviction excludes an applicant, they said, but not an arrest record
without convictions or for fewer than three misdemeanors. The Internal Revenue
Service has said that back taxes will have to be paid, but it is not singling
out immigrants for screening.

Fabian Ospina, an immigration counselor for the International Ladies Garment
Workers Union, said fears over such ''skeletons in the immigration closet'' are
heightened in the Northeast because immigrants would find it hard to re-enter
the country if deported.

In the West, Mexicans applying for legal status under the new law may also fear
being deported, but they know they can retrace their steps across the border the
same day, according to Elizabeth Bogan, director of New York City's Office of
Immigrant Affairs. For immigrants in the Northeast, she said, deportation
presents a more complicated return journey.

Under the law, illegal aliens who have lived here since 1982 have until May to
apply for temporary residence and eventual citizenship. The turnout in New York
and elsewhere in the Northeast has been disappointing, immigration officials
said.

Applications Below Capacity

During the first five months of the program, the New York City offices averaged
338 applicants a day, compared with the 1,100 a day they can handle. Nationwide
nearly a million immigrants have applied, and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service now says it expects two million by May.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration agency in Washington, said a recent
publicity campaign in the Northeast had failed to increase the number of
applicants substantially.

Examples abound of immigrants in the Northeast who will not risk applying,
lawyers said.

Until Mr. Valencia showed his new work authorization card around the lace
factory where he works, he was the only illegal employee there to step foward
and apply.

The day after he showed colleagues his card, two dozen of his friends called up
the union's offices to apply. Until then, each had weighed the benefits of
citizenship against the possiblity of deportation and had opted to remain
illegal. Most had complications in their pasts that made applying, in their
minds, tantamount to writing their own deportation orders.

'I Didn't Believe It'

Mario Seville Sanchez, was one of Mr. Valencia's co-workers who refused to file
his application until he saw his friend's work permit. ''You don't go to the
doctor, you don't register at schools, why would you go to the immigration
office?'' asked Mr. Seville, a Nicaraguan citizen.''

''I didn't believe it until I saw that card,'' Mr. Seville said, referring to
Mr. Valencia's laminated work authorization card. ''It took a lot of courage for
me to come here. I didn't think I would qualify.''

Most of the complications can be remedied, Mr. Ospina said. In Mr. Valencia's
case, he had been advised originally by a lawyer to enter into the sham wedding.
Mr. Ospina said that Mr. Valencia had received a waiver on this violation from
the immigration service and that it should not present a problem.

Mr. Seville worked at odd jobs and was paid in cash for the first two years he
lived in the United States. He believed his residency would be difficult to
prove and the cash payments a problem. A union counselor helped him reconstruct
the time period and showed him how to secure affidavits from friends.

A Salvadoran immigrant, who asked not to be identified, arrived here in 1980 and
qualifies for the program, which requires continual residence since 1982.
However, he is afraid to file because his wife arrived in 1983 and does not
qualify, according to Felix Cardona, a lawyer at the Center for Immigrant
Rights, a nonprofit group that helps immigrants.

Spouses Not Deported

So far the immigration service has not deported any spouses, and it says it will
not deport children. Still, the lack of a clear policy regarding spouses can
create such anxiety in some immigrants that they would rather remain illegal,
Mr. Cardona said.

May Ying Chen, assistant director of the immigration project at the
International Ladies Garment Workers Union, said a friend of hers has been in
the United States since the 1970's, when he attended college in the West. He has
yet to apply for citizenship under the new program, however, because he has
worked for cash and is afraid of being deported to Hong Kong.

In addition to the greater fear of deportation in the Northeast, New York
immigration officials said, getting word to the region's varied immigrants about
nuances or changes in the law is more difficult than reaching the largely
Mexican community in the West.

Recently, for example, the agency decided to permit immigrants who had
re-entered the country on a legal visa to apply for citizenship. This change
affects many immigrants in the Northeast who left for short periods but returned
on tourist visas, but officials here said the message had not yet penetrated the
different communities.

Not All Employers Help

Fortunately for Mr. Seville and Mr. Valencia, their present employer was anxious
to help them and wrote letters on their behalf. Most employers, Mr. Ospina said,
are reluctant to do so because they are afraid the immigration service will raid
their premises.

Some businesses still hire illegal aliens, which is prohibited under the new
law, and some have been paying employees ''off the books'' for years.

Since Mr. Seville and Mr. Valencia belong to the garment union, they had access
to trained immigration counselors - also a rare advantage for illegal aliens.

Counselors have told Mr. Seville that his citizenship application is likely to
be approved, and he is already making plans for the day he gets his temporary
residence papers. One of the first things he will do, he said, is to enroll in
English classes, a step he had not taken for fear of being discovered as an
illegal alien.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Neftali Valencia (NYT/Don Hogan Charles); Mario Seville (pg.
B5) (NYT); Fabian Ospina (pg. B5) (NYT/Don Hogan Charles)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 19, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Lift the McCarran-Walter Lid

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words


For 35 years the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act has allowed Washington to
exclude foreign visitors based on public statements they might make in the
United States. Sensibly, the Senate would change this practice, but some House
members balk over technical issues. Their fear of losing some jurisdictional
authority pales beside the need to reform this destructive law.

Passed in 1952, McCarran-Walter reflects the spirit of Joseph McCarthy; it lists
33 grounds for excluding alien visitors or migrants. Some are reasonable, like
former Nazi membership or criminal convictions. Some, like ''sexual deviation,''
are outmoded. The most offensive bars people who would advocate ''economic,
international and governmental doctrines of world Communism'' and other
subversive activities. It is a clear insult to the American tradition of
tolerance for dissent, and to the public's intelligence.

The State Department authorization bill, now awaiting consideration by a
House-Senate conference committee, contains an amendment that would prohibit the
denial of visas ''solely because of any past or current political beliefs or
political associations or on the basis of the expected content of the alien's
statements.'' The amendment, sponsored by Senators Moynihan, Kassebaum and
Simon, would not prevent the exclusion of foreign visitors for more legitimate
reasons; it would establish a clear presumption in favor of admission.

That's an important first move toward overhauling the act. Yet members of the
House Judiciary Committee, including chairman Peter Rodino and Romano Mazzoli,
object that the amendment to an authorization bill usurps their jurisdiction
over immigration issues. They would address advocacy exclusions in a more
comprehensive revision of exclusion and deportation rules, sponsored by Barney
Frank of Massachusetts. But it won't come up until the next Congress.

McCarran-Walter deserves more extensive revision, but enacting the Senate
amendment won't prevent that. In this case, half a loaf doesn't represent
capitulation, but a sensible step forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 15, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Alien - to Free Speech

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words


As much as Americans treasure freedom of speech, they also treasure the freedom
to hear. But the freedom to hear dissent has been seriously compromised since
passage of the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act of 1952. One provision allows the
Government to exclude foreign visitors on the basis of public statements they
might make in the United States. Finally, after 35 years, Congress is on the
verge of undoing that noxious provision.

McCarran-Walter, one of the shameful legacies of the McCarthy era, contains 33
listed grounds for excluding alien visitors or migrants. Some are clear and
reasonable, like former membership in the Nazi party. Others are so fuzzy that
they are unreasonable: does an alien visitor espouse world Communism, oppose
''all organized government'' or favor other subversive activities?

Americans are intelligent enough and the U.S. is strong enough to hear
dissenting views, even those of, say, the General Secretary of the Soviet
Communist Party.

Now Congress has taken a critical first step toward making the law more
sensible. A conference committee recently passed an amendment to the Foreign
Relations Authorization Act to prohibit exclusion or deportation of alien
visitors ''because of any past, current, or expected beliefs, statements or
associations'' that, if engaged in by a citizen, would be protected under the
Constitution.

This compromise language of an amendment originally sponsored by Senators Daniel
Patrick Moynihan of New York, Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas and Paul Simon of
Illinois was worked out largely by Senator Moynihan and Representative Barney
Frank of Massachusetts. The full House and Senate are expected to approve it
this week.

That, however, will only be a first step. The new provision is set to expire by
March 1989. That's because Congress is expected next year to consider a more
extensive overhaul of McCarran-Walter's exclusion and deportation rules,
sponsored by Representative Frank. Comprehensive revision is long overdue and
conscientious members have their work, and their deadline, cut out for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 14, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

In Salvador, They Are Still Fleeing the Violence

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words


To the Editor:

''Law on Aliens Fails to Halt Salvadorans'' (news story, Dec. 21) confirms our
long-standing belief that, despite stringent immigration reforms, Salvadoran
refugees continue to flee Central America in search of safe haven in the United
States. We part company, when assessing the impetus that propels Salvadorans to
come here.

Each year, since 1983, legislation has come before Congress to provide limited
protection for Salvadoran refugees in flight from civil war at home. Each year,
this legislation, known as the Moakley-DeConcini bill, has come closer to
passage. Now, after at least 60,000 civilians have died in El Salvador and still
more ''disappeared,'' this legislation is expected to come to the Senate floor
early in 1988. We hope it will win and bring temporary suspension of deportation
of Salvadorans and Nicaraguans fleeing violence in the region.

Despite strong press coverage of the peace process in Central America,
deteriorating human rights in El Salvador have received little attention. Only
days ago, the political wing of Salvador's Mariona prison was besieged by the
military. One political prisoner was afterward found dead, apparently having
''fallen'' from the prison roof. Athough the United States Embassy declared it a
suicide, the autopsy showed asphyxiation as the cause of death. In the same
week, an electrical worker belonging to a large antigovernment union was shot to
death in broad daylight a block away from the national police headquarters in
downtown San Salvador. Another prisoner, a baker from Salvador's marginalized
slums, reportedly died in Mariona Prison on Dec. 16 only hours after being
transferred from national police detention. Testimony from other prisoners, in
concurrence with autopsy findings, confirms that he had been severely beaten
before arrival at Mariona.

Besides the assassinations, torture, disappearances, intimidation and
imprisonment, the ravages of El Salvador's eight-year war persist. Continued
bombing, strafing and combat take their toll on the populace.

It is less than half an answer to say Salvadorans come to the United States
because they have learned of ''loopholes in the law,'' and misleading not to
mention violent conditions in the region. To say that initiatives, such as the
Moakley bill, which would provide temporary and limited refugee protection for
Salvadorans (akin to what we provide Poles, Afghans and others), has ''convinced
Salvadorans that the United States is not serious about enforcing its
immigration law against them,'' is untrue.

Refugees are not immigrants. They are not here by choice. The implication by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that protective legislation acts as a
magnet is wrong. One need only look at a list of human rights violations
committed in recent months to see more than an empty excuse why more and more
Salvadorans are risking apprehension at the border to seek the United States
protection that is already offered others, including their Nicaraguan neighbors.


LAUREN MCMAHON
Executive Director, El Rescate, Los Angeles, Dec. 21, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 17, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CONNECTICUT OPINION;
Are You an American? Show Us Your Papers

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIFTIG; Robert Liftig lives in Westport.

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 28, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 729 words


IT'S always been an early harbinger of spring around our house: the first mail
of the new year brings a letter from a Connecticut university congratulating me
for once again having been appointed an adjunct professor for the spring
semester. It's a little extra cash, but that's not why I do it; call it teaching
for the joy of it.

This year's letter was different, however, for cozied up behind the good news
was Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9, which, the dean (not in his
usual cheery writing) informed me is ''a consequence of the recent changes in
the regulations of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.'' I must
therefore present ''evidence'' to him that I am a bona fide citizen of these
United States ''in the presence of a representative of the university and
witnessed.''

''Photocopies are not acceptable,'' the dean added, then went on to quote a
further stipulation that will require me to make a similar pilgrimage year after
year.

When Congress passed the Immigration Control Act of 1986, I, like many
Americans, gave it little thought. The issue, I remember hearing, was whether
''illegals'' should be allowed to slave away in the orchards and vegetable
patches of the Southwest and whether other ''undocumented aliens'' should be
allowed to continue working as domestics in some of our richer households.

''Why should illegal immigrants take jobs away from native-born Americans?'' an
irate Congressman said on the television news just after his matching bill was
passed. I remember laughing. Just that day, a friend who owns a doughnut shop
complained that he could find no ''native-born American'' who would work as a
counterman - even though the job paid $8 an hour, plus tips.

It was a few days later that the news carried another story, detailing how, for
$75 or so, even an alien from Mars could easily obtain the necessary supporting
documentation on an already flourishing counterfeit market. I chuckled again,
pleased that the American ''can do'' attitude was so quickly picked up by
newcomers to our shores (illegal or otherwise). That was before I received the
congratulatory letter from the dean, the tone of which was not his own, but
rather that of the same unseen governmental hand that has authorized other
government requests for my money, blood and personal appearances over the years
- draft notices, audits by the I.R.S. - even the yearly trip to the state's
emissions testing stations simply to turn over a $10 tax.

True, the government had offered me a choice of supporting documents, but I
could not find one of them anywhere. My passport had expired, I knew, and so I
had lost it. My original Social Security card had long since disintegrated, and
my birth certificate was ensconced 80 miles away in a safety deposit box, maybe.

''You should really keep your important papers more up to date,'' the
sympathetic dean suggested when I spoke to him.

''You can't do this!'' I wanted to protest. ''I'm an American citizen!'' But I
knew that either the dean, the Congressman who supported the bill or the unseen
hand that wrote it, could now legally call back, ''But you can't prove it!''
Besides, writing immigration law wasn't the dean's responsibility, and I
couldn't remember the name of the Congressman.

Just then my wife called to say she had found the misplaced passport, the dean
announced I had retained my adjunct status for another semester, and the session
ended with the dean, his secretary and myself breaking down in laughter as we
searched the contents of our wallets for an original Social Security card.
(Believe it or not - we found one.) Here the matter might have ended like a
situation comedy; situation normal; situation complicated; stability returned,
except that we real people have a sense of foreboding whenever our space has
been violated, in this case by a regulation more befitting a third world country
that the good old U.S.A. For this new immigration law has a lot in common with
the census and taxation regulations of more repressive societies - laws designed
to imprint a government's insignia in ever more insulting ways upon the body
politic - even as its citizens search desperately through the bureaucratic
boundaries of their lives for their ''official papers.''

Such control is how life's little pleasures are turned unsavory by the grimness
of governments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 5, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Ends an Effort To Deport Teacher On Basis of Ideology

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has abandoned its effort to deport
Margaret Randall, an United States-born citizen of Mexico whose writings in
praise of leftist revolutions led to a 1986 deportation order that became a
cause celebre in the literary world.

At a hearing in a Federal appeals court here today, a Justice Department lawyer
announced that the Government would not oppose Ms. Randall's appeal of the
deportation order because Congress recently removed ideology as a ground for
excluding aliens from the United States.

Although the deportation order technically remains in effect until the Bureau of
Immigration Appeals officially lifts it, today's action in practical terms means
that Ms. Randall, who is distinguished visiting professor of English at Trinity
College in Hartford, Conn., will be able to establish permanent residency in the
United States. She is also seeking to restore her American citizenship, which
she lost when she took Mexican citizenship in 1967.

A Change in Long-Disputed Act

The outcome of her case is the most visible result of the recent change in the
long-disputed McCarran-Walter Act. The 35-year-old law permits exclusion of
foreigners on a variety of grounds, including advocacy of the ''doctrines of
world Communism,'' the provision an immigration judge cited in Ms. Randall's
case.

Prominent writers including Arthur Miller, Saul Bellow, Norman Mailer and Alice
Walker had joined Ms. Randall in challenging the law.

Congress removed the ideological exclusion provisions in late December in an
amendment sponsored by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York,
and Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts. The White House
opposed the action but President Reagan signed the measure because it was
attached to a crucial State Department spending bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Family of Mexicans Wins 3-Year Fight To Stay in the U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 44, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., Feb. 19


A Mexican family living in Leicester has won a three-year fight to stay in the
United States.

Mario Marquez, his wife and four children will become permanent residents of the
United States after a recent decision by an Immigration and Naturalization
Service unit in Washington.

The service's Legalization Appeals Unit last week overturned a decision by the
Eastern Regional Processing Facility in Williston that said Mr. Marquez did not
qualify as a special agricultural worker under the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986.

The act allows immigrants to remain in the country if they can show they worked
for 90 days between May 1, 1985, and May 1, 1986, with fruits, vegetables and
perishable goods.

'Clear Error' Found

Mr. Marquez said in his application for permanent resident status that he
harvested corn in that period at the Leicester farm where he lived with his
family.

Local immigration officials determined that the corn Mr. Marquez harvested was
primarily for cattle, not for human consumption, and therefore was not
considered a vegetable.

But the appeals unit said local officials were ''in clear error denying the
application.'' It stated, ''Corn, whether used primarily for human consumption
or used to feed animals, still qualifies for the purposes'' of the new
immigration law.

Mr. Marquez said he and his family were delighted by the decision. ''My kids
were very happy to hear about it,'' he said. ''Now, we will be able to go to
Mexico in the summer to visit the family, which we haven't seen in years.'' The
family could not leave the country while the appeal was pending.

The Marquez family came to the United States in August 1984 to visit a friend.
Their tourist visas expired in March 1985. The family moved to Leicester in
1985.

In April 1986, a judge ruled that Mr. Marquez's visa had expired and that he was
working illegally at the farm. The judge gave the family until August to leave
the country, prompting a public outcry from Leicester residents who have adopted
the family as their own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 27, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Category Widened of Cubans Who Can Be Deported Home

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 26


Cuban immigrants who commit crimes in the United States can be deported to their
homeland, even if they have obtained United States citizenship, the Commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service has said.

The official, Alan C. Nelson, said Thursday that the immigration agreement
reached in November between the United States and Cuba does not limit those
eligible for deportation to the 2,500 Cubans detained in Federal prisons. His
comments appeared today in The Miami Herald.

''Any Cuban who commits a crime, whether he is a resident or citizen of the
United States, and if the law so sees fit, can be deported,'' Mr. Nelson said.

Advocates for Cuban prisoners criticized Mr. Nelson's statements.

Steven Donziger, a member of the Cuban Detainees Support Coalition in Atlanta,
said, ''Cuban deportation and what Nelson is doing, representing the
Government's politics, is scandalous and truly unjustifiable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 16, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Senate Backs Bill on Aliens That Emphasizes Job Skills

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15


The Senate today overwhelmingly approved a major immigration bill intended to
place greater emphasis on occupational skills in determining who can legally
immigrate to the United States.

The bill was approved 88 to 4. It was sponsored by Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
The measure now goes to the House, where similar legislation has been proposed
by Representative Charles E. Shumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, but where
Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has
shown little enthusiasm for acting on such legislation this year.

Mr. Rodino, a New Jersey Democrat, has said Congress should wait on major
revisions to the law until it has an opportunity to judge the impact of a
comprehensive 1986 immigration law that offers legal status to illegal aliens
who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and penalizes employers who
hire illegal aliens.

Mr. Rodino's view has been supported by officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, but the White House has yet to indicate whether
President Reagan favors the new legislation.

Immigration Limit of 590,000

The Senate bill would place an overall limit on legal immigration of 590,000.
Currently there is no overall ceiling but there are limits on certain categories
of immigrants. About 490,000 legal immigrants arrive each year. The new ceiling
would include immediate family members of United States citizens who currently
are not subject to the limits that apply to other categories of immigration.

The bill would also substantially rearrange the family-oriented preference
system adopted by Congress in 1965 when it last addressed the issue of legal
immigration. The bill's sponsors said that system had inadvertently caused
imbalances in immigration by closing America's doors to foreigners who had no
family connections in the United States.

An 'Independent' Category

The sponsors said the new measure would remedy this by creation of a preference
category of ''independent immigrants'' for whom visas would be granted on the
basis of skills and abilities that are in short supply in the United States or
who had been unable to use the current system because they had no family
connections in the United States.

Critics of the legislation in and out of Congress argue that the bill would
diminish the country's commitment to family reunification by imposing the
overall limit, by narrowing the definition of ''family'' in several of
categories and by dramatically reducing the number of visas available to
brothers and sisters of United States citizens.

Senator Dennis DeConcini, an Arizona Democrat, argued vigorously in the debate
against such changes and voted against the bill.

In a letter to senators urging changes in the bill, the American Jewish
Committee said: ''The bill allows for the admission of skilled newcomers, many
of whom are European, at the expense of fifth preference, many of whom are Asian
and Hispanic. Applying a preference of skilled immigrants over family
reunification could produce unnecessary ethnic strife.''

A Narrowing of Category

The fifth-preference category currently applies to brothers and sisters of adult
United States citizens, which would be narrowed under the legislation to
siblings who had never been married. The number of available visas would be
reduced to 22,000 from the current 64,800.

Currently, only 10 percent of the immigrants coming to the United States are
selected on the basis of labor market needs. The new system would raise that to
20 percent. A total of 120,000 visas would be available to independent
immigrants, or those without family members in the United States. But even with
these changes, 470,000 visas would still be reserved for family immigration.
Under the existing family preferense system, about 435,000 immigrants came to
this country in the past year.

Point System of Skills

Within the independent immigrant category, 55,000 new visas would be awarded
according to a point system similar to that now in use by Canada and Australia.
Under this system points are awarded for English language skills, educational
level, occupational demand and work experience.

Under the rearrangement of the family preference system, greater priority would
be given to the closest family members. More visas would be available to the
spouses and young children of permanent resident aliens but eligibility would be
curtailed for in-laws, nieces and nephews as well as the married brothers and
sisters of United States citizens.

Senator Kennedy has said he expected the bill to facilitate immigration from
countries in Western Europe.

The immigration service said more than 50 percent of the immigrants admitted to
the United States in 1965 were from Europe and less than 8 percent were from
Asia, when preference was based on national origin. It was changed that year to
give preference to family members of citizens and permanent residents already
residing in the United States, and by 1986, 45 percent were from Asia and 10
percent were from Europe.

'A Fat-Cat Preference'

A major controversy erupted on Monday when Senator Dale Bumpers, an Arkansas
Democrat, sought to remove a provision that would establish a category of
conditional entry visas for foreign investors who generate employment for at
least 10 Americans or legal United States residents. Mr. Bumpers called this ''a
fat-cat preference,'' which he said would allow wealthy foreigners ''to buy
their way past the Statue of Liberty.''

''This provision is an invitation to sham investments, fraudulent motives and
scandalous activities, and there are insufficient safeguards in the bill to
prevent them,'' he told his colleagues.

The Senate not only rejected Mr. Bumpers's attempt to strike the provision, by a
vote of 51 to 33, but also eased its financial test by allowing a foreign
investor to be eligible for the preference with only $1 million in new capital
rather than $2 million as originally stipulated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 7, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

A NAZI COLLABORATOR TO SOME, A PATRIOT TO OTHERS

BYLINE: By ESTHER IVEREM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: GREENLAWN, L.I., April 2


One morning almost a year ago, Anu Linnas trimmed her father's thinning, blond
hair and helped him select a plaid jacket from the closet. The two of them, with
her younger sister, Tina, then set out from this small community for what they
thought would be a routine meeting with immigration officials in Manhattan.

With a daughter on each side, the father - a thin, arthritic man of average
height - walked into a waiting room at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service; after an hour, he was taken away and arrested by armed agents.

Since that day, April 22, 1986, Karl Linnas has been behind bars and at the
center of a storm. Family and friends describe the 67-year-old land surveyor as
a patriot from Estonia, who, after emigrating to the United States in 1951,
settled into a peaceful life here with his wife, Linda, and three daughters.

'Want to Blend In'

But the Soviet Union has ruled that while Germans occupied his country during
World War II, Mr. Linnas supervised a Nazi concentration camp in which thousands
were murdered. A Federal court in the United States has found that he lied about
his past as a Nazi collaborator to gain entry illegally to the United States.
The Soviet Union annexed Estonia in 1940. [Yesterday, an Associate Justice of
the United States Supreme Court, Thurgood Marshall, temporarily blocked Mr.
Linnas's deportation to the Soviet Union - where he was convicted and condemned
to death in absentia in the early 1960's -to give the entire court a chance to
consider the order.] His friends know him as a jovial man who each year played
Santa Claus for local children.

''My father was not a Nazi,'' Anu Linnas said in an interview. ''He did not kill
Jews. You don't automatically become a Nazi because the Germans are occupying
your country.''

Mr. Linnas has said in interviews that he served in the Estonian army. Others
have testified in this country that Mr. Linnas told them he worked as a guard at
the concentration camp but knew nothing of the killings.

Threats by Phone

''I understand that it's hard for people to believe,'' said Eli M. Rosenbaum,
general counsel for the World Jewish Congress. ''But if you read about
well-known, captured Nazis, none of their neighbors saw them as cruel people.
They want to blend in. They don't even get parking tickets.''

According to neighbors, the Linnases' family life was a mixture of joy and
hidden pain here, where they lived on a street with simple ranch-style homes and
lawns framed by log fences.

Richard Hammer, a neighbor and friend of the family for 25 years, remembered
that music played a big part in the life of his neighbors. On some balmy summer
weekends, the Linnas family would invite neighbors to backyard cookouts where
everyone ate, drank and sang folk songs as Mr. Linnas accompanied on his guitar.

Mr. Linnas taught his three daughters to play musical instruments and organized
a local Girl Scout troop. He also directed and wrote music for a children's band
at the Estonian House, a cultural organization based in Middle Island, L.I.,
where his family attended cultural events, sometimes in traditional costumes.

But throughout the family's life here ran a thread of anonymous letters and
phone calls threatening harm to members of the family, according to neighbors
and Anu Linnas. No one is sure who sent the letters but family members believe
they were either sent by Soviet agents or Jewish groups after newspapers
published word of the Soviet sentencing in early 1960's.

Karl and Linda Linnas tried to shield their daughters from the threats, family
members and neighbors said. But they said the tension still caused the youngest
daughter, Epp, to develop stomach ulcers while in grade school, and they said,
contributed to the death of Linda Linnas, at the age of 47, from a heart attack
in 1970.

'Magnitude of the Issue'

''We were kept under strict rule,'' said Anu Linnas, who now lives in Virginia.
''We weren't allowed to stray. I had an 11 o'clock curfew until I was a senior
in high school.

''I found those letters when my mother died,'' Ms. Linnas said. ''And that's
when we started to understand the magnitude of the issue.''

The youngest daughter, Epp, now lives at the Linnas house here with her husband
and 1-year-old daughter. The threats continue and, family members say, there was
also a case of attempted arson at the house.

''Epp was born here,'' Mr. Hammer said. ''She didn't do anything to deserve
this. She doesn't deserve any more troubles.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 24, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

EASTERN U.S. AGENCIES THAT ARE AIDING ALIENS

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words


Following is a list of religious, civic and community groups in the Eastern
Region of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service that will
help process applications by aliens for legalization under the new immigration
laws:

NEW YORK METROPOLITAN AREA

Manhattan

Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services, 360 Park Ave. South.

Episcopal Mission Society, 14 E. 109th St.

Presiding Bishop's Fund, 815 Second Ave.

Private Immigration Agency Inc., 601 West 156th St.

International Ladies Garment Workers Union, 1710 Broadway.

United States Catholic Conference, Migration and Refugee Services,

Brooklyn

St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church, 1227 Pacific St.

South Side Community Mission, 280 Marcy Ave.

Catholic Migration Services Inc., 75 Greene Ave.

Queens

St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, 89-16 168th St., Jamaica.

Nassau

St. George's Episcopal Church, 319 Front St., Hempstead.

Catholic Charities, 143 Schliegel Blvd, Amityville.

Suffolk

Christ Episcopal Church, 155 Third Ave,, Brentwood.

NEW YORK STATE

Albany

International Center of the Capital Region, West Mall Office Plaza, 875 Central
Ave.

Albion

Rural Opportunity, Inc., P.O. Box 24.

Binghamton

American Civic Association, 131 Front St.

Buffalo

Catholic Charities, 531 Virginia St.

International Institute of Buffalo, 864 Delaware Ave.

Highland

Rural Opportunity, Inc., 74 Vineyard Ave. 902 Broadway.

New Hampton

Rural Opportunity, Inc., Rd. N2 Box 522.

Nyack

World Relief, 201 Route 9W North.

Ogdensburg

Rural Opportunity Inc.

Rochester

Catholic Family Center, 50 Chestnut St.

Rural Opportunities Inc., 339 East Ave., Suite 305.

Sodus

Rural Opportunity Inc., 32 W. Main St.

Syracuse

Episcopal Church, 437 James St.

Catholic Charities, 1654 W. Onondaga St.

Yonkers

United Slavonian American League Inc., 240 McLean Ave.

NEW JERSEY

Camden

Catholic Social Services, Migration and Refugee Services, 3098 Mt. Pleasant.

East Orange

Caribbean Haitian Council, 410 Central Ave.

Elizabeth

Red Cross of Eastern Union County, 203 W. Jersey St.

Fort Lee

Church of the Good Shepherd, 1576 Palisade Ave.

Jersey City

International Institute of New Jersey, 880 Bergen Ave.

Newark

Catholic Community Services, One Summer Ave.

Paramus

Hispanic Institute, 368 Paramus Rd.

Paterson

Catholic Family and Community Services, 10 Jackson St.

Trinity Episcopal Church, 86 Marion St.

Perth Amboy

Catholic Social Services, 103 Center St.

Trenton

Lutheran Social Services, 189 S. Broad St.

Union City

North Hudson Community Action Agency, 507 26th St.

Vineland

Rural Opportunity Inc., 535-537 Landis Ave.

CONNECTICUT

Bridgeport

International Institute of Connecticut, 670 Clinton Ave.

New Britain

International Institute, 274 Broad St.

Stamford

International Institute, 28 Soundview Ave.

DELAWARE

Dover

Service for Foreign Born, Dover Air Force Base, Personnel Building, Room 120.

Delmarva Rural Ministries, 25 Wyoming Ave.

Wilmington

Delaware Department of Justice, State Office Building, 820 N. French St., 7th
floor.

MARYLAND

Baltimore

Episcopal Diocesan Refugee Center, 105 W. Monument St.

Associated Catholic Charities, 1922 S.E. Lombard St.

Fredericksburg

Delmarva Rural Ministries, 204 S. Main St.

Princess Anne County

Catholic Social Service Sector Center, Mt. Vernon Road, Rt. 3.

Silver Spring

Spanish Speaking Community of Maryland, 8519 Piney Branch Rd.

Spanish Catholic Center, 1015 University Blvd. East.

MASSACHUSETTS

Boston

Chinese American Civic Association, 90 Tyler St.

International Institute of Boston, 287 Commonwealth Ave.

Catholic Refugee and Immigration Services, 150 Causeway St.

Fall River

SER-JOBS For Progress, 164 Bedford, Fall River, MA.

Lawrence

International Institute of Greater Lawrence, 454 Canal St.

Lowell

International Institute of Lowell, 79 High St.

Malden

World Relief, 5 Pleasant St.

Springfield

Refugee Resettlement Program, 11 Pearl St.

PENNSYLVANIA

Allentown

Catholic Social Agency, 928 Union Blvd.

Broomall

John J. Gaffney and the Ryan Agency, Inc., 2701 West Chester Pike.

Erie

International Institute, 330 Holland St.

International Institute, 201 German St.

Gettysburg

Rural Opportunity Inc., 310 Lortz Ave.

Rural Opportunity Inc. 107 N. Stratton St.

Harrisburg

Catholic Charities, 1500 Herr St.

Lancaster

Nationalities Service Center, 10 S. Prince St.

Philadelphia

Catholic Social Services, 222 N. 17th St.

Nationalities Service Center, 1300 Spruce St.

Lutheran Child and Family Services, 2900 Queen Lane.

Philadelphia Refugee Service Center, 4047 Sansom St.

Episcopal Community Center, 225 South 3d St.

Reading

St. Mark's Lutheran Church, 10th and Windsor Sts.

Rural Opportunity Inc., 130 N. 5th St.

Community Legal Services Inc., 5219 Chestnut St.

West Chester

Rural Opportunities Inc., 10 S. Wayne St.

RHODE ISLAND

Providence

Catholic Social Services, 433 Elmwood Ave.

International Institute of Rhode Island Inc., 421 Elmwood Ave.

VERMONT

Burlington

Vermont Refugee Resettlement Program, 59 Pearl St.

VIRGINIA

Arlington

Casa San Miguel, St. George's Episcopal Church, 911 N. Oakland St.

Hogar Hispano of the Diocese of Arlington, 915 S. Wakefield St.

Nassawodox

Delmarva Rural Ministries, 7681 Hospital Rd.

Richmond

Catholic Diocese of Richmond, 811 Cathedral Pl.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

United States Catholic Conference, 1221 Massachusetts Ave. NW.

Lutheran Social Services, 5121 Colorado Ave. NW.

United States Catholic Conference, 1312 Massachusetts Ave. NW.

SER-JOBS For Progress (MCIP), Irving and 16th Sts. NW.

St. Margaret's Episcopal Church, 1820 Connecticut Ave. NW.

Mission San Juan, 5711 16th Street NW.

Organization of Chinese American Women, 1525 O St. NW.

Georgetown University, Center for Immigration Policy and Refugee Ass't., 37th
St. and O Street NW.

Korean Community Service Center, 7720 Alaska Ave.

Travelers Aid Society of Washington, D.C., 1013 12th St. NW.

Association of Farm Workers Opportunity Programs, 410 Seventh St. SE.

WEST VIRGINIA

Charleston

Catholic Diocese of Wheeling-Charleston, 801 Quarrier St., Room 201.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 12, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CHARGES DISMISSED AGAINST PALESTINIAN SUPPORTERS

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 11


An immigration judge today dismissed charges by the Reagan Administration
against eight immigrants it is seeking to deport on charges that they fostered
Palestinian terrorism. The Government said afterward it had refiled identical
charges.

At a hearing here, Judge Ingrid Hrycenko dismissed the Justice Department
charges after Government lawyers did not produce an immigration official to
testify. Lawyers for the immigrants, who include eight Palestinians and a
Kenyan, contend that the official, Gilbert Reeves, holds key information
concerning whether the Justice Department was prosecuting the immigrants because
of their Palestinian nationalist sympathies.

Mr. Reeves, an assistant director of the Los Angeles district office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, signed the orders that led to the
arrests of the immigrants at gunpoint in late January and early February.

New Charges Filed

Immediately after Judge Hrycenko's dismissal today, Government lawyers refiled
the identical charges, but with the signature of another official, Ernest
Gustafson, the district director.

In addition, Judge Hrycenko told the Government that it had 10 days to appeal
her dismissal.

A Justice Department official, William B. Odencrantz, said in an interview that
the Government had not been given enough time to produce Mr. Reeves.

''We weren't opposed,'' he said. ''They had Mr. Reeves standing by to testify.
The judge didn't give them time to do anything before she terminated, she
wouldn't listen to an explanation of why he wasn't there.''

Marc Van Der Hot of the National Lawyers Guild, one of the groups representing
the defendants, said that Judge Hrycenko had said she was dismissing the charges
because she had ordered Mr. Reeves to appear and he had defied her order.

Mr. Odencrantz, the western regional general counsel for the immigration
service, said the Government had not decided whether it will appeal Judge
Hrycenko's dismissal. ''We've already served'' new charges, he said. ''The case
has got to start all over again.''

Questions of Persecution

The twists and turns in the four-month-old case highlight the determination of
the Justice Department to deport the defendants, among them two men it asserts
are the leaders in Southern California of a Marxist faction of the Palestine
Liberation Organization, Khader Musa Hamide and Michel Ibrahim Shehadeh.
Likewise, the case has brought to the forefront a growing protest by
Arab-American organizations in this country over what they regard as
discrimination against Arabs in general, and persecution of Arabs by the Reagan
Adminstration in particular.

The Arab-American Anti-Discrimination Committee, based in Washington, contends
that the Administration's deportation effort represents a suppression of the
immigrants' First Amendment rights to express views opposed to Administration
policy in the Middle East. A Federal district judge, Stephen Wilson, is
scheduled to hear briefs on the constitutional issue Thursday in a lawsuit by
the Committee.

The case has also drawn widespread attention because of the Government's initial
attempt to deport the aliens under the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act, which
bars aliens in the United States from activities that promote world communism.

Changes in Tactics

The Justice Department had originally accused the eight immigrants, who it
contends are members or are affiliated with the Popular Front for the Liberation
of Palestine, of political subversion by supporting world communism. The
Government acknowledged that they had committed no criminal acts but contended
they had distributed Popular Front literature in violation of the McCarran law.

Last month, the Department dropped the subversion charges against all but Mr.
Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh, charging the other six instead with routine visa
violations. Later, the Department dropped the subversion charges against Mr.
Hamide and Mr. Shehedah, who are legal resident aliens, and charged them under
another section of the McCarran law, which prohibits affiliation with an
organization that advocates ''the unlawful damage, injury or destruction of
property.''

Members of Congress and others opposing the Government in this case have called
for changes in the McCarran act on the ground that it could be used to squelch
legitimate dissent by immigrants who oppose aspects of the Administration's
foreign policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 14, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

400 ALIENS ASK FOR NEW STATUS

BYLINE: By BETSY BROWN

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 1, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1213 words


''I'LL go get the Mexicans,'' the young father said cheerfully, gesturing toward
his toddler sons as the immigration counselor summoned him for his interview.

''No, I forget,'' he said even more cheerfully, noting that his children were
born in the United States. ''They are Gringos.''

The man, applying to become a legal United States citizen under a new Federal
law, had twice crossed the border illegally on foot from Mexico in the 1970's
and had been returned by immigration authorities both times. In 1980 he came
again illegally, this time with his wife. He now works as a cook and she works
occasionally as a domestic while rearing their three sons.

If all goes well, in 18 months the parents could be legal residents, no longer
anonymous, as they are in this article. They are among more than 400 illegal
immigrants in Westchester who in the last month have stepped tentatively toward
coming out in the open in the hope of becoming permanent residents. Many are
Hispanic people. Many are well educated, and some are in highly paid,
well-established jobs, s Hundreds of others are distrustful and have stayed
away, waiting to see whether the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
legalization effort is a trick to round them up and deport them, according to
counselors who deal with aliens.

Westchester has three official centers for processing immigrants: the Spanish
Foundation in Yonkers, which assisted 110 people in its first three weeks and
had appointments with 100 more; the United Slavonian-American League in Yonkers,
which had 60 applications, and the Hispanic Coalition in White Plains, which
last week led 25 people of the 140 it had counseled to Manhattan to file
completed applications.

In addition, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York has been authorized as a
center by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and has established three
satellites in Westchester: St. Bernard's in White Plains, which has counseled 14
people, and St. Peter's in Yonkers and St. Gabriel's in New Rochelle, both of
which expect to open within a few days.

Grace Episcopal Church in White Plains, which has assisted immigrants for
several years, is counseling 15 to 30 people a week on the new law, which allows
permanent residency and, ultimately, citizenship to aliens who can prove they
have been in the United States since before Jan. 1, 1982. People who came to the
United States 10 years before that can gain the status immediately, rather than
waiting for 18 months.

The number of aliens who have applied under the program in the county is fairly
small, which is consistent with what is happening nationwide. But officials
expect the figure to grow, maybe into the thousands. Although the number of
illegal aliens is not known, counselors pointed out that the county had 61,000
people of Hispanic origin, one of the largest immigrant groups, in the 1985
census update, and that this figure probably includes many who have come on
tourist visas and remained.

''People have heard of police scams, like the one where people who were wanted
on warrants were told they were winners of Super Bowl tickets,'' Fernando
Fuentes, director of the Spanish Foundation, said. ''Those people showed up and
were given drinks and put on a bus, and they found themselves in the Tombs,'' he
said. ''Immigrants think this is just a way to ship them out.''

Judy Aucar, assistant director of the program for St. Bernard's Church, said she
had been told that when the church held a public meeting to discuss the program,
one group of aliens sent only one person, to see whether he would be arrested.

The counselor said the aliens have a heavy burden of proof. They must show three
things: that they are who they say they are (despite the fact that some have
used aliases); that they have lived in the United States since before 1982, and
can prove where they lived at all times; and that they can support themselves.

Jerry Gaines, director of the Legalization Program at the Hispanic Coalition in
White Plains, said the documentation was ''simple, but not easy,'' and that
aliens often must find substitutes for the documents they thought they would
need.

For example, he said, many aliens live in furnished rooms in private homes when
they arrive, and years later cannot recall the dates, find the landlord or find
rent receipts.

''But even a sales slip can serve as proof of residence,'' he said. ''There are
stores that write down your name and address - like Radio Shack, where they fill
out a form even if you just buy a battery.''

Aliens have also discovered that there are records if they ever took an English
course, which many do, or if they applied for a swimming-pool permit or library
card that validates their address.

Sentimental people are the lucky ones, he said.

''One person said that when he came to this country he saved the first of
everything - the first rent receipt, the sales slip for his TV, his first big
purchase, and then he got in the habit of keeping things,'' Mr. Gaines said.
''He was about to throw it all away, but he was attached to the old papers, and
now they are going to help him.''

One person had saved a notice from a bank congratulating him for having his cash
withdrawal limit raised -and it was dated and gave his address. Some applicants
have come in with thick packets of documents; one had papers, checks and
receipts on the pages of a large photo album.

Immigrants have learned from each other about the requirements, but some of the
Americans whose help is needed are unfamiliar with the regulations, the
counselor said.

People have tried to vouch for immigrants by writing notes saying they have
known the immigrants ''for a long time,'' which is not specific enough. One
immigrant took a sample letter to the bank, showing the banker how to write a
letter vouching for him, but the bank merely stamped the sample, and the
immigrant did not know enough English to explain the request.

The majority of immigrants to emerge in Westchester are Hispanic people. At the
Hispanic Coalition, for example, of 140 applicants, 83 were Hispanic people, 19
Haitian and 17 Jamaican. There were four from both Britain and Ireland, and one
or two each from Israel, the Netherlands, Canada, Yugoslavia, Thailand, China,
the Philippines and Guyana.

At the United Slavonian American League, whose members ordinarily are from the
Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Yugoslavia and Bulgaria, the immigrants
are largely people of other nationalities: Haitians, Cubans, Irish, Italians,
West Indians and Filipinos.

Mr. Gaines said that about 75 percent of the applicants at the Hispanic
Coalition are professional people, many with good salaries. Several work for
large corporations and some operate their own businesses. There are doctors,
nurses, engineers and one accountant who, while keeping his status a secret, is
so familiar with American law that he works for an income tax service, advising
taxpayers.

Other well-educated people work as live-in housekeepers and do maintenance work,
he said.

Diego Delgado, a candidate for the ministry who advises immigrants at Grace
Church in White Plains, said he had counseled doctors and nurses, ''but they're
not working in hospitals - they're working in restaurants.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Martha Martinez, co-ordinator of the St. Bernard's immigration
center in White Plains (NYT/Alan Zale)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. to Let Poles Stay Longer

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 17, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


The United States has decided that 7,000 to 10,000 Polish citizens who fled
martial law will be allowed to remain in the United States at least through the
end of this year.

Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d said on Thursday that he was deferring for six
months the deportation of Poles who came to the United States and have been here
since before July 21, 1984, when the Polish Parliament approved an amnesty bill
authorizing the release of 652 political prisoners.

The group of Poles affected are under a special immigration status known as
extended voluntary departure. The status was first granted in December 1981,
shortly after the declaration of martial law in Poland, and it has been extended
periodically since.

In recent years, the Justice Department has granted similar dispensations to
people from Afghanistan, Ethiopia and several other countries where there was
political turmoil.

State Department officials urged the Justice Department this month to end the
special immigration status of Poles, on the ground that American-Polish
relations were improving.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION RULES ARE EASED FOR NICARAGUAN EXILES IN U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 8


The Reagan Administration announced today that it was easing immigration
standards for the 200,000 Nicaraguan exiles in the United States, including
those whose requests for asylum were turned down and who face deportation.

After consulting with the White House, Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d signed an
order saying that no Nicaraguan who has a well-founded fear of persecution will
be deported and that those seeking a work authorization will be entitled to one.

''It's the most exciting news the Nicaraguans have had since 1979,'' said
Roberto Arguello, head of the Nicaraguan American Bankers Association and a
vocal community advocate in the Miami area, where as many as 75,000 Nicaraguan
exiles live. ''There's going to be a lot of celebrating in Miami.''

Mr. Meese directed officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service to ''encourage and expedite Nicaraguan applications for work
authorizations'' and ordered the service to ''encourage Nicaraguans whose claims
for asylum or withholding of deportation have been denied to reapply for
reopening or rehearing.''

A New Standard

Mr. Meese declared that from now on, the agency would apply the standard handed
down in a March 9 Supreme Court decision that made it easier for illegal aliens
to seek asylum in the United States. That standard is based on a well-founded
fear of persecution, rather than the previously applied standard of clear
probability of persecution.

Mr. Meese's order will mean a ''much more liberal interpretation of the asylum
claim,'' said Perry Rifkin, the agency's district director in Miami.

The Attorney General's action is a compromise that falls short of the desire of
some Reagan Administration officials to automatically grant asylum status to
Nicaraguans on the ground that they were fleeing a Communist government. There
has been intense debate for the past two weeks within the Administration on how
drastic a step to take, said two officials, speaking on condition of anonymity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

America as a Safe Haven, From Politics

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words


It sounds like a sensible and humane use of discretionary power: Attorney
General Edwin Meese has directed the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
be more generous in considering the claims of undocumented Nicaraguans for
political asylum in this country.

Yet this is humanity clouded by ideology. A closer look reveals a politically
charged policy. The Administration refuses equivalent generosity to people from
El Salvador, some of whom also face peril at home. Congress needs to address
this regrettable double standard by law.


Two related aspects of immigration policy are at issue - permanent refugee
status and temporary safe haven. Under present law, refugees who can document a
''well-founded fear of persecution'' back home are entitled to sanctuary.
Decisions to grant asylum, however, are often clouded by politics. Last year,
refugee status was granted to 85 percent of Nicaraguans who applied, but to only
3 percent of Salvadorans. That's because the Administration opposes the
Sandinista regime in Nicaragua and favors the democratically elected Government
of El Salvador.

Such unshaded judgments ignore longstanding civil strife and continuing human
rights abuses in El Salvador. Salvadorans are not entitled to refuge for
economic reasons. But many of them have more urgent reasons. The need to grant
more Salvadorans some form of protection is underlined by recent reports of
''death squad'' threats to Salvadoran aliens living in California, including the
alleged kidnap and torture of a young Salvadoran woman.

The Supreme Court offers one remedy. Last March, it ruled that aliens do not
need to show a ''clear probability of persecution'' if returned home. It is
sufficient, the majority ruled, for an alien to show either past persecution or
''good reason'' to fear future persecution.

The Administration now relies on this decision to justify treating applications
from Nicaraguans more generously. But it makes no greater allowance for
applications from Salvadorans. To make matters worse, the Attorney General
refuses to grant even temporary safe haven to Salvadorans exposed to civil
strife at home.

Congress will have to provide a remedy. Representative Romano Mazzoli proposes
allowing the Attorney General to grant emergency protection to a national group
whose homeland is racked by armed civil conflict, natural disaster or other
extraordinary conditions. The decision would take into account ''immigration,
humanitarian and international concerns.'' That approach would still leave the
Attorney General with discretionary power, but for the first time he would have
to exercise it in accord with legislative guidelines. People imperiled by
violent politics at home don't need to be bedeviled by tendentious politics in
the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

A PROFILE OF THE NEWEST NEW YORKERS

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words


IN a nation that honors its immigrant past, New York City lives an immigrant
present.

Some 2.3 million of the city's 7 million residents were born outside the United
States. In 1986 alone, figures from the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service show, the city added 89,810 new legal immigrants. These
new New Yorkers came from 153 countries in numbers that ranged from 16,257
natives of the Dominican Republic to 1 each from Brunei, Benin and Western
Samoa. Not included in these tabulations are the tens of thousands of illegal
immigrants who come each year.

Few New Yorkers watch this pageant more closely than Elizabeth Bogen, the
director of immigrant affairs for the Department of City Planning, and Frank
Vardy, a demographer for the department. Samuel G. Freedman, a reporter on the
metropolitan staff of The New York Times, recently discussed immigration trends
with Ms. Bogen and Mr. Vardy. Excerpts follow.

Question. It's a given that immigration to New York City has gone up
dramatically since the Federal immigration law was liberalized in 1965. What
have been the most significant trends in the last few years?

Ms. Bogen. Dominicans are far and away the largest group by nationality. The
People's Republic of China and Jamaica are vying for second place. By 1990, I
expect that there will be more New Yorkers who were born in the Dominican
Republic than in any other foreign country.

In 1980, Italians were still on top of the list. A lot of those were Italians
who came here earlier in the century; it also reflected the Italian tendency to
stay in the city instead of moving to the suburbs once they get some money.

Q. Where do the Dominicans live, what jobs do they hold?

Mr. Vardy. Washington Heights, Corona and the West Bronx are three of the major
areas. But because their numbers are so large, and because they've been coming
in since the 1950's, they're ubiquitous. For the females, one of the larger
occupations is the garment industry; for the males, it's assembly work in small
factories. But they also do a lot of ''backstage'' work in hospitals -orderlies,
laborers - and they are active in service industries, such as hotels and
restaurants.

The Dominican Identity

Q. Where do the Dominicans fit within the overall Hispanic population?

Mr. Vardy. They've come out higher than the Puerto Ricans socioeconomically,
although their education levels are about the same. They tend to have a separate
identity from Puerto Ricans. You see in their stores signs saying,
''Dominicano.'' The South Americans - Colombians, Ecuadorans - tend to arrive
here with higher educational levels than the Dominicans.

Q. Has any country of origin fallen off appreciably?

Ms. Bogen. The Soviet Union was second between 1975 and 1980, but it started
dropping precipitously after 1981. There was a marked change in Soviet policy on
exit visas, especially for Soviet Jews.

Q. There's talk that Mikhail S. Gorbachev may increase the number of exit visas
for Soviet Jews provided that they are settled directly in Israel. If so, do you
think they would stay there?

Ms. Bogen. I think a lot of them would end up coming here. We have a lot of
Israeli immigrants already - including some who are illegal.

Q. The post-1965 influx was known for being very educated and very middle class,
at least compared with the great immigration of the early 1900's. Is that still
true?

Ms. Bogen. The first part of any wave of nationality is usually educated,
professional. Once they've established a community, then more of the unskilled
arrive. Indians occur to me right off. I've heard Indians themselves saying that
the Indians coming over now aren't as well-educated and are having a harder
time.

Mr. Vardy. Among the earlier Indian immigrants, you had accountants, doctors,
engineers, civil servants - the civil service has very high status in India. Now
you have people who were day laborers in India selling their services to
whomever needs them. They at least have regular jobs in New York, mostly running
newsstands. They work 16, 18 hours a day, but it's better than what they left
behind.

The Cubans had the same sort of experience. So did the Hong Kong Chinese, as
soon as the colony's transfer [in 1997] to China was made official. In any
country that is taken over politically, especially by a socialist government,
the first people to leave are the capitalists.

Q. How much of an effect do you think the new immigration law will have in New
York?

Ms. Bogen. It's early to guess, but I suspect there's not going to be an
enormous change. I don't think that on the East Coast there will be the will or
the ability by the I.N.S. to deport all the people who are theoretically
deportable or to go after all the employers. Even in the West, the law is
already being loosened so that people can come across the Mexican border to pick
the crops. And on the East Coast, there just isn't the them-against-us feeling
you get out West.

Q. There's a truism that the parts of the world experiencing turmoil or
catastrophe will be the sources of immigrants coming to New York in the
following year. What group of immigrants would you expect to see coming to New
York in increasing numbers?

Mr. Vardy. Sri Lankans. You've noticed people from Sri Lanka being dropped off
boats off the coast of Canada. And you can be sure they're not all planning on
staying in Canada. Over history, we always get the ''losers.''

Ms. Bogen. Not the socioeconomic ''losers.'' The political ''losers.''

Mr. Vardy. Right. The ''winners'' stay where they hold power. We get the guys
from Poland who were supporting Solidarity. It has always been that way.

Q. If instability makes people come to New York, do you think the coming of
democracy to countries - South Korea, say, or the Philippines - will convince
many to return? Or will inertia keep them here?

Ms. Bogen. It's isn't a matter of inertia. It's better living for them here.

Mr. Vardy. Remember the President of El Salvador asking President Reagan not to
send back illegal immigrants from El Salvador? He said the country would be
better off if they stayed here and sent money home. You have economies heavily
dependent on the remittances from immigrants in America.

KEEPING COUNT

New York City has employed demographers for decades. What do they do? Dr. Joseph
J. Salvo, deputy director of the Department of City Planning's Population
Division, defines the job this way: ''To analyze the size, distribution and
characteristics of populations, and the processes that are responsible for
population change: fertility, mortality and migration.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of 163d Street and Broadway in Manhattan (NYT/Neal Boenzi); Graph
of number of immigrants by country of birth for 1986 (Immigration and
Naturalization Service)

TYPE: Interview

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 8, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

14 Belgians Are Denied Visas To Teach in Missouri Schools

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Sept. 7


Federal immigration officials have denied visas to 14 Belgian teachers hired for
an elementary foreign-language program that is intended to help draw white
students from suburban and private schools into the predominantly black city
school district.

The program is being instituted at six foreign-language elementary schools,
among 15 new magnet schools that will open Tuesday as a result of a
desegregation suit involving the Kansas City district. Six other magnet schools
opened last year.

The school district had sought special visas for the teachers under an
immigration law category, used for temporary workers with special skills, that
bypasses Labor Department certification that they are not taking work away from
American citizens.

Donald Waldrip, the school district's associate superintendent for magnet
schools, said foreign teachers had been recruited because of a paucity of
Americans certified to teach foreign languages on the elementary level. Most
language teachers in the United States, he said, are certified only on the
secondary level.

Argentines Have Also Applied

A personnel officer for the school district said she feared that the Immigration
and Naturalization Service would also reject applications from 11 Argentines who
have been hired to teach Spanish in the magnet schools. Visas were granted last
week to eight teachers from West Germany, however.

The district had sought H-1 visas for the 14 Belgians, who teach French. Under
immigration rules, an applicant for an H-1 visa must be ''an alien having a
residence in a foreign country which he has no intention of abandoning . . . who
is of distinguished merit and ability and who is coming temporarily to the
United States to perform services of an exceptional nature requiring such merit
and ability.''

The immigration service's letters of denial to the school district, which were
received last week, said: ''You have failed to establish that the position is a
profession or that a person of distinguished merit and ability is needed.
Additionally, you have failed to establish that the beneficiary has at least a
bachelor's degree or the equivalent, or is of renown or is pre-eminent in his
field of endeavor.'' Do Two Years Equal Four?  Four of the Belgian teachers are
already living in the Kansas City area. They say two years of education at a
teachers' college in Belgium are equivalent to four years at an American
college.

''Instead of taking 18 or 19 credit hours, we go to class from 8 in the morning
to 4:30 in the afternoon nonstop,'' said one of the teachers, Yvan Verbesselt.
''We have been fully trained; it's just that the program is spread out over only
two years.''

The 14 Belgians have been certified as elementary teachers by the Missouri
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, said Mr. Waldrip, the Kansas
City magnet schools official. He said other districts, including those in
Cincinnati and Columbus, Ohio, had obtained H-1 visas for Belgian teachers with
qualifications identical to those of the teachers hired by Kansas City.

The Kansas City district plans to appeal the adverse decision, which was issued
Aug. 31 by the immigration service's regional office in Lincoln, Neb. But the
process could take three or four months, said Bonnie Sims, a personnel officer
for the district's magnet schools.

Until the appeals are decided, the Belgian teachers are prohibited from working
in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 16, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

When a Naturalized Citizen Goes Abroad

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 268 words


To the Editor:

William Safire's Sept. 6 column about the constitutional provision that prevents
anyone foreign-born from serving as President of the United States brings to
mind a pervasive discrimination against all naturalized citizens. The United
States passport carries a line for place of birth. In the eyes of foreign
immigration officers, policemen, hotel and bank clerks (who change money), and
others who see the passport, naturalized citizens are not really Americans.

This summer, a West German immigration officer professed to be puzzled by my
status, saying: ''I don't understand. You have a United States passport but you
can't be a United States citizen because it says right here you were born in
Germany.'' This sort of thing happens nearly every time I go abroad. The
passport is of importance only abroad, and only there am I considered a
second-class United States citizen. What business is it of foreigners where I
was born? All they need to know is that I am a United States citizen and that
one United States citizen is as good as another.

A change in passport regulations might be enough to remove this discrimination,
or an act of Congress could. Simply have the line in every passport read,
''place of birth or naturalization.'' The naturalized holder of the passport
could choose which one to use. For example I could decide to have it read either
Germany or Louisville, Ky., where I was naturalized. In my husband's passport
the place of birth or naturalization line would say, Chattanooga, Tenn., where
he was born.

SIGRID U. GOODMAN
  Leonia, N.J., Sept. 6, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Even Citizens Can Need Immigration Counseling;
Out of the Frying Pan

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 236 words


To the Editor:

As an attorney specializing in immigration law, I can attest that ''A Hotel Hell
for Refugees,'' Arthur C. Helton's article (Op-Ed, Sept. 23) about a hotel at
Kennedy International Airport used as a detention facility by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, is completely accurate. I should like, however, to
add one further point.

The aliens who are being detained in these appalling conditions are the least
likely to complain to authorities. This is because, if their cases are not
meritorious, they will be shipped out of the country. On the other hand, if, as
with a client of mine, the case is meritorious, there is a great reluctance by
the alien or his family to make waves and complain when they are seeking
affirmative relief from the Government.

In our case, it was only with the utmost reluctance that the family agreed to
approach the Government about the subhuman conditions under which their relative
was being held.

This situation is particularly ironic because many of these people are seeking
political asylum. Their treatment in this facility, however, is not much better
than in any oppressive regime from which they are escaping. My client is a free
man today in this land that has finally agreed to give him refuge, but what a
nightmarish and truly un-American introduction he has had to our coun-try.

JOANNA MILLER BUKSZPAN
  New York, Sept. 25, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Even Citizens Can Need Immigration Counseling

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words


To the Editor:

If it is true, as you report (''Tense Times for Aliens as U.S. Clamps Down,''
front page, Oct. 3), that naturalized United States citizens are committing
suicide or driving their wives and children back to Mexico out of fear that
their families will fail to qualify for amnesty, then ignorance of United States
immigration law has reached lethal proportions.

There is no need for spouses, parents or minor children of United States
citizens to meet the requirements of the amnesty program created by the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. These immediate relatives of United
States citizens are virtually guaranteed legal status under the general
immigration law, to which the 1986 act was a series of amendments. The process
is quicker and often cheaper than applying for amnesty.

A trained immigration counselor, whether a lawyer or a lay counselor, could tell
such citizens that their wives and children are almost assured of legal
admission, and could advise them on how to apply for it. The counselor could
also reassure them that the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not
deport family members if immediate-relative applications are being adjudicated.

Money for application fees and medical examinations can be a severe problem for
some applicants, but it does not appear to be major in New York City. A greater
problem is the scarcity of low-cost immigration counselors to guide clients
through the immigration maze. Passage of last year's immigration law has brought
many more community agencies into immigration counseling, but it is still
painfully evident that low-cost agencies are always understaffed and sometimes
undertrained for their work.

One hopes that public awareness of the pervasive and varied need exposed by the
new law will increase public and private support for training and immigration
work, even after the legalization program created by the new immigration act has
run its course. The cases that today's immigration counselors face demonstrate
that it is not just undocumented aliens who need immigration counseling; it is
also legal aliens and United States citizens.

ELIZABETH BOGEN
Director, Office of Immigrant Affairs
Department of City Planning
  New York, Oct. 6, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 15, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
Test of Freedom

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The Reagan Administration has taken an important step to bring American law into
line with our professions of faith in freedom. It has recommended dropping from
the immigration laws the sections that exclude aliens because of their beliefs
or writings.

But the same Administration is pressing an effort to expel a writer from this
country because - solely because - of what she has written. It is an extreme
example of ideological exclusion. How the case can be squared with the decision
to call for repeal of the ideological provisions of the immigration law is hard
to see.

The target of the deportation case is Margaret Randall, a 50-year-old poet and
author of numerous books and articles. Ms. Randall was actually born in New
York, and for most of her life she was an American citizen.

In 1966, when she was married to a Mexican and was living in Mexico, Ms. Randall
took an oath of allegiance to Mexico. As a consequence she lost her U.S.
citizenship.

In the years afterward she lived at various times in Nicaragua and Cuba, writing
favorably about the revolutions in those countries. Then, in 1984, she came back
to the United States on a visitor's visa. She went to Albuquerque, where she had
family ties, and she lives there now. She teaches at the University of New
Mexico.

Ms. Randall wants to stay in the United States. In legal terms, she is an alien
seeking to adjust her status from visitor to permanent resident. She is eligible
for a visa because her son has applied on her behalf.

The immigration judge who heard her case, Martin F. Spiegel, found her fully
qualified to stay in this country except for one thing: her writings. He held
that she had run afoul of a clause in the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act of
1952 barring aliens who write or publish material advocating ''the economic,
international and governmental doctrines of world communism.''

Judge Spiegel said he had read 2,744 pages of Ms. Randall's works. He concluded
that they advocated the doctrines of world communism.

For example, Judge Spiegel cited ''Cuban Women Now,'' written while Ms. Randall
lived in Cuba. He said the book, ''based primarily upon interviews with 14 Cuban
women, views the Castro Communist Cuban revolution as a great improvement for
the conditions of women in Cuba.'' Reading Judge Spiegel's opinion, one thinks
back to the classic argument against censorship, John Milton's ''Areopagitica.''
Milton ironically sympathized with the poor censor who had to read so many
books, ''ofttimes huge volumes.''

Judge Spiegel surely deserves sympathy for his reading of all those pages of
Margaret Randall's works. But the point - John Milton's point -is that he was
performing an impossible function and an inappropriate one in a free society:
combing through literature for bad political thoughts.

What exactly are the ''doctrines of world communism''? Political scientists
could write - have written -volumes on that question, and they often disagree
about the definition. To put immigration officials in the position of trying to
apply such concepts as law goes against our whole idea of freedom.

Unlike some other publicized immigration cases, the case of Margaret Randall
involves no claim of a threat to the national security.

The only objection is to her writings.

They may be irritating. But our system, Justice Holmes said, is ''freedom for
the thought that we hate.''

Judge Abraham Sofaer, the State Department's legal adviser, made known last June
the Administration's view that the time had come for repeal of the
McCarran-Walter ideological clauses. They have proved increasingly embarrassing
when well-known authors and others have been kept from even visiting the United
States.

''The Department of State has long believed,'' Judge Sofaer said, ''that changes
are necessary to bring the exclusion and deportation provisions in line with
modern reality. . . . It's an anachronism to say that just because someone held
some particular political view at some point in his life he should be denied
immigration.''

Those principles are inconsistent with the attempt to deport Margaret Randall.
She is apparently the only person whom the Government is trying to expel now
because of her writings - indeed the only known target of that clause for 30
years. Not just consistency but common sense suggests that the case should be
dropped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 22, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ASYLUM FOR SOVIET DANCER

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section C; Page 28, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 21


A Soviet dancer who left the Moscow Ballet last week during its United States
tour has been granted political asylum in the United States, immigration
officials said today.

Andrei Ustinov, 32 years old, ''has requested asylum and it has been granted,''
said the director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Dallas office,
Ronald Chandler. ''He will be staying in the United States.''

The executive director of the Dallas Ballet Association, Philip Semark, said Mr.
Ustinov had agreed to perform with the Dallas Ballet in a three-month contract
that runs through the end of the year.

Asked about his wife and 2 1/2-year-old daughter, who are still in the Soviet
Union, Mr. Ustinov said through an interpreter that the couple had wanted to get
a divorce, but that such a move was difficult in the Soviet Union.

Interview With Soviet Officials

He said, however, he would try to bring his daughter to the United States.

Mr. Chandler said Soviet officials had requested, and had been granted, an
interview with the dancer.

Mr. Chandler said Mr. Ustinov, who is of the Russian Orthodox faith, had
expressed fear of religious persecution and had been told he could not make the
sign of the cross before a performance.

The 33-member Moscow Ballet was in Dallas last week for a three-day performance
as part of a nationwide 21-city tour that ends Nov. 28 in Trenton.

On Thursday, Mr. Ustinov slipped out of Dallas hotel where the troupe was
staying and failed to perform the last of the performances in Dallas, according
to Sgt. Gene Summers of the Dallas police.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Keep the Immigration Judges in Place

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words


The United States has long welcomed refugees from persecution. But new rules
proposed by the Reagan Administration would make it more difficult for political
refugees to remain here. The proposal ought to be withdrawn.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, those with a well-founded fear of persecution in
their homelands are entitled to sanctuary. Many decisions to grant such asylum
inevitably weigh the individual refugee's claim against foreign policy
considerations. Lately, for example, Nicaraguans have been able to claim
persecution by a Sandinista regime that the Reagan Administration despises.
Salvadorans have a much harder case to make. An impartial decision process is
needed.

The present process starts with a public hearing before an immigration judge of
the Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review. That office
remains properly separate from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the
agency responsible for keeping illegal aliens out of the country. Current rules
also allow court review of denials.

The Administration would eliminate the immigration judges. First review of
refugee claims would be conducted by specially trained ''asylum officers,''
employees of the I.N.S. They would make determinations at ''non-adversarial''
proceedings, to be held behind closed doors. That would limit opportunity for an
applicant's attorney to challenge information or statements damaging to his
client's cause. On appeal, the asylum officer's ruling would be virtually
binding.

The Administration defends the new rules as more efficient. Yet the system
suffers no backlogs nor does the independence of the immigration judges
otherwise drag it down. An ''efficiency'' that undermines fairness is no
efficiency at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 29, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Household Help: Some Questions And Answers

BYLINE: By DEBORAH RANKIN

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1553 words


AS the ranks of working mothers - particularly those with young children -
continue to swell, many of them agree that one of the prerequisites for their
success is not an M.B.A. or an undergraduate degree from a prestigious school,
but rather a reliable, efficient nanny or housekeeper. Knowing that there is
someone at home they can count on to take good care of their youngsters, and
sometimes of their home as well, allows them to concentrate on business while
they are in the office.

Yet few relationships are as fraught with uncertainty as that between a working
mother and her housekeeper. A housekeeper's duties are not always clear, and
arrangements for things like sick days and vacations tend to be made ad hoc,
rather than being spelled out in advance.

Often, employer and employee differ about whether pay is to be off the books and
in cash, or with the appropriate taxes withheld. Following are some commonly
asked questions and their answers.

Q.I'm planning to sponsor my housekeeper for a green card -a card granting an
alien permission to live and work in the United States. Will the new immigration
law have any impact?

A.Not really, according to Allen E. Kaye, a New York City immigration lawyer and
a past president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. While the law
provides criminal and civil penalties for anyone who hires immigrants who are
not authorized to work in the United States, the legislative history of the
statute makes it clear that the regulations are aimed at large employers.

''I seriously doubt the immigration service is ever going to do anything about
the employer of a single domestic,'' Mr. Kaye said.

Q.My housekeeper, who already has her green card, wants to be paid in cash so
she does not have to pay income tax on her salary. If I go along with her
request am I breaking the law?

A.Almost certainly. First, Social Security tax is due if a worker's earnings
exceed $50 in a calendar quarter. This ceiling, which has not been increased in
decades, would probably apply to someone who comes in to clean just once a week,
to say nothing of full-time domestic help.

The contribution rate for 1987 is 14.3 percent of the worker's first $43,800 of
wages, to be shared equally by employer and employee. If you fail to make the
required payments and are caught, you face both penalties and interest. Many
household workers object to having Social Security withheld, but they should
realize that they may need it in the future.

Q.Are there any other payroll taxes for which I am liable?

A.Yes: Federal and state unemployment taxes. Federal unemployment is due when a
worker earns more than $1,000 in a calendar quarter. The 1987 tax rate is a
maximum of 6.2 percent of the first $7,000 in wages, reduced by a credit for
state unemployment insurance paid. In New York, employers are liable for state
unemployment insurance totaling 3.7 percent of the first $7,000 in wages.

Further, domestic workers employed at least 40 hours a week must be covered by
workers' compensation, which must be paid by the employer and which can cost
$200 to $250 a year.

Q.Isn't there some financial benefit to paying on the books, such as being able
to claim the child-care credit for income tax purposes?

A.In theory, yes, but in practice often no. The child-care credit, which
decreases as family income increases, is often less than the combined payroll
taxes the family must pay on behalf of the housekeeper. For families with an
adjusted gross income of more than $28,000, the child-care credit can be as much
as $480 for one child and $960 for two or more.

But the real problem is the paperwork that results from paying someone on the
books. ''The trouble is that the Government doesn't distinguish between I.B.M.
and Mrs. John Doe as employers,'' complained a social worker and mother of three
who asked not to be identified because she now pays her helper in cash.

She stopped paying by the book, she said, when New York State imposed a $500
penalty on her, claiming that she and her husband had not filed the necessary
forms for their housekeeper's unemployement insurance. The housekeeper had quit
a year and half earlier. The matter was resolved when the couple, who had been
unaware of the requirement to continue to file forms for someone they nolonger
employed, completed the necessary paperwork. ''It was an administrative
nightmare,'' the woman said.

Q.What is the current salary scale for live-in housekeepers?

A.It can range from $100 or $125 a week for new employees to as much as $350 a
week for long-term workers, according to an informal survey of working mothers
in Manhattan. What constitutes a normal work week is open to negotiation,
depending on a family's needs, and it can range from 40 to 60 hours a week.

If you are sponsoring someone for a green card, and have begun the process of
requesting certification from the Labor Department, you must pay the prevailing
wage rate for the job. As of Oct. 15, the Labor Department has set the
prevailing wage in the New York area for live-in household workers at $5.47 an
hour for a 44-hour week, or about $241 a week. The prevailing wage for what the
Labor Department calls a ''child monitor'' is $5.56 an hour, or about $245 a
week.

Bear in mind that with household help, as with any other type of employee, you
generally get what you pay for.

''People who have trouble with their household help tend to be cheap,'' said Ann
Reese, the mother of two preschool children, the assistant treasurer of the ITT
Corporation and a co-chairwoman of the Working Mothers Committee of the
Financial Women's Association of New York. ''Time and time again, you hear the
same thing. They pay someone $150 a week and expect the person to watch two
children, clean the house, have dinner waiting and the kids bathed and fed when
they get home in the evening and to work one night on the weekend. Then they
wonder why people don't stay.''

Q.What about raises for the household worker?

A.Again, there is no norm. But discussions with working mothers indicated that
if you are satisfied with your helper, some sort of annual increase in line with
the inflation rate seems in order. ''When I get a raise, she gets a raise,''
said Mrs. Reese of her nanny.

It is appropriate to increase the salary if there are added duties, like the
arrival of a new baby or even a new puppy.

Q.How should I handle payment for sick days?

A.There is no standard policy, but if you are pleased with your housekeeper or
nanny and she works for you full time, you will probably want to pay her for
sick days, within reason.

Determining just what is reasonable can be tricky, however, and the answer often
depends on how long the person has been with you. If she has worked for you for
at least a year, you might want to give her five or six paid sick days annually,
not to be carried over to the following year. But if she has been with you a few
months or less, the answer is less clear cut.

One lawyer and mother of four told of a new live-out housekeeper who was ill for
three days during her second week of work, and had to take another day off to
care for her own sick child the following week. Employer and employee
compromised on half-pay for any sick days.

But the lawyer changed the arrangement after a year, because the housekeeper was
absent, on average, once every two weeks. Now, the housekeeper is entitled to
five paid sick days a year but nothing after that. ''I pointed out that I had to
pay someone else to help out when she wasn't there,'' said the lawyer, adding
that since the new arrangement went into effect the housekeeper has not called
in sick.

Q.What happens if a nanny or housekeeper is ill or absent for an extended
period?

A.This occurs more frequently than you might suppose -sometimes when the
housekeeper becomes a mother herself. Typically, a housekeeper is not paid for
maternity leave, but many try to find a friend or relative to fill in until they
can return.

Such informal networking often occurs for shorter-term disabilities as well. One
suburban au pair girl, sidelined with a two-week bout of pneumonia, said that
her friends who were working nearby as au pairs helped out by inviting the
children she cared for to their homes for play.

But sometimes an extended absence becomes the last straw and is used as a reason
to dismiss a worker with whom the employer is already dissatisfied. Severance
pay is a matter of negotiation.

Q.My cleaning person comes once a week. How should I handle sick days, holidays
and vacations?

A.Most people generally do not pay a once-a-week cleaning person if he or she
calls in sick.

If the regular workday occurs on a holiday, like Christmas, many employers will
pay for that day, even though the person is not expected to work, or will try to
reschedule work for another day. A Christmas bonus of an extra day's pay, and a
day or two of paid annual vacation are considered normal benefits by many
employers.

Q.I am dissatisfied with my household worker and would like to dismiss the
person. How much notice should I give?

A.Two weeks' notice is ideal, but when a relationship disintegrates badly the
dismissal may take place on the spot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 11, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Reviews on Cuban Aliens Shifted to Justice Dept.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10


The decisions on whether to send Cuban detainees back to Cuba will be taken away
from the immigration authorities and entrusted to a special panel of the Justice
Department, Reagan Administration officials said today.

The officials said the change was being made because the detained Cubans,
including those who seized Federal prisons and hostages in Atlanta and in
Oakdale, La., distrusted the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the
procedures it used to determine who would be released on parole.

To help end the uprisings at the two prisons, Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d
declared a moratorium on the deportation of Cuban emigres and promised that each
detainee would receive ''a full, fair and equitable review.'' He did not say who
would conduct the reviews.

Many Deemed Excludable

Since June, the immigration service had been conducting reviews to determine
whether Cuban inmates could be safely released to halfway houses or to relatives
in the United States.

Most of the Cubans in the two prisons had been deemed excludable aliens because
they committed crimes in Cuba or after arriving in the United States. Some of
the Cubans have completed prison sentences for crimes in this country, but they
could not be sent home because Cuba would not take them. Some of these people
can now be returned to Cuba under an immigration agreement signed by officials
of Cuba and the United States last month.

A Justice Department official said the immigration service had been ''on the
front line of the battle'' to expel the Cubans and would not be perceived as an
impartial decision-maker. ''When you are a lawyer, it's hard to try your own
case,'' said the official, who asked not to be named.

Deputy Attorney General Arnold I. Burns plans to announce the new review
procedures on Friday.

'Totally Inappropriate'

Representative Pat Swindall, Republican of Georgia, said it was ''totally
inappropriate'' for the immigration service to make the ultimate decision on
repatriation of the Cubans because the agency was ''charged with responsibility
for the apprehension, detention and prosecution'' of such aliens.

In an interview, Mr. Swindall said Justice Department officials agreed with his
contention that ''the I.N.S. cannot be the ultimate decision-maker.'' The
immigration service is part of the Justice Department.

Immigration officials acknowledged that they were biased in favor of deporting
the Cubans because they had been burdened with responsibility for the emigres
for seven years. About 125,000 Cubans arrived in the United States in a flotilla
of small boats from the Cuban port of Mariel in 1980. Most were released
immediately and many have become permanent residents of the United States.

The immigration officials said that under the new procedures, they would make
recommendations on whether Cubans should be sent back to their homeland. But the
decision would be made by a panel of several Justice Department officials, they
said.

U.S. Assurances Disclosed

Gary Leshaw, a lawyer for some of the Cubans being held in the Atlanta
penitentiary, said today that the Government had given him several previously
undisclosed assurances to help end the insurrection there.

Under one of these written assurances, he said, the Government indicated that
Cubans released under the new review process would not be sent back to Cuba. The
document, according to Mr. Leshaw, says: ''If a person is determined by this
process to be eligible for parole into the United States, he shall be allowed to
stay so long as he obeys the law and any other approrpiate conditions imposed
upon him.''

Mr. Leshaw said he received the assurance from the Justice Department on Dec. 2
in response to his request for clarification of certain points in its offer to
the inmates.

J. Michael Quinlan, director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, confirmed today
that the Government had given Mr. Leshaw ''points of clarification with regard
to the agreement.'' But at a news conference, Mr. Quinlan said he did not recall
the details.

The inmates at Oakdale and Atlanta originally demanded that they be allowed to
remain in the United States. Mr. Quinlan said, ''We never once considered the
issue of deportation negotiable.''

Associate Attorney General Stephen S. Trott said, ''We never for a second even
considered capitulating to the idea that there be no deportations.'' The
Government decided on its ''bottom-line position'' within 24 hours of the riot
at Oakdale and ''essentially we didn't budge an inch,'' Mr. Trott said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of reporters at Atlanta Federal Penitentiary (Agence
France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Don't Give Guarantees To Aliens at Border

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words


To the Editor:

Arthur Helton's proposal of full constitutional guarantees for aliens arriving
at the border (''What's Fair for the Cubans,'' Op-Ed, Dec. 1) would be a
lawyers' paradise, but the final capitulation of our tattered immigration
enforcement.

His proposal advances our burgeoning rights industry to its ultimate expression
- in effect, full constitutional protection, with multiple hearings, appeals and
government-paid legal counsel for restless millions beyond our borders who would
only have to reach United States soil.

Fortunately, Congress and the courts have had a clearer appreciation than Mr.
Helton of what our social compact requires of us and of the immensity of world
immigration pressures. If we learn anything from the seven-year Mariel boat-lift
debacle, it is that the most effective, dependable and often most humane
immigration controls are those applied at the border or through visa screening
abroad.

DAVID E. SIMCOX
   Washington, Dec. 1, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Prison Riots Traced To Secrecy Obsession

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words


To the Editor:

In your thorough report on prison riots involving the Cuban Marielitos at
Oakdale, La., and Atlanta (front page, Dec. 6), Elliott Abrams, Assistant
Secretary of State for Latin American Affairs, defended the secrecy of the
United States-Cuba negotiations whose sudden announcement sparked the riots.
Even the Justice Department, parent of the Bureau of Prisons and Immigration and
Naturalization Service, was kept in the dark and precluded from taking
precautions to prevent the uprisings.

Mr. Abrams's justification was that he feared leaks, that without secrecy there
would have been no ''successful'' accord. This is the same man who dissembled to
Congress to insure the ''success'' of the Iran-contra operation. The United
States can ill afford such successes and Mr. Abrams's obsessive penchant for
secrecy.

PETER HIRSCH
New York, Dec. 9, 1987
  The writer is research director and legal counsel of the Association of
Immigration Attorneys.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 2, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Ship File Proves Legal Status Of a 1912 Immigrant to U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: REDDING, Calif., Jan. 1


A Federal immigration official says a 95-year-old woman facing the cutoff of
state medical benefits because she could not prove legal residence status has
been in the United States since 1912.

Workers in a records center at St. Albans, Vt., found the name of the woman,
Stefania Ludwika Babinski, on the manifest of a ship that docked on the East
Coast in 1912, according to the Federal official, Dayva Stewart. Mr. Stewart is
the executive assistant to Harold Ezell, the Western Regional Commissioner of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 5, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Houston Journal;
The Drive-Through, A City's Love Affair

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 4


Once thought of as a a cow town, this city has long been one of the ultimate car
towns. There are drive-through florists, drive-through dry cleaners,
drive-through liquor stores and drive-through pharmacies. There is even a
drive-through pawn shop for those who do not want to leave their cars and expose
their hard luck to the world.

When a television station advertised its Christmas food drive, an announcer
pledged: ''We will take your donations from your trunk. You don't have to get
out of your car.''

So perhaps it was inevitable here, and sensible as well, that immigrants get
their own convenience, a drive-through immigration office.

The Houston office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service opened the
nation's first drive-through immigration window the other day. ''We're used to
drive-throughs down here because no one wants to go out in the heat of summer,''
said Leland L. LaGow, supervisor of the office, ''Some people say we're lazy
that way.''


Summer heat and laziness, however, were not the reasons for this particular
window. Overcrowding was. Since the office opened last May, 47,000 immigrants
have applied here for citizenship under the amnesty provisions of the
Immigration Reform Act. Nearly all will return in coming months to exchange red
employee authorization cards for green temporary residence cards, which allow
them to remain in the United States for 18 more months.

Because of a lack of office space, Mr. LaGow said, those exchanges were
scheduled for two hours each day. But lines became so long that those arriving
at 8 A.M. were still waiting at 1. Adding a drive-through window allowed the
office to process the applications all day, by assigning one somewhat harried
worker to the post from 8 A.M. to 4 P.M.

Her work is made somewhat more complicated by the fact that the drawer where the
exchange takes place is too deep, and each driver has to get out of his car
anyway to remove the prized documents. Mr. LaGow and his superiors are scouting
local fast-food establishments for remedies. Eventually they hope the window
will process up to 300 people each day as efficiently as, well, a fajita stand.

''Houston's full of cars, they're in love with their cars,'' said Joe Mays, an
owner of Fajita Junction. The fast-food chain's nine Houston branches are tiny
structures, consisting almost solely of a kitchen and two drive-through windows.
There is little space - and little demand - to sit and eat. ''In Dallas they
prefer to sit down,'' Mr. Mays said. ''In San Antonio they love to sit down. In
Houston they love to drive away.''

Or, maybe, a flower shop. When Gene Josephs opened Devine's Garden Center 30
months ago, he added a drive-through window, inspired by an advertisement for
the Jack-in-the-Box hamburger chain. Now more than 30 percent of his customers
never leave their cars.

Because of the large concentration of hospitals in this area he has many
disabled and elderly customers who prefer the window's convenience. In addition,
he said, business picks up in the wet and rainy seasons and late at night.


Rain also influences business at Randall's, a chain of giant supermarkets here.
Valet parking is available in the flagship store and all 40 stores provide
clerks to carry groceries to the car. ''There's nothing more frustrating than
trying to maneuver a shopping cart full of eight bags through a parking lot,''
said Randall Onstead Jr., president of the chain. ''Then you unload the bags and
you're stuck with this cart.''

Perhaps the most dramatic example of the stay-in-the-car trend here, as
elsewhere, are the clusters of bank teller machines that have cropped up in bank
parking lots. They resemble service station pumps and more than one newcomer has
pulled in expecting gasoline.

The Texas Commerce Bank has 27 of these here, the smallest with three
drive-through tellers, the largest with 21. A spokesman, Mike Sinelli, said more
than 50 percent of the bank's teller transactions were done with drive-through
machines. One of the more creative sites for the car-level machines is in
parking garages, for customers who find they do not have enough cash to get out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 27, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: BRIEFING;
Guessing Game

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 218 words


Forecasting population trends can be a tricky business, but the General
Accounting Office has taken the leap by predicting that legal immigration into
the United States will jump from 546,000 in 1986 to 605,000 in 1990.

A slight increase is expected in newcomers from Mexico, the largest immigrant
group. Mexican immigrants will make up 12.1 percent of all legal immigrants by
1990, according to the agency, which is the research arm of Congress.

Filipino immigrants are expected to make up 9.1 percent of the total; Koreans,
6.5 percent, and immigrants from India, 4.7 percent. The biggest decrease is
expected in Vietnamese immigrants, to 4.6 percent from 8.2 percent.

The new immigration law is not expected to affect future legal immigration for
at least six years.

''Most aliens who qualify for amnesty under the act have already been in the
U.S. since before 1982,'' the agency noted. ''The only effect on future legal
immigration would be when these legalized aliens become naturalized citizens and
bring in their exempt-immediate relatives.''

Because of the need for a one-year temporary residence and a five-year waiting
period before immigrants can petition to bring in members of their immediate
families, ''the effect (if any) will not come for at least six years,'' the
agency noted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 13, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SECURITY IS TOUGHENED AT ALIEN CUSTODY CENTER

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 963 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


Responding to strong criticism, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
begun a major renovation of its Manhattan detention center and is revising the
system it uses to keep aliens with criminal backgrounds from entering New York
City.

The agency has budgeted more than $600,000 so far to tighten security at the
detention center and is planning a $7 million redesign of its computer system to
allow it to draw on information stored in the computers of other law-enforcement
agencies.

In a study released last month, the General Accounting Office, the Congressional
investigative agency, found that the names of more than 9 of 10 aliens deported
because of criminal conduct do not appear in the computers used by immigration
inspectors at Kennedy International Airport. A high percentage of those
criminals were convicted of such felonies as manslaughter, rape, larceny and
drug trafficking. Many had been deported more than once.

A related G.A.O. report released in December found security at the immigration
service's detention center at 201 Varick Street ill-equipped to handle ''the
increasing proportion of aliens with criminal backgrounds'' now being held
there.

Security Called 'Inadequate'

In the past two years about 30 people have escaped from the minimum security
building, the immigration service's only detention center in the metropolitan
area. In the most recent incident, on Jan. 18, two convicted felons used
bedsheets to escape from a fourth floor window. Later the same day, a
disturbance broke out that resulted in damage to the center and required the
intervention of police officers and firefighters.

Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican who requested the reports,
termed the immigration service's screening system ''a sham,'' adding that
''bureaucratic laziness'' on the part of the service ''practically invites
repeated re-entry into this country by precisely those undesiriables that we
have already determined to be dangerous to our community.'' He called the
security arrangements at the Varick Street center ''grossly inadequate.''

Immigration service officials now say that such problems are being addressed.
Mr. D'Amato said that he now feels ''very hopeful'' that the changes being made
''represent real movement and progress rather than just a pacification effort.''
A spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, Verne Jervis, said that
just as important as the computer redesign are proposed regulations that would
require immigration officers to complete the forms used to enter the names of
deported criminals into the service's computer. Mr. Jervis acknowledged that
officers have been routinely ignoring this procedure.

Forge-Proof Visas

Another change being sought, Mr. Jervis said, is for the State Department to
begin issuing visas that are ''computer readable.'' Such visas would be more
difficult to forge and would make it possible for immigration officers to
research electronically the records of individuals attempting to enter the
country.

The rehabilitation of the Varick Street center, according to Scott Blackman,
assistant district director for detention and deportation, is primarily a
response to ''the changing demographics of the detainees.''

As recently as five years ago, he said, 90 percent of the aliens detained in New
York were ''individuals who came to the United States to seek employment, maybe
overstayed their visas or violated immigration regulations.''

Now, about half of all those detained are criminals and that proportion is
expected to increase in the future, he and other immigration officials said.

More Substantial Changes

The changes now planned for the detention center are considerably more
substantial than those contemplated just a few months ago. Last year, for
example, new windows with a heavy mesh covering were installed. But as the
January escapes illustrated, that ''didn't solve the problem as we hoped,'' Mr.
Blackman said.

More sophisticated security devices on the windows, he added, ''will make them
virtually impenetrable.''

New surveillance cameras are also to be installed and the control room enlarged.
Seven new security gates are to be put in place, the doors leading to the
waiting rooms are to be fortified, and ceiling panels are to be sealed to
prevent detainees from entering the crawl space above where they might then be
able to disconnect the window security devices. Prison-style furniture is to be
tried out. Such furniture, constructed in one piece and bolted to the floor, is
difficult to dismantle or move. Eight rooms will be outfitted as maximum
segregation areas, to hold especially dangerous or disruptive detainees.

Finally, the number of guards is to be increased from 70 to at least 85. Mr.
Blackman is requesting salary increases to put guards at Varick Street on a par
with correction officers at city and Federal prisons.

Even with all these changes in place, the system is still not expected to
function perfectly. Mr. Jervis suggested that once it becomes risky for criminal
aliens to enter through New York's ports, a growing number are likely to attempt
to enter at other places.

And Mr. Blackman said that the detention center, which is currently holding
about 100 detainees, may not be large enough for all the criminal aliens who
will have to be processed for deportation in the future.

A frequent critic of the immigration service, Arthur Helton, director of the
political asylum project of the Lawyer's Committee for Human Rights, suggested
that there would be more space for the detention of criminals if ''innocent
asylum seekers'' were not also being detained.

''My answer is to detain only those who are dangerous to the community or are
likely to run away,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

17 Inmates Protest Internment in Manhattan

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 51, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 199 words


Seventeen inmates at the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention center in Manhattan have gone on a hunger strike to protest their
internment.

The inmates, who have gone without food since Monday, are demanding that they be
released from the detention center, at 201 Varick Street, while their
applications for asylum are reviewed.

''We can no longer be detained for the rest of our lives,'' they wrote in a
letter dated Nov. 20 to the Lawyers Committee on Human Rights, which is
representing eight of them in the application process.

The strikers are all young men who were arrested over the last 14 months while
trying to enter New York without valid passports or visas. They are from
Afghanistan, Chad, Ethiopia, Ghana, Iran, Liberia, Nicaragua and Zaire.

''Generally they are people who were quite active politically or faced specific
threats within their own countries,'' said Arthur C. Helton of the lawyers
committee. He said they had ''no criminal histories.''

Elizabeth Herskovitz, the deputy assistant director for deportations at the
immigration service in New York, said she did not believe the hunger strike
would affect when the detainees are released.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOTEL ENDS ROLE IN DETENTION OF ALIENS

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 54, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 781 words


A hotel at Kennedy International Airport that has served as a temporary
detention center for travelers facing deportation has severed an arrangement
with the Federal Government, citing negative publicity from reports of inhumane
conditions by a civil rights organization.

The hotel, the Viscount, will cancel detention arrangements as of Oct. 15,
because of negative press attention, a hotel spokesman, Stuart Feiler, said. An
article on the op-ed page by Arthur C. Helton, director of the Political Asylum
Project for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which appeared in The New
York Times on Sept. 23, was cited as one of the reasons for the decision, he
said.

The article, titled ''A Hotel Jail for Refugees,'' likened conditions at the
Viscount to ''Sartre's vision of Hell.''

''We run a very fine hotel,'' Mr. Feiler said. ''The complaints are untrue, and
we have been treated very shabbily.'' #2 Floors Reserved for Detainees The
Lawyers Committee has charged that detainees who have been denied entry into the
United States have been held for prolonged periods in crowded conditions and
without recreation at the Viscount Hotel, which, since April, has reserved two
floors for use by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for detention
purposes.

In recent months, the Lawyers Committee has urged the agency to improve
detention conditions at the hotel, citing an incident last August, in which an
Indian national fell to his death while trying to escape, and affidavits from
six detainees who charge they have been forced to share beds, denied medical
care and have been served cold meals and deprived of contact with relatives and
counsel.

Barry L. Conrad, president and chief executive officer of Trusthouse Forte
Hotels, which owns the Viscount, rejected reports of inhumane conditions in a
Sept. 29 letter to the Lawyers Committee, calling the charges ''sensational and
unfounded.'' However, Mr. Conrad said the hotel was ''discontinuing its
arrangement'' with two security guard agencies and the immigration agency for
housing detainees.

Mr. Feiler said that since complaints about conditions at the Viscount arose,
the company had ''carefully monitored'' the services of Tri-Way Security, a
private concern hired by the immigration agency to supervise the detainees. ''We
found they were respecting their contract to the letter,'' he said.

Hotel Denies Charges

Repeated telephone calls to Tri-Way Security were not returned.

J. Scott Blackman, assistant director for deportation at the New York district
office of the immigration agency, said ''conditions at the hotel were neither
unusual or unsatisfactory.''

''Its absolutely false that people have doubled up in beds,'' Mr. Blackman
asserted, adding that ''there are very few people who have been there for any
length of time.'' Mr. Blackman said the average detainee population at the hotel
was from 30 to 35.

Responding to specific allegations of ill treatment in the affidavits of the six
detainees, which were obtained by The Times, Mr. Blackman said: ''We are talking
about individuals who tried to enter the United States fraudulently. That very
fact reduces their credibility.''

New Tax Pays for Lodgings

Mr. Blackman said that the immigration service had begun using the Viscount
following the introduction this year of a Federal airport user tax levied on
foreign travelers arriving in this country. Previously, he said, international
carriers had been responsible for lodging travelers who were denied entry into
the country until their cases were disposed.

Some travelers, among them applicants for political asylum, who were detained
because of forged or incomplete documentation, are detained for several months
awaiting court appearances and appeals, immigration officials said.

In an interview on Friday, Charles C. Sava, the New York district director of
the immigration agency, said that since receiving the termination notice from
the Viscount, Tri-Way Security had begun negotiations about detention of
detainees with two other hotels near the airport.

Meanwhile, Mr. Sava said, the immigration service is accelerating the renovation
of the 224-bed Federal Detention Center at 201 Varick Street, in Manhattan, in
the hope of ending its reliance on hotels.

''I'm hoping the first phase of renovation will be completed by the end of the
year,'' Mr. Sava said.

Mr. Helton called the decision by the Viscount to terminate the detention
arrangement, a ''vindication'' but said ''without provision for family visits,
recreation and close monitoring by the authorities to assure against
overcrowding and abuse, arrangements at other hotels will also be unsuitable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

17 Cubans Escape Texas Center; 14 Recaptured

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex., Nov. 22


Seventeen Cuban inmates escaped from a detention center early today by climbing
through a steel roof grating, but all but three were recaptured within hours.

Capt. George Magnon, an official at the minimum-security facility, said the
escapees had not heard about a riot today by Cubans at a detention center near
Oakdale, La., but probably were reacting to news that they might be sent back to
Cuba under an immigration agreement reached Friday between Cuba and the United
States.

''We had had no problems with them until Thursday or Friday,'' he said. ''When
these stories started hitting the media, that's when they started getting kind
of antsy.''

The 14 escapees were captured without incident in a brushy area near the
detention center, Captain Magnon said. They were transferred to the Webb County
Jail.

The escape may hurt the refugees' chances of being released, he said.

The Cubans had been in the facility about two months after being transferred
from a Federal detention center in Florida. They are being held for immigration
violations, Captain Magnon said.

Officials had talked to the inmates Friday, telling them they probably would not
be affected by the announcement that Cuba would take back about 2,500 of the
125,000 refugees who came to the United States in 1980.

''Apparently, they didn't believe us or they took exception to it,'' Captain
Magnon said. ''For whatever reason, these people just don't want to go back to
Cuba.'' There were 77 Cuban refugees at the Webb County facility, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

From Hideout to Hideout for Survival

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., Nov. 22


''Amigo, look out, tonight it will be bad.''

Raymond Thomas remembers the words well. It was a warning Saturday afternoon
from a Cuban inmate about the convulsion that was to shake the Federal detention
center in central Louisiana hours later. Within hours Mr. Thomas would regret
not heeding the warning.

''It was a nightmare,'' Mr. Thomas, a folsky Louisianian serving a two-year
sentence at the Oakdale facility for possession of stolen goods. ''I'm lucky to
be alive.''

He said he and other ''cadres'' - the prison name given to American inmates -
were sitting down to dinner when the riot erupted.

''I had taken one bite when all hell broke loose,'' Mr. Thomas, 57 years old,
said tonight from a hospital bed in Oakdale. He said he was being treated for a
cracked vertebra in his back, an injury he suffered in a fall in his effort to
escape the rioting prisoners.

Swarm of Rioters

For more than three hours Saturday night he was trapped inside the detention
center gates, racing from one hideout to another in an attempt to escape the
rioters who swarmed through the center wielding hatchets, hammers and other
makeshift weapons fashioned from pipes and other materials, he said.

''They smashed everything they could get their hands on and set everything on
fire,'' said Mr. Thomas, one of some 50 American prisoners serving time at the
center with an estimated 1,000 Cubans detained by the Federal Government and
facing possible deportation to Cuba.

''I didn't see anyone get hurt,'' he recalled. ''The only hostages I saw were
three hacks they had handcuffed together but they didn't hurt them,'' he said.

''Hacks,'' he explained, was prison parlance for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service guards at the center, local men who donned dark blue
suits with yellow lettering and walked unarmed among the inmates.

Language Was a Barrier

''The guards were O.K.,'' said Mr. Thomas. ''I never saw them beat or abuse any
of the prisoners before, and I don't think the Cubans had a mind to harm them.''

He said the Cuban inmates were ''a timebomb just waiting to go off.''

The Cubans and American prisoners didn't mix much before the riot because of the
language barrier, he continued. ''I didn't fool with them much because they
didn't speak English and they were always jabbering in Spanish. It like to drive
me crazy. That's how some of the fights used to start, usually in the television
room, when we tried to listen to TV and they were always talking loud so you
could hardly hear the programs. But there was no real bad blood. It was just the
tension of being cooped up together,'' he said.

Milling Mob Described

''Saturday, when the word spread they might be heading back to Cuba they
exploded.''

He described a milling mob of Cuban detainees running wild through the center
and guards and American prisoners ran to get out of their way.

''Mostly the Cubans were throwing rocks or anything they could get their hands
on. Mostly it was a rage that just broke out, but for a while there I didn't
know if any of us were getting out of there alive.''

He said he was initially trapped in a mess hall storeroom where he and other
American prisoners barricaded themselves, fearing for their lives.

Routed by Smoke

Smoke from a fire set in the mess hall eventually forced them out of the
storeroom, and they fled to the main gate, yelling for the guards on the outside
to open the gate and free them.

But the guards would not open the gates so they turned and headed toward Alen
Hall, a two-story dormitory, in the darkness as flames and smoke coiled into the
night air.

Once there, however, the American inmates were confronted with more armed
Cubans. Not trusting their motives, the men ran out again, hiding behind
buildings and along a ditch.

When he fell, wrenching his back, he was carried by the other prisoners back to
the main gate where they yelled again to be let out. This time the gate swung
open and he stumped out into the witing arms of a cordon of heavily armed
policemen and was taken to a hospital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

From Tiny Cuban Port to Rampage in Louisiana

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 733 words


The odyssey of the Cuban refugees who went on a rampage Saturday at a Federal
detention center in Oakdale, La., began at a quiet fishing port near Havana
seven years ago.

They were among the thousands of Cubans who boarded fishing boats at the port of
Mariel to take advantage of an unusual window of emigration that opened when
President Fidel Castro allowed them to leave and President Jimmy Carter said
they would be granted asylum.

By the time the ''freedom flotilla'' ended in mid-June 1980, 125,000 Cubans had
arrived on American shores.

'Excludable Aliens'

After being held at temporary processing centers, the vast majority of the Cuban
refugees, who became known as Marielitos, were released among family and friends
around the United States. Most have quietly settled into American society.

Several hundred, however, were held because they had been convicted of crimes in
Cuba or were found to be mentally incompetent. They were found to be
''excludable aliens'' and were subject to expulsion.

Added to that core group of excludables over the last seven years have been
about 3,000 refugees who have got into trouble with the law in the United States
for crimes ranging from check fraud to murder.

In so doing, these refugees have, in effect, forfeited their right to remain in
the United States. After serving sentences for their crimes, they are moved into
detention, either at the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta, the detention center
at Oakdale or at 60 other jails around the country.

Under a 1984 agreement, the United States was to deport 2,700 of the
excludables. Later that year Cuba suspended the agreement in protest against the
opening of Radio Marti, a branch of the Voice of America beamed at Cuba.

Caught in Legal Limbo

As a result, the excludables have been left in American prisons, caught in a
legal limbo that has resulted in challenges in the courts and frequent violence
in the detention centers.

In late 1984, for example, there were numerous disturbances at the Atlanta
facility. In October, guards had to lock the Cubans in their cells after
clothes, towels and sheets were burned in prisoner protests. A month later, tear
gas was fired into cellblocks to quell 500 prisoners who set fires and assaulted
three or four guards, none of them seriously.

In May 1986, 55 Cubans accused of starting a disturbance at a Miami detention
center rioted aboard a bus tranferring them to the Atlanta center. The Cubans,
who tried to rock the caged bus, were subdued by 40 state and local police
officers after the bus was pulled over to the side of the road.

Kept 'Like Animals in Cages'

Civil liberties lawyers have taken up the cause of the refugees and a
Congressional inquiry found that they were being kept ''like animals in cages,''
with no prospect of freedom.

They continue to be kept in detention, however, as the result of a decision by
the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit that the detainees have
no constitutional rights. The court supported the Government's broad authority
to hold them.

The refugees got a rare bit of good news in recent months, however, with the
announcement that the Immigration and Naturalization Service would begin
reviewing their cases on an individual basis. ''We believe a very significant
number of the Cubans will be released - even thousands,'' Duke Austin, an
immigration agency spokesman in Washington, said last month.

Mr. Austin added that the program of review was a ''recognition that we no
longer have an immigration agreement with Cuba and therefore have lost the
ability to deport Cubans.''

New Hopes Are Dashed

The renewed hopes of the refugees seemed to have been dashed, however, with a
second bit of news, this one coming on Friday. As part of a new immgration
agreement with the United States, the Cuban Government announced that it was now
willing to take back nearly 2,600 of the refugees who have been deemed
excludables.

''There had been soaring expectations on the part of the Cubans and then the
crushing reality of this agreement,'' said Arthur C. Helton, director of the
political asylum project for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Mr. Helton said that some of the Marielitos face political persecution in Cuba.
Others, he said, have wives and children in the United States whom they had
hoped to rejoin after their detentions were ended.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: map of Southeastern United States

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 25, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

A Feeling Of Betrayal For Cubans

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., Nov. 24


Expecting that her husband would soon be freed from the Federal detention center
here, Marsha Martinez had started preparing to move to this small isolated town
in central Louisiana.

But on Friday the State Department announced it had reached an agreement with
the Cuban Government that would allow the United States to deport more than
2,500 Cubans who arrived here in the 1980 Mariel boatlift and had since been
convicted of crimes. By Saturday night the detention center was ablaze and more
than 1,000 prisoners were holding 28 hostages in a standoff that continued
today.

Until the agreement was announced, many of the inmates had believed that they
would soon be released to halfway houses or to live with relatives after their
cases were reviewed, according to immigration lawyers.

'They Just Want Liberty'

''You don't promise somebody something and then slap them in the face,'' said
Mrs. Martinez, clutching a picture of her husband to her chest. ''Immigration
turned their backs on them. That's what started all this. They just want
liberty. What's wrong with that?''

Mrs. Martinez's emotions were shared by many of the inmates' families, who have
suffered years of separation in the hope that they would soon be reunited. One
after another, tears welling in their eyes, they charged that the Government had
betrayed them.

''The news of the deportation was very sudden and told to us very coldly,'' said
Theresa Cordero, who moved here to be near her detained husband, Jose Luis. ''We
are humans beings, too. We are afraid because we are human beings and we have
children.''

The siege at the prison has brought about a thousand heavily armed police
officers as well as scores of reporters to the town about 85 miles northwest of
Baton Rouge.

Reminders of Danger

For many of the 7,500 people who live here, the siege has become a 24-hour-a-day
nightmare. The families of hostages have taken refuge in the Sacred Heart
Catholic Church. Many small business owners have had to scramble to feed and
house hundreds of newcomers. National Guard and press helicopters clatter
through the damp air, reminders of the danger.

For a long time, residents welcomed the 250-acre detention camp, which was
designed as a minimum security prison. They thought it would provide jobs for
the lagging economy. But the boom never quite materialized. The economic pace
remained slow, unemployment high and poverty widespread. The prison, which is
hidden behind acres of brush filled woods, soon blended into the routine of
daily life.

That changed Saturday. Now it has become a symbol of fear and deperation. The
warden, J. R. Johnson, as well as the inmates' families, said the refugees were
convinced they will be killed if they are deported to Cuba.

They said the inmates do not trust the system set up by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to consider their cases and they do not believe the
Government will give them a fair hearing. That has stalled the ongoing
negotiations, the warden said.

''My husband was supposed to go free two years ago,'' said Maria Monzon, whose
husband is being held here and whose uncle is jailed in Atlanta, where a second
and more violent siege by Cuban refugees is under way. ''Now they want to send
him back. People don't want to go back. If they do, Castro will kill them.''

A Quiet Wait in Atlanta

ATLANTA, Nov. 24 - A small but growing band of wives and children of Cubans
being held at the Federal penitentiary here stood across from the prison today,
occasionally shouting ''Libertad'' - Spanish for ''Freedom'' - but generally
sitting quietly, waiting for word from inside the prison.

Janet Lugo, whose 26-year-old husband, Fernando, is being held there, said he
had managed to call her three times since inmates rioted and took hostages here
on Monday.

''He wanted me to know that he was all right,'' she said. ''And he wanted me to
tell people that the detainees did not start this. The guards were taunting them
and cursing them and telling them they were going to go back to Cuba.''

The continuing siege briefly united the families of both the inmates and their
hostages as the family members waited in a warm sun for news of the men inside.

Wives of the hostages shared some of the same emotions as the wives of their
captors. ''All I want is for my husband to come home safe,'' said Belinda Davis,
whose 36-year-old husband, Willie Davis, was the first of the hostages to be
released. He was carried out on a stretcher about 2:30 P.M., apparently ill but
not in serious condition.

After 24 hours of official silence, the families of both inmates and hostages
began receiving news of the men behind the prison wall.

Standing across the street from the prison the wives of both Cuban and American
prison inmates lined up to take their turn speaking to a prison chaplin on a
public telephone.

The names of about 315 inmates who surrendered and several hundred others whose
status was known has been compiled on a list by prison officials. For the women,
it was the first official word they had received since the siege began Monday.

''He's all right; he's all right,'' one woman sobbed as she relinquished the
telephone to the next in line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Official Blames Farmers For Worker Shortage in West

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: IRVINE, Calif., June 20


California farmers must share the blame for a shortage of field workers as the
peak harvest season approaches, the Western regional director of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service says.

''Growers have been so hooked on the opiate of illegal workers for so many years
that they don't want to take the cure,'' the official, Harold Ezell, said at a
break in a daylong meeting here Thursday with farmers.

Mr. Ezell urged that growers aggressively import workers under a Government
program for guest workers.

He said growers had resisted the program because it requires farmers to provide
foreign workers with adequate living quarters and wages comparable to those of
domestic workers.

Growers Blamed for Shortage

Dolores Huerta, an executive of the United Farm Workers, told the seminar she
believed much of the worker shortage had been ''manufactured'' by growers.

Shortly before the amnesty for illegal aliens went into effect, growers
dismissed large numbers of workers believed to be in this country illegally, and
they have made only meager efforts to enlist workers domestically, Ms. Huerta
said.

The growers ''have used trucks with megaphones in Mexico to try to get workers
without much success,'' the union official said. ''If they made a similar effort
in Fresno, they could fill all their jobs quickly.''

She also criticized the growers' unwillingness to list job openings through the
State Employment Development Department, preferring instead to work through
labor contractors who earn fees for providing workers.

Clark Biggs, spokesman of the California Farm Bureau, a trade group, defended
the reluctance of growers to get workers through the agency, saying it usually
provided workers who were unqualified and unwilling to do the hard field work
required. #25 to 30 Percent Shortage Reported The seminar came one day after the
Farm Bureau reported that the agricultural labor supply in the state was 25 to
30 percent below needs.

At the peak of the harvest next month, an estimated 300,000 migrant farm workers
are employed in California fields, in addition to the 300,000 workers employed
year-round, Mike Henry, a Farm Bureau spokesman, said.

Last week, Agriculture Department officials reported a shortage of about 25,000
field workers in the Pacific Northwest. Growers have reported difficulty finding
workers to harvest strawberries and cherries.

The Farm Bureau ascribed the shortage to confusion by workers and potential
workers over the complexities of the amnesty law.

To qualify for amnesty, agricultural laborers who work in perishable crops -
defined by the Government as virtually all fruits and vegetables - are required
to have been employed in such crops for 90 days in the 12-month period ended May
1.

But non-agricultural workers must have lived continuously in this country since
1982 to qualify for amnesty.

Mike Stewart, senior vice president of the Western Growers Association, urged
the immigration service to add centers near the borders to quickly process
applications by Mexicans who feel they qualify for amnesty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 25, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Acts to Help Ease Scarcity of Farm Workers

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24


The Government, moving to ease farmers' fear that perishable crops may rot in
the fields, made a concession Tuesday that could bring more migrant laborers
into the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said farm workers who entered the
United States by this Friday, rather than the May 1 deadline originally in
effect, could apply for the Special Agricultural Worker program at the
immigration service's offices in the United States. Without the concession, the
workers would have had to return to the home country to apply.

The Friday cutoff coincides with the opening of a new immigration processing
center at Calexico, Calif., on the Mexican border, to handle applications for
the Special Agricultural Worker program. To further expedite applications, the
State Department will open new offices in Mexico, at Monterrey and Hermosillo to
start, elsewhere later if demand is high.

Under the agricultural program, illegal aliens may apply for temporary resident
status if they were in the United States and working in perishable crops for any
90-day period from May 1985 to May 1986. Those who arrive in the United States
by the new deadline may stay and apply. Others must remain in or return to
Mexico, make an application there and presumably miss a big part of the growing
season while waiting for approval. #6,397 Applicants So Far Alan Nelson,
commissioner of the immigration service, said 6,397 applications for the program
had been received as of last week. But the American Farm Bureau Federation
estimates that in past years growers depended on half a million illegal aliens
to help harvest seasonal crops, and only a fraction of those undocumented
workers arrived this year, growers say, leaving much of the harvesting to a
small pool of American teen-agers, welfare recipients and day workers.

''The fact is that American workers aren't as skilled to do these jobs as the
Mexican workers,'' said Senator Steve Symms, Republican of Idaho. ''They don't
have that background and training of working with their hands.''

Confusion Reigns

The scarcity of migrant workers stems from their confusion about new American
immigration policies. That confusion has caused them to stay home, fearful that
they will be arrested if they come north. As a result, American farmers say,
they do not have enough workers and fragile fruits are rotting on the vine.

''We want to be sure the growers have the people to harvest the crop,'' Mr.
Nelson said Tuesday after meeting with House and Senate members.

Senator Symms said ''the word isn't getting down in the ranks'' among migrant
workers about the special program, part of landmark immigration changes approved
by Congress last year. ''We have the potential for a real crisis on our hands,''
the Senator said of the worker scarcity.

The Government had previously taken a hard line on the farm labor program,
saying growers had already had six months to prepare for it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 24, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Migrant Workers Are Different in France

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 448 words


To the Editor:

A July 9 news report from Hebronville, Tex., of a near repeat of the immigrant
train-car tragedy in which 18 aliens were found dead July 2 in a boxcar in Texas
is in stark and moving contrast to France's recent announcement that Spanish
migrant workers going to harvest grapes in southwest France this fall will have
the option of traveling in sleeping cars on second-class trains.

France and Spain have worked over the last 10 years to improve transportation,
housing and working conditions for the 50,000 Spaniards who migrate each year
from their homes in southern Spain to the wine-producing areas of the Midi. Both
these short-term workers and longer-term workers in other agricultural
commodities enjoy free, safe transportation by train or bus and free medical
exams and contracts.

In addition, Spanish union representatives accompany the migrants on the grape
harvest trains to the border, visit them in France, work with French unions to
improve conditions each year and negotiate with both the Spanish and French
governments in their behalf.

In adopting an amnesty and employer sanctions, the United States is following
France's policy changes of 1981-82. Washington has failed, however, to adopt a
third tenet of the revised French policy, namely, increased dialogue with their
labor-sending partners. While the working and living conditions of foreign
agricultural workers in France still leave room for improvement, the successes -
and even the failures - of French immigration policy can provide some lessons
for the United States.

In its legalization the French Government tried to avoid sending mixed messages
to potential applicants by announcing a suspension of deportations almost
simultaneously with announcement of amnesty. It sought to reduce confusion among
employers by implementing stiffer sanctions at the conclusion of the amnesty. It
extended the legalization and broadened criteria for eligibility when few turned
out to be qualifying.

Despite generous criteria - permitting immigrants with less than a year of
residence in some cases to apply - fewer than half of the country's illegal
foreigners, estimated at 300,000, were legalized. Despite stiff employer
sanctions, France has in 1987 close to that number of undocumented immigrants.

Immigration is too important an issue - with causes and consequences too complex
- to be addressed by one country unilaterally or without serious consideration
of the experience of other industrialized countries.

MARGO DE LEY
Urbana, Ill., July 9, 1987
  The writer is research associate in the Office of International Agriculture at
the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 10, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAITANS FIND HOPE IN SPECIAL STATUS

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH NEUFFER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 42, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 618 words


When there was a knock on the door of his apartment in the Flatbush section of
Brooklyn, the former Haitian farmer would be gripped by fear, afraid it was the
immigration agents.

He was worried he would be imprisoned again, deported and denied citizenship.
For six years, those fears dominated his life while his legal status in this
country went unresolved.

''I was scared,'' the 47-year-old man said in Creole. His first name is Joseph,
but he is afraid to have his last name published. ''I prayed to God. I was
living in limbo.''

But now, because he is Haitian, his effort to achieve legal status will be
easier.

On the Side of the Law Now

Hundreds of thousands of other illegal aliens became eligible as of last Tuesday
to apply for temporary residency under a new Federal law. Under the law,
Haitians and Cubans who arrived before Jan. 1, 1982, many of whom spent months
in detention centers, can apply directly for permanent residency, a distinction
that will save them months in the process of becoming legal citizens.

A special provision in the law resolves the status of the thousands of Haitians
who fled their homeland by boat in 1981, saying they were seeking political
asylum from the rule of Jean-Claude Duvalier.

Under a 1981 Federal policy to halt illicit immigration, Haitians were refused
asylum. They were considered to be economic refugees and consequently illegal
aliens. Many were placed in detention centers on their arrival.

Freed by Court Decision

A Federal court decision released them from detention in 1982, but they have
continued to seek political asylum in this country, afraid to return home even
under Haiti's new government.

About 20,000 Haitians in the New York metropolitan region are believed to be
eligible for permanent residency, said Mike Hooper, the director of the National
Coalition for Haitian Refugees in New York City.

Immigration authorities say few Cubans will be affected by the special
provision. In 1985 the Justice Department decided that the more than 125,000
Cubans who fled here in 1980 could be granted permanent status under a 1966 law.

The amnesty for Haitians in the immigration law was suggested by Representative
Peter W. Rodino Jr., a Democrat from New Jersey, who had originally introduced a
bill allowing Cubans and Haitians permanent status.

'People Who Were Ignored'

''These were people who were ignored,'' Mr. Rodino, the chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, said in a telephone interview from Washington.

The measure, he said, was in part to grant Haitians the same status accorded
Cubans who came to the United States by sea in 1980 from the port of Mariel.

For many Haitians - but particularly those who were detained - the thought of
finally becoming Americans is sweet.

''I have suffered so much - now I see this as compensation for my suffering,''
said Gerard St. Hilaire, a farmer from Baraderes in southern Haiti.

Mr. Hilaire arrived in the United States on July 4, 1981, after 17 days at sea.
His boat had barely touched land, he said, when he was arrested by the Coast
Guard and placed in the Krome Detention Center, near Miami. Fifteen days there
were followed by 14 months in the Raybrook Prison, near Lake Placid, N.Y.

For many Haitians, who make their homes in the Flatbush and Crown Heights
sections of Brooklyn, the promise of permanent residency also means the prospect
of reunification with their families. Once they are legally Americans, they will
be free to leave this country - and return.

''I've been waiting so long,'' said Marie Joseph, 48, who left her family behind
seven years ago. ''Now I can go back to Haiti and see my family and bring them
back to New York.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 18, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Shift in Alien Law Ends a Trying Journey

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words


Silvia Luz Arana de Gills, a 29-year-old Argentine whose husband and two
children are American citizens, will arrive in New York in six weeks.

It has already been an arduous - even torturous - journey.

In effect, the United States has changed its mind to allow Mrs. Gills to be with
her family in this country. And, in doing so, it has rendered her one of the
first people to benefit from a revision in the nation's immigration laws, a
revision that says foreigners cannot be kept out because of their political
associations and beliefs. In late December, after a year of investigation, the
State Department sent an advisory opinion to its consulate in Buenos Aires,
informing officials there that Mrs. Gills should be denied a visa because she
had been convicted of associating, as a teen-ager, with two Argentine terrorist
groups - a charge she denies.

A Change of Heart

Two weeks later, however, the State Department's legal adviser, Abraham D.
Sofaer, hinted at a shift. In a letter to Mrs. Gills's lawyer, David Cole of the
Center for Constitutional Rights, Mr. Sofaer stated that despite the previous
ruling, ''you are correct that the intervening enactment by Congress'' of the
change in the McCarran-Walter Act ''might permit the issuance of a visa to Mrs.
Gills should she renew her application.''

On March 7, Mrs. Gills presented herself to the consulate in Buenos Aires and
was granted a visa.

''It's been a struggle,'' said Mrs. Gills's husband, William, a Manhattan
resident who works in the business department of The Guardian News Weekly, an
independent, left-leaning newspaper.

''We are a family and should be together,'' said Mr. Gills, who met his wife
when they were students in France. ''I feel it's one of my major human rights to
live with my family in my country.''

Asked if Mrs. Gills was the first person to be granted a visa under the amended
law, a spokeswoman for the State Department, Donna Sherman, said: ''The answer
is not available. Evidently her attorney was the first person to contact the
department indicating that his client might benefit from this new provision.
And, in fact, she did.''

But, Ms. Sherman continued, ''The fact is that our posts overseas can issue
visas but are not obliged to advise us when they do so. So we wouldn't know
whether others have already benefited from the law.''

That was confirmed by Representative Barney Frank, a Democrat from Massachusetts
and a member of the House Subcommittee on Immigration. Mr. Frank, who
co-authored the change in the law with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat
of New York, said: ''She's probably the first one who was let in with a previous
denial. But there may well have been others, absent the law, who would have been
excluded, but were let in.''

'Always Needed to Know More'

It has been 11 years, Mrs. Gills said, since she was arrested and tortured by
Argentina's military junta, then held in prison for five and a half years
without a trial.

It has been 14 months since she first went to the consulate and applied for a
visa.

And it has been seven months since she submitted the last of the papers that
officials at the consulate said she needed to prove she had not been associated
with the Montoneros and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias.

''The difficulties started from the moment I informed them I had been a prisoner
of the junta,'' Mrs. Gills said in a telephone interview from Chilecito, her
native village, about 800 miles northwest of Buenos Aires. ''From this moment,
they began asking for one paper, another paper, another, another. They always
needed to know more - more about the process, more about the charges, more dates
and more dates.''

'They Kept Beating Her'

It was in July 1976, when she was 18, that the police broke into Mrs. Gills's
home in Chilecito and dragged her away. She did not want to talk about those
first days in captivity. Mr. Gills did.  ''She was made to sit on a chair for
more than 10 hours with a hood over her head before anyone interrogated her,''
he said. ''Then, while they were interrogating her, they beat her.'' Finally, he
said, she was forced to sign a statement, without being permitted to read its
text.

''And they kept beating her,'' Mr. Gills said, ''when she was flown to Buenos
Aires with her hands cuffed behind her back and lying face down on the floor of
the plane.''

It would be four years before Mrs. Gills was charged with anything, and then
only that, as a 15-year-old, she had been in ''illicit association'' with the
terrorist groups.

Released on Christmas Eve

Asked if she had been associated with the Montoneros or the F.A.R., Mrs. Gills
said, ''Never.'' She said she had been president of her high school student
organization and, after the coup, any student leader was at risk of arrest.

Although charges had finally been brought, Mrs. Gills was never informed and
never went to trial. Although she never went to trial, Mr. Cole said, ''A record
was, nonetheless, presented to a court,'' Mr. Cole said, ''a record that she was
not allowed to see. The court appointed a lawyer, whom she was not permitted to
see, and when he presented a vigorous defense, the court dismissed him.''

For 18 more months, still without a conviction, Mrs. Gills sat in prison. Then,
on Christmas Eve of 1981, as part of an amnesty for political prisoners, she was
released. She fled to France and there, at the University of Grenoble, met her
future husband.

Case Is Revived

A year later, with the military disgraced by defeat in the Falkland Islands
conflict, democracy was restored in Argentina. Late in 1985, with guarantees
that she would not be imprisoned, Mrs. Gills returned to Argentina with her
family.

In 1986, Mr. Gills won a scholarship to the New School in Manhattan. And so,
that December, Mrs. Gills went to the consulate and applied for a visa. In doing
so, she unwittingly set in motion a series of events that led to her conviction.

The charges brought against her by the junta remained on the books. ''She
couldn't get a passport until her case was closed,'' Mr. Gills said. ''So she
went to the court and pleaded innocent.''

Mrs. Gills said the prosecutor and judge ''told me, 'Now that you are here we
can close the case and lift the apprehension order against you.' '' She added,
''I thought this would just be a formality.''

Revising Immigration Law

Instead, the Argentine court convicted her, sentenced her to three years in
prison and released her for time already served. ''The court basically
rubber-stamped the military's accusation,'' Mr. Gills said.

Mr. Cole contended that, even with the conviction, Mrs. Gills should not have
been denied a visa. ''The judgment was based solely on the record compiled by
the military junta,'' he said. ''If any one of the things that happened to her
happened in the U.S. court system there would be no conviction.''

The change in the law that overturned the State Department's initial ruling was
only temporary. Representative Frank predicted, however, that ''within two weeks
the Subcomittee on Immigration will vote out the long-term comprehensive bill.''

That bill, he said, ''deals not just with political exclusion, but with anti-gay
provisions; with polygamy - not just the practice, but if you merely believe in
polygamy - and with mental illness.''

As the law now stands, he said, ''If you were clinically depressed 15 years ago,
not just if you are currently mentally ill, you still can be excluded.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Silvia Luz Arana de Gills last year in Chilecito, Argentina,
with husband, William, and children, Melina and Libertad (AP for The New York
Times) (pg. B1); Abraham D. Sofaer (NYT) (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 27, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TO PURSUE PROPOSAL TO BAR ALIENS WITH AIDS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26


The Reagan Administration intends to proceed with its plan to bar AIDS victims
from immigrating to the United States, despite objections raised when the
proposal was announced last year, Federal Health officials said today.

Dr. Laurence S. Farer, quarantine director at the Federal Centers for Disease
Control, said the agency had drafted a final rule listing acquired immune
deficiency syndrome as a ground for excluding aliens. Under the final rule, he
said, aliens would be barred if they showed clinical signs of AIDS and if this
diagnosis was confirmed in a medical examination.

Mass Screening Ruled Out

''We do not propose mass screening of asymptomatic individuals,'' he said. ''And
we are not proposing routine blood testing of all visa applicants'' to ascertain
if they have the antibodies that signal infection with the AIDS virus.

The immigration law lists 33 grounds for barring aliens from the United States.
Among those excluded are aliens who are mentally retarded or insane, have a
''psychopathic personality'' or ''mental defect,'' are drug addicts or chronic
alcoholics, or are ''afflicted with any dangerous contagious disease.''

Several lawyers for civil rights and homosexual organizations said they had
thought the proposal, published last April in the Federal Register, was dead.
But Dr. Farer said: ''It has not been dropped. The final rule will, I am
confident, mention AIDS as a ground for exclusion of aliens.''

The final rule is subject to review by Dr. Otis R. Bowen, Secretary of Health
and Human Services, who approved the original proposal last April. The rule is
also subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget. Officials said
they did not know when the final rule would be issued.

Under Federal law, an alien seeking permanent resident status, or an immigrant
visa, must undergo ''a physical and mental examination.''

Examinations are not mandatory for aliens seeking admission to the United States
on student, tourist or other temporary visas. But such aliens may be ordered to
have medical examinations if, to an American consular officer overseas, they
appear to be ill.

''If, in the medical examination, the doctor finds clinical evidence of AIDS, he
could ask the alien to have a blood test,'' Dr. Farer said. ''Our guidelines
will indicate that he should ask for a blood test in those circumstances.''

The physician would consider the results of the blood test along with other
evidence in preparing a ''diagnostic evaluation'' of the alien, Dr. Farer said.

Last April Dr. Bowen proposed adding AIDS to the list of dangerous contagious
diseases used as grounds for barring aliens. But now the Public Health Service
is taking a slightly different approach, suggesting that aliens with AIDS should
be excluded under another section of the immigration law.

This section bars aliens certified by a doctor as having ''a physical defect,
disease or disability'' that may affect their ability to earn a living. This
exclusion does not apply to aliens who can prove they ''will not have to earn a
living.''

Health economists say the lifetime cost of hospitalization for an AIDS victim
ranged from $60,000 to $75,000 in 1984.

Some Objections Raised

AIDS cripples the immune system, leaving patients vulnerable to infections and
cancers. It is caused by a virus that spreads through sexual intercourse with an
infected person or exchanges of blood, as in shared hypodermic needles.

To date, the Government has recorded 33,158 cases of AIDS and 19,192 deaths from
the disease. More than half the victims have died and none have been cured.

In the United States, about two-thirds of all AIDS victims have been homosexual
or bisexual men, according to Government data.

Caitlin Ryan, a former president of the National Lesbian and Gay Health
Foundation, expressed concern last year that the proposed rule might be
''misused to discriminate against anyone who is perceived as being in a
high-risk group for AIDS.'' The foundation represents doctors, nurses and other
health-care professionals who are homosexual.

Today, Ms. Ryan said: ''There should not be any blanket rule categorically
excluding people with AIDS. The Government should consider the reasons people
come to this country on a case-by-case basis.''

Thomas B. Stoddard, executive director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education
Fund, which represents many AIDS patients, said: ''If the blood test is
restricted to people who have serious medical symptoms indicating the
possibility of AIDS, we would not oppose it. We worry about discriminatory
application of the test on nonmedical grounds, to people who are black or gay.''

Federal health officials said the immigration rule would not be used to harrass
homosexuals.

AIDS experts convened recently by the World Health Organization in Geneva
rejected the idea of screening international travelers as too costly,
impractical and possibly counterproductive. ''Negative blood tests might give
people a false sense of security,'' Dr. Farer said.  Representative Barney
Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, has introduced a bill to bar the exclusion of
aliens because of sexual orientation or political ideology. But it would permit
the continued exclusion of aliens with dangerous contagious diseases.

''I would not object to the exclusion of aliens with full-blown cases of AIDS,
because they are almost certain to become a public charge within a certain
period of time,'' Mr. Frank said in an interview today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 9, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

New Office Set Up to Review Eligibility for Asylum in U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8


Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d today announced the creation of a new Justice
Department office to review eligibility for political asylum. He took the action
in the aftermath of a Supreme Court ruling that made it easier for applicants to
gain asylum.

Mr. Meese said his new Asylum Policy and Review Unit, a part of the Office of
Legal Policy, was designed ''to increase uniformity and efficiency'' in
determining whether to grant asylum. The office will advise Mr. Meese and his
deputy on asylum policy and will coordinate with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Mr. Meese said the department and the immigration service had been reviewing of
asylum policy and practices for the past year.

But creation of the new office also appears to be an outgrowth of a Supreme
Court decision on March 9. The ruling made the asylum standard more liberal by
stating that aliens seeking asylum needed only to show ''a well-founded fear''
that they would be persecuted in their homeland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 25, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Dismiss McCarran-Walter, Not Principle

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 401 words


Just a few days before a scheduled hearing, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has withdrawn charges of political subversion against six aliens it
seeks to deport. It still wants to oust them but now solely for visa violations.
Are these aliens dangerous troublemakers or aren't they? If the I.N.S. had a
good deportation case, why did it clutter things up with bad reasons? The
original action arose from misguided principle. The new retreat seems
unprincipled altogether.

One of the more unsettling provisions of the 1952 McCarran-Walter Act permits
deportation of aliens who advocate terrorist, anarchist or subversive
activities. In January, the Government moved under this provision to deport
eight aliens - seven Palestinians and the Kenyan wife of one - who have lived
and studied in America for several years. It claimed that they belong to the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a group that claimed
responsibility for several airline hijackings and other terrorist actions during
the 1970's.

The deportation hearing is scheduled for Tuesday, and the defendants have been
arduously preparing a challenge on First Amendment grounds. But now the
Government has ''tactically reshaped'' its case, according to one official, for
the sake of efficiency. The political subversion charges against six of the
aliens have been withdrawn; the Government seeks to deport them now solely
because their visas have expired or because they are working without permission.

All this clangs with expediency, raising two questions. The first concerns this
case. If the aliens are deportable for obviously acceptable reasons, then why
didn't the Government simply move for those reasons, instead of working so hard
to press controversial reasons?

The Government still plans to charge political subversion against the other two
defendants, who are both legal resident aliens. It may yet prove that these
individuals might cause actual harm. That raises the second question. The
McCarran-Walter Act allows the Government to deport them if it can prove that
they advocate offensive ideas, even if they never commit terrorist, subversive
or criminal acts.

Such nervous fear of free speech was offensive in the cold war chill of the
early 1950's. It's intolerable now. Surely Congress can write legislation that's
less jumpy about dissenting opinion while protecting against dangerous acts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 25, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

FOES IN SUBVERSION CASE CLASH OVER WHETHER U.S. HAS PROOF

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 24


A Government lawyer asserted today that the Justice Department had the evidence
necessary to prove that eight immigrants here engaged in subversive activities
to support Palestinian terrorism but was willing to disclose it only in a
judicial proceeding barred to the public and the press because of national
security considerations.

The lawyer, William Odencrantz, Western general counsel to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service of the Justice Department, said the department had
dropped subversion charges against six of the eight immigrants only because it
was easier to deport them for routine visa violations. ''To use a football
analogy, we don't care how we score our touchdown, by pass or by run, we just
want to get them out of the country,'' he said.

But lawyers for the immigrants charged that the Government was forced to
withdraw the majority of its prosecution because it lacked sufficient evidence
and that the insistence on a nonpublic session was intended to keep the
inadequacy hidden.

Critic Says U.S. Has No Case

''The government was just afraid its case was not going to pan out,'' said Mark
Rosenbaum, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who is part of th legal team
defending the immigrants. ''This is like the McCarthy prosecutions: they smear
them, they disrupt their lives, they cry communism, then they don't let them
respond to the charges.''

The charges dropped Thursday were based on a McCarthy-era law, the
McCarran-Walter Act, whose use was called a suppression of free speech by
Arab-American organizations and some members of Congress. Supporters of the
immigrants' rights have charged that Arabs living in this country are being
targeted for persecution under a 1986 ''contingency plan'' drafted by the Reagan
Administration purportedly to combat domestic and overseas terrorism.

The Administration contends that the eight are members of the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine, a Marxist faction of the Palestine Liberation
Organization, which has claimed responsiblity for several airline hijackings and
other terrorist actions since the 1970's. The defendants deny that they are
members or that they are doing anything other than exercising their rights to
speak out and otherwise support the cause of a Palestinian homeland. #10-Month
Inquiry by F.B.I.

Immigration Service officials have acknowledged the existence of a report on the
immigrants's activities by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which conducted
a 10-month investigation last year but failed to produce evidence for a criminal
case.

The bureau turned its report over to the Immigration Service, which then brought
the McCarran and visa charges. Civil rights lawyers have contended that the
California arrests and prosecution are the first steps by the Administration to
test a ''contingency plan'' calling for the deportation of Arab and other alien
residents posing a purported threat to national security and the sealing of the
border. Immigration officials conceded the existence of such a plan but denied
it was approved.

A group of supporters of the Palestinians' cause have issued a an ''an urgent
call to protect the First Amendment,'' made public at an A.C.L.U. news
conference today, which calls on the Government to drop its prosecution of the
immigrants. Among the signers of the statement were the author Kurt Vonnegut,
the actor Edward Asner, Avery Post, president of the United Church of Christ,
and Philip M. Klutznick, honorary president of B'nai B'rith International.

The immigrants were arrested at gunpoint by immigration agents last February and
held in detention for two and a half weeks before they were freed on the order
of an immigration judge at a bond hearing in February.

Bid for Secret Session Denied

The judge, Roy J. Daniels of United States Immigration Court, said he could not
approve further detention based on the Government's mere assertion of membership
in a subversive organization, or of affiliation with members. He said the
Government had failed to give evidence of any specific illegal actions by the
eight that could be said to warrant deportation. He also turned down a
Government bid for presentation of such evidence in a secret session that would
be closed to defendants' attorneys, press and public.

Those for whom subversion charges have been withdrawn are Aiad Khaled Barakat,
Amjad Mustafa Obeid, Amyan Mustafa Obeid, Naim Nadim Sharif, Basher Husham Amer
and Julie Nuangugi Mungai. Miss Mungai is married to Khader Musa Hamide, who the
Government says is a leader of the Popular Front in southern California along
with Michel Ibrahim Shehadeh.

All of the six are Palestinians except Miss Mungai, who is a Kenyan. A
deportation hearing that will weigh whether they still may be deported on visa
violation grounds is to begin on Tuesday.

Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh still face the McCarran Act charges. Their cases are
expected to go to a hearing at a later date. Both are legal United States
residents.

The Justice Department has appealed Judge Daniels's denial of a secret session
to the Board of Immigration Appeals. Mr. Odencrantz said if they failed there,
they would exercise their option of taking the matter to the United States Court
of Appeals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Julie Nuangugi Mungai, acussed subversive and herhusband,
Khader Musa Hamide (NYT/Michael Tweed)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 28, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

40,000 BARRED FROM THE U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27


President Kurt Waldheim of Austria is one of 40,000 people on the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's ''watch list'' of people who are excluded from the
United States.

Most of those on the list, also known as the Lookout Book, are criminals, known
terrorists, Communists or people who have been deported from the United States.

People may be placed on the list for any one of 33 reasons, ranging from having
been a Nazi to having a contagious disease such as tuberculosis. A spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Duke Austin, said today that
''probably only a handful'' have been placed on the list for persecuting people
in World War II.

If a person on the list tries to enter the United States, he or she is generally
turned away at the border. A person who challenges being turned away is entitled
to an administrative hearing.

Sometimes the person is allowed to post bond and enter the country. In addition,
the Attorney General can waive the ban and allow the person to enter the
country.

A head of state, such as Mr. Waldheim, who plans to go to the United Nations may
receive a temporary visa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 9, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

NICARAGUAN TESTIFIES FOR ARABS FACING DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 8


A former leader of the Nicaraguan rebels told a Federal immigration judge today
that he had worked for years in Miami to plan the bombing of Nicaraguan ports,
airports and other key installations without fear of deportation by the United
States.

The leader, Edgar Chamorro, testified in a case in which the Reagan
Administration is trying to deport eight immigrants for supporting the
Palestinian cause in the Middle East.

Mr. Chamorro told the judge, Ingrid R. Hrycenko, that in contrast to the Justice
Department's efforts to deport the Palestinians, his activities and those of
other Nicaraguan aliens in Miami were supported and financed by the
Administration through the Central Intelligence Agency.

Conflict With U.S. Policies

Leonard Weinglass, one of the attorneys for those facing deportation, said the
point of having Mr. Chamorro testify was to demonstrate that the Government had
improperly singled out the Palestinians for prosecution because their goals
conflict with United States policies on protecting Israel.

The eight - seven Palestinians and a Kenyan - are avowed Palestine nationalists
studying or working in the Los Angeles area. The Administration contends they
should be deported because they distributed literature and gave speeches
supporting the establishment of a Palestinian homeland.

Mr. Chamorro controlled public relations activities for the Nicaraguan
Democratic Forces, first in Miami and later in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. He broke
with the group in 1984 to help bring public attention to the C.I.A.'s role in
aiding the rebels.

Mark Van Der Hout, another attorney for the defendants, said Judge Hrycenko
could dismiss the charges, ending the case and the Government's deportation bid,
if she made a finding of selective prosecution. But Melainie Fitzsimmons, a
lawyer for the Justice Department, told the judge that the department disputed
her jurisdiction on that issue.

A related case is proceeding in Federal District Court here, in which the Arab
American Antidiscrimination Committee is seeking to declare unconstitutional the
Government's use of the McCarran-Walter Act of 1950 to curb the aliens' right of
free speech. #2 Linked to Marxist Group The accused are Khader Musa Hamide, 32
years old, of Glendale, Calif., and Michel Ibrahim Shehadeh, 30, of Long Beach.
The Government says they are the leaders in Southern California of the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a Marxist faction of the Palestine
Liberation Organization.

The charges grew out of an attempt by the Administration to use the
McCarran-Walter Act to deport Mr. Shehadeh, Mr. Hamide and his Kenyan-born wife,
Julie Nuangugi Mungai, along with five other Palestinians from the Los Angeles
area, on the ground that they threatened national security by promoting
terrorism.

All eight were arrested at gunpoint by immigration officers and spent more than
two weeks in detention before an immigration judge ordered them freed on bond.
The judge, Roy J. Daniels, said the Government lacked any evidence that the
immigrants had engaged in any illegal activities.

The Administration's use of the internal security law has been attacked by
Arab-American organizations, civil rights groups and others as Government
persecution of Arabs and as a suppression of their First Amendment rights.

Subversion Charges Dropped

Initially, all eight were charged with political subversion by supporting the
cause of world communism. Last month, faced with a public outcry and
Congressional calls for legislation to prohibit the political use of the
McCarran Act, the Government dropped the subversion charges against all but Mr.
Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh, and began steps to deport the six others for various
technical counts of visa violations.

Defense attorneys said the decision to drop the subversion charges against the
six was evidence of the weakness of the Government's case, but Justice
Department officials said they were merely approaching their goal of deportation
an easier way, by switching to more routine charges.

Last week the Government also dropped the subversion charges against Mr. Hamide
and Mr. Shehadeh, charging them instead under another section of the McCarran
law that prohibits affiliation with any organization that advocates ''the
unlawful damage, injury or destruction of property.'' Both Mr. Hamide and Mr.
Shehadeh are legal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 10, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ENDING FEAR OF A KNOCK ON THE DOOR;
IN U.S., IMMIGRANTS LINE UP FOR AMNESTY

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


AFTER eight years of looking nervously over her shoulder, Krystyna Swiatek
walked into the immigration legalization center here Tuesday and sighed with
relief. ''I feel at home now,'' said Ms. Swiatek, a 36-year-old native of
Warsaw. Ms. Swiatek visited Chicago as a tourist in 1979 and decided not to
return to her home in Poland after martial law was imposed.

Thousands of illegal aliens, clutching gas bills, tax returns and apartment
leases as proof of their residences, emerged last week to apply for amnesty at
the 107 legalization centers around the country. In Chicago, the lines of
applicants began forming as early as 3 A.M.

''I will never be afraid again,'' said Shakia Hydri, a bartender who came from
Pakistan in 1977. ''We are in a free country - with all the benefits.''

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which will be taking applications
until May 4, 1988, is conferring legal status on aliens who have been living in
the United States since January 1, 1982. While the agency says it is ready to
process as many as 3.9 million applications, some experts say that number is far
too high. When the centers opened Tuesday, although lines formed early, there
was no overwhelming crush of applicants. Most of the day's business here was
conducted well before noon. Many aliens were said to have stayed away because
they do not trust the Government.

In addition, many aliens were being bilked by swindlers who provided documents
proving residency. Isabel Isamet, a 74-year-old native of Santiago, Chile, said
she lost $300 this way.

Many applying for amnesty last week said they could now search freely for better
jobs. And many said they now could visit their homelands without worrying about
whether they would be allowed to return.

''I want to go and see my grandma and grandpa,'' said Jacqueline Tiema, a
10-year-old native of Nairobi, Kenya, who came to Chicago as an infant with her
mother, Lydia. As soon as the money can be saved, her mother promised on
Tuesday, they will return to Africa for a visit.

Adulfo Diaz, a native of Durango, Mexico, who is now a heavy equipment operator
in Chicago, stood stiffly in a new suit, answering questions with the help of
his children as interpreters.

''He's happy for us,'' said Socorro Diaz, a 19-year-old college student. ''This
opens a lot of doors.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 16, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

America as Sanctuary

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words


In times of turmoil in their homelands, foreign visitors need temporary
sanctuary; to send them away would be cruel. Many countries have formal
procedures for granting temporary refuge. But visitors to the United States who
need a port in a sudden storm are left to the discretion of the Attorney
General, whose humanitarian impulses may be constrained by politics. It's time
for Congress to formalize safe haven status by law.

Immigrants can enter if they meet legal requirements. Refugees who document a
''well-founded fear of persecution'' back home are entitled to permanent
sanctuary. But there is a spectrum of people in between. For instance, what of
those who come as visitors and are turned into refugees, while here, by civil
strife at home? Forcing them to return would subject them to chaos, or worse.
Consider the Iranian students in colleges here when the Shah was deposed.

American law is not heartless about people in such a bind but it is casual. The
Attorney General can grant safe haven in the form of ''extended voluntary
departure.'' In the last 25 years, that has been done for 13 nationality groups.
Currently, nationals from Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Poland are covered.

Using its discretion, the Administration this week refused a request from
President Duarte of El Salvador to grant extended voluntary departure to half a
million Salvadorans living here illegally. He argued that sending so many
undocumented Salvadorans home under the new Immigration Reform Act could create
an economic crisis. But that has little to do with the need for safe haven.

A case can be made that they would face, if not persecution, at least chaos if
forced to return home. That's a judgment best made objectively, unsalted by
political considerations. A formal process for granting temporary refuge would
make these decisions on less fickle grounds.

Congress is considering a bill, co-sponsored by Representative Joe Moakley of
Massachusetts and Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, to confer extended
voluntary departure status for two years on undocumented Salvadorans and
Nicaraguans who might be deportable under the new law. That goes too far and not
far enough.

To give the Salvadorans and Nicaraguans living and working here a free pass for
two years undermines the new immigration law, intended to discourage sneaking
into the country. Yet the bill stops at those two groups and does not address
the plight of the next people whose plea for emergency protection fails to win
Administration sympathy.

What's needed is a temporary refuge law that formally incorporates humanitarian
criteria into the decision process. Such legislation could provide safe haven,
for an unspecified time, to any national group whose homeland is racked by civil
strife or, perhaps, natural disaster. Individual claims could receive more
generous consideration. America can be tough on gate-crashers and yet remain
reliably compassionate to people cut off from their homes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 16, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HEALTH OFICIALS SEEK AIDS TESTS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1282 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 15


The Public Health Service today recommended mandatory AIDS testing for the more
than 500,000 applicants seeking permanent residence each year in the United
States.

The proposal, which goes far beyond previous measures, is subject to approval by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Otis R. Bowen, and the White
House Office of Management and Budget. Government officials said they expected
the Administration to approve the measure.

Jim Brown, a spokesman for the Public Health Service, said the agency wanted to
add infection by the HIV virus, which can cause AIDS, to the list of ''dangerous
infectious diseases'' that is used to prevent infected aliens from gaining
permanent resident status. The agency had previously proposed adding AIDS to the
list but only sought to bar those actually showing symptoms of the disease.

The list of dangerous diseases includes leprosy, tuberculosis, syphilis and
gonorrhea. Aliens with these diseases are excluded from the United States.

How the Proposals Differ

Mr. Brown said the new proposal, first reported today in The Los Angeles Times,
would bar aliens who test positive for the virus, but have no symptoms of AIDS.
Health officials have said that a person infected with the virus, but has no
symptoms, is assumed to be capable of spreading it to others. People who test
positive have about a 20 percent to 30 percent chance of getting AIDS within
five years, according to the Federal Centers for Disease Control.

Under a previous proposal, a physician examining an individual seeking permanent
residence could require the applicant to take the AIDS test only if ''the doctor
sees symptoms or manifestations of AIDS.'' That proposal had been approved by
the Department of Health and Human Services but not by the Office of Management
and Budget. Routine blood screening for AIDS was ruled out under the earlier
proposal.

Under the new plan, however, ''everyone who wants permanent status will be
tested,'' Mr. Brown said.

Under Federal law, any alien seeking permanent resident status must undergo ''a
physical and mental examination.''

Since 1980, the number of aliens accepted by the United States as permanent
residents - those granted immigrant visas, or ''green cards'' - has ranged from
530,000 to 600,000 a year.

The proposed requirement would not apply to tourists or visitors, nor would it
be used to deny a temporary visa to a foreigner.

Question on Amnesty Program

Mr. Brown said he did not know what impact the testing proposal, if adopted,
would have on illegal aliens applying for permanent status under the amnesty
program that started this month. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
estimates that up to 3.9 million illegal aliens will apply for legalization
under the program.

Some Immigration and Naturalization officials have already called for AIDS
screening for all applicants but such suggestions were rejected earlier.

Officials conceded this evening that the proposal to test all people seeking to
immigrate to the United States raised difficult questions. One official said it
was unclear what would happen if a foreigner on a student visa seeks to take up
permanent residence and took the AIDS test and tested positive. The official
said it was uncertain whether the student would have to leave the country
immediately or could remain until his student visa expired.

Kennedy Legislation Offered

Meanwhile, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusets, today proposed
legislation to increase AIDS education and prevention programs as well as steps
to deal with the care and treatment of victims of the disease. Mr. Kennedy
called his proposal the first comprehensive legislation on AIDS, and said it
would cost about $900 million a year. That is about the same amount recently
approved by the Senate Budget Committee for fiscal 1988 to deal with AIDS.

Mr. Kennedy said the Reagan Administration had offered ''ideological bickering
and paper policies'' and has ''squandered precious time.''

''By 1991, AIDS will claim more lives each year than the entire Vietnam war,''
Mr. Kennedy said. ''We must act immediately and decisively to halt this
killer.''

The disease, for which there is no cure, cripples the body's immune system,
leaving victims exposed to infections and cancer. The AIDS virus spreads through
sexual intercourse with an infected partner, transfers of blood, as with
hypodermic syringes shared by intravenous drug users, and from mother to fetus
in the womb.

As of May 4, AIDS has been diagnosed in 35,219 Americans, of whom 20,352 have
died, all since 1979.

The initial report of the Public Health Service proposal seeking testing for all
immigrants applying for permanent residence came in a memorandum from Robert E.
Windom, Assistant Secretary for Health in the Department of Health and Human
Services. Mr. Windom supervises the Public Health Service.

''We believe this is necessary because any person infected is assumed to be
capable of transmitting the virus,'' Mr. Windom said.

If the proposal is approved by Dr. Bowen and the Office of Management and
Budget, the final rule would be published in the Federal Register, inviting
public comment. It would become a part of the Federal regulations after any
major legal objections are resolved.

Should the United States seek to test all foreigners seeking permanent
residence, it would follow the lead of some other nations, including some that
have relatively stringent rules on visitors carrying the AIDS virus.

China, for example, tests applicants for student visas and researchers planning
to stay for more than six months. South Korea demands the AIDS test for
foreigners seeking long-term residency.

Saudi Arabia requires an AIDS test for long-term visitors and those seeking work
permits. Belgium and India require AIDS tests for those applying for student
visas.

Japan and other nations are considering AIDS testing for long-term foreign
visitors but have taken no action yet, according to State Department officials.

Senator Kennedy said today that he was working with Representative Henry A.
Waxman, Democrat of California, the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committtee's Health panel, on additional proposals to expand voluntary AIDS
testing programs. Mr. Kennedy said that in certain areas, such as the military,
he endorsed mandatory AIDS testing.

Mr. Kennedy's bill seeks increased funds for an education campaign, recruitment
and training of new medical personnel and full use of television and other media
to inform the nation about the prevention of AIDS. The proposal also seeks more
involvement by community physicians in the treatment of AIDS victims, and the
increased use of home care and day care as a substitute for hospital treatment.

The measure also seeks improved procedures for placing Federal funds into
research laboratories and clinics. The National Institutes of Health would have
to cut grant approval time to no more than six months, and more money would go
for researchers and a network of AIDS research testing centers.

Senators Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, and Barbara A. Mikulski,
Democrat of Maryland, joined Mr. Kennedy in sponsoring the legislation. He said
Senators Bob Dole, the Republican leader, and Lowell P. Weicker Jr., Republican
of Connecticut, worked on the proposal and ''we're counting on their support.''

Mr. Dodd said the legislation was especially important to him because he had
recently attended a memorial service for Representative Stewart B. McKinney, a
nine-term Republican from Connecticut, who died of an infection brought on by
AIDS. ''The figures are horrifying,'' Mr. Dodd said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TIJUANA JOURNAL;
GREEN CARD IN HAND, THEY CAN ENJOY 2 WORLDS

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, May 18


As holders of green cards, which give foreigners residence rights in the United
States, Luis and Marta are in a position that makes them the envy of the more
than 1.5 million ''undocumented'' Mexican workers who are believed to live
illegally in the United States.

Yet the couple, both accountants in their mid-30's, still prefer to live here,
just south of the United States-Mexico border. They rise just before 6 every
morning and drive together to well-paying jobs in the suburbs of San Diego,
returning when their workday is done to the comfortable pink stucco house they
recently bought here.

At a time when illegal immigrants in the United States are emerging from secrecy
to seek amnesty under the new immigration law, Luis and Marta, who asked that
their last name not be used, may seem an anomaly. But on any given morning,
crossings all along the 1,952-mile border are jammed with Mexican green- card
holders commuting from homes here to jobs in the United States.

The Best of Both Sides

All told, 150,000 to 200,000 Mexicans with green cards work on the United States
side of the border but choose to live in Mexico, according to Guillermo Aramburo
Vizcarra, an economist who has been studying the phenomenon for the University
of Baja California.

''It is a way to take advantage of the best of what both sides have to offer,''
said Mr. Aramburo, a researcher at the university's Center for Economic Studies
and Investigations. ''For that reason, it is a phenomenon that has become an
important factor in the life of many localities, and it seems to be growing all
along the border.''

Alejandro, a welder in a San Diego shipyard who moved to Tijuana recently after
living for 14 years in California, says the 50,000 green-card holders who live
in the Tijuana area do so primarily ''for economic reasons.''

''You can't buy a house on the California side for less than $90,000,'' he said.
''Here, though, you can get a comfortable place in a pretty nice neighborhood
for $20,000 or $30,000.''

''There's no real difference in living on this side,'' he said. ''I can watch
the Chargers and Padres on television just as easily from over here, so I'm not
really losing any of the convenience or benefits I had.''

All of the Mexican commuters interviewed asked that their last names not be
used. They said they feared disclosure of their identities would lead the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to revoke their green cards and replace
them with border crossing cards, which do not permit their bearers to work in
the United States and limit them to an area within 25 miles of the border.

Duane Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said green- card holders normally ''are not supposed to live outside
the United States.'' But he said that as long as the Mexican commuters
''maintain continuous employment in the United States,'' they ''have not
forfeited their residency rights'' or violated any American immigration laws.

A Decades-Old Story

The commuter phenomenon is not entirely new, officials on the border agreed. In
some Mexican border communities, such as San Luis Rio Colorado, near Yuma,
Ariz., about 5,000 farm workers have been commuting daily across the border for
up to 40 years to work in the fields of the Imperial Valley of California.

But the economic crisis Mexico has been undergoing since 1982, including annual
inflation of over 100 percent and a huge decline in the value of the peso in
relation to the dollar, has helped increase the number of commuters and
broadened that number to include some young professionals and office workers as
well as laborers.

''The economic crisis that began in 1982 has affected the middle class more than
any other group,'' said Jorge Bustamante, director of the College of the
Northern Border, a major research institution here. ''One way to combat
inflation while still living in Mexico is to go to the United States to work and
earn in dollars, and that's true whether you are a nurse or accountant or an
electrician, plumber or carpenter.''

With the constant devaluations since 1982, Mr. Aramburo said, ''the commuter is
one of the few groups of Mexicans who has been able to prevent his standard of
living from deteriorating,''

''As a consequence, his social status has been maintained, or even increased.''

According to statistics compiled by Mr. Aramburo, the average Mexican border
commuter earned $11,200 in 1985, the most recent year for which figures are
available. The overwhelming majority work in service, clerical or agricultural
jobs, he said, with professionals making up about 5 percent of the commuters.

''Earnings of $1,000 a month in the United States do not permit one to meet all
the necessities of rent, utilities and food,'' said Octavio Corona Flores,
president of the Tijuana Chamber of Commerce. ''But at that level, you can live
a middle-class life on this side, with all the comforts that go with that.''

A Sense of Identity

But Mr. Aramburo said green-card commuters also preferred to live in Mexico
because of intangibles such as closeness to family and friends and the comfort
of one's own culture.

''For many commuters, it is important to have the feeling of living in their own
country,'' he said. ''To live in the United States means living as a foreigner
in a foreign country, with all the discrimination that implies,''

Mr. Aramburo's continuing study, which is being carried out in nine Mexican
towns bordering Texas, Arizona and California, showed that 80 percent of the
green card commuters send their children to Mexican schools. While recognizing
that American schools might be better academically, they apparently want to
instill a Mexican identity in their offspring.

''This phenomenon runs totally contrary to the myth in the United States that
all Mexicans are preparing to come and live in the United States,'' Dr.
Bustamante said, noting that his own research had reached similar conclusions.
''There are many Mexicans who could go and live in the United States if they
wanted, but they just don't want to.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mexicans crossing into U.S. at San Ysidro, Calif. (NYT/Larry
Rohter)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CONNECTICUT OPINION;
ALIEN LAW SHOULD KEEP LIBERTY'S SPIRIT

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN SALUK FAILLA; Kathleen Saluk Failla lives in Norwalk.

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 20, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words


ON a recent trip to the Statue of Liberty with my 5-year-old daughter, I was
reminded of the first glimpse my parents had of the New World on their separate
arrivals from Europe. True to form for a typical 5-year-old, my child was not
interested in the family history. Nor did Emma Lazarus's famous sonnet,
inscribed on the Lady's pedestal, move her in quite the same way it had moved my
consciousness as a child.

To her, our pilgrimage to see Liberty lift her lamp above the noise of New York
Harbor was just another trip every kindergartener should take; something to talk
about later in school, preferably with souvenirs to show as highlights of the
day.

My experience was somewhat different. At a time when our government is
tightening restrictions to hold back the tide of illegal immigration, I was
revisiting a national monument that many immigrants, and certainly my own
parents among them, regard as a universal shrine to freedom and hope in a new
life.

It has been a year since America participated in the 100th anniversary of the
Statue of Liberty. That beacon to immigrants and pledge of friendship by France
is indeed the symbol of America. Like millions of Americans last July 4, I
watched the televised rededication of the great Lady in New York Harbor as
politicians and celebrities from President Reagan to Elizabeth Taylor paid
homage to the statue and to the teaming masses who came ashore.

The televised coverage moved me, striking an emotional chord as I recalled how
my immigrant parents spoke of hardship and the promise America held out, not
only for them, but for me, their firstborn. I was anxious to see the Statue of
Liberty once again, returning this time with my children, who had never seen it.
I wanted to impress upon them this part of their heritage.

Almost a year after Liberty Weekend, on a foggy, rainy day we set out from
Connecticut by train to see Lady Liberty. At the tip of Manhattan, we lined up,
tickets in hand, waiting under leaden, wet skies for the ferry to pull into
port. The line was longer than I expected; people are still lining up to see one
of our most treasured national monuments.

Despite my second thoughts about the trip in the rain, my daughter insisted we
go. An influencing factor for her was a schoolmate's trip to the Statue of
Liberty a few weeks before. Upon return to her kindergarten class, her friend
had very eagerly reported a most impressive sighting on the island - a multitude
of useless souvenirs that parents would gladly pay too much for.

My daughter immediately understood that this was a good place to visit. The
selling of the statue has gone on since its inception.

But each new generation is immune to that and greets Statue of Liberty salt and
pepper shakers as if they are precious gold.

As we boarded the open excursion boat, I watched as members of the crew hauled
heavy, thick ropes that creaked with effort as the boat rocked from side to side
in port. I thought about what it must have been like, almost 75 years ago, when
my father, then a 4-year-old Austrian emigrant, boarded a European passenger
ship, traveling steerage no doubt, bound for America. The sounds, the smells,
and the long time at sea must have been anything but pleasant for a 4-year-old.

My father wanted no part of this new life. Later, he referred to the sudden
uprooting that emigration meant, remembering most vividly, even on his death bed
six years ago, the simple, but treasured, toys he was forced to leave behind in
Austria.

Despite his misgivings, wiser counsel prevailed. My grandmother was determined
to join her husband and her older children in America. Another factor
influencing their hurried departure was the gathering political storm in Eastern
Europe. Talk of war raced through the countryside. They left their farm on the
outskirts of Vienna as quickly as they could. I once asked my father how he, or
rather his mother, knew war was imminent. The tip-off, he said, was that
soldiers from, what was then, the Austrian-Hungarian Empire were drilling on
nearby country lanes, peaceful lanes that would soon explode with the artillery
of World War I. Meanwhile, my father and his sister were safely on their way to
the United States.

About this time, my mother was born in an ancient Irish village on a rocky
finger of land, jutting out into the Atlantic. She didn't arrive in the United
States until after World War II. While my father was building a successful
retail business on Main Street in New Britain, my mother was in England, where
she saw the war as a nurses' aide. As Europe rebuilt itself, so did many people
whose lives were torn by war. My mother was among them, and arrived in New York
City with her mother and sisters to join the father and other siblings, who had
already settled in America.

An early memory is of my mother studying for her American citizenship. As she
studied the Constitution, she impressed those self-evident truths upon our young
minds. The issue of immigration didn't alarm me. I certainly wasn't threatened
by the two immigrants I knew best, my parents. Their assimilation into American
society had been relatively easy. This overview gave me a deeper appreciation
for two things: our Constitution and the way in which immigrants had enriched
our American heritage, making our nation a most interesting society.

Ironically, our interest in the Statue of Liberty is heightened at a time when
public attitudes are hardening against immigration. There is a growing backlash
in this country against what many perceive as a flood of uninvited aliens. This
attitude pushed Congress last fall into overhauling the nation's immigration
laws. The Immigration Reform Act of 1986 tightened restrictions. It kept the
annual ceiling on legal immigration right where it had been for decades -a
paltry 270,000 a year.

The purpose of the law is to crack down on illegal immigration, but the result
would be fewer immigrants. It seems to defy the spirit of the Statue of Liberty.
I can just imagine the Lady intoning: ''Give me your tired, your poor - but make
it only 270,000.''

The answer is not to liberalize the immigration laws without restraint. I, for
one, don't want to see any more drug dealers and terrorists slipping over the
borders. But all of those passing through the portals are not criminals.
Although I don't agree with all of the provisions of the new act, the offer of
amnesty is a step in the right direction. According to the act, illegal aliens
who can prove they have lived in the United States since before 1982 can apply
for legal status. What about those who can't prove it? Lady Liberty's torch has
fired a universal enthusiasm for America's sense of equality and fair play.
Those immigrants who won't come forward to apply for amnesty, either out of fear
or because they don't qualify for it, are not being treated equally. They are
still being exploited in low-paying jobs American citizens don't want.

It is hoped that the new law will stop exploitation. But I have my doubts. There
is a Catch-22 in the new law. United States anti-bias rules prohibit inquiries
into a prospective employee's age, sex, race or nationality. The new immigration
law prohibits hiring illegal aliens. So how do you know you are hiring an
illegal alien? Just ask proof of nationality and work status. Then how do you
avoid prosecution by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission? Simple. Keep
two sets of personnel records. Any 5-year-old knows that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 12, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Door Opens Wider For Nicaraguans

BYLINE: By Martha A. Miles and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 249 words


It was a Nicaraguan woman whose case prompted the United States Supreme Court to
vote in March to reject the Government's strict standard for granting asylum to
aliens. Last week the Reagan Administration said it would ease the standard and
delay deportation for all her countrymen in exile here.

The Court had found that under the 1980 Refugee Act, aliens wanting to remain in
the United States need prove only a ''well-founded fear'' that they would be
persecuted if returned to their home countries. In contrast, the Administration
had required proof of a ''clear probability'' that they would be killed,
tortured or imprisoned on account of their race, religion, nationality or
political opinion. Under that standard, only a small percentage of asylum
applications were granted, even to Nicaraguans fleeing the Sandinista Government
that President Reagan frequently denounces.

Last week's order by Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d, which applies to an
estimated 200,000 Nicaraguans, was the first announcement of a policy change on
asylum since the Supreme Court ruling. Immigration lawyers had believed the
ruling would help many more applicants, especially those from Central American
allies of the United States, such as El Salvador and Guatemala. Under the 1980
law, however, asylum decisions are subject to the discretion of the Attorney
General, and the Administration has long asserted that most exiles from those
countries are fleeing disruption and poverty, not persecution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 6, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Travelers Finding Shorter Waits For Immigration Checks at J.F.K.

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH NEUFFER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words


The excruciating delays foreign travelers have experienced getting through
immigration at Kennedy International Airport have been drastically reduced this
summer, according to travelers, Federal authorities and airport officials.

For years, foreigners have complained of lengthy waits in immigration inspection
lines. Last summer, when the delays grew to as long as four hours, members of
Congress, airline executives and local government officials publicly criticized
immigration procedures, saying the delays were among the worst in the world.

Some returning Americans - who bypass immigration and have their passports and
purchases checked by Customs Service inspectors - were also delayed last summer,
with airlines sometimes keeping passengers on planes until logjams eased.

Improved From 'Abysmal'

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it had reduced waiting time
generally to less than an hour for foreign visitors, by hiring more inspectors
with funds provided by a new $5 user fee placed on most international travelers
by Congress. Revised procedures and additional inspectors have also speeded
customs processing, officials say.

''Last year, the lines were just abysmal,'' said Representative Charles E.
Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is a critic of the airport delays. ''I think
the situation is considerably better. There's room for improvement, but we're
not in danger of chasing business or tourists away from New York.''

But airline representatives, while welcoming the improved service, said some
passengers still encountered delays of up to two hours in immigration, before
they proceed to customs. And travelers say that it still takes much longer to be
processed at Kennedy than it does at many European airports.

A Pleasant Surprise

The recent improvement comes as more and more foreign travelers are flying into
Kennedy, New York City's primary international airport. Last month, 430,000
foreign visitors arrived at Kennedy, 24 percent more than in July of last year,
airport officials said.

On a recent bustling Saturday, one European passenger - Mila Lopez, a
20-year-old model who was arriving from Switzerland - was surprised by the speed
of the line through immigration.

''There's so many people, I thought I'd stand there for two hours or more,'' she
said. ''But it only took about 45 minutes.''

After the criticisms last summer, even before Congress acted, the immigration
service pledged to increase the number of inspectors. The number of immigration
Inspectors at Kennedy has been increased by a third, from 150 last year to 206
this year, said Mary Ann Gatner, the immigration service's area port director.
In addition, 115 temporary customs inspectors were hired this summer, officials
said.

At the peak time for international arrivals - weekends between 3 P.M. and 6 P.M.
- all 103 inspection booths in the airport are filled, she said. Last summer,
some booths went unattended.

''We are very encouraged,'' said William Cahill, a spokesman for the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey, which manages the airport and criticized
the immigration service last year. The authority is expanding the immigration
waiting hall, he added.

Last year, it took an hour or more to process passengers from 55 percent of the
180 international flights in June and July through immigration and customs, Mr.
Cahill said. In the same months this year, out of 186 flights, only 27 percent
took more than an hour.

''It is still not what we expected,'' said Ernesto Ricci, the station manager
for Alitalia Airlines and the spokesman for European International Carriers,
which represents more than 30 international airlines. #45-Minute Trip Called
Ideal The ideal journey from landing to exiting the airport - including passage
through immigration, baggage collection and customs - should not be more than 45
minutes, he said.

Airplane representatives said they were concerned that backups will increase as
the summer progresses and the number of tourists rises.

''We are still experiencing delays of an hour and half or longer on certain
flights,'' said John A. Bastable, a senior vice president at Aer Lingus and the
spokesman for the 12-member European North Atlantic Carriers Group. ''One would
have to reserve judgment if there is genuine improvement until September is
behind us.''

Officials say problems occur when when three or four flights - many of them
large, wide-bodied planes - arrive almost simultaneously, disgorging as many as
1,600 passengers. Further reduction in delays could be hard to achieve unless
flights are staggered, immigration and customs officials said.

Since 1983, the Customs Service has used a modification of the European ''red
and green'' system at Kennedy. The traveler has a choice of red lines, for those
with items to declare for duty, and green lines, for those with nothing to
declare. Baggage in both lines is subject to spot inspections.

Roving customs inspectors check for ''low-risk' travelers at the baggage
carousel so they do not have to wait on line, said Irwin Gold, a supervisory
customs inspector, as well as screen for more suspicious tourists and check
passports. Before 1983, all bags had to be placed on the agent's counter and
there was no prescreening.

It Beats Moscow

Officials estimated that 18,000 tourists arrived last Saturday at the
International Arrivals Building, which handles about half of Kennedy's
international traffic. Late in the afternoon, about 1,000 passengers were
waiting to be processed by the immigration service in one of the two immigration
areas. Most of those interviewed said the process took 45 minutes or less.
''Compared to Moscow, this is all right,'' said Anders Langholm of Stockholm,
obviously pleased with only a 20-minute wait.

Over at customs, Adele and Martin Fiderer of Scarsdale, N.Y., said they had
expected a tedious wait in line. But they had breezed through in less than five
minutes.

''It's never happened before,'' said Mrs. Fiderer. ''It took such a short time
that our car isn't here to pick us up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of travelers waiting on line to reach immigration insepctors at
Kennedy International Airport (NYT/Larry C. Morris)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

23 Aliens Are Freed From Captors in West

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: POMONA, Calif., Aug. 8


The police raided a house Friday, freeing 23 people being held captive by four
gunmen who sought ransom, officials said.

Four Mexican nationals were booked for investigation of smuggling the others
into the United States illegally, a Federal violation, according to Joe
Flanders, a spokesman for the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

They were identified as Ramon Gutierrez, 32 years old; Esteban Najera, 25; Jesus
Gomez-Lopez, 32, and Cruz Hernandez, 34.

The 23 aliens seized will have an opportunity to return to Mexico voluntarily or
ask for a hearing before an immigration service judge.

He said hostage incidents had been discovered in recent smuggling practices.

''Often, an alien will promise that a relative will pay the smugglers after they
get him into the country,'' Mr. Flander said. ''Then, when the smugglers contact
the relative and are told he can't or won't pay, the alien is held until someone
does.''

''The current going rate is between $300 and $500 to be smuggled in from
Mexico,'' Mr. Flanders said.

The 23 people told investigators their captors were armed with pistols, but the
police found only ammunition and no weapons in the house.

The Pomona police acted after they were notified by the Huntington Beach police,
who had interviewed a pregnant woman who was brought to the home of friends
there after she voiced fears that she might miscarry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 10, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

In Stamford, Haitians Worry About Money and Amnesty

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH NEUFFER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1284 words

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn.


Haitians first came here more than a decade ago, settling in ramshackle frame
houses in the South End and working as factory workers and bellhops, cleaning
ladies and hotel maids.

Jobs were plentiful, housing was cheap and life was tranquil in what was still a
Connecticut backwater. Word spread and more Haitians followed. Gradually they
became the backbone of the city's unskilled labor force.

Yet Stamford is no longer such an oasis of opportunity, say many among the
estimated 7,000 Haitians here. As the city grew into a corporate center, rents
skyrocketed. Wages did not keep pace with the cost of living. Tensions between
overworked Haitian parents and their children, and between native blacks and the
Creole-speaking islanders, began to threaten their way of life.

Now some Haitians here also worry that if they are not granted amnesty under the
new immigration law, more than rising costs will force them out of Stamford. And
the hotels and factories that employ them wonder how they would fill their jobs
in a city where the unemployment rate stands at 2.8 percent.

''Stamford has a large pocket of undocumented aliens that are the saviors of the
economy,'' said Holly Schroeder, head of the Stamford branch of the
International Institute of Connecticut, a nonprofit group that works with
immigrants of many nationalities, ''No one else here wants to work as a
dishwasher.''

''The service industry is going to be faced with a lot of open positions if
there are problems with the immigration law and Haitians,'' said Sandra Holt,
employment coordinator for the Sheraton Hotel, where 130 Haitian workers make up
about one-fourth of the staff.

About 2,500 of the Haitians in Stamford lack the documentation that would
guarantee them amnesty, said the Rev. Frantz Desruisseaux of St. Joseph's Roman
Catholic Church in Norwalk, who interviewed Haitians for the International
Institute of Connecticut.

Haitians say they have found life in this Fairfield County city of 102,000 to be
a thankful escape from the poverty of Haiti or even that of the Miami slums. But
there is also a darker side to their existence here, they say.

Community Center Is Defunct

''Life is very difficult for Haitian people in Stamford,'' said Yvette Constant,
a Haitian schoolteacher, speaking of the Haitians who have come here in recent
years. ''They can find a job easy. But they face problems with housing,
immigration and discrimination.'' Mrs. Constant emigrated here with her husband,
Fernand, and their children in 1971.

In a city that itself is divided into disparate neighborhoods, there is little
sense of community, much less a thriving Haitian quarter, as many have scattered
from the South End. The Haitian Community Center has temporarily been abandoned
for lack of money. The only gathering spot outside of several Creole-speaking
churches is Le Petite Marche, a bedraggled shopfront selling plantain and
coconuts near the train station downtown.

And in a city where even the native middle-class complains of being forced out
by rising prices, Haitians are finding it difficult to survive.

The cost of housing, for example, has soared in recent years as more corporate
workers have moved to Stamford. One-bedroom apartments that once were a few
hundred dollars now rent for $700 or more.

''You will find in the same apartment, many Haitian families living together,''
said Emilio Revolus, who works as a Haitian community liaison for the Board of
Education.

Some Work at Two Jobs

The cost of living here has also increased, keeping pace with high corporate
salaries typical in Fairfield County: The median family income in Stamford is
$53,700.

At the Stamford Marriott Hotel, where a double room during the week goes for
$125 a night, the weekly wage for the unskilled work done by many Haitians is
$250, said Richard D. Hancock, the general manager.

''Our rents and all are New York prices, but we don't have a New York pay
scale,'' he said.

Many Haitians say they take two jobs to live in Stamford, working a morning and
then an evening shift. Andrevil Exantus, who emigrated from Haiti to Stamford in
1980, works at the Pitney Bowes factory during the day and then cleans offices
at night to help pay for the $650-a-month two-bedroom apartment he shares with a
brother and a cousin.

''There is work here, but it doesn't pay well,'' said the 25-year-old Mr.
Exantus, who hopes to quit his evening job someday and go to Norwalk Community
College instead. ''Stamford is very good for the rich, but not for the poor.''

Unable to Save Money

Yet Haitians here say they do not hunger after Stamford's sprawling homes on two
acres or more, or the sailboats moored in the harbor near their cramped
apartments. Instead, they are pained about the prospects of buying even the
simplest house on a slip of land, or opening a small business.

''Many Haitian people, they spend money to come here,'' said Fernand Constant, a
security guard at Caldor and founder of the now-defunct Haitian Community
Center. ''Then they think they will save money, but they can't.''

The economic realities of Fairfield County life trouble many who work in
Stamford's manufacturing and service economy, regardless of whether they are
Haitian. But these pressures -combined with the difficulties of learning English
and adapting to a new culture - render survival that much more difficult.

With little time for education, an estimated 70 percent of Haitians in Stamford
still have not learned English fluently, Mr. Revolus said.

Not Comfortable About Mixing

Nor do many Haitians appear to be integrated into the pace of the American way
of life, or the world of Stamford country clubs, civic organizations and
corporate camaraderie.

''They eat lunch together, they work together, they punch out together,'' Mr.
Hancock of the Marriott Hotel said of his Haitian employees. ''It would be nice
if they felt more comfortable about mixing.''

For many in Stamford, it took recent publicity over a walkout by two dozen
workers in a protest over a new supervisor at the Polycast Technology
Corporation - a manufacturer of acrylic sheets, where 65 percent of the workers
are Haitian - to even drive home that the Haitians played a vital role in the
city economy.

The Haitian family also finds itself under strain. With parents toiling around
the clock, children suffer, having no one to help them with their schoolwork or
pick them up from school.

Frustration for Teen-Agers

And teen-agers say they are confused in their identity, frustrated by the
conflict between the strict, insular way of life demanded by their parents and
the more freewheeling existence of their American friends.

''Haitian kids don't hang out,'' said Guy Charles, a 17-year-old Haitian
attending Stamford Catholic High. ''But we try to stay as American as possible.
When I came here, I didn't wear white socks. I wore dress-up socks with white
sneakers. Now I know that was un-American.''

Friction between blacks and Haitians is also a problem, particularly in public
schools. Black students ''feel like they are legitimate children of the United
States,'' said Yvette Constant. ''They do not accept Haitians as family as they
do the other black kids.''

Yet Haitians speak fondly of Stamford. While some have quit Stamford for more
affordable spots like Bridgeport, there are many who have stayed and many who
have furthered their careers, becoming teachers, paralegals and other
professionals.

Some, however, feel trapped by the cycle of drudgery that life in Stamford can
entail. ''Because I am working too hard,'' said one Haitian, who would identify
himself only as Jean-Claude, ''there is time only for sleep.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Fernand Constant, a security guard at Caldor, and his wife,
Yvette, in front of their home in Stamford, Conn. (The New York Times/Alan Zale)
(page 6)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

THE PAPAL VISIT: SUNDAY MASS FOR 300,000 UNDER THE TEXAS SUN;
POPE LAUDS THOSE WHO AID REFUGEES OF LATIN AMERICA

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1461 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Sept. 13


Pope John Paul II today praised the courage of Catholics who have helped
refugees from Latin America, and said that the treatment of immigrants posed a
test of the United States commitment to the principles of justice and freedom.

On the fourth day of his United States tour, John Paul also urged American
Catholics to change the ''unjust social structures'' that perpetuate poverty,
and he said this work must begin with ''the conversion of our hearts.'' [Text,
page B10.] Traveling to within 150 miles of the Rio Grande, John Paul delivered
messages dwelling on social justice issues that are hotly debated within his own
church and American society.

Economic Injustice Is Lamented

Addressing an assembly of Catholic charity workers, John Paul insisted that a
Christian's duty to care for the poor requires an effort to eliminate the causes
of economic injustice.

Celebrating a mass under a scorching sun, preaching and praying in Spanish and
English, John Paul described Texas as ''a symbol and a kind of laboratory
testing America's commitment to her founding moral principles and human values''
because of its place on the border with Mexico.

On Monday, John Paul is to fly to Phoenix, where he will focus on the Catholic
role in health care as he visits a pediatric hospital and meets leaders in the
field. He will also, as he has throughout this trip, spend time with
representatives of a minority group, American Indians in this case.

Speaking of the migration of people ''not only from Mexico but from other
southern neighbors,'' John Paul avoided explicit comments on United States
immigration policy and instead spoke of what his own followers are doing.

Courage and Generosity Praised

The Roman Catholic Church in the Southwest is heavily involved in helping Latin
American immigrants. Some priests and lay people have participated in the
controversial Sanctuary movement, which has harbored illegal immigrants.

John Paul did not mention the organization by name when he said at the mass:
''Among you there are people of great courage and generosity who have been doing
much on behalf of suffering brothers and sisters arriving from the south. They
have sought to show compassion in the face of complex, human, social and
political realities.''

The whole church must respond to cries for help from immigrants by offering
''selfless deeds of service,'' the Pontiff said.

A senior Vatican official traveling with the Pope said, ''He was dealing with
the matter at a moral level and was not referring to any specific group.''

Broad Reference Is Perceived

Bishop Joseph Sullivan, auxiliary bishop in the Brooklyn diocese, had thought
the Pontiff might have been referring to Sanctuary. ''It could be, but I
wouldn't narrow it to that,'' said Bishop Sullivan, chairman of the American
bishops' Committee on Social Development and World Peace, who headed the
Catholic Charities event today.

Bishop Sullivan said the Pope might have been talking about legal efforts people
have made on behalf of immigrants and efforts to improve immigration law. Bishop
Sullivan termed the present law offering amnesty to many illegal aliens as
inadequate. His diocese has one of the nation's largest programs to help illegal
aliens obtain amnesty and help other immigrants apply for citizenship and find
jobs.

The Pope's remarks were in line with a message he issued earlier this month,
which said, ''Rich countries cannot ignore the migratory problem, and even less
close their borders or make laws tougher.''

Later today, the Pope conducted an event entirely in Spanish when he spoke to a
gathering of Hispanic Americans about the values of parish life. Meeting this
afternoon with a group of seminarians and others preparing for the religious
life, he praised celibacy as ''an enhancement of your life, a greater closeness
to God's people, an eagerness to give yourself without reserve.''

John Paul used simple language to state his Church's commitment to fighting
poverty in the speech to the charity workers: ''Jesus Christ was born poor,
lived poor and died poor. He loved the poor. In his kingdom the poor have a
special place. The Church cannot be any different.''

Poverty and Injustice Linked

He was forceful in identifying what he saw as the major cause of poverty in a
nation as rich as the United States: ''In the final analysis, however, we must
realize that social injustice and unjust social structures exist only because
individuals and groups of individuals deliberately maintain or tolerate them.''

John Paul added, ''It is these personal choices, operating through structures,
that breed and propagate situations of poverty, oppression and misery.''

The Pope was speaking at the annual meeting of Catholic Charities USA, the
Church's largest social service organization with 633 member agencies. The
group's executive director, the Rev. Thomas J. Harvey, told the Pope in a brief
speech that more than 34 million Americans, including a quarter of its children,
live in poverty.

Father Harvey pleaded for the church to show flexibility in looking for
solutions to some contemporary problems, although John Paul's views on the
issues are well defined.

Church's Patience Sought

The priest said, ''Where people are suffering from such debilitating problems as
divorce, diseases such as AIDS, and the ambiguity of changing life styles, we
ask patience of the Church's teachings so that we do not close the door to
opportunities for better solutions to these pressures of our changing world than
our present wisdom easily affords.''

The means that Catholics should use to carry out that commitment have been a
subject of intense debate, especially in the United States and Latin America.
Today, the Pope tried to clarify the issues raised here by using some of the
same arguments he has applied in the third world.

Today, with the first major speech of his 10-day visit that has focused on
social issues, John Paul largely endorsed the approach taken by United States
bishops in a pastoral letter published last year on the American economy.

Like the bishops, he said that charity to the poor is important, but
insufficient, because the Church must also help cure the causes of poverty.
However, the Pope's speech did not include any hint of the specific commentary
on particular government policies that marked the bishop's letter.

Criticism of Bishops Recalled

Some prominent American Catholic public figures, including former Treasury
Secretary William E. Simon and former Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr.,
criticized the bishops' message for concentrating on the government's role in
fighting poverty, calling instead for policies that would improve the economy as
a whole.

Today, the Pope did not mention government efforts although he has elsewhere in
the world when dealing with the same subject. Instead, John Paul focused on
spiritual solutions to poverty.

In combating Latin American advocates of Liberation Theology, who insist that
the Church must make the fight for social justice its top priority, John Paul
has argued, as he did today, that there are several forms of poverty, including
''the poverty of selfishness, the poverty of those who have but will not
share.''

John Paul applied these concepts to an American context when he praised
Americans' generous support of aid programs. But he added, ''Where the pursuit
of wealth is treated as the supreme good, human beings become imprisoned in the
hardening of their hearts and the closing of their minds.''

Violence Is Rejected

Service to the poor must include ''trying to reform structures which cause or
perpetuate their oppression,'' the Pope said. But, as he has in Latin America,
the Pope again rejected the notion that ideologies or violence are proper tools
for this.

Instead, he argued that ''overcoming social sin and reforming the social order
itself must begin with the conversion of the hearts,'' primarily through prayer,
even though, ''to many people, mercy and conversion may seem like poor tools for
solving social problems.''

At several points today, John Paul addressed the concerns of the nation's 21
million Hispanic Catholics, almost 40 percent of the total Catholic population.
In his sermon at the open-air mass he said that ''the Hispanic community itself
faces the greatest challenge'' in dealing with immigration and said that it
''needs to respond to its own needs, and to show generous and effective
solidarity among its own members.''

As John Paul arrived at Archbishop Patrick F. Flores's residence at the end of
the day, he was loudly greeted by about 1,000 people, many of whom had come 50
miles from the town of Panna Maria, the oldest Polish immigrant community in
America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of Pope John Paul II during visit to San Antonio, Texas (AP &
Agence France Presse)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LONG ISLAND OPINION;
FOR MANY, ONE: PECULIAR NATIONAL STRENGTH

BYLINE: By LESLIE BARNUM DIMMLING; Leslie Barnum Dimmling lives in Garden City.

SECTION: Section 11LI; Page 30, Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 596 words


WHEN your family has been American for more than 300 years, as mine has, one
tends to develop an intense, almost proprietary feeling toward our country. So
it was with great interest that I observed the controversy surrounding passage
of the Immigration Reform and Control Act, the so-called Alien Amnesty Bill.

Some columnists have argued that immigration to the United States should be open
to all who wish to settle here. Others expressed the fear that American culture
and values would be swept away by the human tide that would almost certainly
result from any relaxation in the law.

I am no politician. I do not pretend to understand all the human and political
complexities generated by the passage of this new immigration bill. Long
consideration of all the available facts still left my opinion wavering.

Recently my husband and I did a simple, typically American thing, which helped
bring the issue into sharper focus. We had a den added to our home. I offer our
experience to those who yet regard immigrants as people to fear.

There was nothing unusual about our building job at first glance. Plans were
drawn, permits secured, the foundation laid. Our builder, Roy, highly
recommended by friends as a craftsman, was an American gentleman of Scandinavian
descent. With him worked his American crew who were of Scandinavian, Irish and
German extraction.

As the building progressed, Roy called upon various contractors to each do their
job in turn. Bob the electrician was the first to appear. The fact that Bob
originally came from Northern Ireland did not prevent him from working well with
our plumber, Ron, a Londoner by birth. later, the tiles for our new bath were
meticulously set in place by hand by Dieter, a German. By now our interest in
the ethnic origins of our construction crew was at high pitch.

As the inside work progressed, so did the outside. Our new white vinyl siding
was expertly and quickly set in place by a group of Greeks. The project nearly
complete, we decided on one final indulgence - central air-conditioning. It was
installed by Steve, an American, and his Arab partner, Chris. Chris spoke
beautiful English, though we learned that he hadn't been able to speak a word of
it when he'd arrived here a few years earlier. At this writing we await the
finishing touch of a new cement driveway, to be poured by Vito, who is - what
else? - Italian.

It was a gratifying experience to watch these men of many nations work together
to create one finely crafted result. That such an event could take place in our
country, and indeed be an almost commonplace occurrence, is no surprise even to
casual students of American history. ''We Are the World'' could be America's
motto. For millions of people over the centuries, this became the place where
the promise of opportunity, redeemed with the currency of hard work, was
fulfilled. Our nation has been a magnet drawing the inventive, the talented, the
independent - those brave individuals with the extra measure of ''guts'' needed
to leave the familiar and head into the unknown that they prayed would be the
doorway to a better life.

By and large, immigration is an idea that has worked, for the immigrants
themselves, and for America. A nation, like a building, is more than just an
inanimate ''thing.'' It is the living legacy of the dreams and talents of all
those who have had a hand in shaping it.

In 1776 our forefathers began our nation with the vision that diversity would be
our peculiar national strength, not a weakness.

I have a new den that proves they were correct.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 22, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PACT LEAVES MIAMI BRACING FOR A NEW WAVE OF CUBANS

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 21


The prospect that a quarter-million more Cubans may immigrate here by the
mid-1990's has roiled emotions in a city still struggling to absorb earlier
waves of refugees from that nation.

Most Cubans here appeared jubilant that the immigration accord announced Friday
by the United States and Cuba will permit friends and relatives to join them in
an orderly flow that could number up to 27,000 Cubans a year.

Non-Hispanic whites and blacks in South Florida, who have seen economic and
political power gradually slip into Cuban hands over the last quarter-century,
were generally upset by the news. A telephone survey by a Miami television
station elicited negative reactions by a 10-to-1 margin.

It was widely expected that most of the new Cuban immigrants would follow their
predecessors and settle in the Miami area, where among the two million permanent
residents are 650,000 Cuban-Americans and perhaps as many as 200,000 others of
Hispanic descent.

Any large influx could further exacerbate tensions and feelings of alienation
among non-Cubans, emotions that have alternately simmered and flared for years
in a metropolis whose Hispanic and non-Hispanic cultures have led an uneasy
coexistence.

No Notice From Washington

Local and state officials today expressed consternation that Washington had
renewed the pact, first approved in 1984 but scuttled by Havana five months
later, without helping South Florida pay the economic and social costs of
absorbing the new immigrants.

''The possibilities scare me,'' said Superintendent Joe Fernandez of the Dade
County Schools, who estimated that the plan might add 4,000 children a year to
local public schools already suffering from overcrowding and double sessions.

An official of Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami's major public hospital, said it
was already burdened by the costs of caring for indigent Cubans who arrived in
earlier waves of immigration and flight from the island. It was unclear exactly
who would be among the new immigrants or how much the next wave would further
tax the resources of the hospital and other services. But officials were not
optimistic.

Senator Bob Graham said he was upset that the State Department announced the
revival of the 1984 agreement without consulting ''the Floridians who will be
responsible for carrying it out.''

Havana suspended the orginal pact in May 1985 to protest Radio Marti, a Voice of
America outlet that the Cubans branded as a propaganda station. In renewing the
agreement, the State Department said, the United States made no concessions
about the radio station.

What It Means to Castro

Although many in Miami's strongly anti-Communist Cuban community were joyful
over the prospect of reunion, others were either approving or critical based on
what they thought the agreement meant for Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader.

''The agreement presents a mortal blow to the struggle for freedom in Cuba,''
Augustin Tamargo, a Miami Spanish-language radio commentator said today. ''It
strengthens Castro's hand at a time whe his regime faces its worst economic and
political crises in decades.''

Prominent among those hailing the accord was Jorge Mas Canosa, head of the
influential Cuban-American National Foundation, a group of wealthy business
executives centered in Miami with an associated lobbying office in Washington.

''The tyrant Castro has had to make a tremendous concession,'' Mr. Mas told a
news conference in Miami Friday, referring to Radio Marti, which the foundation
had strongly lobbied for in Congress.

The pact also permits the United States to deport Cubans who arrived in the
United States in the 1980 boatlift from the Cuban port of Mariel if they had
mental problems or criminal records when they came, or have broken the law in
this country.

Families of those detainees said it was inhumane to force the inmates to return
to Cuban prisons that the United States has consistently denounced in
international forums as an abridgment of human rights.

''It was cruel to announce the deportation of the Marielitos only 10 days after
the Department of Justice said it was accelerating the process of integrating
them in society and saying many could be released from detention,'' said Ciro
del Castillo, director of the Committee for Justice for Mariel Prisoners.

Who Faces Deportation

About 3,730 people from the Mariel boatlift are being detained by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Another 4,000 are being held in Federal
and state prisons on a wide variety of criminal charges, including drug
smuggling and sales. Many continued to be detained even after completing
sentences for crimes committed in this country.

Immigration officials want the agreement, which was revived after discussions
between American and Cuban representatives in Mexico City, to provide for the
deportation of a greater number of Marielitos than agreed to three years ago.

The initial reaction by non-Hispanic white and black business leaders was almost
completely negative, a business-group member said. These leaders said an influx
of another quarter-million or so Cubans by the mid-1990's would cause countless
new problems for the Miami area and exacerbate existing ones.

Others were fearful that the new immigrants will more closely resemble those
from Mariel than those Cubans who arrived in the 1960's and were better educated
and equipped to meet the challenge of American society.

''The Marielitos lived under Communism longer than the earlier waves of
exiles,'' said Tom Boswell, a University of Miami professor and author of ''The
Cuban-American Experience.''

''They came here with unrealistic expectations that this was a land of milk and
honey and everything would be provided for them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Conferees Press for Spending Pact, But Snags May Lie Along the Way

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17


A House-Senate conference committee, making decisions affecting Japanese trade,
aid to Pakistan and military planning, today moved toward approval of a $600
billion catch-all appropriation bill needed to put this year's budget agreement
into effect.

The conferees agreed to prohibit Japanese companies from participating in many
American public works projects, to continue paying for the single-warhead mobile
missile, the Midgetman, and to block next year's expected 2 percent pay increase
for members of Congress, the judiciary and top-level Government officials.

And they accepted an eight-month delay in enforcement of Federal clean air
standards.

The sale of 70 shoulder-launched Stinger antiaircraft missiles to Bahrain was
accepted and President Reagan's budget request for his space-based missile
shield was cut $1.8 billion to $3.9 billion, just above the 1987 level.

Immigration Measure Dropped

The conferees also agreed to renew aid to Pakistan; aid had been cut off in
October to put pressure on Pakistan not to make nuclear weapons.

The conferees dropped from the spending bill a House proposal that would have
prevented the deportation of the spouse and dependents of an alien granted
amnesty under last year's immigration law.

The negotiators are still struggling to reach compromises on nonmilitary aid to
the rebels fighting the Government of Nicaragua and on a proposed extension of
the rule requiring broadcasters to air opposing views on public issues.

In addition, Senate conferees are resisting an effort by the chairman of the
House Appropriations Committee, Jamie L. Whitten, Democrat of Mississippi, to
oust an assistant secretary of agriculture, George C. Dunlop.

Two Bills for Deficit

And another conference committee accepted a compromise that designates Yucca
Mountain in Nevada as the site for disposal of the nation's nuclear waste.

The conference committee on the appropriation bill recessed this evening and
will meet Friday in an effort to resolve the remaining disagreements. Once all
the agreements are worked out, the bill goes to the House and the Senate for
final approval.

The appropriation bill is one of two measures needed to carry out the budget
agreement, reached by President Reagan and Congressional leaders last month, to
reduce the deficit by $30 billion in the 1988 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1.
The bill includes $7.6 billion of the spending cuts required, $5 billion of them
in the Pentagon budget.

The second bill, which a separate conference committee worked on today, includes
$9 billion of tax increases and about $17 billion of spending cuts, Federal
asset sales and fees for Government services. These negotiators are still facing
problems on some tax issues and proposals for saving $2 billion in Medicare.

Action on the bill came as both House and Senate leaders urged negotiators to
work faster so Congress could adjourn before Monday.

Japan Public Works Ban

The ban on bidding by Japanese companies on Government projects in the United
States covers military, transportation and some other Federal projects.
Representative Jack Brooks, Democrat of Texas, and Senator Frank H. Murkowski,
Republican of Alaska, worked last night on extending the ban to all Government
projects.

The proposal does not name Japan; it requires denial of contracts for designing,
engineering and construction services to countries that close their markets to
American companies. Japan has blocked major American participation in the
construction of an airport.

The clean air pact extends the Dec. 31 deadline for meeting standards for carbon
monoxide and ozone pollution to Aug. 31, 1988. About 60 areas in the United
States, including New York and New Jersey, would not be able to comply. The
Environmental Proptection Agency has moved on its own to move back the deadline
for at least three years.

Contra Aid Debated

Nonmilitary aid to the Nicaraguan rebels was debated all day outside the
conference committee meeting. Those favoring the aid argued it was needed to
keep the contras from disintegrating in a series of peace negotiations that
began Aug. 7. Those opposed to the aid said approving it could undermine the
peace process. Many in Congress are unwilling to vote for the aid but just as
leery of appearing to tilt toward the Sandinista Government.

This morning, House Democrats, in a caucus, rejected a Senate proposal for
approximately $16 million of nonmilitary aid, including $9 million in food,
clothing and medical supplies and an estimated $6 million to $7 million for
transportation costs.

This evening, Senator Ted Stevens, the Alaska Republican who sponsored the
proposal, said he wanted to meet with Mr. Reagan before deciding whether to
accept a House counteroffer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 24, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Are Paying a Price for Honesty

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 914 words


If Mohsen Moharerzadeh, a 26-year-old Iranian photographer, had secretly waded
across the Rio Grande into the United States, he would probably be free, working
here and pursuing an application for political asylum.

Instead, he leaped from a Turkish freighter before it entered Port Newark and
asked the Coast Guard for asylum. Because he came forward, he is behind bars at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service Detention Center in lower Manhattan,
along with 120 other inmates, most of whom have criminal records.

He must stay there while he applies for political asylum, a process that can
take several years, according to Immigration Service officials.

Prompted Hunger Strike

Like 30 other inmates at the center, and about 100 nationwide, Mr.
Moharerzadeh's only crime was trying to enter the country illegally. Their
frustration led 17 of the 30 inmates to begin a hunger strike that ended Monday.

In contrast, illegal aliens arrested after gaining entry are free to pursue
applications for political asylum without being detained.

Mr. Moharerzadeh, then, would have been free today if he had sneaked off the
ship after it docked rather than coming foward.

''The liars and sneaks put themselves in a much better legal position than those
who come forward and ask for political asylum when they try to enter,'' said
Arthur C. Helton, director of the political asylum project for the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights.

J. Scott Blackman, the immigration agency's assistant district director for
detention and deportation, said the detention was necessary to prevent vast
numbers of people from showing up at airports and the borders asking for asylum.
He added also that there are established procedures for seeking asylum: applying
through third countries, for example.

Of the 30 inmates at Varick Street, some asked for political asylum immediately
and others were caught trying to enter with false documents and then asked for
asylum.

The hunger strike there began on Nov. 23. Mr. Moharerzadeh was one of the last
three inmates to break the fast. They did so on Monday afternoon with a cup of
broth.

'Here for No Reason'

''All we wanted to do was to show the American people that there are these guys
here for no reason,'' said Mr. Moharerzadeh, who added that they were tired of
living among criminals and being harassed by the other prisoners.

Mr. Moharerzadeh and another of the three, Shahram Alik Akbar, a 29-year-old
Iranian construction worker, voiced their anger in an interview Tuesday in a
waiting room at the detention center at 201 Varick Street. They wore yellow,
institution-issue jump suits.

Mr. Akbar, who has been at the center for 12 1/2 months, said that he had been
harassed by other prisoners and that one had tried to rob his ring and watch.
''Once four of them came at me and grabbed me by the neck,'' he said.

Mr. Akbar and Mr. Moharerzadeh, who has been detained 11 1/2 months, said the
guards were often unable to act quickly enough to break up fights, many of which
arise over what television program to watch.

Through the Dining Room

Moreover, they said, the detention authorities were upset at the hunger strikers
and forced the weakened prisoners to walk through the dining room at mealtime
rather than letting them stay on their cots. During the hunger strike, two
inmates were hospitalized.

Mr. Blackman said the Varick Street center was safe and patrolled 24 hours a
day.

The hunger strike, he said, ''essentially had no effect'' on the status of the
30 inmates.

Mr. Blackman said other foreigners wanting to enter the United States were
patient enough to apply from third countries rather than trying to enter
illegally.

Mr. Helton countered that many of those who would like to enter the United
States legallly from third countries do not have the leisure to do so because
they are pursued by agents from their native countries.

''This is not an issue in which there should be categorical detention but we
have to look at the cases on an individual basis,'' he said.

Attention in Congress

Jailing of refugees from Ethiopia, Afghanistan and Nicaragua makes little sense,
Mr. Helton said, because the State Department has said that refugees from
Ethiopia and Afganistan should not be sent back and that those from Nicaragua
should be reviewed carefully.

Mr. Blackman agreed that this was United States policy but said agency practice
called for the refugees to be detained until their political asylum applications
are approved. The policy was instituted in 1981 after more than 30,000 Haitians
arrived in Florida in small boats, seeking political asylum.

The hunger strike drew the attention of several members of Congress, and five
signed a letter written by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of
Massachusetts. The letter, sent on Dec. 16 to the Immigration Service's appeals
board in Washington, asked that each case be reviewed.

So far the Immigration Service has not responded. A House staff member said that
if the answer is not satisfactory, Mr. Frank, a member of the House Subcommittee
on Immigration, Refugees and International Law, was likely to pursue a more
involved review of the policy.

One primary concern of critics is the time taken by the immigration agency to
consider the asylum applications, either at the first review or on appeal. The
inmates at the Immigration and Naturalization Service Processing Center on
Varick Street have been there from 4 to 22 months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Iranians who took part in hunger strike (NYT/Jim Wilson)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 27, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BILL OF RIGHTS PROVIDES SCANT REFUGE FOR IMMIGRANTS STOPPED AT HE BORDER

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


EARLY next year, the Justice Department will make good on a promise that helped
end last month's prison riots in Atlanta and Oakdale, La., when it begins
holding special administrative proceedings for Cubans who have been in legal
limbo for more than seven years. In the eyes of the law, they and some others
who came to the United States with the Mariel boatlift never actually entered
the country. They stand at the water's edge, knocking for admission.

As unadmitted aliens, the Cubans are ''members of a legal classification with a
long and lamentable history,'' according to the United States Court of Appeals
in Atlanta. The court held last year that the Government was free to incarcerate
the Cubans without individual hearings, even though they had completed sentences
for crimes committed in this country, because they ''are excludable aliens and
hence have virtually no constitutional rights.''

The doctrine has deep roots in

American legal history, but it has provoked much criticism from law professors,
lawyers for aliens and some members of Congress. ''I am a strict constructionist
of the Constitution, but legal principles always have to be construed in the
light of common sense,'' Representative Pat Swindall, Republican of Georgia,
said. He said he believed the Cubans should be protected by the Fifth Amendment,
which states that ''no person'' shall be deprived of liberty ''without due
process of law.''

Ira J. Kurzban, president of the

American Immigration Lawyers Association, called for abolition of the legal
fiction concerning ''entry'' of aliens. Its original purpose was to make clear
that aliens had no constitutional right to be admitted to the United States, he
said, but ''it has been distorted and applied to other matters like asylum and
release from detention. It is inhumane to keep people locked up indefinitely for
immigration offenses,'' he said. T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a law professor at the
University of Michigan, said the Supreme Court's reasoning in earlier cases ''is
out of step with modern constitutional law and ought to be abandoned'' in favor
of giving aliens the right to due process.

In general, an alien who has ''entered'' the United States without detection by
the authorities is entitled to a deportation hearing if the Government wants to
expel him. By contrast, aliens stopped at the border are placed in exclusion
proceedings, where they have fewer rights. The 125,000 Cubans from Mariel were
intercepted as they tried to enter in 1980. They were allowed to set foot in the
United States, by virtue of the Attorney General's parole power, only because
Cuba would not take them back at the time.

Most have since gained legal status as permanent residents, under a special law,
but more than 10,000 who committed crimes here or in Cuba are still deemed
excludable. Among these are 3,000 who have been released on parole. It was the
reinstatement of a repatriation pact with Cuba that dashed many detainees' hopes
of parole and set off the rioting.

The Reagan Administration says it does not want to detain the Cubans
indefinitely. Next year's special proceedings will decide which ones should be
released on parole and which ones should be sent back to Cuba. Most of the 7,600
Cuban detainees have already had exclusion hearings and were found inadmissible;
the proceedings next year will give them an extra level of review.

Associate Justice Sherman Minton of the Supreme Court summarized the plight of
many aliens in a famous sentence in 1950: ''Whatever the procedure authorized by
Congress is, it is due process as far as an alien denied entry is concerned.''
Henry Hart, a former Harvard law professor, called that ''a patently
preposterous proposition.''

But in 1953, the Supreme Court upheld the confinement of an alien on Ellis
Island for 21 months because no other country would take him. Associate Justice
Robert H. Jackson, in a bitter dissent, said it was absurd to suggest that the
alien had ''no rights at all'' merely because he had no right to enter the
United States. By such perverse logic, the Government could ''eject him bodily
into the sea'' or ''set him adrift in a rowboat,'' Justice Jackson said.

A similar view is expressed in more recent dissents by Associate Justice
Thurgood Marshall. In a criminal case, he said, an unadmitted alien has all the
protections of the Bill of Rights, so it ''defies rationality'' to argue that he
has no constitution rights in an immigration proceeding.

The Federal judge who has presided for years over imprisoned Cubans' suits, and
whose rulings in their favor were overturned on appeal, said recently that he
believed the riots would not have happened had the Cubans been allowed, not all
the rights of citizens, but ''the presumption of releasability.'' ''I felt a
great deal of sympathy for those people caught in this legal morass,'' he said.
''It all seemed rather absurd.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of aliens waiting to show their documentation to immigration
inspectors at Kennedy International Airport (NYT/Sara Krulwich)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 6, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Economic Scene;
Changes in Labor By the Year 2000

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 875 words


WITH the United States losing share of the world market in manufacturing, mining
and agriculture, what is the job outlook for the labor force through the end of
the century?

To answer that question, the Labor Department commissioned the Hudson Institute,
a think tank based in Indianapolis, to undertake research on employment, income
and occupational trends. In ''Workforce 2000,'' the institute's published volume
on its findings, the most striking conclusion is that, even though the average
standard of living will be rising, income distribution will widen as jobs for
the least-skilled members of the labor force shrink and jobs for the most
skilled grow rapidly.


The changes ahead are likely to intensify social and political tensions in the
country. The study estimates that 25 million entrants to the labor force will be
needed by the year 2000. Most of these will be nonwhite, female or immigrant
workers. Native white males, who now constitute 47 percent of the labor force,
will account for only 15 percent of the entrants to the labor force by the year
2000.

Despite the evidence of economic benefits from immigration, Hudson found that
only 7 percent of native-born Americans polled favored more immigration. ''It is
not unlikely that, over the next 13 years, the political reaction to these voter
attitudes will lead to much more restrictive and vigorously enforced legislation
and to dramatically reduced immigration flows,'' the report states. It warns
that harsh laws and strict border controls could be the outcome if a major
revolution in Central or South America results in an explosive rise in the
immigrants thronging into the United States.

But even if no radical border-closing laws are passed, the report warns, a
likely outcome of anti-immigrant emotions will be greater hostility between
Hispanic and black Americans. By the year 2000, it says, the political
relationships between the two groups may resemble those today between blacks and
the Irish, Italians and Poles.

Hudson expects living standards for most Americans to rise slowly in the next 13
years. Its ''baseline'' or ''surprise-free'' projection calls for the economy to
grow at an average rate of 2.9 percent a year while the rest of the world grows
3.1 percent. This projection assumes that slow labor force growth is offset by
faster productivity gains.

Recognizing the hazards of long-range forecasting, it offers two other
scenarios: a pessimistic projection of ''world deflation,'' resulting from a
worldwide glut of labor, production capacity in food, minerals and manufactured
goods, and an optimistic ''technology boom,'' with the United States rebounding
to productivity growth rates comparable to the first two decades after World War
II and coordinated international monetary, fiscal and trade policies smoothing
world business cycles and third-world countries getting back on the growth path.
In the low scenario, the United States growth rate drops to 1.6 percent per
year; in the high one, the growth rate rises to 4 percent per year.

But, regardless of which scenario is closest to reality, manufacturing jobs will
continue to decline, as productivity gains wipe out jobs and manufacturing
declines as a share of gross national product, Hudson concludes. Whereas
manufacturing produced 30 percent of all goods in 1955 and 21 percent in 1985,
its share is forecast to decline to less than 17 percent in 2000.

Thus, the shift to services like health care, education, retailing and
government will have to provide all the new jobs and increase its own rate of
productivity growth if living standards are to advance. This shift should also
reduce the volatility of the business cycle, as the service industries oscillate
less in output and employment than does manufacturing. But wages will grow less
equally distributed, since service jobs have more high and low earners and fewer
in the middle.

To keep the American economy growing, it will become even more crucial to keep
the world economy growing. The study implies that recent efforts of the United
States to induce Japan, West Germany and other major industrial countries to
grow faster is not a momentary need, brought on by America's trade and dollar
troubles, but a requirement for the long run.


The analysis of trends leads its authors to several other policy conclusions:
efforts need to be made to increase the dynamism of an aging work force, as the
old tend to be less mobile and adaptable than the young; means need to be found
to reconcile the needs of women, work and family, with most existing policies on
pay, benefits, time off from work, pensions and welfare designed for a society
in which men worked and women stayed home; black and Hispanic workers need to be
fully integrated into the economy, with education and training investments
crucial to create ''real equal employment opportunity'' and, as the economy
grows more complex and more dependent on human capital, the educational
preparation of all Americans and standards of the educational system need to be
raised.

The Hudson report, which comes too late for dramatic initiatives by the Reagan
Administration, nevertheless may provide an agenda for Presidential candidates
in both parties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 10, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Correction

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 66 words


Because of an editing error, a front-page article last Sunday about the new
immigration law incorrectly described the number of aliens whose applications
have been approved for lawful status. About 1.2 million aliens have applied so
far, and fewer than a quarter of their applications have been fully reviewed. Of
those that have been reviewed, 92 percent, or 249,000, have been approved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: CORRECTION

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Judge Gives Naturalized Citizens Right to U.S. Security Clearances

BYLINE: By RICHARD HALLORAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14


A Federal district judge has ruled that naturalized American citizens have the
same rights as other Americans to security clearances that give them access to
government secrets.

The ruling reaffirms the constitutional principle that an American citizen is
entitled to the same rights whether he is native born or has immigrated from a
foreign nation and subsequently sworn allegiance to the United States as a
naturalized citizen.

As a result of the ruling, the Defense Department has rescinded a 13-month-old
regulation that had restricted security clearances to naturalized citizens from
30 nations considered to have interests adverse to those of the United States.
There will be no appeal of the judge's ruling.

Defense Department Affected

The ruling directly affects an estimated 23,600 naturalized citizens who are
employees of the Defense Department or who are employed by contractors working
for the Defense Department. The estimate in contained in a court document.

The only significant constitutional distinction between a native-born citizen
and a naturalized citizen is that only a native-born citizen can be President.
The immigation laws make minor distinctions between native-born and naturalized
citizens.

Had the principle of equal treatment, established by previous court rulings,
been in effect in December 1941, thousands of American citizens of Japanese
descent could not legally have been placed in relocation centers, as they were
after Japan attacked the United States at Pearl Harbor.

The ruling by Judge Thomas F. Hogan here Friday ended a suit brought against the
Defense Department by two naturalized Americans of Vietnamese birth, Phong Huynh
and Vien U. Huynh, who are brother and sister.

No 'Compelling' Interest

Judge Hogan said in his ruling that the Defense Department had failed to produce
evidence that the blanket denial of clearances to former citizens of a hostile
country ''is supported by a compelling state interest or has even a rational
basis.''

The judge noted that Defense Department counterintelligence specialists had been
able to identify ''only one spy in the past 22 years who would have been denied
security clearance under the regulation.'' Judge Hogan added: ''During the last
three years alone, however, there have been at least 23 incidents of spying by
citizens who would not have been subject to the regulation.''

''The regulation, moreover, stigmatizes plaintiffs and other recently
naturalized citizens with a badge of disloyalty,'' the judge wrote in granting
an injunction that ''serves the public interest by insuring protection of
constitutional rights.''

The Huynhs were born in Saigon, South Vietnam, and fled to the United States in
1979 after North Vietnam consolidated its communist rule. Both Huynhs became
American citizens in 1985. They were employed at the Naval Surface Warfare
Center in Dahlgren, Va., when the issue of security clearances arose.

The Defense Department said that Mr. Huynh's interim clearance would be canceled
and that Ms. Huynh would not be granted a clearance because they did not meet
the criteria set down in the new regulation. They were advised to seek
employment elsewhere.

Response to Spy Scandals

The Huynhs, who were represented by Philip LeB. Douglas, of the Wall Street firm
of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts, contended that their civil rights had
been violated because they had not been given the equal protection of the law.

After several spy scandals in the early 1980's, the Defense Department set up a
new personnel security program in January 1987. It provided that naturalized
citizens from 30 designated nations or areas could not be granted clearances
until they had been citizens for five years, or had been United States residents
for 10 years if citizens for less than five years.

Among the 30 countries considered hostile to the United States were Vietnam, the
Soviet Union, Cuba, Nicaragua, Iran, Iraq and Libya. China was not on the list,
but, as Judge Hogan noted, the Defense Department had secretly been applying the
regulation to naturalized citizens from there.

In response to an inquiry, a Pentagon spokesman said the provisions of the
security regulation applying to naturalized citizens had been revoked in view of
the court ruling. ''Henceforth,'' he said in a statement, ''all U.S. citizens,
whether naturalized or native born, will be processed on an equal basis'' for a
Defense Department security clearance.

In any case of security clearance, the citizen is investigated. The judge's
ruling in the Huyhn case noted that anyone applying for a clearance would be
subject to scrutiny as to loyalty, reliability, police record and personal
habits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 5, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

LETTER: ON IMMIGRATION;
No Need to Extend Amnesty for Aliens

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words


To the Editor:

Extending the alien legalization program (''Breathe Life Into Amnesty for
Aliens,'' editorial, Feb. 9) is wrong for the following reasons:

* Confusion. Extensive publicity is being given to the program and the need to
apply before the May 4, 1988, deadline. Applicants will either believe an
extension has been granted or will be uncertain. Either view may keep them from
coming forward and will hurt, not help, the program.

* Success. Well over one million people have applied and many more will do so in
the remaining two months of the program. Adding the Special Agricultural Program
and other legalization provisions of the new law, applications are expected to
exceed two million, better than any other nation's legalization program.

* Reasonable period. Our one-year registry period, preceded by a six-month
notice period, is far more lengthy than other countries', giving ample time to
apply. An extension is likely merely to spread out applications, not generate
new ones.

* Political reality. It took six years to develop a delicately balanced, working
law. It is unlikely Congress will in two months consider, debate and pass
legislation extending the program.

* Fair balance of the law. Legalization was added to an enforcement bill as a
fair balance. If Congress considers an extension of legalization, it should also
consider adjustments to strengthen the enforcement programs and the SAVE program
to check alien status for benefits.

* Cost aspects. Congress made it clear that this program should be
self-supporting and it is. It is an example of good government and the users
paying for the service. An extension would require Congress to appropriate
additional funds.

* Agenda of supporters. The pressure for extension comes from some
narrow-interest groups who have a broader agenda to expand legalization coverage
to many not covered. Congress made a conscious decision to allow only those
coming to the United States before 1982 to qualify. The bill would not have
passed had it set a later date, since the House, under heavy Democratic control,
barely passed the legalization program by a seven-vote margin in 1986.

Thoughtful and reasoned analysis indicates that an extension should not be
sought, that it would actually be counterproductive and is highly unlikely to be
passed by Con-gress.

ALAN C. NELSON
Commissioner, Immigration and Naturalization Service
  Washington, Feb. 25, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 29, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Vietnamese Join U.S. Shrimp Fishermen in Protest

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28


Putting aside disputes of the past, more than a hundred Vietnamese-American
shrimp fishermen have joined several hundred native Gulf Coast shrimpers to
protest a proposed Federal regulation aimed at protecting sea turtles.

The immigrants, who attended a hearing Wednesday on the rule that would require
shrimp fishermen to use devices to keep the turtles from being killed in their
shrimp nets, said that their clashes with American-born shrimpers were over.

''We fight this thing together,'' said Huy Nguyen, a 29-year-old shrimp boat
captain from Port Arthur, Tex. ''We are tight now, Americans and Vietnamese.''

In the late 1970's and early 1980's the refugees and native Texas shrimpers
engaged in a bitter feud over fishing sites that led to the firebombing of boats
and at least one killing. Time and familiarity have eased tensions and improved
relations between the two groups of fishermen.

'It Is the First Time for Us'

Many of the Vietnamese immigrants said today that they had never before been to
the nation's capital or participated in a public debate. ''It is the first time
for us,'' said Sai Pham, the wife of a shrimp boat captain. ''But we have
freedom here, that is why we came, and now we are learning how to use it.''

Capt. Tom Maltherne of Port Sulphur, La., said, ''I believe there may still be
some tension sometime, but it is better than it used to be, and on this one
issue we're most definitely in agreement.''

The shrimpers are bitterly opposed to the rule proposed by National Marine
Fisheries Service that would require the use of mechanisms designed to allow
large aquatic life to escape from shrimp nets. Environmentalists and marine
biologists assert that Gulf shrimpers have been inadvertently killing 11,000
turtles a year, including as many as 800 Kemp's ridleys, considered the world's
most seriously endangered sea turtle.

Like several other threatened turtle species being snared in shrimpers' nets,
the ridleys breed only on beaches along the Gulf of Mexico, although they can be
found in Long Island Sound and other New York waters each summer.

The shrimpers say the devices are too expensive, cut down significantly on their
catch, increase their insurance costs and can be dangerous. The devices,
primarily of metal with a trapdoor, are affixed to the nets. The price for one
starts at about $400.

''When the waters are rough they swing and hurt people,'' said Mr. Huy. ''We
care about the turtles. But these devices give us a lot of problems.''

Mr. Huy said that in the past year he caught only one turtle and added, ''It was
alive and we put it back in the water.''

Other shrimpers said they, too, catch very few turtles.

A 17,000-Boat Fleet

Dean M. Wilkinson, wildlife legislative director for Greenpeace, an
environmental group, did not dispute that. ''Each shrimp boat probably doesn't
catch more than a few turtles a year,'' he said. ''But when you spread that out
across a 17,000-boat fleet, it adds up to big numbers. And we're talking about
animals that are on the edge of extinction.''

Environmentalists estimate the total number of Kemp's ridleys at not more than
10,000, including less than 600 nesting females.

Mr. Wilkinson said that the protest over the use of the devices was based
largely on misinformation. He said that an earlier design for these turtle
excluder devices was bulky and did decimate the shrimp catch, but added, ''There
are now 300 boats using TED's and they say it's not hurting them.''

Tee John Mialjevich, a Louisiana shrimper who is a protest leader, said that
should a law requiring the use of devices be enacted, he and many other
fishermen would disobey it.

The Vietnamese shrimpers, however, said they were not certain they would
participate in an illegal protest. ''We don't know yet what we'd do,'' Mr. Huy
said. ''We'd have to see. But now we are doing this, which we are allowed to
do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 1, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

JAPAN PLANS TO DENY VISAS TO ALIENS WITH AIDS VIRUS

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 31


The Japanese Government submitted legislation today that would deny visas to
foreigners who are known to carry the virus that causes acquired immune
defficiency syndrome and are considered ''likely to spread the virus to many
people in Japan.''

A Foreign Ministry official said Japan might also re-examine the visa status of
foreigners already living here and found to be carriers of the AIDS virus.

However, the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, insisted that ''we
do not have any intention of screening all foreigners'' entering or now living
in the country. He also asserted that proposed changes in the immigration law
would not necessarily bar all non-Japanese who have AIDS or carry the virus.

The official said the bill would affect only those carriers - including female
prostitutes, male homosexuals and intravenous drug users - judged ''likely'' to
spread the disease. How such a determination would be made was not clear.

Powers to Governors

The Government bill, which is likely to be approved intact by Parliament, also
requires Japanese physicians to report AIDS cases and people who test positive
for the virus to local health authorities, and gives prefectural governors power
to order medical examinations for suspected virus carriers.

But the proposed law has few teeth, other than the considerable powers of
persuasion enjoyed by Japanese authorities at all levels.

There are no specific penalties for violators except in cases when physicians,
nurses or other hospital employees violate patient privacy by divulging
confidential information to anyone other than the health authorities. In such
instances, the bill would impose penalties of up to a year in prison and a fine
equivalent to about $2,000.

By American standards, the Japanese AIDS problem is small, but anxiety levels
have been high in the last few months, prompting the Government to act quickly.
Parliamentary approval, while almost certain, may be delayed, however, by a
prolonged impasse over proposed new taxes that has paralyzed normal proceedings.
#36 Cases in Japan According to the Health and Welfare Ministry, 36 cases have
been diagnosed in Japan, and there have been 24 deaths. Almost all the victims
were either Japanese homosexuals or else hemophiliacs who had received tainted
blood imported from the United States.

In addition to known cases, experts say, as many as 10,000 Japanese may be
carrying the virus.

AIDS, an incurable disease that cripples the immune system, is caused by a virus
spread through sexual intercourse or exchanges of blood. In the United States,
where 33,000 cases have been diagnosed, most of the victims have been homosexual
men or intravenous drug users, and the sexual partners of people in these two
groups.

In explaining the law, Japanese officials appeared to be sensitive to possible
charges that they had yielded to xenophobia by moving specifically against
certain groups of foreigners and not against potential Japanese carriers
returning from overseas.

On Records of Employment

Thus far, the known victims in this country include only one foreigner, a Swiss
woman. Several Japanese men who have the disease are believed to have contracted
the diseases while traveling abroad.

The Foreign Ministry official said that in applying the law to non-Japanese,
immigration officers would try, when AIDS is suspected, to obtain a person's
record of employment and sexual behavior from his or her home country. It was
not clear whether such records existed in most countries or how they would be
obtained.

There are no plans to exchange lists of known AIDS patients with other
countries, he said, adding, ''We cannot stop anyone from coming into Japan
unless we have a convincing reason.''

Among likely targets of the new policy are women from countries in Southeast
Asia, especially the Philippines, who fall victim to Japanese gangsters and are
brought to Japan to work as prostitutes in bars and brothels.

Even before the AIDS scare, the Japanese Government had begun a broad crackdown
on Philippine and other Southeast Asian foreign workers, affecting not only
prostitutes but others seeking lawful employment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 5, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WESTCHESTER OPINION;
AS AMERICAN AS MUTTERHOOD UND APFEL PIE

BYLINE: By WILLIAM POKORNY; William Pokorny lives in Hartsdale.

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 34, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 611 words


AS a witty saying goes, an immigrant is a person who lost everything but the
accent.

Accent, according to the dictionary, is the emphasis given to a particular
syllable or word in speaking it. It is also d distinguishing regional or
national manner of pronouncing; for example, the Irish accent, the Southern
accent.

One of the most typical is the one that characterizes the speech of foreigners.
The foreign accent is a stigma inflicted upon a majority of immigrants, namely
those who came to this country in their older years.

Not one day goes by without my hearing a remark such as: ''You have a strange
accent'' or ''What country are you from ?'' My accent is labeled sometimes as
very heavy, terrible, peculiar, not intelligible; occasionally as cute, charming
and so on. In the beginning, I was embarrassed and a little ashamed. But not any
more. I got used to it and I know I have to live with it.

A few days ago, I was passing a car blocking an intersection in our area. An
elegant young woman stopped me and asked for directions. I really don't like it
much when somebody stops my car and starts a conversation in the middle of the
road. So I explained to her quickly how to get where she wanted to go. Without
even saying thank you, the woman rolled her window all the way down and asked me
with a sweet voice: ''What language do you speak?'' ''English, can't you hear,
lady?'' I snapped and left.

The other day, I stopped at a gasoline station. I said only three words: ''Fill
it up.'' The man working the pump asked me innocently: ''From what part of
Europe are you?''

Recently, we went with our Czech-born friends to the Chesapeake Bay for a short
vacation. One morning, we stopped for breakfast in a little town in Virginia. A
young waitress started to chat with us. ''Are you visiting our country?'' she
asked. ''No, we live here.'' ''For how long?'' ''For more than 20 years.''
''Twenty years,'' she said ''and you still have such a heavy accent? I cannot
believe it.'' She started to giggle and did not stop until we left.

That evening, we went to a restaurant for dinner. Another place, but the same
story. As we were ready to leave, the waiter asked me hesitantly: ''Excuse me
sir, may I ask you a question? What kind of accent do you have? I never heard it
before.''

''Without answering, I asked him: ''Where are you from, young man?'' ''You
see,'' I said very seriously, ''that is why you don't understand our Southern
accent. You have to get used to it.''

''Oh,'' he said, caught by surprise, and he shook his head in disbelief.

When the people in the United States are curious about my accent, I don't care.
But if it happens in other countries, that really gets me. Several years ago, I
was in China with my wife. One day in Shanghai, we went to watch the traditional
exercises performed daily, early in the morning, by the majority of the Chinese
population. We were speaking English to each other. After a while, an old man
standing nearby started the conversation with the usual question: ''From what
country are you?'' ''We are Americans.'' ''Americans?'' he said, distrustfully.
''But your English is different from what the real Americans speak!''

I find solace in the fact that many famous immigrants, who lived or have been
living in this country for a very long time, never get rid of their foreign
accent. Let's take Albert Einstein, for example, or Henry Kissinger, who became
Secretary of State, despite his heavy German accent. So I still have a chance.

I am lucky that I don't have to read my stories myself, at my writing class. The
teacher does it for me. She does not have an accent, of course. Or does she?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 9, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

2 Rumanian Girls, 16, Seeking Asylum in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 260 words


Two Rumanian acrobats, both girls of 16 who ran away from the circus, made a
plea for political asylum at an Immigration and Naturalization Service hearing
yesterday in Manhattan.

''The girls' applications were well received,'' said one of their lawyers,
Ronald J. Fleury. He said a final decision could come in about 30 days.

The defectors, Carmen Georgescu and Julia Catrinoiu, both of Bucharest, were
part of an 18-member troupe of young gymnasts and acrobats organized in Rumania
to tour this season with the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus. They
arrived Dec. 8 and ran away Feb. 3 when the circus reached Atlanta, another
lawyer, Henry M. Holzer, said as he introduced them at a news conference before
the hearing.

The girls said they were made virtual prisoners and were slapped around and
branded traitors by the leader of the troupe when they began questioning what
they had been told about life in the United States.

Mr. Holzer said this was the first defection by minors on their own since the
1980 case of Walter Polovchak, the 12-year-old who refused to return to the
Soviet Union with his parents.

The girls have the backing of their parents, who have told them by telephone to
fight to remain in the United States ''while they take the heat'' in Rumania,
Mr. Holzer said.

A cousin, Michael Florea of Fairfax, Va., an engineer who went on a 28-day
hunger strike to get permission to emigrate from Rumania in the 1960's, has been
awarded custody of the girls. They are in the process of registering for school
in Virginia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 13, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD OF THE IMMIGRANT: LOW-PAYING JOBS AND OVERCROWED HOUSING

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 10


After Joaquin Romero succeeded in getting himself from El Salvador to a Latin
American neighborhood of Los Angeles, one of his first acts was to pay a
smuggler to bring his wife and two young daughters here.

For almost $4,000, he bought them a travel package that included plane tickets
on a direct flight from San Salvador to Tijuana, Mexico, then a risky overland
trip across the border, and finally a truck ride to the smuggler's safe house in
Los Angeles.

The airplane, Mercedes Romero told her husband later, was full of Salvadorans
paying the same smuggler for similar services.

Los Angeles is the capital of Salvadoran immigrants to the United States. By
most estimates, more than a quarter-million Salvadorans, refugees of that
country's civil war but also of its poverty, live in the metropolitan area.

Routes to United States

Like Mercedes Romero and her children, tens of thousands have made the journey
illegally through Mexico. Many pay alien-smugglers. Others enter with the help
of the American church-based sanctuary movement, which has vowed to defy the
Reagan Administration's position that most Salvadorans who have entered the
United States have done so for economic reasons and therefore are not political
refugees.

Demographers and Central America specialists say the tide of Salvadorans coming
to this country has swelled in the last five or six years. According to the
Urban Institute in Washington, which made estimates for the Department of Health
and Human Services, there are between 500,000 and 850,000 Salvadorans in the
United States.

Los Angeles ranks first among cities with between 250,000 and 350,000;
Washington is second with 80,000 to 150,000, followed by New York and San
Francisco, each of which has 60,000 to 100,000. The institute's estimates were
derived from interviews with social service agencies in those cities.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Duke Austin, said
that the agency did not know what proportion of all Salvadorans in this country
were illegal aliens, but that it estimated that half a million Salvadorans were
here illegally.

Amnesty for Some

Recent changes in American immigration policy provide an amnesty for illegal
immigrants who arrived before Jan. 1, 1982, thus excluding the Romeros and many,
if not most, Salvadorans here. Many are reluctantly making plans to return. The
Romeros said they would remain and try to gain political asylum or some other
legal status.

''We all are worried about what might happen because the situation in El
Salvador remains the same, if not worsened,'' Mr. Romero said.

The Romeros live near downtown Los Angeles in the Pico-Union district, an area
dotted with Salvadoran restaurants and travel agencies and home to the largest
concentration of Salvadorans in California.

Mr. Romero, a 35-year-old janitor at a suburban condominium, first came to the
United States in 1981 on a temporary visa to obtain medical treatment for a
wound in Miami. He said he had been ''shot by members of the National Army in El
Salvador'' while he was photographing Government human-rights abuses for a
human-rights agency of the Roman Catholic Church. He returned briefly to El
Salvador, then came to Los Angeles in 1982.

'I Couldn't Work'

The visa that Mr. Romero obtained from the United States Consulate in San
Salvador was only for himself, not his family. ''The consulate said if they got
visas, too, we would all stay here and not return,'' Mr. Romero said. ''That is
what I wanted to do,'' he admitted. ''I couldn't work in El Salvador without
being persecuted'' for his human-rights activities.

He had heard that California had job opportunities and that ''the area we could
live in without any barriers of language was Los Angeles.'' He also knew his
best hopes of reuniting with his family depended on their crossing over through
Mexico.

The smuggler, known to them as Julio, separated Mrs. Romero and her daughters at
Tijuana, sending the mother with a companion on a dangerous hike through the
border mountains, while Anna, then 7, and Marta, then 4, were supplied with
false American birth certificates and driven through the Border Patrol
checkpoint.

Today the Romeros have a third child, Arnulfo, 4, born in this city. Mrs.
Romero, 33, works at a Chinese restaurant. Though they are living with relatives
here - 10 people in a one-bedroom apartment - they regularly send money to
family in El Salvador. ''We have a roof and food, but our people in El Salvador
do not have security,'' Mr. Romero said.

Brutal Repressions

Eduardo Canjura and his wife, Maria, came to Los Angeles only two years ago. Mr.
Canjura, a 44-year-old bricklayer, said he was driven from his small village by
lack of work, but arrived in San Salvador in 1980 to find brutal repressions.
''Someone, I don't know who, put the finger on me, said I was a subversive,''
Mr. Canjura said.

What followed was a months-long nightmare of imprisonment and torture at the
hands of the army, he said. After he gained release in a general amnesty, an
American sanctuary group heard of his story and helped spirit him out of the
country with a Mexican visa.

Eventually the family was reunited here. Mr. Canjura works at odd jobs found by
Caracen, a Central American relief agency, and Mrs. Canjura has joined the
legion of illegal domestic workers in Southern California households. They live
happily, they said, in Santa Monica in an apartment building that is slightly
run down, but just steps from the same ocean beach where other Californians live
the good life.

''There are many good people who help us a lot, and we are like little ants just
trying to get by,'' Mrs. Canjura recently told a visitor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Joaquin Romero, his wife and children (NYT/Michael Tweed)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ITALIAN TOWN MOURNS SONS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 213 words

DATELINE: PONTELANDOLFO, Italy, April 26


The Mayor wiped away tears running down his cheeks as he leaned against the
white marble pulpit and tried to comfort those who lost cousins or boyhood
friends in the collapse of a Bridgeport, Conn., construction project.

Among the construction workers presumed dead when the apartment building
crumbled were 10 men - immigrants or children of immigrants - from
Pontelandolfo, an Apennine town where the hillsides are covered with fruit
trees, grapevines and grazing sheep.

''The tragedy has reminded us again dramatically of the problems of immigrants
who leave their native land for something better, for decent work,'' Mayor Carlo
Guerrera told the 400 or so townspeople who came to a late-morning mass today in
St. Salvatore's Church honoring the dead.

For more than 100 years, hope in this town, about 40 miles north of Naples, has
often meant leaving wives and children and the scant prospect for work here for
America and the prospect of a decent living. Many of the first to leave wound up
in Waterbury, Conn., and later sent for their families. Generation after
generation followed.

Now, some 10,000 people with roots in Pontelandolfo live in Waterbury.
Pontelandolfo's population, its migration across the ocean finally stemmed about
a decade ago, is 4,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 29, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE QUESTIONS DEPORTATION OF 2

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 28


A Federal district judge has questioned the Government's attempt to deport two
Palestinians because they were reported to belong to a Marxist faction of the
Palestine Liberation Organization.

The judge, Stephen Wilson, said Monday that he would rule on the case May 15
after hearing arguments on whether resident aliens had the same rights to free
speech as do American citizens.

''No court has ever decided this,'' Judge Wilson said. ''In the history of our
country, this issue hasn't been taken head on.''

The two Palestinians are Khader Musa Hamide, 32 years old, of Glendale, Calif.,
the reported Southern California leader of the Marxist faction, the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and Michel Ibrahim Nasif Shehadeh, 30, of
Long Beach, Calif., a former student at California State University in Long
Beach.

Judge Wilson acted after attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service said that instead of accusing the men of belonging to a group that
promoted world communism, the agency would now charge them with belonging to a
group advocating the overthrow of the United States Government.

Judge Calls Law Too Broad

Judge Wilson was upset that the Government had made a last-minute decision to
enforce a different section of the McCarran-Walter Act, which permits
deportation of aliens who advocate terrorist, anarchist or subversive
activities.

The judge said the law was overly broad and chilling and that the more important
issue was ''whether or not resident aliens have the full panoply of
constitutional rights.''

The two men were among eight arrested in January in a raid by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the immigration agency and charged with belonging to a
Marxist faction of the Palestine Liberation Organization.

Charges against the six others were dropped last week, but the Government said
it would press for their deportation on reported visa violations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Detaining Asylum Seekers Is Illegal Prodigality

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 339 words


To the Editor:

Your April 13 news account of toughened security measures at the immigration
jail in New York City has a perverse twist. The immigration authorities are
reported to be spending more than $600,000 to enhance security at the facility;
at the same time they pursue a very expensive policy of detention of asylum
seekers who have no suggestions of criminality in their backgrounds.

For example, the immigration jail in New York currently holds two Ghanaians who
fled their homeland, one after a politically motivated arrest and the other
barely escaping such treatment; a Cuban opponent of Fidel Castro; an Ethiopian
activist, who was arrested and tortured, and eight Afghans who had supported the
mujahadeen resistance fighters.

This is but a sample. Many others with similar stories are being detained in New
York. All are applying for political asylum, and none are suspected of any
criminal activity. Many will remain imprisoned for the year or more it takes to
resolve their cases. They are incarcerated because they were forced to flee
without having obtained a valid passport from the authorities in their home
countries - a typical scenario for refugees.

Yet the detention policy is very expensive. It costs $22,396.40 to detain an
asylum seeker for one year in New York. The annual expenditure in New York is
probably well over $1 million.

Why do the authorities detain refugees who can show that they do not pose a
threat to the community and can post a bond to guarantee that they will appear
for hearings? The answer is deterrence to asylum seekers. We think such a
measure is illegal as incompatible with our refugee law, which establishes a
right to apply for asylum. The detention policy penalizes those who avail
themselves of that right. But beyond the legality and humanitarian
considerations, such a policy is fiscally unwise. The public interest is also
being abused.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director, Political Asylum Project
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
  New York, April 20, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 27, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Willkommen, Bienvenu

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words


To the Editor:

For years, I have visited New York on business and have been obliged to go
through the long, irritating procedure of clearing United States Customs and
Immigration. My most recent trip was no exception.

After a tiring Atlantic flight, I and a vast crowd of other travelers were
forced to remain, standing, in a long, narrow corridor reserved for those who
carry foreign passports. Getting out of the building took two hours.

During this seemingly interminable wait, we had the opportunity to stare at the
wall on which the word ''welcome'' is written in 15 languages. Older passengers
became faint, but there was not even a bench on which to rest. At the booths,
agents pored through huge, medieval-looking books which, amazingly, have not
been replaced by computers.

If the Government truly wants to encourage travel to the United States - whether
for business or tourism -there must be a better way of demonstrating it. I feel
certain that if American travelers to Europe were treated as we are here, it
would be considered intolerable. It is to be hoped that our courtesies toward
United States visitors will, some day soon, be returned in kind.

JAN J. VAN WILLEGEN
  Baarn, the Netherlands, May 14, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 3, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

PROBLEMS SEEN IN REAGAN TESTING PLAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


Federal officials said this week that many practical problems must be solved
before the nation could carry out President Reagan's call for routinely testing
millions of people for infection with the AIDS virus. Officials at some of the
state and Federal agencies that would carry out such testing, meanwhile, said
they disagreed with elements of the President's policy.

Mr. Reagan has ordered routine testing of Federal prisoners and would-be
immigrants. He said that veterans' hospitals should consider testing of all
patients and called on the states to consider testing prisoners and applicants
for marriage licences.

But a New York State prison official said the state was unlikely to begin
testing all inmates, and a medical specialist with the Veterans Administration
argued against routine testing of all hospital patients.

Protection of Uninfected Cited

The Federal Government directly controls immigration to the United States and
the operation of Federal prisons and veterans' hospitals. So Federal officials
say they could order testing in these areas, both to measure the prevalence of
the virus and to help protect uninfected people. By contrast, the Federal
Government can only exhort state and local officials to require testing in
programs under their control.

Testing immigrants will be relatively easy, although it will complicate the
program for giving legal status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens under the new
immigration law, officials said.

Aliens seeking immigrant visas abroad and aliens applying for permanent
residence in the United States, like those seeking amnesty under the new law,
already undergo mandatory examinations to determine if they are drug addicts,
chronic alcoholics or victims of a ''dangerous contagious disease'' such as
tuberculosis, syphilis or gonorrhea. More than a year ago, he Public Health
Service proposed adding AIDS to the list of such diseases for which aliens may
be excluded from the United States, but no final rule has yet been issued.

In a speech Sunday to a fund-raising dinner sponsored by the American Foundation
for AIDS Research, Mr. Reagan said he had ''asked the Department of Justice to
plan for testing all Federal prisoners,'' adding, ''I encourage states to
require routine testing in state and local prisons.''

There are 43,000 Federal prisoners and 484,000 state prison inmates, as well as
234,000 people being held in local jails, according to the Justice Department.

'Err on Side of Prudence'

Gary L. Bauer, President Reagan's domestic policy adviser, said that ''our
desire is to separate any Federal prisoner who tests positive even if the person
does not have symptoms'' of acquired immune deficiency syndrome. The test shows
infection, not the disease itself, but all those infected with the virus are
presumed capable of passing it to others, and many are expected to develop the
fatal disease.

''We want to err on the side of prudence,'' Mr. Bauer said. ''To do this, we
would want to test everybody in Federal prison and then test all new inmates.''

However, Terry H. Eastland, a Justice Department spokesman, said the agency was
still considering whether to test every Federal inmate or a random sample of
prisoners.

Federal officials have not decided what should be done with AIDS test results.
Mr. Bauer said the United States authorities would probably inform an alien who
tested positive but would not inform the government of the alien's home country.
In addition, he said, the spouse of an infected prisoner has a right to know of
the inmate's condition. If the inmate refuses to share such information, he
said, the Federal Government should probably do so.

Since 1981, there have been 76 cases of AIDS among Federal prisoners, according
to Maryellen Thoms, a spokesman for the Justice Department's Bureau of Prisons.
New York has had more than six times that number of confirmed AIDS cases among
its state prisoners, according to James B. Flateau, a spokesman for the State
Department of Correctional Services.

Exposure Before Imprisonment

But Mr. Flateau said: ''We have absolutely no proof that anyone has contracted
AIDS in prison. In virtually all cases, we can document that exposure to the
virus occurred before the inmate entered our system.'' He said the state would
consider Mr. Reagan's recommendation but saw no reason to change its policy of
having ''no mandatory or routine testing of inmates.''

Asked whether New York would segregate asymptomatic carriers of the virus, Mr.
Flateau said, ''No such thing is under consideration in New York.''

Mr. Reagan said he had asked for a study ''to see if testing might be
appropriate'' in other Federal facilities such as veterans' hospitals. Education
Secretary William J. Bennett has urged Mr. Reagan to order routine testing of
people admitted to such hospitals.

The Veterans Administration runs 172 hospitals with a total of 1.4 million
admissions a year. Since 1981, the V.A. has reported 2,014 AIDS cases, 32
percent of them in the New York area. Dr. Susan H. Mather of the Veterans
Administration, who is a specialist in infectious diseases, said the blood test
for infection with the AIDS virus was ''a diagnostic test and should be used in
that light.''

''There should be a reason for doing it,'' she said. ''It should be voluntary.
The patient should be informed if the test is being conducted and should give
consent. There should be counseling before and after the test.''

'Real Practical Problems'

A study by the Federal Centers for Disease Control found that testing costs, on
the average, $45 per person, but might be twice as expensive in some places.
These figures do not include the cost of finding and counseling the sexual
partners of people who test positive. Such activities, according to the Centers,
cost $90 to $98 for each partner.

President Reagan also encouraged the states to ''offer routine testing for those
who seek marriage licenses.'' Federal health officials have strongly supported
voluntary testing of those who may have been exposed to the AIDS virus and who
plan to have children.

But in a recent report, the Centers for Disease Control concluded that
premarital testing on a broad scale was ''unlikely to be very effective, even in
a community with a high general prevalence of HIV infection.'' They said that
most persons at highest risk of AIDS infection are already sexually active and
are unlikely to marry. And in most parts of the country, where AIDS infection is
still infrequent, huge numbers of people would have to be tested to find only a
few infected individuals.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat, said there would be
''real practical problems in implementing'' the widespread testing favored by
Mr. Reagan. In San Francisco, Los Angeles and some other cities, Mr. Waxman
said, there is a three-month wait for people who want to be tested.

It would make more sense, he said, for the Government to help finance testing
for those who wanted it than to require testing of those who did not.

Mr. Waxman said he was drafting legislation that would provide funds for
voluntary testing, establish strict requirements for confidentiality of test
results and create civil rights guarantees for people who have been infected
with the AIDS virus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 3, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

TESTING TOURISTS FOR AIDS IS URGED

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 608 words


Mayor Koch said yesterday that he favored mandatory AIDS testing for tourists
and business travelers to the United States, as well as for immigrants.

If they test positive for the AIDS virus, they should be barred, he said.

Mr. Koch, who in the past has been quick to give his opinions on national and
international matters, noted that it would be the responsibility of the Federal
Government to create legislation to encompass his proposal and to enforce it.

The Mayor, who has been vocal in his opposition to mandatory testing in general
because of concerns of confidentiality, added a new spin to the debate about
AIDS testing by including all foreigners entering the United States, including
tourists. He said he could foresee people from around the world coming to New
York to avail themselves of free treatment for AIDS in municipal facilities. But
he said he had no information indicating that this was happening now.

No One Turned Away

''We do not turn anyone away in our municipal hospitals,'' he said, ''but we are
not the municipal hospitals for the whole world.''

On Sunday, President Reagan told a gathering of AIDS researchers in Washington
that he would order mandatory testing for all Federal prisoners and immigrants
seeking permanent residence, part of a new administration stand on the disease
that was repeated by Vice President Bush Monday in an address that, like the
President's, drew both cheers and boos.

In New York City alone last year, there were 2.7 million overseas visitors, not
including travelers from Mexico and Canada, according to the New York Convention
and Visitors Bureau. Even more are expected this year because of the decline of
the dollar's value abroad.

But yesterday, the bureau's officials and the State Department chose not to
respond to the Mayor's statements, although a lawyer with the New York Civil
Liberties Union, Robert Levy, called them ''farfetched and offensive.''

Several other countries - including China, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, Belgium
and India - already require AIDS tests. Most of them require it of people
planning to visit those countries for an extended period, including students and
workers. Japan is among other nations considering such testing.

Discussion of Visas

The Mayor, who made his remarks in a hallway news conference in City Hall at
noon, was repeatedly asked if he meant all tourists.

''What we're talking about is, when they pass such a law, new people who want to
come here either as permanent residents, immigrants, tourists,'' Mayor Koch
said. ''Many of the undocumented aliens in this country today are people who
came here on tourist visas; that's how they got into the country,'' he added.
''They didn't slip over the borders illegally.''

Asked if a special visa would now be necessary to incorporate the proposed test
for the AIDS virus, he said the regular visa would do, adding, ''I leave that to
the Federal Government.''

The Mayor said he did not think his proposal would hurt the tourist business.
Then he said that that business travelers should also be tested. ''Nothing wrong
with that,'' he said. ''What's wrong with that?''

Would the Mayor favor a test even for a short business trip?

''What difference does it make?'' Mr. Koch replied. ''Why not?'' He added that
he would favor testing for a traveler each time a trip was made.

Making a Suggestion

The Mayor dismissed the questions on his proposal, saying, ''I'm not here
working out the details.''

A spokesman for the Mayor, Leland T. Jones, later said that testing would have
to be done in other countries before nationals arrived in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AIDS TEST ORDERED FOR U.S. PRISONERS AND IMMIGRATION;
MEESE DETAILS PLAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8


In the first stage of President Reagan's new plan to combat the AIDS epidemic,
Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d today announced details of programs to test
Federal prisoners and would-be immigrants for infection with the deadly virus.

Elaborating on a policy that the President announced last week, Mr. Meese
introduced at least one surprising element, suggesting that it might be
inappropriate to grant parole to some inmates with AIDS if they posed a danger
to the community.

The programs were immediately criticized by civil libertarians, including
advocates for the rights of homosexuals. They said the testing would be
ineffective in curbing the spread of the virus and might set a precedent for
mandatory testing of other groups.

Immediate Tests for Infection

Starting now, Mr. Meese said, all people sentenced to Federal prisons will be
tested for infection with the AIDS virus when they enter an institution or
finish serving time behind bars. Testing is already required for military
recruits and active-duty personnel, Foreign Service officers, blood donors and
applicants for certain Labor Department programs run by the Job Corps.

At a news conference, Mr. Meese also announced that he had directed the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to develop a program to test all
immigrants, refugees and illegal aliens applying for legal status to see if they
had been infected with the AIDS virus.

''Those who test positive will be denied entry to the United States or legalized
residency, as the case may be,'' he said.

Mr. Meese gave these details of the new testing programs:

* Aliens who apply for an immigrant visa overseas will be informed if they test
positive. But foreign governments will generally not be told of the test
results. Mandatory testing of aliens will not begin for at least a month.

* An illegal alien who tests positive will be ineligible for legal status, or
amnesty, under the new immigration law. But the alien cannot be deported on the
basis of such data because all information obtained in connection with an
application for amnesty must, under the law, be kept confidential.

* Federal prison inmates who have AIDS or antibodies indicating infection with
the virus will receive counseling and medical care in prison.

* Managers of individual prisons will decide what to do with inmates who have
positive tests indicating infection with the AIDS virus.

* Federal inmates will be tested in the 30 days before they are released from
prison. Federal probation officers will be notified if the test results are
positive.

Mr. Meese said he did not know what probation officers would do with such
information. But he said that it might be inappropriate for former inmates with
AIDS to hold certain types of employment, such as jobs in a day care center.

He did not elaborate; numerous studies indicate that the virus does not spread
through casual social or household contact.

The testing of aliens will be done under a law that requires every alien
applying for an immigrant visa to undergo a physical examination. The authority
for testing prisoners, though less clear, is apparently the Government's
constitutional obligation to provide adequate medical care to inmates. Officials
have said that testing might be used to determine the current prevalence of
infection by the virus and to prevent the further spread of the disease.

Acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS, cripples the body's immune system,
leaving victims susceptible to serious infections and cancers. It is caused by a
virus that spreads through sexual intercourse with an infected partner or
exchanges of blood, such as in shared hypodermic syringes.

As of last week, 36,058 cases of AIDS and 20,849 deaths had been reported to
Federal authorities. Most victims in the United States have been homosexual men
or intravenous drug users and their sexual partners.

Medical experts estimate that 20 percent to 30 percent of people infected with
the AIDS virus will develop symptoms of the deadly disease within five years,
and the proportion appears to rise sharply after five years. All those infected
are presumed to be capable of transmitting the virus to others.

Urvashi Vaid, a lawyer with the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, a
homosexual rights organization, said, ''In the context of an overcrowded prison
system, the testing program is going to be unworkable and impossible.''

Mr. Meese said there were 43,200 Federal prisoners, of whom 25 have AIDS; since
1981 there has been a total of 76 reported cases among Federal prisoners.
Another group of inmates, fewer than 100, are now infected with the virus but
are ''not medically ill,'' he said. About 15,000 inmates are released each year,
he said.

Alvin J. Bronstein, executive director of the National Prison Project of the
American Civil Liberties Union, said he believed it would be unconstitutional if
the United States Parole Commission began considering whether an inmate had AIDS
or antibodies to the virus in deciding whether to grant, deny or revoke parole.

Under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, which guarantees ''due process of
law,'' and under the Eighth Amendment, which prohibits ''cruel and unusual
punishments,'' it would be improper to prolong a person's incarceration because
of a medical condition, Mr. Bronstein said.

However, Attorney General Meese said, ''One of the factors on when people leave
prison on parole certainly has to do with whether they are a danger to the
community.'' He declined to lay down any general rules for parole decisions
affecting people with AIDS, saying that each case would have to be judged
individually.

Mr. Bronstein said that the testing of new inmates was ''scary'' because ''it
sounds like the beginning of a move toward universal screening'' of Federal
prisoners. That, in turn, raises the question whether prisoners infected with
the AIDS virus should be segregated in special facilities, he said. Already, he
said, the number of Federal inmates exceeds the prisons' official capacity by
about 50 percent.

Mr. Meese said the Federal Bureau of Prisons would evaluate the program for
testing new inmates and would report to him, after 60 days, whether it should be
expanded or changed in any other way.

Terry H. Eastland, a Justice Department spokesman, said the testing was designed
to gauge the extent of AIDS infection among prisoners and the department's
ability to conduct routine testing. He and Mr. Meese left open the possibility
that inmates might be tested at other times while they are incarcerated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 10, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Many Questions Cloud Start of AIDS Testing

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


As the Government begins to carry out President Reagan's plan to test Federal
prisoners and would-be immigrants for evidence of infection with the AIDS virus,
experts say uncertainty exists about many details of the program.

Federal officials agree that many practical, administrative and legal problems
will have to be worked out as they gain experience with the program and evaluate
data that will be collected.

''There are a lot of unanswered questions, obviously,'' said Attorney General
Edwin Meese 3d, who announced the plan Monday.

Testing of all newly sentenced Federal prisoners and those about to be
discharged will begin immediately, Mr. Meese said at a news conference.

Some Aliens to Be Denied Entry

Examination of would-be immigrants for AIDS will start on July 8, when it will
be added to the list of ''dangerous contagious diseases'' that exclude the entry
of aliens.

Acquired immune deficiency syndrome cripples the body's immune system, leaving
victims susceptible to serious infections and cancers. Officials have said that
testing might be used to determine the current prevalence of infection by the
virus and to prevent the further spread of the fatal disease.

Mr. Reagan's plan was debated among participants at the Third International
Conference on AIDS here last week, and experts raised many questions, including
these:

* What would happen to political refugees who are found to be infected with the
AIDS virus? Will they be sent back to the countries they escaped?

* How widely will the diagnosis of AIDS infection in a prisoner be disclosed?
Mr. Meese said the diagnosis would be given to prison and probation officials
when an infected prisoner was released.

* Where will prisoners infected with the AIDS virus be cared for? Will such
inmates be segregated despite the overwhelming scientific evidence that the AIDS
virus cannot be spread by casual person-to-person contact but rather through
sexual intercourse and transfusions of blood and blood products? If infected
prisoners are segregated, will the facilities be in one Federal prison or in
each prison?

* Will prison guards agree to work with prisoners infected with the AIDS virus?

* What role will knowledge of AIDS infection play in paroling a prisoner?
Compassion has been a factor in granting parole to some prisoners who are dying
of fatal diseases, though Mr. Meese hinted that AIDS infection might be a factor
in refusing to parole someone from prison if they are judged to be a danger to
the community.

* Will periodic testing be done, particularly of prisoners serving long
sentences, to detect AIDS virus infection as soon as possible?

* Who will pay for the costs of caring for individuals who become infected with
the AIDS virus while in prison and who do not develop the disease until after
they have served their terms? Unless periodic testing is done, some people who
were infected before they entered prison might not be detected under the Reagan
plan, because it can take up to four months for the formation of the antibodies
which signal the presence of the AIDS virus.

* What will be the fate of illegal aliens who apply for legal status under the
new immigration law and who are found to have AIDS? #87,000 Have Applied This
question arises because more than 87,000 illegal aliens have already applied for
legal status under the new law and all have had medical examinations. The AIDS
blood test was not required of them. The law clearly says that information that
is submitted in connection with amnesty is to be kept confidential. For those
who have not had the AIDS blood test, it is not known whether they will have to
be re-examined.

At the same time, the Government is proposing to add to the list of dangerous
contagious diseases anyone who is infected with the AIDS virus. All those
infected are presumed to be capable of transmitting the disease.

The proposal means that a would-be immigrant's doctor must do a blood test to
detect antibodies to the AIDS virus because there is no other way to determine
such infections.

As of now, a would-be immigrant does not have to be tested for the AIDS virus
even if a physician suspects the individual has AIDS, according to James Brown,
a spokesman for the United States Public Health Service, the agency that is
responsible for tracking AIDS and that has proposed the change.

Opponents have 60 days to file objections to the proposal.

If the proposal is adopted, every would-be immigrant would have to take the AIDS
blood test. The rules would not apply to temporary visitors.

Nevertheless, such a plan is not foolproof. The plan cannot exclude all
immigrants infected with the AIDS virus because some may become infected in the
period between taking a blood sample, obtaining the results, receiving a visa,
and, even later, during travel to the United States.

Although existing blood tests are not foolproof, experience has shown them to be
highly reliable. Experts believe that when they are properly carried out only
rarely do they produce erroneous results.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Edwin Meese 3d (AP)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 10, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CUBA TO SEND PRISONERS TO U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 225 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


The Cuban Government will release 348 current and former long-term political
prisoners for possible emigration to the United States, after a request from the
United States Catholic Conference, according to the State Department and the
conference.

The conference said 204 of the people were on a list given to Fidel Castro, the
Cuban leader, last week by Msgr. Nicholas DiMarzio, Executive Director of
Migration and Refugees Services for the group, the social-action arm of the
Catholic Church in the United States.

In addition, Mr. Castro has reportedly agreed to release 144 people now in
prison who were not on the list.

All the people are to be given exit visas and will be allowed to enter the
United States if they meet immigration conditions, although the first are not
expected to arrive for several months.

Each of the 348 has spent at least 10 years in prison for political crimes, said
the associate director of Migration and Refugee Services for the conference,
Donald G. Hohl.

A State Department spokesman said t discussions on processing the prisoners as
refugees had begun.

The State Department will give priority to those who have served the longest
sentences, in some cases 20 years or more, and have suffered the harshest
treatment, the spokesman said.

Efforts to obtain comment from the Cuban Government were unsuccessful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 14, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Reagan Officials To Extend Reach Of AIDS Testing

BYLINE: By Martha A. Miles, Katherine Roberts and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 324 words


To the dismay of those who fear that any mandatory testing might be a precedent
for civil-rights abuses, the Reagan Administration described last week the
details of its plan to screen Federal prisoners and aspiring immigrants for
evidence of infection with the AIDS virus. While the announcement had been
expected, Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d alarmed some civil libertarians by
suggesting that a positive AIDS test might be considered a possible ground for
the denial of parole.

''One of the factors on when people leave prison on parole certainly has to do
with whether they are a danger to the community,'' Mr. Meese said. But Alvin J.
Bronstein, executive director of the National Prison Project of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said it would be unconstitutional to keep someone in
prison because of a medical condition.

Beginning immediately, prisoners will be tested when they enter and leave
Federal prisons. In about a month, testing is expected to begin for potential
immigrants and for illegal aliens seeking amnesty; those who test positive will
either be barred from entering the United States or be denied legal residency if
they are already here. However, illegal aliens will not be deported on the basis
of positive test results because amnesty applications must be kept confidential.

Although the Reagan Administration has stopped short of proposing widespread
mandatory screening, some critics say it is moving in that direction. Testing is
already required in the military and Foreign Service and for applicants for
certain programs run by the Job Corps. (Required testing of blood donors has
been credited with virtually eliminating the problem of spreading AIDS through
transfusions.) Meanwhile, leaders at the seven-nation economic summit conference
in Venice called for countries to cooperate in combating AIDS, but warned that
the fight must be waged ''in accordance with the principles of human rights.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Doctor's Panel Recommends Limited AIDS Testing

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 20


Mandatory testing for infection with the AIDS virus should be extended to prison
inmates and immigrants but not to everyone getting a marriage license or
entering a hospital, trustees of the American Medical Association said today.

Nor should testing be required for homosexuals and drug abusers, the groups that
account for most of the nation's more than 35,000 recorded cases of AIDS, the
trustees said on the eve of the group's annual meeting.

If adopted, the 17-page report will form the basis of efforts by the group to
educate the public and physicians and to lobby lawmakers on how the country
should fight acquired immune deficiency syndrome, which has already killed more
than 20,000 people in the United States.

''Prison inmates, because they are confined and have a higher incidence of
high-risk individuals than the general population, require special protection,''
said the trustees for the 271,000-member group, the nation's largest
organization of doctors.

''Immigrants should be tested so that we can focus on the AIDS problem already
here,'' the trustees added in their report, to be considered next week by the
group's policy-making body, the 406-member House of Delegates.

The Federal Government, in a plan the details of which were announced June 8,
has decided to test Federal prisoners and would-be immigrants for infection with
the deadly virus.

Testing everyone who is to marry or to be hospitalized, as President Reagan
recently suggested, would be costly and inefficient, the trustees said.

Dr. Lonnie R. Bristow, one of the trustees, said that because the test for
infections with the AIDS virus picked up many false positives, one or two
followup tests were required to confirm the infection.

Requiring testing for all homosexuals and drug abusers would ''only drive people
underground and away from the health-care system,'' the trustees said.

They recommended instead that voluntary, confidential testing be made available
to anyone who wants it and be routinely given in settings such as clinics for
sexually transmitted disease and drug abuse unless the patient specifically
objects.

The test should also be given to pregnant women in the first trimester in
geographical areas where AIDS infection is common, as well as to people in such
areas seeking family-planning counseling or major surgery, the trustees said.

The trustees said that in cases where a person was found to be infected with the
AIDS virus, whether the person was sick or not, they favored reporting the case
to public health officials ''on an anonymous or confidential basis.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 24, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

A.M.A. BACKS AIDS TESTING OF TWO GROUPS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 23


The American Medical Association today endorsed mandatory testing of prisoners
and would-be immigrants for the AIDS virus. It also urged that students as young
as those in elementary school be taught about the deadly disease.

The House of Delegates, the policy-making body of the 271,000-member
organization, debated less than half an hour before adopting, virtually
unchanged, these and other AIDS strategies among 17 recommendations from a
report issued Saturday by the association's board of trustees.

''We hope this is the framework for a national policy,'' Dr. Robert E. McAfee, a
trustee, said after the vote by the 406 delegates on the third day of the
association's annual five-day meeting.

''But we wish to be sure national policy is not just Federal policy,'' he said.
''The recommendations demand substantial private-sector involvement.''

Antismoking Proposals

Also today, the delegates voted to recommend to the Federal Aviation
Administration that cigarette smoking be banned on all commercial passenger
aircraft in the United States. In addition, they called for A.M.A. support of
legislation setting the minimum age for purchasing tobacco products at 21.

Most of the recommendations regarding acquired immune deficiency syndrome
concern testing for the virus. While such testing should be mandatory for
prisoners and would-be immigrants, the recommendations said, it should not be
required of others sometimes mentioned as likely subjects of testing, such as
everyone seeking a marriage license and patients entering a hospital.

Mandatory testing of prisoners and those seeking to immigrate has already been
adopted by the Government in a program whose details were announced two weeks
ago by Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d. Blood and organ donors are also tested
for the AIDS virus in the United States, as are members of the military, Foreign
Service officers and applicants for certain Labor Department programs run by the
Job Corps.

Among the other recommendations approved by the delegates were these:

* Routine testing of patients at clinics that treat drug abusers and people
afflicted with sexually transmitted diseases, unless a patient raises specific
objections.

* Creation of a commission of national, state and local leaders to develop a
consensus on how best to fight AIDS.

* Greater educational efforts aimed at doctors and the public.

* More Federal financing for AIDS testing, for counseling of those found to be
infected and for research to determine the most effective counseling methods.
The trustees said the $1 billion expected to be appropriated by Congress for
1988 would not be enough.

* ''Education of elementary and young adult students within the school system
regarding the mode of transmission and prevention of transmission'' of the AIDS
virus, which is most often transmitted through sexual contact or contaminated
hypodermic needles.

''The whole matter of sex education is rather commonplace in public schools,''
Dr. McAfee said. ''It was felt by the majority of the house that it should be
extended to include information about this virus and what it does.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CALIFORNIAN SEES RISE IN ASIAN GANGS

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 8


The Attorney General of California said today that the state needed Federal
assistance to combat what he said was a growing law-enforcement problem posed by
gangs of Asian immigrants.

The official, John Van de Kamp, said that as the state's Asian population
continues to soar, immigrants from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Vietnam, Korea and Japan
are becoming increasingly involved in prostitution, illegal gambling, drug
trafficking, extortion, burglary, robbery, and other crimes. State and local
police agencies are unable to cope with the problem alone, he said.

''We need help from Federal agencies with international expertise and authority
to mount an effective counterattack,'' Mr. Van de Kamp said in releasing a
report on the status of organized crime in the nation's most populous state.

''The traditional organizations of the Mafia, or La Cosa Nostra, control a
relatively small and unimportant part of criminal activity here,'' he said.
''The biggest and fastest-growing threats to public safety in California come
from newer forms of organized crime.'' He especially mentioned Asian gangs that
he said ''prey almost exclusively on California's millions of law-abiding Asian
citizens and, even more frequently, on the hundreds of thousands of new
immigrants who have settled here.''

Gangs Based in Hong Kong

The report said that in the past year California police agencies encountred
increased criminal enterprises by Hong Kong-based Triad gangs and the Wah Ching
and United Bamboo gangs, all made up of ethnic Chinese; the Yakuza, a large
criminal organization from Japan; prostitution rings run by South Korean crime
groups, and many gangs made up of young Vietnamese people.

The report said thousands of Korean and Taiwanese women worked as prostitutes
for Asian gangs in 1986 in California and elsewhere. Although many emigrated
legally, others were imported by brokers who paid returning American servicemen
$2,000 to $10,000 to enter into sham marriages with the women, it added. Once
here, the women are divorced and work as prostitutes for the Asian criminal
organizations because they ''are desperate to immigrate to the United States,''
the report said.

Mr. Van de Kamp said police officials were especially fearful of an upsurge of
migration to the United States by members of Hong Kong's ''large, well-organized
and notoriously violent'' Triad gangs when the British colony reverts to Chinese
control in 1997.

''The Triad's favorite destination is the West Coast of the United States,
especially California, and most especially San Francisco, with Los Angeles, too,
a preferred destination,'' he said.

''There hasn't been a mass exodus of criminals on this scale since 1980, when
Fidel Castro opened up his prisons and flushed the worst elements of Cuban
society, the 'Marielitos,' into Florida, and Miami is still struggling to
recover from that catastrophe. Unless we send word across the Pacific that this
is a dangerous and inhospitable place for gangs to do business, the stage could
be set for our own 'Marielito'-style disaster in California.''

Complaints Believed Likely

The report is likely to stir complaints from some leaders of California's
rapidly growing Asian population, who have protested that focusing on crime
within their communities could have the indirect effect of producing bigotry and
racism among non-Asians.

Henry Der, executive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action, a San Francisco
organization established to oppose defamation of the Chinese, said in an
interview that he agreed that Asian criminal gangs were a problem in this
country.

''The Asian community is vulnerable because of the language problem,'' he said.
''Without the fluent use of English, one is vulnerable to criminal activity and
it's very difficult for that person to have sufficient confidence to communicate
with police and other officials.''

But Mr. Der contended that many of the charges in Mr. Van de Kamp's report,
including the contention that Triad gangs from Hong Kong were becoming more
active in this country, were ''hyperbole,'' with little evidence to support
them. ''They probably extrapolated from what they know to what they think may be
out there,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

On a Bahamas Cruise With No Way Ashore

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 12


Eight stowaways have been riding the high seas in a legal muddle, stuck for six
days on a cruise ship that makes daily round trips between Miami and the
Bahamas.

''They're living the good life right now,'' a spokesman for the cruise line,
SeaEscape Ltd., said Saturday.

''We're accommodating them just like normal passengers,'' the spokesman, Jerry
Butcher, said. ''They're eating passenger food and being detained in their
cabins.''

The eight stowed away on the Scandinavian Sun last Tuesday in Freeport, Bahamas,
but were barred from getting off when they arrived in Miami because they did not
have the proper documents, said Perry Rivkind, district director of the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service.

As a routine matter under international law, Mr. Rivkind said, ''They were sent
back.''

When they arrived at Freeport on Wednesday, ''they were refused landing by
Bahamian immigration,'' Mr. Rivkind said.

Four of the stowaways listed the Bahamas as their home country, Mr. Rivkind
said. Two of the others said they were from Haiti, one from Jamaica and one from
Gambia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 14, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Canada Seizes Freighter Believed To Have Put 174 Sikhs on Shore

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

DATELINE: HALIFAX, Nova Scotia, July 13


Canadian Navy and Coast Guard vessels today chased and seized a Costa
Rican-registered freighter that is believed to have illegally landed 174 Sikhs
in a rocky cove on the southern coast of Nova Scotia on Sunday.

It was the second time in less than a year that a boatload of self-proclaimed
refugees has arrived off Canada's Atlantic coast. The indication this time, as
with 155 Tamils from Sri Lanka who were found drifting in two lifeboats off
Newfoundland last August, was that the voyage had originated in West Germany.

Many items abandoned on the beach by the Sikhs, including a temporary West
German passport and clothing with German labels, appeared to contradict the
Sikhs' claims to immigration officers that they had sailed directly from India.

The fact that all but one of the newest arrivals were men gave added currency to
rumors that a second ship was lurking off the coast waiting to land the
refugees' wives and children. Col. Ira E. Creelman, the officer who coordinated
the long pursuit of the 497-ton cargo ship Amelie, seized 200 miles off Halifax
at 1 A.M. today, said that there was no ''hard evidence'' to support the rumors,
but a flotilla of navy and coast guard ships continued to sweep the coastline
nonetheless.

''I think there may still be a second ship out there,'' the colonel said at a
news conference.

The situation aroused strong feelings in many parts of Canada, where immigration
policies have come under growing political pressure as a result of a surge in
the numbers of self-proclaimed refugees arriving at the country's airports and
border points.

Partly as a result of the recent tightening of United States immigration laws,
thousands of people from Central and South America, as well as from Turkey and
other distant points, have been heading for Canada in the hope of qualifying
under broadly drawn refugee provisions.

Refugee Rules Tightened

In an effort to stem what it described as ''abuse'' of the system by people
whose motives for coming are primarily economic, the Government recently
tightened refugee rules. But it did not eliminate the loophole that attracted
the latest arrivals, as it did the Tamils, a provision that allows everyone
landing here to remain for months or years while their refugee applications are
reviewed.

A complicating factor in the current situation is that some of the Sikhs living
legally in Canada have stirred displeasure with their agitation against the
Indian Government, which has been locked in a bitter religious and political
feud with its Sikh minority. An investigation continues into suspicions that
Sikh extremists in Canada were responsible for the bomb that destroyed an Air
India airliner on a flight from Montreal to London in June 1985, killing all 329
aboard.

Nonetheless, an air of confidence appeared to reign among the new refugees here,
who were brought to Halifax by bus from Charlesville, the Nova Scotian fishing
village where they waded ashore in the small hours of Sunday. In a red-brick
gymnasium at the large military base here, which is home to Canada's Atlantic
fleet, the refugees rested on rubber mats while teams of immigration officers
tried to unravel the twisted skein of stories that emerged after they appeared
on the fogbound coast.

Amid their frustrations, the immigration officers savored some of the more
humorous elements in the situation, such as the refugee who scrambled from the
sea with an attache case and asked where he could find a taxi to Toronto, 1,700
miles away.

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said through his spokesman that he was determined
not to be ''pushed around'' by people trying to enter the country illegally. But
later, Mr. Mulroney seemed to take a softer line. ''Reasonable action will be
taken,'' he said. ''It's the kind of country we are, and that's what we'll do.''

The refugees began giving their own accounts in the predawn darkness of Sunday,
over servings of tea and muffins on the lawn of a fisherman who had heard the
refugees talking in the darkness. The refugees, many of them with the orange and
white turbans and full beards characteristic of Sikhs, said that they had sailed
to Canada to escape the religious and political feud with India's majority
Hindus.

The people who arrived in Newfoundland last August also were members of an
embattled minority in the land they left behind: Hindu Tamils in Buddhist,
Sinhalese-dominated Sri Lanka.

Canadians Better Prepared

The Canadians seemed to have a better grip on the current situation than in the
incident last year. After a 13-hour pursuit across the choppy waters of the
North Atlantic, the Canadian flotilla overhauled the Amelie, the vessel that was
said to have landed the Sikhs, and arrested the three men aboard. Two others, an
Indian resident in Britain and a Swede thought to be owner or part-owner of the
Amelie, were arrested on Sunday as they prepared to board an aircraft at Halifax
airport.

The two men, Jasvir Singh, 36 years old, and Rolf Nygren, said to be in his
40's, were held for investigation and trial in a Halifax court this morning on
charges of helping one of the refugees to enter Canada illegally. The Amelie,
listed by Lloyd's of London, the insurance exchange, as owned by S.A. Lewoly,
was being brought to Halifax under guard by officers of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police and was expected in port sometime after nightfall.

The entire episode has alternately tickled and infuriated Nova Scotians, the
quiet, heavily Scottish people who have a history of skulduggery along their
coasts, from pirates to rumrunners to the drug smugglers who ply the coast these
days, many of them looking for a back door into the United States. While some
people seemed impressed by the refugees' bravado, others were angry that
Canada's tolerance on immigration matters had been so flagrantly abused.

Near the gymnasium at the Stadacona military base, the dockside installation
that prepared some of the largest Atlantic convoys of World War II, military
guards with three-foot clubs maintained tight security. On escorted tours
inside, reporters were forbidden to speak to the refugees.

The refugees, who appeared to range in age from their early 20's to late 40's,
sat cross-legged on mats taken from the base's submarine stores, or dozed
besides a jumble of grip bags and running shoes. Many had numbered tags around
their necks, evidently placed there by immigration officers. Damp clothing hung
on the exercise racks, and tokens of Sikh fervor - photographs of Sikh holy men,
or badges proclaiming membership in the World Sikh Federation - were common.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Nova Scotia, Canada and area in Atlantic Ocean where freighter
was seized (page A8)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 16, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Ersatz Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words



To the Editor:

Your idea to offer ''emergency protection to a national group whose homeland is
racked by armed civil conflict, environmental disaster or other 'extraordinary
and temporary conditions' '' is seriously flawed (''Make America a Fair Safe
Haven,'' editorial, June 29).

Any national from a country certified under your proposal would be eligible for
admission, whether or not that individual was actually in distress. At some
point, legitimate refugee claimants would be displaced by ersatz refugees,
including economic migrants, thus undermining the very premise of
humanitarianism and fairness on which your proposal is presumably based. It is
precisely to defend the interests of genuine refugees that the Refugee Act of
1980, which your proposal would effectively supercede, provides for case-by-case
adjudication.

''Safe haven'' would involve millions of people if admissions criteria were
broadly construed. Imagine, if you will, offering safe haven to the victims of a
flooded Yangtze River, earthquakes in Mexico, Ecuador and Italy, a volcano in
Colombia, a typhoon in Ceylon, the conflicts in Lebanon, El Salvador, Northern
Ireland, the Philippines, South Africa and Sri Lanka, to name but a few. After
they had been afforded ''temporary'' safe haven, what would be their incentive
to leave, and how would their departure be enforced? If you have the answers,
you're way ahead of the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Your ''safe haven'' notion is a dangerous, ill-conceived and superfluous idea
that if enacted will harm many of the people it purports to serve, not the least
of whom are the American people.

ROGER CONNER
   Executive Director, Federation
   for American Immigration Reform
   Washington, June 30, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 16, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Soviet Opening a New Jewish Route to Israel

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 15


The Soviet Union is opening an East European pathway for Jewish emigration
Thursday by sending out at least four emigrants on a flight to Bucharest,
Rumania, and ticketing them through to Israel, friends of the four said today.

The family of Mark Nepomnyashchy, a recently freed prisoner from the Black Sea
port of Odessa, was told today that it had permission to leave for Bucharest.
The four would become the first Soviet Jews to use the Moscow-Bucharest route.

The Rumanian route has been advocated by Israeli officials over the current
Moscow-Vienna exit route because that route would make it virtually impossible
for Soviet Jews to apply for refugee status under United States immigration
laws.

Up to now, Jews arriving in Vienna have had a choice of proceeding to Israel or
stopping off in Austria to wait for visas to the United States.

Soviet Jews who fly through Bucharest would be able to go on directly to Israel
and apparently would not have the option of altering the destination. Rumania is
the only Communist-bloc nation in Europe that did not break off relations with
Israel during the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.

Many Soviet Jewish emigrants have chosen to bypass Israel and go to the United
States instead.

It was not clear whether the decision to send the Nepomnyashchys through
Bucharest was done as a result of an agreements reached by a Soviet delegation
presently holding talks with Israeli officials in Jerusalem.

The delegation is the first to visit Israel in 20 years.

The Rumanian route could serve the needs of the Israelis who are constantly
seeking new immigrants, and might potentially help the Soviet Union by cutting
back the number of would-be Jewish emigrants who file under Soviet law for the
right of repatriation or to join close relatives, but actually intend to go to
the United States or some West European country such as France.

Israeli officials have pressed the United States to abandon its policy of
granting refugee status to Jewish emigrants but thus far to no avail.

Mark Nepomnyashchy's son-in-law, Yakov Levin, said that the family had chosen to
go through Rumania ''on principle, to create a precedent.''

The opening of the Rumanian route comes at a time when the upsurge in the number
of exit visas granted to Jews in recent months had subsided somewhat, with the
number of visas in June dropping below 800.

The June figure puts the 1987 total above 3,000, which is nearly four times the
814 total in all of 1986.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 18, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Service Uses a Mobile Legalization Center to Reach Upstate Workers

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 73 words


A farm worker harvesting lettuce near Syracuse yesterday as an agent of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service talked to others. The van, which contains
a portable computer, is being used to help illegal aliens apply for temporary
residency under the new amnesty law. The van is one of only 50 in the country
and the only one in New York. It travels several times a week to rural areas in
search of applicants. (NYT/Mike Greenlar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOR IMMIGRANTS, THE DREAM IS STILL ALIVE

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 14, Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words


THE streets may not be paved with gold, but immigrants are still setting down
the career path in America, hoping to strike it rich.

In Harrison, Woongyoung Park sells eight different kinds of fresh herbs, four
varieties of mushrooms, tiny zucchini and yellow squash, only a few inches long;
fresh ginger root and other Oriental specialties, in addition to the top-quality
fruits and fresh vegetables he stocks at Harrison Produce, his store on Halstead
Avenue.

The other day, in the backroom of the store, glancing at his mother-in-law and
his aunt, who were carefully picking over sorrel leaves, Mr. Park who is 36
years old, sat on an upturned carton and talked about his life since coming to
America from Korea four years ago.

He arrived with the help of an older brother who found him a job as helper in a
fruit store in Jackson Heights. ''I learned the business by working 18 hours a
day,'' he recalled. ''I was single and saved my money and studied English. Then
when I got married, with my money and my wife's money and some other money from
my sister-in-law, we had enough to open this store on May 21, 1986. We knew,
from a friend in the produce business, that we are in a good location where
customers want and will buy only the best-quality produce''

The six family members, working six days a week, are managing to make a living,
said Mr. Park, who added that the store had yet to turn a profit because of high
start-up costs. ''We have more expenses than we realized,'' he said. ''We had to
install a big refrigerator, then we had to fix it. There is expense for trucks
and garbage removal and expense for produce that doesn't sell.''

He looked over at the two women picking over the sorrel leaves. ''Sorrel is
popular in Europe but not much used here. We will have to throw much of it
away,'' he said regretfully. But quickly he brightened. ''Our business is good;
it was good from the beginning,'' he said. ''Customers come once, then they come
back. They tell their friends we have good produce. It has to be top quality,
different from the supermarkets. Every morning I go to the Hunts Point Market at
4:30; I pick everything out myself.''

Mr. Park, who is slowly adding specialty items such as unusual varieties of
coffee beans and new vegetables from California, also spends time teaching
customers how to cook them. ''We give them recipes; sometimes it is difficult
because my English is still not good,'' he explained. ''But I try to please
customers; when we have more customers, we'll make a profit.'' Although both Mr.
Park and his wife, Sookhi, work 70 hours a week and he worries about the high
rent he is paying for the store, he believes he has done the right thing. ''We
have the same customers for over a year now. They like our produce. It will be
O.K. I am becoming a citizen. There is more of a future here.''

Unlike Mr. Park, Varsha Mehta was able to create her own opportunities, shortly
after she arrived in Brooklyn from India in 1965. Ms. Mehta, the wife of Dr.
Bipin Mehta, is a college graduate, with a degree in business. ''I have always
been interested in business; my father was a contractor and I grew up in
business,'' said Ms. Mehta, now the manager of ICI Travel Inc., in Rye, an
agency that specializes in supplying travel services to corporations.

Ms. Mehta, who also has a financial interest in the agency, recalled that as the
only girl in her college class taking a major in business she was virtually
isolated for four years from her male classmates. ''Women are not allowed to
talk to men in Indian univerities,'' she explained. ''It was lonesome, but not
unbearable. I studied hard and got good grades. Besides, I was engaged. My
marriage was arranged by my parents when I was 14. I got married when I was 19
and ours has been a truly successful marriage.''

Yet Ms. Mehta concedes that as a newlywed she chafed at taking her place in the
traditional Indian household. ''As the daughter-in-law, living in my in-laws'
house, I was assigned to all the household chores. It was rough, so I told my
husband I was going to get a job. My mother-in-law didn't like it but I
persevered and found a position as an assistant accountant at a country club in
Bombay.''

It was a job she held until four years later, when Dr. Mehta, a neurological
scientist, was offered a scholarship to conduct cancer research at Kings County
Hospital in Brooklyn. ''We came to the United States on a visitor's visa that
prohibited me from working,'' Ms. Mehta recalled. ''But I wanted to work so
badly that every week I wrote a letter to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service imploring them to let me work. After six months of this,
they sent me a letter giving me permission to work.''

The same tenacity was in evidence some years later, when Ms. Mehta decided to
enter the travel business. ''When my husband was offered a permanent position at
the Sloan-Kettering Institute in Rye, we decided to stay in the United States,''
she said. ''We moved to Westchester and I wanted a career. I went to a travel
agency in Rye and offered to do their books for free, if they would teach me the
travel business. A bargain was struck. They were good teachers. In six months I
learned the business and then they hired me and I worked for them for six years
as a travel agent before I left to start my own agency.''

The Mehtas became Americian citizens in 1977 and Ms. Mehta opened ICI Travel on
the second floor of an office in Purchase Street in 1978.

''Business associates at United Airlines put me in touch with John Rowell, a New
Jersey entrepreneur who was interested in opening a business travel agency in
Westchester as an investment and to complement his relocation company,'' she
said. ''And since I was going to manage the company, I didn't need too much
capital to get into it.''

Almost all of ICI's work is with business travelers, she said, adding: ''Our
clients are people in corporations, and professionals. They account for 90
percent of our total business.''

Ms. Mehta, who noted that over the last 10 years, as the cost of maintaining
in-house-travel departments increased, more companies were turning travel
arrangements over to outside agencies. ''We do everything an in-house agency
does for its people; from planning travel schedules to delivering itineraries
and tickets personally,'' she said. ''We handle cancellations and new bookings
24 hours a day. We can negotiate the best available rates for clients through
our computers that constantly monitor prices.''

One of the biggest advantages to a company using an outside travel agency, she
said, is the ablity it gives corporations to control travel expenses. ''They
don't have to hire personnel, and they don't have to allot spaces to a travel
department,'' she said. ''Our services to clients are literally free. We make
our money from the commissions we earn on airline tickets, and car and hotel
reservations. Ours is a service business and although we still have our first
customers, we have to keep generating new accounts in order to grow.''

ICI is free from cash-flow problems, as most of its billings are done through
credit cards. The ideal ICI corporate client does $700,000 to $1 million a year
in air, hotel and car reservations, Ms. Mehta said, adding: ''We handle a number
of convention arrangements for clients regularly that includes everything from
itinerary planning to special tours and banquet facilities.''

Ms. Mehta, who is in her mid-40's, normally wears saris in the office, because
''they are beautiful and comfortable,'' said that neither she nor her husband
ever regretted settling in the United States. ''For my husband, the chance to do
research in the best country in the world for research and at one of the top
institutions, has been wonderful. As for me, the freedom and opportunity to do
what I want to do is marvelous.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Varsha Mehta, manager of ICI Travel; Photo of Woongyong Park
with his wife, Sookhi (NYT/Suzanne DeChillo)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

OFF L.I., A PIRATE RADIO STATION DEFIES F.C.C.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 845 words


Protesting what they called the stagnant state of rock-and-roll radio in New
York City, a group of gadfly radio enthusiasts took to the airwaves last week
from a rusty old freighter anchored five miles off Long Island's South Shore.

The Federal Government was not amused, and Saturday, after two nights of
broadcasts, it sent a boarding party out to head off the pirates.

Two agents of the Federal Communications Commission, accompanied by a Customs
Service officer and an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer, sailed on
a Coast Guard cutter to the 200-foot freighter, moored south of Long Beach and
flying a Honduran flag.

They told the two radio operators aboard the freighter - newly christened Sarah
after the girlfriends of some of the operators - that they were apparently
violating Federal rules requiring broadcasters to be licensed.

Late yesterday, Randi Steele of Queens, a leader of the group that put together
the seaborne station, expressed defiance of the F.C.C.'s action. He said the
station planned to continue broadcasting since it was outside what he said was
the three-mile territorial limit of the F.C.C. The station was on again last
night.

''We're basically doing this as a flare, a warning signal that New York City
radio that is directed at youth is very stale and stagnant,'' said Mr. Steele,
who is 30 years old and is a disc jockey for a show, ''The Steele Ship,'' on the
pirate station.

A figure at the center of the enterprise was Alan Weiner of Monticello, Me., a
former owner of radio stations who has battled with the F.C.C. before, in Maine
and in Yonkers, over its powers to regulate the airwaves. Mr. Weiner has boasted
in the past of his ability to uncover loopholes in Federal broadcasting
regulations.

Sally Lawrence, a spokeswoman for the F.C.C., said yesterday that Mr. Weiner,
who was aboard the freighter on Saturday night, had operated a legal station in
Presque Isle, Me., but had his license revoked in April 1985 because he was
broadcasting on unassigned frequencies.

According to Mr. Steele, Mr. Weiner is part of a group of about 20 ''radio
enthusiasts,'' some of whom have worked as engineers and on-air personalities in
the radio industry.

The group calls itself Radio NewYork International, or R.N.I. The group, Mr.
Steele said, feels that F.C.C. regulations requiring stations to set guidelines
for what their disk jockeys can play have made it difficult to put a personal
stamp on the music and talk that gets aired. Its members, he added, also share a
''pacifist'' political philosophy.

They also plan to begin broadcasting full time in August and to sell
commercials.

A Honduran Registry

In a telephone interview, Mr. Steele said the group pooled $100,000 of savings
to buy the vessel - described by the Coast Guard as ''very rusty'' -and outfit
her with five transmitters, including a 110-foot radio tower. The group obtained
a Honduran registry on July 3, Mr. Steele said, because an American flag would
have made the ship subject to American radio regulations.

The ship has been rechristened the Sarah, Mr. Steele said, because ''a number of
us have had girlfriends named Sarah and there are a couple of rock songs named
Sarah so it seemed the logical thing to do.''

The Sarah sailed from a Boston dock with a crew of six and anchored off Long
Beach. Using less than 20 percent of her transmitting power, she broadcast for
six hours Thursday night and six hours Friday night over 1620 AM, 103.1 FM and
shortwave and long wave frequencies.

Mr. Steele said the music ranged from tunes from the 1960's to contemporary rock
hits. To illustrate the kind of antiwar message that he argued was not available
on licensed radio stations, Mr. Steele said the station played John Lennon's
''Give Peace a Chance'' with Country Joe and the Fish's ''I Feel Like I'm Fixin'
to Die'' and Bruce Cockburn's ''If I Had a Rocket Launcher.''

The broadcasts, Mr. Steele said, were heard by his friends all over the New York
area and as far away as Boston. And F.C.C. officials said the Friday night
broadcast was picked up much farther away - at its monitoring station in
Allegan, Mich.

Broadcast Was Illegal

Using direction-finding equipment, officials traced the source of the
transmission to a point at sea off Long Island and called in the Coast Guard.
Immigration and Customs officials joined the boarding party to make sure their
agency's regulations were not being breached.

Richard Elliott, chief quartermaster of the 1st Coast Guard District based in
Boston, said the rusty white-hulled Sarah was a converted Japanese fishing
vessel, formerly known as the L Lopez II, whose owner was listed as
International Ship Owner of Sarasota Avenue in Yonkers, N.Y.

Ms. Lawrence said no matter how far out at sea the ship was, it was illegal to
broadcast without a license on an unassigned frequency.

Moreover, F.C.C. officials said 103.1 FM has been assigned to New York stations
in Oneonta, Carthage and Newburgh and that the Sarah's transmission threatened
to interfere with those signals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 4, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: BRIEFING;
Du Pont Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 121 words


Immigration policies have long been a matter of high-level concern. To wit: a
browser in the National Archives has found a 1798 letter from President John
Adams to his Secretary of State, Timothy Pickering, expressing reluctance to
grant a passport to ''Dupont de Nemours or any other French philosophers in the
present situation of our country. . . .We have had too many French philosophers
already.''

Mr. Adams was referring to Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours, a French economist
and less-than-radical participant in the French Revolution a few years earlier.
Despite the President's views, he emigrated in 1799, and his son, E. I. du Pont,
went on to build a gunpowder mill in Delaware and found an industrial empire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 8, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Soviet Scientist Is Said to Request Asylum in U.S. After Leaving Ship

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Aug. 7


A Soviet citizen has sought asylum here and has been turned over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service pending an investigation, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation said today.

An F.B.I. spokesman, John Eyer, declined to name the man seeking asylum. The
Associated Press said the captain of a Soviet fishing research vessel reported
that Dmitri Vinogredov, a zoologist, had failed to return to the ship from a
tour of Olympia with other crew members Thursday.

The news service said that the captain had reported the disappearance of the
30-year-old scientist to the Soviet consulate in San Francisco.

Pam Carrozza, deputy district director of the Immigration Service, confirmed
that a Soviet citizen had asked for asylum. She said no decision had been
reached on the request.

Vessel Has Crew of 68

The A.P. quoted Capt. Slava Termin of the Soviet vessel Babaevsk as saying that
Mr. Vinogredov slipped away from a group of crew members that had been taken by
bus to the Capital Mall in Olympia.

The ship, with a crew of 68, has been in the Bering Sea and docked recently at
Aberdeen, Wash., for refueling.

Mark Grimes, 28 years old, of Lacey, said that Mr. Vinogredov walked into the
lounge of Charlie's Restaurant in the mall, waving an American flag. ''He walked
in and said, 'Is this seat taken?' '' Mr. Grimes told The Associated Press. ''He
said, 'I love America.' I said, 'Where you from?' He said, 'I'm from Russia and
I'm defecting.' ''

Mr. Grimes said he later took Mr. Vinogredov back to his apartment where he
called the F.B.I. Mr. Grimes said he then sent Mr. Vinogredov to a nearby tavern
to wait for an F.B.I. agent.

Meetings at University

Dr. Donald Bevan of the University of Washington said four scientists from the
Soviet vessel attended meetings Wednesday, Thursday and Friday on the University
campus in Seattle.

''The meetings were previously scheduled to let us exchange documents and
research about the fisheries from Mexico up the coast to the Soviet areas of the
Bering Sea,'' he said.

Dr. Bevan said he had never heard of Mr. Vinogredov. ''He was not scheduled to
attend our meetings and did not. Those four scientists scheduled to attend did
attend,'' Dr. Bevan said.

Later in the day, Captain Temin took a call on the phone aboard his ship but
declined to comment.

Kevin King, of Kerr Steamship Company, the agent for the Babaevsk, said the
338-feet vessel would return to sea after refueling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CANADA RELEASES A REPORT ON NAZIS

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 8


A study for a Canadian Government commission says people who would have been
considered ''undesirable Nazi collaborators'' were admitted to Canada as
immigrants after World War II because of incomplete and misleading information
supplied by United States intelligence officers.

The 560-page study, by Alti Rodal, an Oxford-trained historian living in Ottawa,
was compiled for the Deschenes Commission. The Commission compiled an official
report on war criminals in Canada that the Government published in March.

The Rodal study, based on secret documents and extensive interviews with
officials, influenced the commission's recommendation that immediate action be
taken against 20 alleged Nazi war criminals living in Canada and that 218 other
immigrants be subjected to further investigation.

Legislation for War Crimes Trials

The Government introduced legislation, still pending, to allow for war crimes
trials in Canada. But it ignored the commission's recommendation that the Rodal
study be published, too, and released it, heavily censored, only this week,
after The Toronto Star petitioned for the document under Canada's Access to
Information Act.

The study says Government inquiries in recent years showed that in the early
1950's United States intelligence officials pushed ''Eastern Europeans with
false identities through the immigration stream to Canada.''

At the time, William Kelly, a Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer screening
immigration applications in Germany, was said to have become suspicious about
United States intentions when he noticed several applications ''all neatly typed
and emanating from an address in the American zone of occupation.''

The study says that Canada effectively became a ''dumping ground'' for former
Nazis who had outlived their usefulness as United States intellengence sources
in postwar Europe, and it quoted former Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson, then a
senior Canadian Foreign Ministry official, as having complained to his superiors
at the time that ''the Americans should take such people to the United States
rather than unloading them on others.''

In fact, the study says, the immigration of Nazis continued for a decade after
1952, with those landed here being selected by a committee of Canadian and
British intelligence officials who included H. A. R. (Kim) Philby, who defected
to the Soviet Union after being unmasked as a spy. The study says that the
committee was formally impaneled to select defectors from Soviet-occupied Europe
for resettlement here, but operated in a fashion that avoided the issue of past
Nazi associations.

The study's conclusions appeared to tally with the United States Justice
Department's disclosure in 1983 that American intelligence agencies in Europe
knowingly employed and protected former Nazis, including Klaus Barbie, the
former Gastapo chief of Lyons, recently convicted of war crimes in a French
court. The United States investigation showed that American officials assisted
some of the former Nazis in acquiring new identities that made it possible for
them to leave Europe and settle elsewhere, notably in South America.

Although it was Mrs. Rodal's allegations about the role of United States
intelligence agencies that made headlines here, her study also contained much
that was embarrassing to the Canadian Government. Among those elements is the
assertion that two alleged Nazi war criminals were admitted to Canada in 1983
because a German-born senior officer of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, along
with other officers described by the study as having sympathies that ''inclined
them towards leniency with regard to former Nazis,'' destroyed documents
relating the immigrants' Nazi pasts.

As made public, the study offers no information about the identities or
whereabouts of the alleged collaborators who entered Canada with the assistance
of United States intelligence officers, or of the two men who immigrated here
with Royal Canadian Mounted Police assistance in 1983. The Government, in
censoring the document, said it did so to protect individuals and insure fair
trials if any of them were brought to court.

Efforts to reach a Justice Department spokesman today were unsuccessful. A press
spokesman at the Central Intelligence Agency was unaware of the commission
report and said the agency would have no immediate comment.

Former Prime Ministers

Some of the censorship involved passages dealing with two former prime
ministers, Louis St. Laurent and Pierre Trudeau.

Mr. St. Laurent is depicted as having agreed to the resettlement in Canada in
1949 of a Nazi collaborator from Czechoslovakia, Karol Sidor, after a direct
appeal from Pope Pius XII. Mr. Sidor, previously commander in chief of the
Hlinka Guard, a Slovakian stormtrooper unit, had been reassigned to the Vatican
as the delegate of Nazi-occupied Slovakia. The study quotes a letter from the
Apostolic delegate in Canada telling the Canadian authorities that Mr. Sidor
''cannot settle down anywhere in Europe without undergoing serious
inconveniences and vexations.''

Mr. St. Laurent, who retired in 1957, was also depicted as having been
''personally involved'' in communicating with purported Nazi war collaborators
from Vichy France who settled in Quebec after being convicted in absentia in
French courts. Mrs. Rodal said the St. Laurent Cabinet passed a special measure
to allow four collaborators to remain in Canada as ''political refugees,'' and
that Mr. St. Laurent acted to persuade another man, Count Jacques de
Bernonville, to flee Canada before he was deported to France.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 10, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

EX-TRAVEL AGENT BEATEN TO DEATH ON EAST 87TH ST.

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 590 words


A 77-year-old retired travel agent who helped hundreds of European refugees
resettle in the United States after World War II and later aided many
immigrants, was found bludgeoned to death early yesterday in the Upper East Side
apartment where he had lived more than 30 years.

The victim, William H. Sudduth, was found dead about 3:30 A.M. lying on the
floor of his bedroom in the apartment at 56 East 87th Street, between Madison
and Park Avenues. There were two wounds of the head and the police said he had
apparently been struck with a blunt instrument.

The motive for the killing was unclear and there were no arrests or suspects in
the case late yesterday, the police said. But four men who were living with the
victim and were said to have been home when he was killed were questioned
throughout the day by detectives.

Detectives said a weighted exercise shoe found in the apartment may have been
used by the assailant. They said there was no sign of a forced entry, and that
one of the men living in the apartment found the body. The victim's room was in
slight disarray, indicating either a struggle or a search, said Capt. Edward T.
Minogue, commander of Zone 3 detectives.

A Self-Styled Philanthropist

Relatives, neighbors and the police last night described Mr. Sudduth as a
self-styled philahthropist who helped many immigrants to resettle in this
country and often provided homeless people with rooms in his four-bedroom,
seven-room apartment, a rent-controlled flat on the fifth floor of a six-story
cooperative building.

The four men living with Mr. Sudduth were described as 35 years old to 40 years
old. The police said they understood the men were not rent-paying tenants but
were being aided by the victim. No other information about the men was released,
and neighbors said they did not know them.

Mr. Sudduth's early work in aiding refugees was reported in news accounts in the
late 1940's and early 1950's. It began after World War II when, as an official
of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, he went to
Heidelberg, West Germany, to help hundreds of homeless young Europeans, many of
them victims of concentration camps, who had applied to immigrate to the United
States.

Returning to New York, he became an executive of the American Express Company
but continued to dedicate himself to aiding displaced people. Over the next six
years, he helped 450 young people, often paying for their transportation,
providing them free temporary lodgings in his apartment and getting them jobs
and college scholarships.

'A One-Man Rescue Squad'

The Readers Digest, in a 1954 profile, called Mr. Sudduth ''a one-man rescue
squad whose hobby is helping young displaced persons get to America,'' and
added, ''arranging scholarships and jobs for them, he sets them on the road to
becoming productive U.S. citizens.''

''He continued to do that sort of thing right up till the time he died,'' the
victim's daughter, Mrs. Lynde Karin of Middlebury, Vt., said last night. ''There
was always a new group of immigrants - South Americans, Cubans, Cambodians,
Japanese. Probably some of them were illegal aliens. He never asked questions.''

Mrs. Karin said her father worked for American Express until about 1960, then
operated his own travel business, the Marco Polo Travel Agency, in Greenwich,
Conn., for about a decade. Though he retired in the 1970's, she said, he
continued work as a travel consultant and to aid refugees and immigrants with
money, accommodations and other help.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 12, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Pan American Games;
Eight Dominicans Leave Village Site

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Aug. 11


Eight Dominican athletes, all members of the armed forces, were missing from the
Pan American Games athletes' village today, and the head of that nation's
delegation called them ''traitors.''

Four weight lifters, two wrestlers and two cyclists are missing, according to
Bienvenido Solano, the chief of the Dominican Republic team.

Solano said the eight would be ''sanctioned for life'' and would be considered
''traitors, because they didn't even have the honor of defending the flag, which
they pledged in Santo Domingo.''

He said the cyclists, Eugenio Deschamps and Teodoro Sosa, left Sunday on their
bicycles and had not been seen since. Solano identified the rest of the missing
athletes as the wrestlers, Francisco Lora and Fausto Santana, and the weight
lifters, Angel Bernal, Angel Diaz, Luis Schowe and Manuel Volcquez.

Authorities Notified

The Dominicans have notified village authorities, the United States Immigration
Service and the Dominican Secretary of the Armed Forces ''because the deserters
are military.''

Robert Johnson, officer in charge of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Indianapolis, said he had no information about the
eight Dominicans.

Solano said that ''this is the first time that something like this has happened
to a Dominican sports delegation. We are ashamed and disappointed.''

He said that after the competition Monday night, the four Dominican weight
lifters did not return to the village.

Suspension Reduced One Game

The length of the suspension of United States team handball player, James
Buehning of Short Hills, N.J., was reduced today by one game, making Buehning
eligible for the Pan American Games title game should the American team make it
that far.

Buehning had been suspended for four games, which would have made him ineligible
for any further Pan Am competition, for striking a Canadian player during
Sunday's first game. Buehning, a 1984 Olympian, slapped Denis Dubreuil in the
head with 7 minutes 32 seconds left in Sunday's game, which the United States
won, 31-23. He immediately was ejected.

A three-member jury reduced the suspension after hearing an appeal from the
United States handball program and after determining that Buehning was provoked
by a Canadian player during the game, leading him to punch the Canadian in the
face.

Buehning is the son of Dr. Peter G. Buehning, who recently was elected president
of the Pan American Team Handball Federation. ''I do feel punishment was
warranted,'' said Renate Buehning, James's mother and the chairman of the United
States women's team handball program. Mrs. Buehning said, however, that
suspending her son for the rest of the games would have been ''a drastic
decision.''

As for competition, the United States continued to dominate the medal standing
with 90, including 43 gold. Cuba was next with 47 medals, 24 gold, including all
19 golds awarded in weight lifting so far.

The United States and Cuba combined have more medals than all the other 21
medalist countries.

In swimming, Mike O'Brien of Costa Mesa, Calif., the 1984 Olympic 1,500-meter
freestyle winner, took the 200 backstroke. He was on the winning United States
800 freestyle relay team Monday.

Martin Swimming Winner

Julie Martin of LaPalma, Calif., won the women's 400-meter freestyle. Todd
Dudley of Raleigh, N.C., was first in the men's 100 freestyle. The relay team
had Kathy Coffin of Colonial Heights, Va., Jenny Thompson of Dover, N.H., Sara
Linke of Walnut Creek, Calif., and the 1984 Olympic gold medalist, Carrie
Steinseifer of Saratoga, Calif.

The United States equestrian team won the three-day dressage competition, led by
Mike Huber of Norman, Okla., aboard Quartermaster. His 45.2 penalty points were
the lowest total in the event.

The American skeet shooters, Matt Dryke of Sequim, Wash., Dan Carlisle of
Corona, Calif., and Al Mullins of Columbus, Ga., won a gold medal.

No-Hitter in Softball

In men's softball, Vaughn Alvey of Sandy, Utah, pitched a no-hitter, walking the
first batter, then retiring the next 21 in a 9-0 rout of Argentina. Alvey struck
out 12 and allowed only two balls out of the infield.

United States sailors dominated the opening day of competition in yachting,
winning in five of the seven divisions as light winds shortened some of the
races on Lake Michigan.

Chris Larson of Charleston, S.C., was the winner of the first race in the
13-foot Laser Class against 14 competitors, the largest field in the yachting.
The United States won the largest class, the 26-foot Soling Class, with the
three-man crew of Will Baylis of Carmel, Calif., Robert Billingham of Greenbrae,
Calif., and John Kostecki of San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

First Vermont Alien Amnesty

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 43, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., Aug. 28


A native of Montreal has become the first person in Vermont to benefit from the
new immigration law. June Mendell, 31 years old, who has lived in Vermont for 16
years, has received amnesty under the act, which allows people who entered the
United States illegally to become citizens if they have lived in the country
continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. ''This is the most exciting thing that's ever
happened,'' said Ms. Mendell, who lives in Lake Elmore. She came to Vermont on a
vacation and decided to stay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. and Vietnam Unite to Aid Leukemia Victim

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 561 words


Exceptional high-level arrangements by the Governments of Vietnam and the United
States will allow a 20-year-old Vietnamese-American student dying of leukemia to
receive a bone-marrow transplant from a sister who was permitted to leave
Vietnam.

The sister and six other family members who were also permitted to emigrate to
the United States arrived in San Jose, Calif., on Thursday. Doctors say the
operation will give the student a 50 percent chance of survival. Without it they
said, he would probably die within months. Bone-marrow transplant donations can
be made only by immediate family members whose tissues precisely match the
recipient.

The ill refugee, an engineering student in San Jose, immigrated to the United
States after the fall of Vietnam in 1975 with his father and a brother. His
father has obtained anonymity for the family from the doctors and officials
involved.

The student's mother and five sisters remained in Saigon, now Ho Chi Minh City.
When the youth became ill, efforts to treat him with chemotherapy failed, and
doctors discovered that neither his father nor brother had the matching tissue.
That left the other family members in Vietnam. All of them had applied for
permission to come to the United States, but Vietnam has stopped issuing exit
permits in recent months.

Doctor Asked for Blood Samples

Dr. Ann von Gehr of the Permanente Medical Group in San Jose, the student's
doctor, brought the problem to the attention of Dr. Arnold Schecter, a professor
of preventive medicine at the State University of New York at Binghamton. Dr.
Schecter frequently travels to Vietnam to conduct research in public health.

During a trip there in July, Dr. Schecter asked Vietnamese authorities to speed
up action on the California leukemia case. He urged Hanoi either to permit the
drawing of blood samples from family members or to allow them to travel to the
United States.

Dr. Schecter also left a message in Hanoi for John W. Vessey Jr., the retired
general who went to Vietnam in August as President Reagan's emissary in
discussing the fates of missing American servicemen. Dr. Schecter said the
General helped expedite the case with the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry and the
State Department.

As a result, seven of the student's family members, his mother, three unmarried
sisters and a married sister with her husband and child, left Vietnam and
arrived in San Jose on Thursday. Within hours, Dr. Schecter said, blood samples
had been taken from the immediate family. On Friday, analysts at Stanford
University Medical Center determined that one sister had the required tissue
type.

The operation, similar to the emergency marrow transplants performed on victims
of the Soviet nuclear reactor accident at Chernobyl last year, will probably be
performed in the next two weeks, Dr. Schecter said.

'Immense Satisfaction

Dr. Schecter said he saw the exceptional action taken by Hanoi and Washington in
this case as potentially symptomatic of improving relations between the two
countries, even though the circumstances were unusual.

''In any case,'' he said, ''it's an immense satisfaction for someone whose
somewhat impersonal profession is public health to have a hand in helping anyone
directly.'' Whatever the outcome of the operation, he said, at least the patient
has been reunited with his mother and sisters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Officials in Vietnam on Emigre Program

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Sept. 18


For the first time since Americans fled the fall of Saigon a dozen years ago,
United States officials are working in Vietnam. They are consular and
immigration officials who have resumed screening Vietnamese applicants for
American resettlement.

The screening, which began last week after a long freeze, was resumed after the
United States agreed in August to discuss Vietnam's postwar humanitarian needs
and the Vietnamese pledged to speed up the resolution of cases of Americans
missing in action. Diplomats here said the American move indicated that
relations between the two countries could improve substantially under Hanoi's
new party leader, Nguyen Van Linh. #1,000 Interviewed Disagreements among local
and national Communist Party leaders over whether to proceed with legal
emigration under the Orderly Departure Program were thought to have been the
cause of a freeze in the screening from January 1986 until now. The freeze also
affected resettlement programs of other nations, including Australia and Canada.
More than 1,000 Vietnamese were interviewed last week by the Americans, said
Bruce Beardsley, who directs Indochinese refugee programs from the United States
Embassy in Bangkok and who was part of the American team in Ho Chi Minh City,
formerly Saigon. Only nine applicants were rejected, with about 100 cases
awaiting more documentation.

The next round of screening in Ho Chi Minh City is tentatively scheduled for
October, when interviewing of children of American and Vietnamese couples is
also expected to resume.

Eighty-one of an estimated 10,000 such young people - known as Amerasians - and
their families qualify for American citizenship, United States officials said.
They said Hanoi has never explained why these people, now teenagers or in their
20's, have not been allowed to emigrate.

About 670,000 Vietnamese are seeking resettlement in the United States, Mr.
Beardsley told reporters today. American officials have issued letters of
introduction to 95,000 of them, signifiying that they apparently are eligible
for American visas. The 95,000 include some inmates of political prisons.

Prisoner Resettlement Ruled Out

The Vietnamese authorities, who reserve the right to decide which applicants
will be given exit permits, are limiting interviews to family reunion cases for
the moment. They rule out the release of any prisoners for resettlement abroad,
saying they remain a political issue that would have to be discussed at a higher
level.

But Western and Vietnamese diplomats say a number of officials of former South
Vietnamese regimes who would qualify for American resettlement on humanitarian
grounds were among more than 6,000 prisoners ordered released by Hanoi last
week.

The most prominent of the prisoners freed was Lieut. Gen. Nguyen Huu Co, a
former South Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister.

The participation of Mr. Beardsley in last week's interviews in Ho Chi Minh
City, along with a United States consular officer and a member of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, raised the American involvement to a
diplomatic level for the first time. However, no formal relations exist between
Hanoi and Washington.

Vietnamese officials said they had been pressing for this change over the last
few months. Since the Orderly Departure Program began in 1979 interviewing for
the United States had been done by the International Catholic Migration Agency.
Other nations with diplomatic representation in Vietnam conduct their
resettlement interviews through consular officials.

The procedure used by the Americans delayed the departure process, the
Vietnamese said. Interviewers in Vietnam had to relay details on cases to
Americans in Bangkok who then made decisions on the applicants.

The United States has resisted establishing any diplomatic presence in Vietnam
until all Americans missing in action are accounted for and Hanoi withdraws its
troops from Cambodia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 23, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

A Hotel-Jail for Refugees

BYLINE: By Arthur C. Helton; Arthur C. Helton is director of the political
asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 749 words


It's hard to imagine officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service as
devotees of the French surrealist Jean-Paul Sartre. Yet a jail they have
established in a luxury hotel at Kennedy Airport so closely resembles Sartre's
vision of hell in his play ''No Exit'' - perpetual and unrelieved confinement in
a small room with three strangers - that one is hard-pressed to avoid such a
conclusion.

Since April, the I.N.S. has contracted with a private security company, Tri-Way
Security and Escort Services Inc., to detain in a wing of the hotel, the
Viscount International, as many as 60 aliens at a time, at a cost of $4 million
annually. Several Afghans have been held already in this privately managed
detention facility, as have individuals from Sri Lanka, Ghana, Chad, India,
Bangladesh, Libya and Pakistan - all countries that could produce legitimate
refugees.

Indeed, many of these people have applied for political asylum, claiming that
they would be persecuted if they were returned to their home countries. But they
can remain imprisoned for up to a year or more, irrespective of the merits of
their claims.

Conditions at the facility are inhumane. According to notarized affidavits of
detainees, taken by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, several of the
aliens being held have reported overcrowding, with detainees sometimes sleeping
four and five to a room. Many have said that they have slept two to a bed with
strangers. They are confined 24 hours a day, except for excursions to Manhattan
for court appearances. There are no provisions for exercise. Their only
recreational activities are playing cards and watching television.

The detainees - who are not criminals but aliens who arrived without valid
passports and visas - are held at the hotel generally for as long as it takes to
decide their cases for admission, sometimes up to several months. In that time,
they are almost completely isolated from the outside world. They cannot receive
family visits, and they have been denied access to communications by telephone
and mail. No medical officer is on duty, and the detainees are not even informed
of their rights and responsibilities.

While the hotel-cum-jail has been operating for some time, it might have escaped
notice if not for a recent tragedy involving an escape attempt by two Indian
Sikhs, who had been detained three weeks. One, Kuldib Singh Dhariwal, age 28,
fell more than 30 feet from a fourth floor window when the rope he had fashioned
from his turban snapped. He died from his injuries on Aug. 31.

This fatal escape attempt raises questions both about the continued use of the
hotel as a detention center and about alien detention policy in general.

The ultimate source of the alien detention problem is an administrative ruling
issued in July 1982 that requires the incarceration of most arriving
undocumented aliens, including those applying for political asylum, irrespective
either of the likelihood of their fleeing or of the danger they pose to the
American community. The ruling followed complaints from Haitian detainees, who
claimed they were being discriminated against. In response, the immigration
service decided to mistreat others equally.

The problem is complicated at the Viscount Hotel by the private and
unaccountable nature of the custody. Overcrowded and lacking exercise areas or
facilities for family visits, the hotel is singularly unsuited for long-term
detention. Moreover, by the terms of Tri-Way's contract with the I.N.S., guards
are required to receive only one hour of training in human relations - hardly
adequate for the demands of overseeing long-term detainees.

The I.N.S. defends the Viscount as a stop-gap measure. But this assertion is
untrue: The contract with Tri-Way could run through 1989. And, while inferior
conditions may have improved temporarily under public scrutiny and pressure,
they will inevitably recur.

The authorities, apparently recognizing the drawbacks of the arrangement, have
recently arranged to transfer some of the longer-term detainees to Federal
facilities. The I.N.S. should establish guidelines to insure similar transfers
for anyone held longer than a few days. Moreover, the I.N.S. should maintain a
stronger presence, rather than leaving management of the detention facility
entirely in the hands of a private company.

Avoiding further abuse and tragedies will require systematic and vigorous
oversight by the I.N.S, and, if necessary, by other authorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TIES WITH CUBA IN WARMING TREND

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2


The icy relationship between the United States and Cuba has warmed slightly over
the last few months, with both countries softening their positions and
indicating a willingness for at least some compromise in hopes of reinstating a
key immigration agreement.

Cuba angrily suspended the agreement more than two years ago when the United
States started Radio Marti, a branch of the Voice of America that offered news
about Cuba that had previously not been available through the island's
controlled press.

Last winter, relations between the two countries sank to their lowest level in a
decade. Through the year, there have been several points of contention,
including an American campaign accusing Cuba of human rights abuses.

But in May, Kenneth N. Skoug Jr., the director of the State Department's Office
of Cuban Affairs, met with senior Cuban officials in Havana. A few weeks later,
both sides made concessions on certain uses of chartered flights between the
United States and Cuba. Two weeks ago, John J. Taylor, a 55-year-old career
Foreign Service officer, arrived in Havana to fill the senior diplomatic post
the United States has in Havana. The position had been left vacant for seven and
a half months.

Cuba Releases Prisoners

In August and September, Cuba released about 30 political prisoners and
permitted them to come to the United States. State Department officials say this
contributed to a ''better atmosphere.''

None of these developments is directly related to negotiations to restore the
immigration agreement, but Cuba's agreement to permit the United States to use
chartered planes to carry supplies for its diplomatic mission in Havana and the
filling of the vacancy at the mission are regarded as necessary preliminaries by
some diplomats and experts on Cuba.

The agreement, suspended in May 1985, provided a kind of social pressure valve
for Cuba, providing for the annual emigration of as many as 20,000 Cubans to the
United States.

And it enabled the United States to deport several thousand Cubans who had
histories of crime or mental illness or who were convicted of crimes after
arriving in the United States along with more than 100,000 other Cubans in the
Mariel boatlift in 1980.

Accord's Importance

Unable to accept these Cubans as emigrants or to send them back, the United
States has been detaining them.

Scores of Cubans, unable to leave their country legally, have fled Cuba in the
last year in flimsy rafts made of inner tubes, partly because of economic
hardships and Government demands for greater personal sacrifice.

The latest departures have been an embarrassment to Havana, and have raised
concerns among some Reagan Administration officials that another flood of
refugees like the Mariel boatlift could be in the offing.

''I can't underscore enough the importance of reinstating that agreement,'' Mr.
Skoug said in an interview this week.

A Cuban diplomat in Washington said he could not discuss his country's position
in detail, but said, ''We're interested in resuming the immigration agreement.''

He added that Cuba felt the differences between the United States and Cuba on
Radio Marti had to be resolved first.

A Cuban Miscalculation

In what American diplomats describe as a miscalculation, Cuban officials say
they believed when they signed the immigration agreement in late 1984 that the
United States had decided, as a display of good faith, to abandon Radio Marti.

Cuban officials say that they felt betrayed, but that they now regard the
suspension of the agreement as ''an angry reaction,'' and they add, ''We are now
more flexible in the way we see Radio Marti.''

Cuba initially had insisted that the United States take Radio Marti off the air.
Later, it demanded that the United States make available radio frequencies in
the United States so that it could broadcast to Americans.

Cuba now says that it would be considerably mollified if the United States
stopped using the name of the Cuban hero, Jose Marti, in connection with the
broadcasts.

Signs of Improvement

Tension between the two countries increased in spring and summer when a Cuban
Air Force general and a major in Cuba's intelligence service defected to the
United States. Cuba responded by charging in a campaign, which continues, that
scores of American diplomats posted in Havana had engaged in espionage activity
since limited diplomatic ties were established in 1977.

Cuban officials say the campaign was intended mainly to counter the impact of
the defections internally. United States officials have accepted that
interpretation, and the damage to the relationship has been limited.

Last December, Cuba charged that a United States reconnaissance plane had
violated Cuban airspace. It curtailed the access of the senior American diplomat
to Government social functions and halted the use of chartered flights to bring
supplies to the Americans in Cuba.

In July, the United States gave its approval for Cuban athletes to travel to the
Pan American Games in Indianapolis in chartered planes, and a short time later
Cuba gave permission forthe first of several supply charters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 14, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Ellis Island Gathers the Pieces of Its Past

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1150 words


A faded yellow teddy bear that passed through Ellis Island in 1920 will soon
return to the main immigration building, to be displayed against the side of an
open battered suitcase. The suitcase contains a German Bible with a four-leaf
clover pressed inside.

Nearby, a collection of antiquated passports from dozens of countries will be
displayed. In another room will sit a simple wooden 10-piece puzzle of a
steamship used by the chief medical examiner of the island until 1916 to test
the mental fitness of scores of new arrivals.

While workers toil to complete $140 million in renovations at the main building,
its expected contents were announced this week by officials of the Statue of
Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation Inc., which has raised $308 million for the
statue and Ellis Island.The organizers said the immigration building would be a
museum of artifacts and oral recollections commemorating the nation's heritage.

Photographs and Tapes

''This exhibit is about the movement of people around the world,'' the president
and chief operating officer of the foundation, Stephen A. Briganti, said. ''It
is about why they went, where they went, and what they did when they got
there.''

Providing 100,000 square feet of exhibition space, the turn-of-the-century
building has more room for pictures and remnants than any other museum on
immigration to the United States, the foundation said. The collection will
include photographs by Lewis Hine, a library for scholars and a room of tapes of
alumni of the island. There will also be a wall with the names of thousands who
passed through the building and had donations of $100 or more made in their
honor to help the reconstruction.

With plaster falling in hallways and boards covering the tiled floors,
construction workers are two years away from completing the renovated building,
which opened in 1892, a year after Congress had stripped the states of
jurisdiction over immigration and put it under Federal control. Much of the
original structure was destroyed in 1897 after a serious fire. The main building
reopened in 1900.  Although a ferry route has not been decided, the organizers
said they were considering a site near South Ferry and were also contemplating
ferries between Ellis and Liberty Islands.

On the Fourth of July

The one and a half million visitors expected to visit the museum each year will
begin their visit at the same dock where most of the immigrants between 1892 and
1954 landed.

''Finally we arrived in New York Harbor,'' recounts an unidentified man with a
slight accent, one of hundreds who have been taped for replay in the museum.
''It happened to be on the Fourth of July, 1905. Of course, I read a lot when I
was in Russia about America. And when I heard the shooting, I imagined that the
Indians are shooting. I heard the Fourth of July celebration shootings.''

A woman with a frail voice said: ''People were crying. They were hysterical.
They were told they have to go back. Some people had trachoma. Some people, they
found lice in their hair. They were terrified at that time to get off the
boat.''

As with their ancestors, visitors will arrive under a rebuilt canopy in front of
the awe-inspiring south facade of the main building, with its pair of limestone
eagles clutching shields of the Stars and Stripes. The visitors will enter
through a glass-enclosed foyer that leads to the baggage room. The immigrants
began their average five-hour stays on the 27 1/2-acre island by collecting
their belongings after what was often an arduous passage in steerage. Houston
St. or Texas?  The baggage room, a reception area, is being restored to include
a smattering of trunks and suitcases and the most common possession of an
earlier time, feather mattresses. Directly behind the baggage room, the ticket
office was often the last place newcomers passed through before leaving the
island.

''Most people did not speak the language,'' Mr. Briganti said. ''So they might
want to go to Houston Street. They would ask for a ticket to Houston, and they
would wind up in Texas.''

In place of the ticket office, ''The Peopling of America'' exhibition will have
a panorama of displays of 400 years of immigration, including charts, maps and
graphs on the history of movement to the United States.

A rebuilt staircase leads to three exhibitions on the second floor. It was the
original staircase that presented the first test for many of the 17 million
arrivals who came to the new land through the island. Inspected by doctors and
officials as they walked, immigrants would be marked an ''L'' by chalk if they
limped, an ''H'' if they showed signs of heart trouble or an ''E'' if eye
problems were detected.

'It Was an Ordeal'

''Ellis Island was considered by everybody, all the immigrants, as a purgatory,
something you had to go through,'' an unidentified man said on a tape. ''It was
an ordeal.''

At the top of the staircase is the registry room, a 180-foot-long great hall
used as a processing center. Overhead soars a 58-foot barrel-vaulted ceiling
built in 1918 with 28,258 tiles by the Guastavino Brothers, the same contractors
who constructed the ceiling of what is now the Oyster Bar at Grand Central
Terminal.

The registry room, restored to look as it appeared between 1918 and 1924, will
be left barren of exhibitions, ''a room for contemplation,'' a foundation
spokeswoman, Beverly Siegel, said.

To the west will be the American Immigrant Wall of Honor. In an effort to help
raise the remaining $14 million to complete the restoration, the foundation is
selling wall listings for $100 each. The wall has room for 100,000 names. About
1,000 listings have been sold.

Tribute to Workers

The foundation also is trying to raise money by direct mailings and requests to
corporations and other foundations. The organization's address is 52 Vanderbilt
Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017-3808.

Fourteen rooms encircle the immigrant wall and make up an exhibition called
''Ellis Island Processing.'' It will pay homage to the thousands of doctors,
nurses, Government officials and other workers on the island. One young
interpreter, Fiorello H. La Guardia, became the 99th Mayor of New York.

''It will really be the story of one group of immigrants processed by what was
often the previous group of immigrants,'' Mr. Briganti said.

The exhibitions will focus on the legal and medical treatment by immigration
officials and will describe the conditions surrounding the 2 percent who were
turned back to their homelands.

Off to the eastern side of the registry room, 10 smaller chambers will house an
exhibition detailing the peak immigration years of 1892 to 1924, before
immigration laws sharply curtailed the flow. The exhibition will describe the
conditions leading to the exodus from abroad, the movement from small towns to
port cities and the odyssey across the ocean.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Ellis Island buildings under construction and items to be
displayed in museum (NYT/Angel Franco) (Pp. 1 and 4)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 16, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Soviet Emigre Starts Life as an Israeli

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: LOD, Israel, Oct. 15


Ida Nudel's 17-year-long battle to leave the Soviet Union for Israel ended in
victory today as she arrived to a welcome that included everyone from Jane Fonda
to the Israeli Cabinet.

Clutching the collie that she brought all the way from Moscow, the diminutive,
gray-haired Miss Nudel stepped out the door of a Boeing 707 - the private jet of
Armand Hammer, the American industrialist who accompanied her from Moscow - and
was embraced by her sister, Ilena Friedman. The two sisters had not seen each
other for 15 years and it was Mrs. Friedman who spearheaded the international
campaign for Miss Nudel's freedom.

Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres greeted Miss
Nudel, who is 56 years old, as she arrived and escorted her to the terminal.
There she was immediately presented with a new Israeli identity card and
immigration papers. She also had a brief telephone conversation with Secretary
of State George P. Shultz.

Thousands of other Israelis watched the ceremony on closed-circuit television.

'An Absolutely Free Person'

''First of all I have to apologize because I speak in English not Hebrew, but I
promise to all of you I will learn Hebrew, our tongue, very quickly,'' declared
Miss Nudel, who was known as the ''Guardian Angel'' of the Soviet Jewish
dissidents because she constantly sent letters, food and clothing to other
imprisoned Soviet Jews.

Holding hands with her sister, as tears of joy streaked down her cheeks, Miss
Nudel told a packed news conference, ''For me it is the moment. It is the moment
of my life. I am at home. I am on the soil of my people. Now I am an absolutely
free person among my own people.''

At a time of great political divisiveness within Israel, and dwindling
immigration, the arrival of a woman who dared to publicly challenge the Soviet
K.G.B., or secret police, comes as an enormous morale boost for the Israelis.

''You unite the whole nation,'' Mr. Peres told Miss Nudel.

Caught the Imagination

Mr. Hammer told the news conference that Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet
leader, had asked him to help the Soviet Union in dealing with some of its
problems in Afghanistan and that he responded, ''I will if you promise me one
thing - give me Ida.''

Something about the ferocity of Miss Nudel's long battle against the Soviet
system caught the imagination of both Israelis and many others abroad.

For the last five years President Chaim Herzog has left an empty place at his
Passover table in Miss Nudel's honor. Among those active in drawing
international attention to her plight was the actress Liv Ullmann.

A former economist-engineer at the Soviet Institute for Planning and Production,
Miss Nudel had worked for years checking hygenic standards at food stores. Yet
beginning in 1971, she was repeatedly refused permission to emigrate to Israel
on the grounds that she had had access to ''state secrets.''

In 1978, Miss Nudel hung a banner from her apartment balcony which read:
''K.G.B., give me my visa to Israel.'' For this, and other demonstrations, the
Soviet authorities sentenced her to four years of internal exile in Siberia.

But amid a thaw in Soviet-American relations, the Russians reversed themselves.
On Oct. 2, Miss Nudel was informed that her exit visa was granted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Ida Nudel with her sister, Illena Friedman, after Miss Nudel's
arrival (NYT/Micha Bar-Am)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 22, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

On Ex-Dissident's Visit, Amazement in Moscow

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 21


When Alex Goldfarb's sister Olga saw him off at the airport here in 1975, she
assumed they would meet soon in the West. But her exit visa was never granted,
and the prospects of a reunion faded for 12 years.

''It never came into my head that he'd ever be able to come back,'' Miss
Goldfarb said today.

Then, two weeks ago, another one of the givens of dissident life in the Soviet
Union - the assumption that a Jew who emigrates is gone for good - was turned
topsy-turvy. Mr. Goldfarb, one of the most visible and officially disliked
Jewish dissidents in the early 1970's, came back to Moscow.

Mr. Goldfarb, 40 years old, who is now a professor of microbiology at Columbia
University and an Israeli citizen, is part of a small but growing number of
former Soviet citizens allowed back for a visit.

A Voluntary Breach

Like the increases in Jewish, Armenian and ethnic German emigration and like the
looser policies for Soviet citizens' travel abroad, the new approach to these
once-forbidden visits is seen by dissidents and Westerners here as a significant
voluntary breach in the ironbound borders of the Soviet Union under Mikhail S.
Gorbachev's leadership.

Two weeks ago, when Mr. Goldfarb fulfilled the requirement of all foreign
visitors and registered his passport with the immigration authorities, a colonel
in the Ministry of Internal Affairs called him in.

''Tell me, how did you get here?'' Mr. Goldfarb quoted the colonel as asking.
''I've never seen anything like this. How did you get here?''

Viktor Fulmakht, a Jewish activist who has long been denied an exit visa, said,
''To me, Alex Goldfarb being allowed back in is more amazing even than Ida Nudel
and Vladimir Slepak being allowed out.''

Mr. Goldfarb is not alone. One Intourist official told a Western diplomat that
as many as 200 to 300 former Soviet citizens have visited since the spring. #18
Arrived in September In early September, an organized group of 18 former Soviet
citizens, virtually all Jewish, arrived at Finland Station in Leningrad for a
week with relatives and friends most had not seen in 8 to 10 years.

The group's organizer, Sergei Aleyevsky, who runs a travel agency in Brookline,
Mass., had applied unsuccessfully for a tourist visa to the Soviet Union three
times since he became a American citizen in 1982, according to his sister, Irina
Aleyevskaya.

This summer, she said, ''he simply felt that changes were going on, and he
decided to try and take advantage of the new mood.'' Mr. Aleyevsky applied for a
visa in June, and it was granted in August.

When the train arrived at the station, ''there were tears, joy, many feelings
all at once.''

''It took more than an hour for us to get used to one another,'' said Mark
Terlitsky, 50, of his reunion with his now-American brother, Leonard, 37.

Bittersweet Meetings

For Soviet Jews like Mr. Terlitsky and Miss Aleyeskaya, the meetings with their
American brothers were bittersweet. It underscored the painful fact that
relatives had succeeded in emigrating during the detente years of the 1970's,
while they had been left behind. Visa officials said most of those forbidden to
emigrate possessed unnamed secrets.

''When Leonard first came, he said he wouldn't go back without me,'' said Mark
Terlitsky, who like his brother is an architect but who is not allowed to work
in his field. Leonard Terlitsky is now a licensed architect with a business in
New York.

''I talked him out of that idea,'' Mark Terlitsky said of his brother's offer.
''It didn't make any sense.''

But Leonard nonetheless made the familiar rounds to governmental offices seeking
to resolve his brother's situation.

Refusal Being Reviewed

Mark Terlitsky and his wife, Svetlana, have been told that their most recent
application and the official refusal are under review by a committee of the
Supreme Soviet designated this year to handle such reviews.

Leonard's visit, like Mr. Goldfarb's and Mr. Aleyevsky's, was an occasion for
celebrations in the small apartments to which they returned. For while most came
with the logistical support of Intourist, which asked payment for hotel rooms at
$100 or more a day, most stayed with relatives.

For Mr. Goldfarb, the world of Soviet public life seemed completely transformed.

''On the Jewish scene, the biggest thing for me is that many Soviet Jews see in
Gorbachev a chance for not necessarily the reality, but the possibility of an
end to the very things that led to the emigration drive in the first place,'' he
said.

''I thought you were being fooled by the Soviets,'' Mr. Goldfarb said of Western
reporters. ''But now I'm hearing people still in the system, Jews, saying, 'I
think there's a chance my children will be accepted here.' ''

Then he added, using respectively the Russian words for the Gorbachev policies
of restructuring and openness, ''I didn't see a lot of perestroika, but I did
see a lot of glasnost.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Alex Goldfarb (NYT/Yuri Lev)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 24, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. STEPS UP REVIEWS OF CUBANS HELD SINCE 1980

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 62, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 882 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has stepped up its review of Cuban
detainees, which could mean the eventual release of thousands of people who came
to the United States in the huge boatlift from Mariel, Cuba, in 1980.

But a shortage of space in rehabilitation programs has meant that few of these
Marielitos, whose indefinite jailing has provoked considerable criticism, have
actually left detention centers yet.

Since the service began a newly standardized reviewing process in June, the
status of 891 detained Cubans has been examined and 637 have been deemed
eligible for release, according to Duke Austin, an I.N.S. spokesman in
Washington.

Eighty have been released into a four-month program of rehabilitation before
official parole, 57 of them in halfway houses and 23 with family members. But
557 Cubans identified for release must wait until ''suitable placement'' is
found, Mr. Austin said in an interview Wednesday. #3,600 Now in Detention He
said it was the aim of the immigration service ''to identify all those Cubans we
can justifiably put out into society.'' Most of the 125,000 Cubans who arrived
in the 1980 boatlift have been integrated into American society, but those
convicted of crimes have faced indefinite detention.

The I.N.S. is currently holding about 3,600 Cubans who have completed prison
sentences and then, as aliens ineligible for residence in the United States
because of their criminal records, have been moved into detention, most at a
Federal penitentiary in Atlanta and a detention center at Oakdale, La.

The intensified program of reviewing their status is a ''recognition that we no
longer have an immigration agreement with Cuba and therefore have lost the
ability to deport Cubans,'' Mr. Austin said. Under a 1984 agreement, the United
States deported 2,746 Cubans, but later that year Fidel Castro suspended the
agreement in protest against the establishment of Radio Marti, a branch of the
Voice of America beamed to Cuba. #4,000 Held in Prisons In addition to those now
in I.N.S. custody, 4,000 Marielitos are currently in Federal, state and local
prisons and will be transferred to the crowded detention centers after serving
their sentences.

''We believe a very significant number of the Cubans will be released, even
thousands,'' Mr. Austin said, though he emphasized that those who had committed
''heinous crimes'' would stay in detention and that release is unlikely for the
120 Cubans in mental institutions.

Many people have criticized the continued detention of Marielitos who have
finished their prison sentences, particularly those who have served time for
nonviolent crimes, and last year a coalition of human rights and religious
groups filed a complaint with the United Nations calling attention to the
practice.

''We welcome the release of the Cubans,'' Arthur Helton, a director of the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, said lqst Wednesday, ''although we
understand that the I.N.S.'s motive is not humanistic but concern over the loss
of detention capacity.''

About 4,000 Marielitos who served prison sentences have been released from
detention since 1980, according to Mr. Austin, but he said this was done in an
ad hoc fashion at the discretion of district administrators and ''there was the
need for a standard unified program.''

Review Every 6 Months

He said that under the new procedure, each Cuban in detention will get a review
every six months, by ''roving panels'' of immigration officers. In two key
changes from the previous practice, detainees will be able to bring relatives or
lawyers with them when they appear before the review board, and the panels will
consider releasing detainees to the custody of family members instead of halfway
houses.

Carla Dudeck, the coordinator for the Coalition to Support Cuban Detainees in
Atlanta, criticized the release procedure because of inadequate facilities.
''Either they have to open more halfway houses or establish the criteria for
placement with family members or sponsors,'' she said.

Fran Kline of the Justice Department's Community Relations Service, which
finances the Special Placement Program for Cubans, said that 630 spaces in
halfway houses and with family members are planned for the fiscal year 1988, and
that the number of family placements could be expanded.

Must Report to Officials

Alberto Mueller of the Commission for Justice of Mariel Prisoners, in Miami,
said that six Cubans released to families in the Miami area two weeks ago ''are
having no trouble adapting to life here.''

Karen Ellingson, a Minnesota lawyer who represents 75 Cubans, most of them in
Stillwater State Prison, said four were released last month to family members
scattered around the United States and two more are expected to be released to
their wives shortly. They must report to a local immigration office once a
month.

She said another Cuban, who was detained in El Paso, was released
unconditionally five weeks ago to a private sponsor in St. Paul and had got a
job and a car ''and is doing very well.''

Still, Mr. Austin said immigration officials were concerned over the possibility
of negative community reaction if released detainees turn to crime, citing an
indictment of three Cubans on a murder charge last month in Columbus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 24, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

BYLINE: By In Brooklyn Apartment, Russian Finds a HavenBy ELIZABETH NEUFFER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 576 words


Yuri P. Fyodorov who immigrated to the United States this summer, learned a
lesson in New York City life yesterday: He opened the door to his new apartment
in Brooklyn and found that the kitchen cabinets and the sink had not been
installed yet.

Despite the incomplete renovations, the apartment in the Bensonhurst section is
a welcome haven, the first real home the 44-year-old Soviet emigre has had in
decades.

In 1970, Mr. Fyodorov led a group that tried to hijack a Soviet airliner on
behalf of Jews seeking to emigrate to Israel. He was arrested and he served 15
years in labor camps. After being released from a labor camp in 1985, Mr.
Fyodorov said he had been in internal exile until being ordered to leave the
Soviet Union in the summer.

Since arriving in New York in June, Mr. Fyodorov has slept in an accountant's
office.

Speaking of his new home, Mr. Fyodorov said, ''It's one of the best feelings
I've had since I've come to America.''

No Relatives or Friends

While many Soviet emigres arrive in the United States every year and wrestle
with the problems of finding a job and a home, Mr. Fyodorov's case is somewhat
different, said those who found his apartment, including a Congressman and
officials from two refugee organizations, the New York Association of New
Americans and the International Rescue Committee.

Although the International Rescue Committee sponsored Mr. Fyodorov's entry to
the United States, he arrived without the friends or relatives here that many
other emigres have, officials of the organizations said.

''The analogy would be if 10 years after the American Revolution, Sam Adams was
sleeping in the back of a tea shop,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a
Brooklyn Democrat, who helped find an apartment for Mr. Fyodorov.

Mr. Fyodorov, speaking in Russian, said his activity as a dissident dated to
1962, when he was first arrested and sentenced to three years in a labor camp
for circulating anti-Soviet propaganda. After his release, he organized the
hijack attempt with nine others, mostly Jews. They were arrested June 15, 1970,
while trying to hijack a small Aeroflot AN-2 plane to fly from Leningrad to
Finland.

''There was no other way to leave the Soviet Union at that point,'' Mr. Fyodorov
said.

'Risking His Life'

In the trial that followed and became the focus of international concern, Mr.
Fyodorov, a devout Christian, was convicted and sentenced to labor camps in Perm
and other areas.

''He was a non-Jew risking his life to save Jews,'' said an aide to Mr. Schumer,
Wayne Josel. ''It is the tradition of the righteous Gentile.''

Mr. Fyodorov said he had not found much change in his homeland under
''glasnot,'' or openess, the policy of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader.
''Glasnost only concerns Moscow,'' he said. ''It is just dust in your eyes.''

Now, Mr. Fyodorov say he looks forward to experiencing life outside of prison
for the first time since he was 27-years-old.

''It is very strange,'' said Mr. Fyodorov, who was dressed in a leather jacket
and blue jeans and was chain-smoking cigarettes. ''Sometimes I think I am
dreaming it.''

Surrounded by suitcases and bags full of his belongings, Mr. Fyodorov said he
intended to find a job, enjoy his new home - after the landlord completes the
renovations - and otherwise, stay put.

''New York'' said the Soviet emigre, his beard streaked with white, his eyes a
piercing blue-grey, ''is enough right now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Yuri P. Fyodorov with his dog, Fyodor, in his apartment in the
Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn (NYT/Gary Guisinger)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Killing and School Plan Stir Tensions in Lowell

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 43, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: LOWELL, Mass., Oct. 21


Rancor and hostility toward this city's newest group of immigrants has surfaced
amid an angry debate over a school desegregation plan.

The rising tensions have a familiar ring here in the Boston area, where school
busing accompanied by ethnic clashes have been a fact of life for more than a
decade.

But they have bitterly ironic overtones in Lowell, a city whose most prominent
citizen and economic savior, the computer entrepreneur An Wang, is an immigrant
from Asia. The targets of the recent outbreak of ethnic tension are also Asians.


Businesses and Buddhist Temple

Refugees from Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam now make up about 15 percent of
Lowell's 100,000 residents. Lured by the region's flourishing high-technology
industries, most of the immigrants arrived in the last four years, establishing
businesses and a Buddhist temple, thronging the city's tiny Acre section and
becoming increasingly visible to an increasingly perplexed community.

''You can't go to a self-service gas station without the cashier being an
Asian,'' said Larry Flynn, coordinator of a program, Gateway Cities, that helps
immigrants.

Mr. Flynn and several city officials said that hostility toward the Cambodians,
by far the largest immigrant group, has risen in Lowell, in part because of
their visibility and in part because of customs many natives find strange or
suspicious. Many of the immigrants live communally in houses packed with several
generations of extended family. Few speak English well. And some drive luxurious
cars, prompting rumors of secret Government handouts. In fact, Mr. Flynn said,
the cars are purchased with the combined savings of several families.

Cambodian Boy Killed

''Cambodian families pool their money so they can buy one house and one car to
share,'' Mr. Flynn said, ''The bigots who have taken over are people who work
lousy jobs, rent small apartments, and see Cambodians driving by in nice cars.''

Tensions surfaced most dramatically in September, when a 13-year-old Cambodian
boy drowned after he was pushed into the Pawtucket Canal by a white boy. The
killing sent shock waves through the Cambodian enclave and also focused
attention on the desegregation plan because the fight developed after the boys
had to wait for a tardy school bus.

The Cambodian boy, Vandy Phorng, whose family of 10 fled Southeast Asia four
years ago, went fishing with his brother, Vanthy, and some friends after their
school bus did not arrive. According to accounts by Vanthy and the police, an
11-year-old who was also not picked up for school made comments about Vandy's
ethnic background, hit him in the face, and pushed him in the water, where
strong currents impeded his swimming. Vanthy, who is 8, found a passing student,
who pulled the boy from the water, but Vandy died the next day. The 11-year-old
faces up to 10 years in the custody of the state's juvenile justice system.

Referendum on Busing

The busing plan was ordered by the state last year when officials discovered
that schools in the Acre section were both segregated and overcrowded, with
classes of Cambodian students held in billiard rooms at the Lowell Y.M.C.A. The
plan, which requires that 700 of Lowell's 13,000 schoolchildren be bused to
schools outside their neighborhoods, was adopted by a 4-to-3 vote of the Lowell
School Committee after the state threatened to cut off state aid.

At first, the plan faltered because of a shortage of bus drivers. Fights broke
out among students left standing at bus stops, and local election campaigns were
transformed into a referendum on the busing plan.

In a primary election for the School Committee last month, candidates in whose
vehement opposition to busing some residents see racial undertones placed first
and second. The first-place winner, George Kouloheras, has has publically
criticized city officials for making the city too attractive to Cambodians.

Most Candidates Favor Repeal

''He is becoming a spokesman for bigotry,'' Mr. Flynn said, Mr. Kouloheras
declined to be interviewed.

At a recent debate, 15 of 17 candidates for the City Council called for the
repeal of the plan, even though the state's Education Commissioner, Harold
Raynolds, vowed that, in the event of a repeal, he would have the school
committee sued.

''It's ironic that there is this undercurrent of racial hostility in Lowell,''
said Anita Dunn, an aide to Congressman Chester Atkins, who represents the city.
Referring to Mr. Wang, a Harvard-trained computer scientist who moved his
computer company's executive offices to Lowell in 1978, she added, ''So much of
Lowell's economic revitalization has been due to Asian immigrants.''

The Cambodian community is a silent voice in the desegregation debate. Many have
arrived in Lowell too recently, or speak too little English, to understand the
school issue, and most are simply grateful that their children are enrolled.

'They Welcome Everyone'

But some parents have asserted themselves. According to Teresa Theobald,
director of the Cambodian Mutual Assistance Association of Lowell, a group of
parents representing the Cambodian, Laotian, Vietnamese and Hispanic communities
attended a School Committee meeting last spring, but when they asked permission
to have the proceedings translated, some committee members walked out. Another
group of parents filed a lawsuit, now pending in Federal court, faulting
Lowell's bilingual education program and racially isolated classrooms.

But for the most part, Southeast Asians in Lowell say they do not perceive the
city as a hostile place. Narin Sao, who emigrated from Cambodia in 1984 and now
works as a job counselor at the Office of Employment and Training here, called
Lowell a ''homeland'' for Cambodians. He praised the city's leaders, saying,
''They really care about refugees - they welcome everyone.''

One of Mr. Sao's colleagues, Phomma Sayasane, who came here from Laos, said
prejudice in Lowell was a ''very small problem.'' In fact, among the thousand
jobs in the area that Mr. Sao and Mr. Sayasane are trying to find workers to
fill, some employers have specifically requested Southeast Asian employees
because of their reputation for hard work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Mayor Robert Kennedy of Lowell, Mass., at Pine Street School
(The New York Times/Rick Friedman); map indicating Lowell, Mass. (NYT)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 7, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Probation Employee Accused Of Housing Dozens of Aliens

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 393 words


A probationary investigator for the Brooklyn District Attorney's office was
charged yesterday with harboring dozens of Mexican nationals who are in this
country illegally in two houses he owns in the Greenpoint section of the
borough.

According to the Federal complaint, the Mexican nationals each paid $70 to $100
a month for makeshift living quarters on the first floors and basements in the
three-story houses. Many slept on mattresses on bare floors.

Andrew J. Maloney, the United States Attorney in Brooklyn, identified the
defendant as Patricio German Porras-Garzon, 32 years old, of 1097 Manhattan
Avenue, where 25 to 29 Mexican nationals lived.

Up to nine other Mexican nationals lived in a house Mr. Porras-Garzon owns at
101 Eagle Street.

A Neighbor's Complaint

Mr. Maloney said the investigation, which began last month, resulted from a
neighbor's complaint.

The Mexican nationals are now under the supervision of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and will be deported, said Ann Driscoll, the public
information officer for the Federal prosecutor's office, There was no indication
how long the Mexicans had been in this country.

The complaint said Mr. Porras-Garzon gave a sworn statement to I.N.S. agents
admitting that he knowingly harbored and concealed illegal aliens. The crime is
punishable by a maximum of five years in prison and a fine of $250,000.

Suspended Without Pay

Mr. Porras-Garzon, who was born in Ecuador and is a naturalized United States
citizen, has been a probationary detective-investigator with the District
Attorney's office since August. A spokesman for the office, Glenn Goldberg, said
Mr. Porras-Garzon, who was still a trainee in the $25,289-a-year post, had been
suspended without pay.

He was arrested in the lobby of the Brooklyn Municipal Building, where the
District Attorney's offices are situated.

A Federal agent, Theresa Regis, said in the complaint brought in Federal
District Court in Brooklyn that in the first-floor apartment of the Manhattan
Avenue house she saw ''six or seven mattresses on the floor of the living area,
each surrounded by personal effects such as televisions, radios and clothing.''

In the basement, she said, she saw six or seven mattresses on the concrete floor
and was told by a Mexican national who lived there that he paid $90 a month in
rent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a headline in some copies on Saturday about a man
charged with harboring illegal aliens misstated his occupation. He is an
investigator for the Brooklyn District Attorney's office.

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 21, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AND HAVANA AGREE TO RESTORE IMMIGRATION PACT

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20


The Cuban Government, in a policy reversal, has agreed to restore an immigration
understanding with Washington that will allow the deportation of nearly 2,600
Cubans from the United States, State Department officials said today.

The agreement reached this week in Mexico City also means that as many as 27,000
Cubans may be allowed to emigrate legally to the United States each year.

The Cubans suspended the immigration agreement in May 1985 in anger over the
continued operation of Radio Marti, a branch of the Voice of America that Havana
says is an anti-Castro propaganda outlet. But American officials said that
Cuba's decision to suspend the agreement was a tactical mistake for Havana and
that Cuba had sought for months to undo it.

Emigration Is Safety Valve

The prospect of emigration for Cubans has served as a social and economic safety
valve for the Cuban leader, Fidel Castro, American officials say. The agreement
announced today merely restored the situation when the agreement was suspended.

The Administration said it did not make any of the concessions about the
operation of Radio Marti.

''This agreement has no consequences, none whatever, for Radio Marti,'' said
Charles E. Redman, the State Department spokesman. He said it signified
agreement between the two Governments only on the issues of mutual immigration
and radio broadcasting. Castro Willing to Engage U.S.  ''There remain important
differences between the U.S. and Cuba on issues which are vital to the security
of the United States and other friendly nations,'' Mr. Redman said. ''We
continue to have serious concerns about Cuba's international behavior.''

Other officials portrayed the restoration of the immigration accord and the
resumption of talks on radio broadcasting as a significant measure of what they
said was the recent willingness of Mr. Castro to engage Washington.

Havana's turnabout on the immigration issue comes as Cuban officials have been
making other small gestures indicating a softening of its posture toward
Washington. Some officials say they believe it is part of an overall effort on
the part of Mr. Castro to remove points of friction between the two Governments
at the same time Washington may be improving its relations with the Soviet
Union, Cuba's principal patron for financial and military aid.

Relations between Cuba and the United States have fluctuated considerably over
the last few years, and experts believe the latest warming trend could depend
closely on the direction of United States-Soviet relations in the final months
of the Reagan Administration.

Havana also faced the possibility of watching a growing number of people take to
the seas again to emigrate. After the Mariel boatlift in which 100,000 people
fled the country, Cuban officials expressed their preference for an orderly and
controlled emigration process. #201 Were Returned Under the agreement, the
United States will be able to send back to Cuba the remaining Cuban nationals
who arrived in the 1980 Mariel boatlift and were deemed ''excludable.'' In the
agreement the two countries reached after the boatlift, Cuba agreed to accept
the return of 2,746 Cuban nationals declared undesirable because they were
either mentally ill, or had committed serious crimes in Cuba or in the United
States after their arrival. Of those, 201 were returned before Cuba suspended
the agreement. Most of those to be returned to Cuba are in Federal detention
centers in Atlanta and Oakdale, La.

State Department officials said that as many as 27,000 people may be eligible to
emigrate from Cuba under the categories provided in the law. The officials
stressed, however, that the United States interest section in Havana could not
begin processing applications for several weeks until more staffers are sent
there. The United States does not have full diplomatic relations with Cuba, but
officials said they expect the agreement means that Havana will allow more
American officials to come to Cuba to handle consular matters.

At the time the Cubans stopped accepting the return of those from the 1980
boatlift, the Administration said it could no longer process Cuban applicants
for immigration because of an inability to process them in Cuba.

Cuba Seeks Broadcast Rights

Under immigration regulations, up to 20,000 Cubans who do not have immediate
family members in the United States are allowed to immigrate in the United
States every year. In addition to that, an unlimited number of immediate family
members are eligible and officials estimate them to number about 3,000 a year. A
third category, those seeking political asylum, are believed to number about
3,500.

On the broadcasting side, Cuba was seeking two clear broadcast channels to send
its own programs to the United States, but American officials said the
particular Cuban request would interfere with the broadcasting of several
stations in America.

Under the understanding worked out this week in Mexico City, the United States
agreed to help the Cubans ''find a way to get what they want, which is a way to
broadcast legally into the United States,'' according to an Administration
official.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 22, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

RIGHTIST PARTIES FORMING IN EUROPE

BYLINE: By JAMES M. MARKHAM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 21


Exploiting mounting resentment over refugees and workers from third world
nations, small right-wing parties have cropped up across the northern tier of
Western Europe demanding the expulsion of foreigners who are said to be taking
jobs from Europeans.

The biggest anti-immigrant party, the National Front, has taken root in France.
Similiar organizations have surfaced in Belgium, West Germany, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden and Switzerland, which have absorbed large numbers of workers and
refugees seeking political asylum from Arab nations, Iran and Turkey.

Positioning themselves on the far right of the political spectrum, these parties
have generally made only marginal inroads in national and municipal elections.
But by taking extreme stands on the volatile immigration issue, they have
succeeded in shocking mainstream parties into adopting harsh measures to check
the influx of refugees and asylum-seekers.

''It's not the parties themselves that are important,'' said Han Entzinger, an
adviser to the Dutch Government on immigrant issues, ''but the effect they have
on parties that are more moderate. But when millions of immigrants are living
here already the question is not closing the door, but how many more are we
going to let in and whether we are going to leave them living at the margins of
society.''

With unemployment remaining stubbornly high in Western Europe, resentment toward
third world immigrants has sharpened. They are often blamed for big-city
problems like drug addiction, crime and, lately, AIDS.

Joseph Michel, the Belgian Interior Minister, caused a furor last month when he
commented on the situation in Brussels, where Moroccan and other immigrants make
up a quarter of the population. ''We risk being, like the Roman people, invaded
by barbarians, who are the Arabs, Moroccans, Yugoslavs and the Turks,'' Mr.
Michel said, ''people who come from far away and who have nothing in common with
our civilization.''

Mr. Michel's remarks came during preparations for legislative elections next
month in which the immigrant issue is expected to figure prominently. Drawing
inspiration from Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front in France, a Brussels doctor
named Daniel Ferret has founded a Belgian National Front that will contest seats
in the capital and the southern city of Tournai.

''We are afraid that in the year 2,000 the immigrants will be in the majority in
this country and they will be the masters,'' Dr. Ferret said in a telephone
interview. ''We want to first send home the illegal immigrants, then the
long-term unemployed, and finally to get rid of those who are taking jobs away
from Belgians.''

Like others who have taken up the anti-immigrant cause, Dr. Ferret, a
44-year-old cosmetic surgeon who studied gynecology in the United States,
insisted that his party had nothing to do with neo-fascist organizations, which
have a certain marginal tradition in Belgium. But he praised Mr. Le Pen, who has
been sharply criticized in France for dismissing the Nazi gas chambers as ''a
minor detail'' of World War II.

In Norway and Denmark, the immigrant question has recently been appropiated by
populist groups that have traditionally railed against taxes and the intrusions
of the welfare state. In elections in Denmark in September, the ultra-right
Progress Party jumped from 4 to 9 seats in the 175-member Parliament after
campaigning hard against an influx of asylum-seekers from Iran and Lebanon.

''We are not a wealthy country, and it costs a lot to take care of these people,
who come from countries that are culturally very different from Denmark,'' Pia
Kjaersgaard, the leader of the Progress Party, said in an interview.

In Sweden, a requirement that a party have at least 4 percent of the popular
vote to win parliamentary representation has prevented anti-immigrant groups
from gaining seats. But one xenophobic group made it into the city council in
Malmo, while in the town of Sjobo another faction has forced a referendum on
accepting more immigrants.

In West Germany, a nationalist, anti-immigrant group called the Republicans, led
by a former member of the Nazi SS, startled the country's political
establishment by winning 3 percent of the popular vote in state elections in
Bavaria a year ago. And two months ago a similar formation captured a seat in
the Bremen state parliament.

However minor, such successes have strengthened the hands of those in Chancellor
Helmut Kohl's center-right coalition who want to make it even tougher for
asylum-seekers to enter West Germany. Interior Minister Friedrich Zimmermann
recently ruled that any asylum-seeker who has stopped in a third country en
route to West Germany may not be recognized as having been politically
persecuted.

Stern government action has at times undercut the appeal of anti-immigrant
groups. After the Swiss Government tightened its immigration regulations, a
coalition of anti-foreigner groups last month lost 2 of the 5 seats it had held
in the 200-member lower house of Parliament.

Since Mr. Le Pen voiced his revisionist views on the Nazi gas chambers on Sept.
15, several polls have indicated that his candidacy for the French presidency
has lost support. A poll this month by the Sofres organization found that about
8 percent of the French backed the National Front, a drop of one percentage
point since May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 24, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Cuban Hints Leniency To 2,500 U.S. Deports

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Nov. 23


A Government official suggested today that 2,500 Cubans who are to be deported
from the United States will be treated leniently on their return.

A new pact between Cuba and the United States arranging for the return of the
Cubans has been blamed for riots at two United States detention centers and a
number of escapes at another.

The Cuban official, who requested anonymity, said most of the 200 Cuban refugees
sent home before Cuba suspended a December 1984 immigration agreement ''are now
on the street just like any other Cuban.''

Last Friday, Cuba agreed to resume the pact, under which the United States will
allow 23,000 Cubans to immigrate annually.

When the agreement was originally signed, President Fidel Castro said the 2,500
Cubans would be given a chance to work and to reintegrate themselves into Cuban
society.

Some 200 Cubans were sent home before Cuba suspended the accord in May 1985 to
protest anti-Castro broadcasts to Cuba by Radio Marti, a station owned by the
United States.

The refugees facing deportation now were among 125,000 Cubans who arrived in the
United States in a 1980 boatlift from the Cuban port of Mariel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 24, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Outside the Prison, Sobbing Wives

BYLINE: By JERRY SCHWARTZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA Nov. 23


While Cuban detainees held hostages inside the Federal penitentiary here today,
the families of several inmates gathered outside the prison walls to follow the
course of the siege and plead with Representative John Lewis, Democrat of
Georgia, to be allowed to assist in the negotiations with the authorities.

With no word from the authorities, about a dozen wives and children of the
inmates listened intently to police radios and occasionally broke into sobs as
they heard scattered reports of the events inside the maximum security prison.
It houses a total of 1,900 inmates.

Some of the 1,392 Cuban prisoners had been able to commandeer a police radio
shortly after the uprising began about 10:45 A.M. Throughout the day, the
inmates' shouted messages in Spanish could be heard over the radios between the
terse communication between Federal, state and local law-enforcement agencies.

Offer Turned Down by F.B.I

Mr. Lewis, who had toured the prison in July and talked to many of the
prisoners, said he offered to serve as negotiator but had been turned down by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation. ''They told me the situation was too
dangerous and they did not need my help,'' Mr. Lewis said.

Mr. Lewis criticized officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
the Justice Department for their treatment of the Atlanta inmates and for their
handling of the announcement Friday that deportations of Cubans would resume.

Members of the prisoners' families who heard Mr. Lewis' remarks appealed to the
Congressman to be allowed to speak with the inmates. As a last resort, one woman
said, the wives offered to enter the facility to talk directly with the men.
''If at the last moment, they cannot do nothing, we have the right to talk to
them to try to do something,'' said Gladys Morales, whose husband, Egadio
Miranda, is one of the inmates.

As clouds of dense, black smoke from the burning prison building where brooms,
canvas bags and towels for use throughout the Federal Government are made
drifted over the crowd outside the prison, the women and their children could
hear snatches of radio conversation among the inmates. At one point in
mid-afternoon, one of the women thought she heard a man say in Spanish that two
inmates had been killed, a contention officials refused to comment on.

At times, the police radio reports were the only available news. Maria Herran,
whose husband, Jose Herran, has been held in the Atlanta prison for four months,
said the inmates had issued no demands. ''They are just cursing and cursing
right now,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of wives of inmates with Representative John Lewis (NYT/Alan S.
Weiner)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 24, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Cuban Riots and Human Rights

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 376 words


It's not hard to understand why Cubans held prisoner by U.S. immigration
officials would run amok at sudden news they are to be deported. Reasonably or
not, many believed they would remain here, whatever their problems with the
immigration and criminal justice systems.

In fact, however, the United States owes nothing to those who committed serious
crimes. In offering the rioters a moratorium on deportations, Attorney General
Meese rightly recognizes the need for a fair case-by-case review, no more and no
less.

It speaks volumes about the true nature of Fidel Castro's tropical Utopia that
the Cuban prisoners riot at the first rumor they might have to return. A revived
agreement between Washington and Havana declares that Cuba now would accept
2,700 judged excludable.

This is the second pass at resolving a problem of Mr. Castro's making, one
revealing a mean turn of mind. In 1980, during the exodus of 120,000 Cubans from
Mariel, he opened jails and mental hospitals, to foist Cuba's least desirable
citizens on the United States. Two years ago Cuba agreed to take back
''excludables,'' those whose prior record made them ineligible to settle in the
United States. Additionally, the United States said it would admit 3,000
political prisoners and up to 20,000 immigrants a year. But the deal was blown
away by Mr. Castro's anger at the May 1985 inauguration of Radio Marti, a Voice
of America service that has since shown its worth.

Mr. Castro reinstated that agreement last week, but without any mention of Radio
Marti. The pact recognizes, properly, that the ''excludables'' are a Cuban
responsibility. It also recognizes the human rights value of providing asylum
for Cuban political offenders and reuniting divided families. Agreement on these
issues removes the biggest impediment to less hostile relations between Havana
and Washington.

For U.S. officials, the violent objection of the Cuban prisoners raises an issue
of instituting the agreement. Clearly those who committed serious felonies in
Cuba deserve deportation, as do those who did so in the U.S. Those whose crimes
in either place were minor, however, may not. Mr. Meese deserves support for
sticking to that principle, without yielding more to rampaging prisoners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 24, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Laws Put Imprisoned Cubans In Legal Limbo With Few Rights

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23


Behind the riots by Cuban prisoners in Atlanta and Louisiana lie months or years
of frustration at being in a state of legal limbo, with very few rights under
American law.

The Reagan Administration eventually hopes to deport more than 7,600 imprisoned
Cubans who have committed crimes in this country. Just less than half of them
have served their sentences and are still being detained while about 3,800 are
still serving their terms. An agreement reached Friday will allow the United
States to deport about 2,500, and possibly more, Cubans.

All of them were among the 125,000 Cubans who landed in this country in the 1980
Mariel boatlift. Because they were met by immigration officials before they
legally ''entered'' the United States, they were deemed excludable aliens by the
Government.

Their status is such that, even if they were jailed for nonviolent crimes and
have served their time, their only alternative to deportation could be to spend
the rest of their lives in prison.

But the prisoners are not the only Cubans at risk of deportation. Officials said
the Reagan Administration also wants to send back many of the more than 3,000
former inmates who are living in halfway houses or with families, after having
served sentences for crimes committed in the United States.

When the Cubans arrived, most of them, including most of those now imprisoned,
were granted what officials call immigration parole and released into this
country, subject to having this parole revoked and being detained or deported
for a number of reasons, including criminal convictions.

The courts have generally upheld the Administration's view that Mariel Cubans
convicted of crimes can be imprisoned indefinitely pending efforts to deport
them. The position is based on longstanding Supreme Court precedents under the
Immigration and Naturalization Act and the Constitution.

Civil libertarians today repeated previous denunciations of the treatment of
many of the jailed Cubans as an outrageous violation of the Constitution and
international law, arguing that many of them are not dangerous and are bona fide
political refugees or have families in this country.

Many Offenses Not Violent

The spark that ignited the riots in Louisiana and Atlanta was the news that the
Reagan Administration had revived an immigration agreement signed in 1984 with
Cuba that will allow deportation of many of those imprisoned.

Verne Jervis, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said it
was Administration policy to revoke the parole of Cubans from the 1980 boatlift
who have committed ''any felony or repeated misdemeanors.''

He said this included the 3,800 who are now serving prison sentences for crimes
in this country, mostly in state and local institutions, as well as the 3,600
who have completed their sentences, but are being detained in Federal prisons
and many of the more than 3,000 others who have been released.

Many of those held were conviced of of nonviolent offenses, such as possession
of small quantities of marijuana, according to civil libertarians and
immigration lawyers critical of Administration policy.

Under legal precedent and Administration policy, those people whom Cuba will not
take can be imprisoned indefinitely, for the rest of their lives, if it comes to
that.

The meaning of Administration policy and existing law for Cubans who arrived in
the Mariel boatlift is that ''a Mariel Cuban who makes one slip in the United
States faces life imprisonment or return to Cuba,'' said Arthur C. Helton,
director of the Political Asylum Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights, based in New York.

He said he hoped that the Supreme Court would eventually soften the harshness of
the law in this area. Under recent lower court precedents, he said, ''as
excludable aliens, no matter how long the Cubans live in American society or in
detention centers, in law they're not here,'' because they have not legally
entered the United States.

Mr. Helton and Wade Henderson, associate director of the Washington office of
the American Civil Liberties Union, said that many of the imprisoned Cubans
should not be deported or detained because they were political refugees or had
families here.

Referring to Federal appellate rulings that the Cuban prisoners were not
entitled to the usual constitutional protections of due process of law, Mr.
Henderson said: ''The resemblance to the Dred Scott decision is shocking. It is
a direct slap at basic justice for all human beings.'' The Dred Scott decision
was the 1857 ruling by the Supreme Court that blacks were not and could not
become citizens of the United States entitled to the protection of the
Constitution.

Hearings on Deportation

The Supreme Court refused last year to review an appeal on behalf of Cubans
seeking broader legal protections, and no major challenges to Administration
policy are now pending. Some immigration lawyers said the reason was that under
Supreme Court precedents in somewhat similar cases, no broad challenge would be
likely to succeed.

Administration officials including Craig Raynsford, associate general counsel of
the immigration service, said the Cubans had received all the protections to
which they are legally entitled and would have a chance to raise any valid
objections to deportation in administrative and judicial proceedings.

Under the immigration laws, ''excludable'' aliens are those who, like the Mariel
Cubans and many Haitians who have tried to come here by boat, are stopped at
ports of entry and denied legal entry by the Government. It has the power to
deport them or to imprison them indefinitely if their native countries will not
take them back.

Excludable aliens have even fewer rights than other ''illegal aliens.'' Those
who have managed to enter the United States without being detected are subject
to deportation if apprehended, but have more detailed procedural rights to seek
political asylum and otherwise contest deportation.

A Federal appeals court in Atlanta ruled in April 1986 that Cuban prisoners
challenging their detention were not entitled to the usual protections of due
process of law.

Under the 1984 agreement on immigration matters between the United States and
Cuba, Cuba agreed to take back 2,746 prisoners whom the United States wanted to
deport, according to Mr. Jervis and Mr. Raynsford. These prisoners were
identified, though the identities have been kept secret. Of those, 201 were sent
back to Cuba in early 1985 before that nation suspended the agreement.

Mr. Raynsford said today that under the revived agreement, ''our first focal
point, obviously, will be the repatriation of individuals who are on that
list,'' at a rate of 100 a month. Some are now in halfway houses or living with
their families, Mr. Jervis said.

Mr. Jervis said that the Administration might seek to send back more than 10,000
Cubans in all if Cuba follows through on its agreement to resume normal
immigration relations.

Mr. Henderson said the uncertainty over who had been listed for expulsion had
contributed to the rioting. The secrecy, Mr. Raynsford said, was needed for
''security concerns,'' including both security in the institutions in which the
Cubans are incarcerated and the national security aspects of the arrangement
with Cuba.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 28, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Why the Cubans Riot

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 468 words


Of course the United States has the right to send back to Cuba refugees who
never qualified for admission and who have committed crimes in America. But
should it do so? Not necessarily.

Before reaching a new agreement with Havana about returning such detainees,
Washington followed a relatively humane procedure and gave many of them their
freedom. Nothing in the new agreement blocks that procedure - and therein lies a
sensible basis for ending the riots in Oakdale, La., and Atlanta.

Most of the 125,000 Cubans who arrived in the 1980 Mariel boatlift were ruled
excludable but allowed to stay under a grant of ''parole.'' That meant freedom,
but few legal rights. Then, in 1984, the vast majority were allowed to
''adjust'' - begin applying for legal residency and citizenship. In the
meantime, however, a few thousand had committed crimes and were put behind bars.
That voided their parole, and when they finished their terms they were detained
as once-more excludable.

With numbers of such detainees mounting, especially at Oakdale and Atlanta,
immigration officials last June began reviewing their status to identify those
who had been convicted of minor or nonviolent crimes and therefore might
re-qualify for parole. A goodly number fell into that category: about 90 were
re-paroled and 700 others were told they were likely to be. The announcement
that Havana and Washington had agreed to the ''repatriation'' of some 2,500
crushed their hopes and touched off the uprisings. That point is important: The
Cubans aren't rioting because they'd rather be jailed here than free in Cuba.
Many have been led to believe, properly, that freedom in America remains
possible.

But no one's hopes need be crushed on Cuba's account. Fidel Castro hasn't
demanded anyone's return; he has merely agreed to admit up to 2,500 people that
the U.S. decides to send back.

Rioting and hostage-taking can't be excused by any circumstance. Still, it's
easy to understand the frustration of Cubans who might reasonably have expected
they could become free in America when they suddenly hear they may be sent back.
To return a detainee to Cuba could impose punishment grossly out of proportion
to a minor or nonviolent offense against American law.

Attorney General Meese sought to dispel that fear earlier this week by affirming
his commitment to ''full and equitable'' reviews of individual prisoners' cases.
Honoring that pledge would represent no capitulation to riot; it would merely
acknowledge the policy in place before the uprisings.

Do Mr. Meese and his negotiators deserve to be taken at their word? Yes. The
rioters' violence is deplorable, yet underneath it they have a point. They have
now made it in public, and so has Mr. Meese. In America, unlike Cuba, so open an
agreement would be hard to breach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Q AND A

BYLINE: By STANLEY CARR

SECTION: Section 10; Page 4, Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words


Passports

Question: On the immigration forms of foreign countries, I have always written
''U.S.A.'' in stating where my passport was issued. Recently, on entering
Thailand, I was asked to be specific. What is the proper way of answering this
question? - D. W., White Plains

Answer: The correct response is to name the city, the passport division of the
United States Bureau of Consular Affairs says. Where to find the city in your
passport - if you cannot remember where it was issued - depends on whether you
have one of the machine-readable passports, made with the help of automation, or
the earlier model, which was produced manually. On a newer passport - the first
were issued in Washington in February 1981 and they are still being phased in -
the city is given on the inside front cover below the words Passport Agency. An
older passport has the city in perforated printing, after the words Department
of State, on the side of the owner's photograph on page 3.

The traveler with a passport issued by a United States Embassy or consulate
abroad should - when completing a form asking for place of issue - give the
foreign city and country.

Touring Canada

Question: I want to do some extensive traveling in Canada using Canadian tour
companies. Can you suggest some that do all-inclusive tours throughout the
country? - J. M., Jackson Heights, Queens

Answer: A major tour firm that concentrates on escorted group travel is Horizon
Holidays of Canada, based in Toronto. Horizon is a wholesale tour company that
prefers clients to book through travel agents rather than directly. An official
said that many Americans like to travel with the company because of the
opportunity to meet and travel with Canadians. Most of its clients are
Canadians, and many of them are either in their 50's or retired. The tours
originate in Toronto but they can also be joined in other Canadian cities along
the route.

Another wholesaler with programs that can be booked through agents is U.T.L.
Holidays, of Toronto, the largest tour operator in Canada, which has escorted
group tours and arranges individual travel. The tour desk of Air Canada
(800-422-6232) will make reservations for Horizon, U.T.L. and many other
companies. Among others are Canadian Holidays, in Quebec, which does tours in
eastern Canada, and Brewster Transportation and Tours, of Banff, Alberta.
Bonanza Holidays, of Montreal, offers many travel services, including motor home
and houseboats rentals.

English Walks

Question: Where can we get information on walking tours in southwestern England,
especially Cornwall? -G. L., Washington

Answer: Two lines of approach are to contact local organizations that combine
walking programs with a guesthouse as a base and companies that offer inn-to-inn
walks in various parts of the country. One in the local, and less expensive,
category is Chichester Interest Holidays (Chichester Guesthouse, 14 Bayview
Terrace, Newquay, Cornwall TR7 2LR, England; telephone, Newquay 874216). The
group offers walking tours, garden visits and other programs and room with
breakfast and dinner and a picnic lunch. Next year's rate for seven nights will
be about $175 a person. Cornwall Adventure (51 Lostwithiel Street, Fowey,
Cornwall PL23 1BG; Fowey 3766) runs what it calls multi-activity vacations -
with sailing, riding and other activities - as well as walking. The 1988 cost,
including accommodations in a youth hostel and full board for seven nights, is
$295.

Among groups organizing inn-to-inn walking tours is Wayfarers (166 Thames
Street, Newport, R.I. 02840; 401-849-5087). It is based in Keswick, Cumbria, but
has tours in several regions of Britain, including the Devon coast and Dartmoor
in the southwest. This and other tours available from May 1 to early October
will cost $1,020 a person. The price includes accommodations in inns for six
nights, all meals, guide and baggage van.

English Wanderer is another group that offers walking vacations, some in the
southwest. Its representative is Quality International Travel (3525 West
Peterson, Chicago, Ill. 60659; 312-588-1125). Next summer's rates are not yet
available; a Devon tour this year was about $500. The southwest is also explored
on programs available with Lord Winston's Walking Tours (The Manor, Moreton
Pinkney, Northamptonshire NN11 6SJ; Sulgrave 576342).

Amazon Fishing

Question: Could you give names and addresses of tour companies that offer
fishing trips on the Amazon River? - M. R., Spokane, Wash.

Answer: Explorama (Box 446, Iquitos, Peru) has had long experience in running
jungle and fishing trips on the Amazon. Information about its programs is
available from a representative, Selective Hotel Reservations (19 West 34th
Street, New York, N.Y. 10001; 212-714-2323 or, out of state, 800-223-6764). A
guided, three-day fishing trip with pickup in Iquitos, two nights at a lodge on
the river and all meals costs $200 a person. A round trip on Faucett-Peruvian
Airlines from Miami to Iquitos via Lima is about $450. Another Peruvian company
that arranges fishing is Expediciones Mayuc, of Cuzco, which is represented by
Ocarina (Post Office 1807, Boulder, Colo. 80306; 303-938-5643 or, from Dec. 1,
800-777-5326).

While Peru is the destination for most Amazon anglers, another company with a
series of wilderness tours, including fishing, operates in Brazil. It is Brazil
Nuts (81 Remsen Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201; 718-834-0717 or 800-553-9959). The
owner, Adam Carter, characterizes the fishing trips as rustic, summer-camp
style. A typical eight-day visit combines riverboat journeys (sleeping in
hammocks) on the Amazon and the Pantanal, a river preferred, Mr. Carter says, by
many fishing aficionados. The cost is $995 a person, with all meals. A three-day
trip on the Amazon is $450.

A flight on Varig from Miami to Manaus, with a connection to Cuiaba, to fish the
Pantanal, and another to Rio de Janeiro, with return to Miami from there, is
available for $660.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
A RARE U.S.-CUBAN DEAL BRINGS VIOLENT CONSEQUENCES

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


AS prison disturbances in Atlanta and Oakdale, La., lurched toward an uncertain
ending last week, Washington policymakers were again confronting the
consequences of America's fractious relationship with Cuba's Fidel Castro.

The rioting and taking of hostages in the Federal facilities were touched off by
the sudden agreement between Cuba and the United States, announced a week ago
Friday, to restore an immigration accord that Mr. Castro had broken off in May
1985. Cuba was to take back more than 2,500 Cubans who had come to this country
in a flotilla of small boats in 1980 and whowere considered undesirable by the
United States. Both Washington and Havana considered the latest development a
positive one, one of the few episodes of diplomatic comity between them. But
American officials clearly did not anticipate the desperate reaction of the men
for whom the agreement meant likely deportation.

The Administration seemingly took no account of how the situation might have
changed for the prisoners in the 30 months since the agreement had been
suspended. Inside the prisons anger had built up along with hopes that the men
might be allowed to remain in the United States.

Edwin Meese 3d, who as Attorney General supervises the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Federal Bureau of Prisons, assumed control of the
immediate task of restoring order at the prisons. In an effort to entice the
Cuban inmates to end their action, he said there would be a moratorium on
deportations to Cuba and a guarantee of a full review of each individual's case.

From a diplomatic standpoint, the State Department was interested in restoring
the immigration agreement without yielding too much on Mr. Castro's chief
complaint: Radio Marti, a branch of the Voice of America that broadcasts to
Cuba. It was designed by Reagan Administration hardliners to be an irritant to
Mr. Castro and it has proven to be so. The Cuban complaints ranged from what
they said was the appropriation of the name of the Cuban hero, Jose Marti, to
the content of the programming. But the Cubans have also wanted to retaliate
with broadcasts of their own, to be aimed at the large Cuban community in south
Florida. The Administration agreed to cooperate in Havana's efforts to obtain
one or two clear channels to broadcast to the United States.

Some officials pondered whether Mr. Castro's decision to restore the immigration
accord was timed to improve relations with Washington at the same time that the
Soviet Union was anticipating a summit meeting to approve an arms accord with
the United States. But others were less sure, maintaining that even though
Moscow is Cuba's principal economic and military patron, Mr. Castro has never
been a compliant Soviet ally. A more plausible explanation offered by officials
was that Mr. Castro decided that his abrogation of the agreement in anger over
Radio Marti had been a mistake. The original immigration accord had served Cuba
well; allowing unhappy people to depart provided an escape valve for tensions
generated by the island's stumbling economy. In addition, more Cubans were
taking to the sea; the thought of another spectacle like the Mariel boatlift was
probably daunting to Mr. Castro, who decided after the last one that he prefers
an orderly emigration under his control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of cuban inmates carrying homemade weapons on patrol; Federal
Penitentiary in Atlanta engulfed in smoke

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 1, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

What's Fair for the Cubans

BYLINE: By Arthur C. Helton; Arthur C. Helton, director of the political asylum
project of the Lawyers Committee For Human Rights, represents some of the Cuban
detainees.

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words


Although Cuban ''Marielitos'' are still holding out in Atlanta, it is not too
soon to consider how we should treat the detainees after the rebellions have
ended.

Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d has assured that each detainee's case would be
reviewed in a ''full, fair and equitable'' manner. What does this mean? Those
who have close American relatives, or who can demonstrate a well-founded fear of
persecution upon return to Cuba, may be eligible for asylum and protection.

But the detainees deserve even greater consideration. They should be freed of
the threat of deportation as a group and given the same opportunities to remain
in the United States as the other 120,000 or so Cubans who arrived in the Mariel
boat lift in 1980. Specifically, they should be granted immigration ''parole''
and released as long as they do not pose a danger to American society. Those who
are dangerous must face deportation. In truth, not many of the remaining 3,800
detainees are dangerous. Their ranks consist of those who violated immigration
parole, whether for major felonies or trivial offenses, and the few who admitted
to histories of mental illness or crime and were never freed. The inmate
rebellions exploded only after the State Department announced an arrangement
providing for the acceptance back by Cuba of 2,746 Marielitos.

Given the high stakes involved -release and possible citizen status versus a
return to Cuba - procedural protections in any review process should be ample.
Specifically, detainees should receive hearings and the opportunity to present
evidence and witnesses to rebut adverse evidence and witnesses.

They should be permitted to review the contents of their immigration files,
including any derogatory information which they may wish to rebut. The
proceedings should occur before an impartial arbiter, and a decision should be
rendered so that, if appropriate, judicial review could be sought. Perhaps most
importantly, counsel should be appointed free of charge to the Cuban detainees.

Similar protections were embodied in a 1983 order by Federal Judge Marvin H.
Shoob in respect to the detained Cubans, but overruled by the Court of Appeals
in Atlanta on the grounds that the Cubans deserve no Constitutional
consideration. But, in the interest of justice, the Marielitos deserve
Constitutional protections.

They have been treated as a group during their incarceration in the United
States, and that mistreatment should be remedied now by individualized
consideration for all Cuban detainees, whether they were involved in the
disturbances or not. This is the meaning that should be given the Attorney
General's assurance, either by the Executive Branch, or, if necessary, by
Congress.

How can we avoid future abuses of those seeking asylum in the United States? The
Federal courts have generally declined to become involved in challenges to
immigration practices such as the Cuban detention program, finding them largely
immune from constitutional scrutiny because they involve aliens who haven't
technically ''entered'' the country.

What is this lofty ''entry'' doctrine, that it can cause such drastic
deprivations? To enter the United States, an alien must be ''physically
present'' and either be ''inspected and admitted'' by an immigration official or
''actually and intentionally evade inspection'' and be ''free from immigration
restraint.''

In other words, those who sneak in, or who misrepresent their status to gain
admittance, cannot be expelled without recourse to full due process protections.
However, those who forthrightly present themselves at the border are deemed
constitutional nonentities and may be subjected, as the Cubans have been, to
arbitrary and prolonged imprisonment.

Constitutional guarantees of fairness and equal protection should now be
extended to all people who are subject to abuse of Government power, including
aliens arriving at our border. The antiquated ''entry'' doctrine must be
discarded as a barrier to constitutional protection. If the courts hesitate in
striking down this legal fiction, then Congress must.

As we have seen with the Cubans, the arbitrary deprivation of basic
constitutional rights is a poor guarantor of the public order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 1, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MAN IN THE NEWS;
Patient Point Man in the Prison Crises: Joseph Michael Quinlan

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30


There were more than enough crises on J. Michael Quinlan's agenda when he took
over this summer as director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons.

The Federal prison system was 60 percent over capacity, with 44,000 inmates
crammed into 47 institutions. Congress was unwilling to spend more money on
prisons but quite willing to toughen drug laws and sentencing guidelines and
send the system even more prisoners. AIDS presented a threat with legal, ethical
and medical dimensions that no one had sorted out.

But 10 days ago, before the 46-year-old director had been on the job five
months, the twin uprisings of Cuban detainees in Federal prisons in Atlanta and
Oakdale, La., made all other problems secondary. An agency that penetrates the
public consciousness only when there is trouble was suddenly in big trouble.

The problem was not of the prison bureau's making; the riots were the
consequence of policies set by the State Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, for which the bureau basically provided human
warehouses. With that impetus, Mr. Quinlan became, in effect, the line officer
in a crisis-management team that included senior officials of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the Justice Department, the parent agency of the F.B.I. and
the prisons bureau.

New to News Conferences

Mr. Quinlan became the public voice of the search for a solution. A career
Federal employee who had never been in the public spotlight or held a news
conference, he presided over six news conferences in the last six days. In a
calm manner, he declared over and over that no precipitous action would be taken
and that the safety of the hostages was paramount.

''My patience is endless,'' he said a number of times. That patience was borne
out by the settlement Sunday of the Oakdale uprising. Negotiations in Atlanta
are continuing.

A slightly built man who wears squarish, steel-rimmed glasses and has a decided
New York accent, Mr. Quinlan is a lawyer and a former prison warden who has been
a rising star at the Federal Bureau of Prisons headquarters here for years.

He was the hand-picked successor of Norman A. Carlson, who retired last year
after running the prison system for 17 years and who placed Mr. Quinlan in key
jobs beginning more than 10 years ago.

'He's Unflappable'

Mr. Carlson, who now teaches at the University of Minnesota, said in a telephone
interview today that Mr. Quinlan was ''by far at the very top of all the people
I've encountered'' in his career.

''He's unflappable,'' Mr. Carlson said. ''He has a very good analytic mind and a
very deliberate style of management. His hallmark is fairness.''

Joseph Michael Quinlan was born in Rockville Centre, L.I., on Nov. 2, 1941. His
father was an insurance agent. He graduated from Fairfield University in
Fairfield, Conn., in 1963 and, three years later, from Fordham Law School. He
served as a lawyer in the Air Force and began his corrections career almost by
accident, joining the prison bureau in 1971 because he wanted to be a Government
lawyer and the bureau had an opening.

For four years in the mid-1970's, he was Mr. Carlson's executive assistant. He
then ran the Federal prison camp at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida and, in
1980, became the first warden of the Federal prison at Otisville, N.Y.

He came back to Washington in 1985 as deputy assistant director for the bureau's
Medical and Services Division.

Before becoming director on July 1, Mr. Quinlan was Mr. Carlson's deputy for 15
months. As director of the prison bureau, Mr. Quinlan supervises 13,000
employees and is paid $72,300 a year.

Serves on Bar Panel

Mr. Quinlan and his wife, Mary, whose maiden name was also Quinlan although the
two are related only by marriage, live in Springfield, Va., with their two young
daughters.

For several years, Mr. Quinlan has served on the American Bar Association's
Committee on Prison and Jail Problems, of which he recently became vice
chairman. The two-dozen members include legal services lawyers, academics and
others devoted to the cause of prisoners' rights.

In interviews, some said described Mr. Quinlan's approach to committee work as
open-minded and without institutional bias.

''He's interesting and different, a positive force in corrections,'' said Alvin
Bronstein, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's National Prison
Project, which has brought many lawsuits against prison officials over the last
15 years.

''He mixes more broadly,'' than other corrections officials, Mr. Bronstein
added. ''He's a lawyer who understands the concepts of due process and
fundamental fairness.''

Praise for 2 Decisions

He said they met in the early 1970's, when Mr. Quinlan was an assistant to the
warden at the Federal prison in Leavenworth, Kan. ''He recognized that
corrections officers didn't always tell the truth, any more than prisoners do,''
Mr. Bronstein said. ''That's a big hurdle to get over with a lot of career
corrections people.''

Mr. Bronstein praised Mr. Quinlan for two recent policy decisions. One was to
close down a high-security unit for female inmates at the Federal prison in
Lexington, Ky., that was criticized as being too restrictive. The other was Mr.
Quinlan's response to a Federal law passed last year to bar the use of Federal
funds for abortions for pregnant prisoners. Mr. Quinlan, believing that inmates
who wanted abortions should be able to get them, contacted Planned Parenthood to
arrange for free or low-cost abortions at clinics near Federal prisons.

''He's a quiet person, but people listen to him because his judgment is good,''
said Ira Robbins, another member of the Bar Association committee who is a law
professor at American University and active in prisoners' rights issues. ''I've
been confident he would come up with a decent solution'' to the Cuban situation.

At his news conference today, Mr. Quinlan was asked how the overcrowded prison
system could absorb the Cuban detainees who are to be spread among a dozen other
institutions after their release from Oakdale. ''As always, we will tighten our
belt,'' he said. ''We're a very proud and can-do organization.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of J. Michael Quinlan (NYT)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 2, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Black Cubans: Apart in Two Worlds

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 26, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 1


The uprisings at two Federal prisons have focused attention on a dimension of
the Cuban refugee exodus generally overlooked among the countless successes
achieved by Cubans settling in Miami over the last three decades: the struggle
of the black Cuban to share that success.

Like other black Hispanic immigrants who find life an uneasy sojourn along a
path dominated by the powerful and often conflicting cultural influences of
white and black America, the black Cuban often finds himself feeling like an
outsider among his fellow expatriates, according to those familar with the
problem.

That sentiment is thought to be especially true in Miami, the spiritual home of
Cuban exiles and refugees, where Cubans are building political and economic
power unequaled in the history of Latin immigration into this country.

An estimated 20 to 40 percent of the refugees who came here by sea from the port
of Mariel in Cuba in 1980 were of mixed blood, an element that played a large
part in their inability to be absorbed in a Cuban community that now numbers
about 650,000, according to several experts.

Life in an Isolated World

''Skin color is not enough alone to establish ties between people,'' said Dr.
Marvin Dunn, a black community leader in Miami who is an assistant professor of
psychology at Florida International University. ''The black Marielitos might
just as well be Polish or Soviet Jews as far as identity with native black
Americans is concerned. In Miami they live in a world isolated from the black
community and only peripheral to the Cuban community. Within the racial context
of this country their blackness carries a double burden: they not only get it
from whites who discriminate against them but also from the Cubans who don't
want to be identified with them.''

''I have yet to see Cuban mulattos or blacks who occupy high jobs in Cuban-owned
businesses in Miami,'' said Prisciliano Falcon, who was head of the Federation
of Sugar Workers in Cuba in the 1950's, the country's largest union with 500,000
members, most of them black.

''The individuals who are in control of the Spanish language media here and
other so-called Cuban community leaders don't talk about discrimination but they
practice it,'' Mr. Falcon said. ''For many Cuban blacks the doors to better-paid
jobs have been closed.''

The first generation of Cubans to arrive in the United States in the years after
Fidel Castro came to power in 1959 included landowners, professional classes and
segments of the intelligencia. Only one of 10 of these refugees considered
themselves ''black.''

Movement to Northern Cities

Blacks in this group, including physicians and other professionals, adjusted
about as well as the other exiles struggling to make a new life, with many
taking jobs as skilled craftsmen. However, many chose to settle in Northern
cities since Miami at the time was still gripped by segregation and exclusionary
laws.

As the first wave of exiles were able to send for family members in the
''Freedom Flights'' arranged by President Johnson in the mid-1960's that carried
350,000 more refugees to the United States, more white Cubans tended to settle
in Miami and blacks went to other cities, principally to the New York
metropolitan area, to Chicago, to New Orleans and to Los Angeles.

La Palabra, the stage name for a black salsa musician whose band now plays in
Miami, went to New York City from Cuba in 1966 when he was 15 years old. He has
since lived in Detroit and Los Angeles.

''But I was never rejected on racial grounds by Cubans until I came to Miami,''
he said Monday. ''Here there is a separation because Cubans in Miami act more
like white Americans than Latins.''

When dark-skinned Cubans arrived from Mariel in 1980 they rarely had relatives
already living in Miami and stayed longer in the camps set up around the country
to receive them because they could not find sponsors in the Cuban community to
assist their resettlement.

''They tended to have more difficulty in this country because they didn't have
an existing network of relatives to give them support,'' explained Juan Clark of
Miami-Dade Community College in Miami, who with Alejandro Portes of Johns
Hopkins University conducted a study on the Mariel refugees earlier this year.

Many Trickle Back to Miami

Initially, many of the black refugees were relocated around the country, but as
time passed many trickled back to Miami where language was no barrier. Nancy
Avilla, 32, and her mother, Estella, 77, were originally sent to Washington,
D.C., but they could not wait until they got back to Miami, they said this week
while seated on a bench in Jose Marti Park in a poor section of Little Havana.

Because of problems in gaining sponsors, the refugees held in the camps for
several months or more were disproportionately black, said Herbierto Dixon of
the New School for Social Research in New York, who teaches management and who
has published a paper on black Cubans. ''Those who rioted at Fort Chafee, Ark.,
tended to be black,'' Dr. Dixon said of the protests at that time.

He said the lack of sponsorship that kept black Cubans held for so long in the
so-called resettlement camps gave them ''the worse kind of introduction to this
country.''

''Because there were so many men considered outcasts by Cuba - homosexuals,
criminals, vagrants, dissidents - the camps seemed to confirm what Castro had
told them awaited them in the U.S.,'' Dr. Dixon said.

Blacks who lived under Castro were constantly told that America was a racist
society in which blacks were constantly persecuted, according to Pablo de
Betancourt, a black who fled Cuba in 1986 with his brother and two other men
aboard a makeshift raft of inner tubes.

Mr. de Betancourt said he was educated at the University of Havana, trained for
the foreign service with studies in economics. At the university, he said, he he
encountered racial attitudes typical of prerevolutionary Cuba.

''My classmates were the sons of high Government officials or party members,''
he said. ''They said I had a black man's body but a white man's brain, which
they considered a compliment because they felt blacks excelled only in athletics
or music and not in the intellect.''

Mr. de Betancourt, who speaks four languages, and his brother were resettled by
Roman Catholic agencies in Las Vegas, Nev., where he now works as a casino
porter, cleaning ashtrays and collecting cocktail glasses in a strip hotel. But,
he said, he has no regrets, and in January he plans to take university courses
in computer technology.

Native blacks in Miami felt little in common with Cuban blacks, separated by
language, culture and goals.

Established Cubans were not overly enthusiastic over the prospect of up 20,000
new immigrants a year entering the country under the latest pact, which would
allow the United States to deport 2,700 undesirable Mariel ''excludables,'' Dr.
Dunn said. ''The new immigrants will be darker, less able to stand on their own
after living under Communism, and have much more difficulty to assimilate even
in the Cuban community, not to say the larger Miami community,'' he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of black Cubans in Miami (NYT/Susan Greenwood)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 4, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Cuban Refugees in U.S.: A Recent History

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 703 words



1980

April 21: First boatload of Cuban refugees from port of Mariel arrives in
Florida.

May 5: President Jimmy Carter offers open arms to Cuban refugees.

May 6: An estimated 17,636 refugees have landed in Florida and 133 have been
detained for having been convicted of serious crimes in Cuba.

May 14: President Carter abandons offer of open arms in favor of program
designed to reduce influx of refugees and exclude those who had been imprisoned
in Cuba for serious nonpolitical crimes.

June 1: Five hundred of the 18,000 Cuban refugees at detention center at Fort
Chaffee, Ark. riot; National Guard called in.

June 7: Carter orders Justice Department to expel refugees who had committed
serious crimes in Cuba.

Sept. 26: Cuba closes Mariel Harbor, ending boatlift; refugee total in U.S.
stands at 125,000.

December: U.S. and Cuba begin secret negotiations on immigration; Castro
apparently unwilling to take back any of the refugees.

1981

Jan. 1: Federal judge in Kansas rules that it is illegal to imprison Cuban
refugees indefinitely.

Jan. 16: Secret talks between U.S. and Cuba on fate of 1,800 Cubans jailed in
U.S. and classified as undesirables collapse, reportedly because U.S. asked to
accept an additional 100,000 refugees over three years in return for the 1,800.

February: Of 125,000 Mariel Cubans, 118,000 have been resettled.

May-June: Cubans stage hunger strike protesting imprisonment in Atlanta.

June 11: First Cuban detainee freed from Atlanta prison by court order.

July 22: Justice Dept. announces intention to review cases of Cubans in Federal
prisons and detention centers.

Aug. 19: Federal judge orders gradual release of some Cuban refugees from
Atlanta prison.

1982

Nov. 23: Judge orders Government to release more Cuban detainees from Atlanta
prison, bringing total released to 1,300.

1983

May 24: U.S. asks Cuba to take back several thousand undesirable Cubans.

July 7: U.S. district judge rules that 1,000 Cubans held at Atlanta penitentiary
have to be proved dangerous by the Government or be released.

Sept. 2: Appeals court grants stay to keep Cubans in Atlanta prison.
 %1984

August: U.S. and Cuba hold talks on Cubans held excludable.

Oct. 14-17: Cuban detainees riot, set fires, smash windows in Atlanta prison.

November: Tear gas used to quell riots in Atlanta when 500 prisoners set fires
and assault guards.

Dec. 14: U.S. and Cuba reach agreement on repatriation of 2,746 Cuban criminals
and mental patients who came to the U.S. in the 1980 boatlift, with the U.S. to
admit 3,000 political prisoners and up to 20,000 regular immigrants a year.

1985

January: Release of 34 Cuban refugees from Atlanta penitentiary barred by
Federal appeals court, clearing way for deportation of 2,746 Cubans.

Feb. 21: Deportations of undesirable Cubans begun under U.S.-Cuba agreement.

May 20: U.S. resumes Radio Marti broadcasts, and Castro retaliates by suspending
deportation agreement after 200 Cubans have returned.

Aug. 22: Fifty Cubans riot at Federal detention center in Florence, Ariz.

1986

May 28: Cubans riot at Miami's Krome Center, cause $100,000 damage.

Oct. 16: U.S. Supreme Court declines to hear appeal by 1,600 Cubans detained at
Atlanta penitentiary to gain limited constitutional rights. I.N.S. retains
authority to detain the Cubans without due process hearings.

1987

Nov. 20: State Department announces revival of 1984 agreement with Cuba under
which at least 2,500 excludable aliens are to be returned to Cuba.

Nov. 21: More than 1,000 Cuban inmates riot at Oakdale, La., detention facility,
take 28 hostages, set fire to most of prison.

Nov. 23: 1392 Cuban inmates riot at Atlanta Penitentiary, seize 94 hostages,
torch three cellblocks, one inmate is killed. Attorney General Meese offers
moratorium on deportations.

Nov. 25: Cuban prisoners at Atlanta Penitentiary release five hostages, take
others who had sought refuge in prison hospital.

Nov. 29: Settlement reached at Oakdale, 26 hostages released. Four hostages held
at Atlanta are released.

Dec. 3: Detainees in Atlanta reach tentative agreement to end uprising and free
the 89 remaining hostages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 6, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION: UPRISINGS END;
Cubans Give Up in Return for a Long Shot

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


FOR Federal prison officials, it was an unprecedented situation: Inmates rioting
not because of overcrowded cells or poor food, but because they did not want to
be deported. Cubans who had come to the United States in the Mariel boatlift of
1980, and who in some cases had been confined ever since, ended their takeovers
at two Federal prisons last week after winning one more shot at staying in this
country.

Hostages were released unharmed by the 1,100 prisoners who left the Federal
penitentiary here on Friday, after an 11-day siege, and by the 1,000 whose
shorter uprising at a Federal detention center in Oakdale, La., ended a week ago
today. The agreements that ended both sieges were essentially the same: Both
promised that no ''arbitrary'' changes would be made in the status of any
detainee who had been approved for parole when the uprisings began.

Some prisoners' rights advocates asserted that the agreements were too ambiguous
to give the detainees much help. And Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d said Friday
that the case reviews would be done by administrative personnel, not by judges,
who the inmates thought would give them a fairer hearing.

The rioting was triggered by an immigration agreement that meant thousands of
boatlift Cubans who had wound up in American prisons would be returned to Cuba.
A Federal appeals court had ruled that since the refugees never legally entered
the United States, they could not seek relief in American courts; about 3,600
are in prison despite having completed sentences for their crimes. Until the
pact was announced, many thought they would be freed in time; about 500 here had
just been approved for parole.

The 85-year-old prison on a ridge southeast of downtown Atlanta had been one of
the nation's most violent for years, not only in terms of inmates assaulting one
another and inmates assaulting guards, but also in terms of inmates harming
themselves: There were more than 6,000 cases of self-mutilation from 1981 to
1986, according to a House subcommittee report.

To the extent that they won another round of case reviews, the Cuban inmates got
a bit of what they had sought. Mr. Meese maintained that the Government had also
achieved its objectives in the negotiations. And the hostages got something too
- overtime pay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of hostages leaving Atlanta prison after accord (AP)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 8, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

A Thaw in Cuban Relations?

BYLINE: By Tad Szulc; Tad Szulc is author of a recent book about Fidel Castro.

SECTION: Section A; Page 39, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A new set of events, not least the visit by Mikhail S. Gorbachev, suggests the
possibility of a thaw in Cuba's sullen relationship with the United States.
American domestic politics may, of course, preclude such a thaw. This would be
unfortunate. Cuba's influence in Latin America is growing while ours is
diminishing.

It may thus serve our long-range foreign policy interests to pay attention to
various straws in the wind that may carry the promise of a better relationship
with Cuba and perhaps even justify an attempt at direct negotiations.

Immigration. The November immigration accord that triggered riots by Cuban
inmates in American prisons was an example of President Fidel Castro's desire to
resume a fuller dialogue, and the Reagan Administration had gone along with him
in this case, though without further commitments.

Central America. It is plain that Cuba is a major player in the Central American
conflict and that no settlement is possible without Havana. This is especially
true in Nicaragua, where Cuba and the Soviet Union now prefer a negotiated
peace, and where the United States-backed contras have no hope of victory.

Africa. Cuba maintains about 30,000 combat troops in Angola, but Mr. Castro is
known to be prepared to discuss a repatriation timetable if the West guarantees
the survival of the Luanda Government in the face of attacks by guerrillas
supported by South Africa and the United States.

Economic matters. Given the precarious state of his economy and the growing
internal political pressures, Mr. Castro is clearly in favor of a relaxation of
tensions with the United States. A sophisticated American diplomatic approach
could produce beneficial international results.

Mr. Gorbachev said last week that he planned to raise the question of Cuba and
related Central American and African issues in discussions on regional problems
during the summit meeting. Soviet diplomats have openly emphasized that he would
like to see Nicaragua, in particular, removed from the sphere of
Moscow-Washington disputes.

The Cuban role in Central America - Mr. Castro's support for the Central
American peace plan signed by all the isthmian chiefs of state, his closeness to
the Sandinistas and his influence with leftist guerrillas in El Salvador - is
looming large in the White House talks.

Mr. Castro began to send signals that he wished improvement in relations with
Washington shortly after his return from a trip to Moscow last month. He said so
to Western European political leaders who visited him during November, then
offered the International Committee of the Red Cross instant access to Cuban
prisons as well as the promise of freeing soon several hundred political
prisoners.

On Nov. 13, less than a week after he returned, Cuban and American diplomats met
secretly in Montreal on his initiative to negotiate the revival of the original
immigration agreement, signed in December 1984 but suspended by Mr. Castro the
following year when the United States began broadcasting hostile programs over
the new Radio Jose Marti. The accord had provided for the return to Cuba of
2,500 exiles with criminal records and mental problems from the Mariel boat lift
in 1980, when more than 120,000 Cubans fled the island, in exchange for the
annual emigration of 20,000 anti-Castro Cubans.

On Nov. 20, the new understanding was signed at a secret encounter in Mexico
City. Within days, Cuban inmates, some presumably fearing repatriation, seized
two United States prisons. Havana instantly announced that repatriated prisoners
would not be incarcerated.

Despite these signs, Washington has shown little eagerness for wider talks.
President Reagan will sign a nuclear treaty today with the Soviet Union, which
he has described as the ''evil empire,'' but negotiations with Cuba might be too
much for Reaganite conservatives to swallow.

President Reagan should ignore them. Only last month, President Castro received
powerful support from eight Latin American presidents conferring in Acapulco,
Mexico, when they publicly agreed that Cuba should be readmitted to
inter-American organizations that expelled it under American pressure a
quarter-century ago.

This was a hard slap at the Administration by the so-called Group of Eight,
which includes such staunch American friends as President Jose Sarney of Brazil
and President Raul Alfonsin of Argentina. It was Mr. Sarney who proclaimed that
''we ought to struggle for the total integration of Cuba into the inter-American
system.''

With Latin America changing rapidly under Washington's less than watchful eye -
it seems to care mainly about funds for the contras -this may be the time for a
bold United States response, whatever Mr. Reagan's domestic political
requirements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

East Bloc Couple Fighting for Asylum

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH NEUFFER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 3, Page 74, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 813 words


Fleeing a Government they feared would arrest them, Tamas Koppany and his family
arrived last year at Kennedy International Airport from Hungary with three small
suitcases, a pocket English dictionary and the belief they had found refuge.

The family began their new life in a windowless basement of an aunt's home in
Rockville Centre, L.I. Mr. Koppany, a lawyer, earned money driving a taxicab.
His wife, also a lawyer, began studying for the bar examination. And the couple
confidently called on an immigration lawyer to begin proceedings to remain in
the United States.

But their vision of the United States as a haven for refugees from the Eastern
Bloc has been shaken, the couple said. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service recently denied them asylum, arguing they had not proved they would face
political persecution in Hungary. The Koppanys have been told to leave by Dec.
30 or face deportation to Hungary.

''In my position, I had always dreamed I could come to the West and I would
never have to return to Hungary,'' said Mr. Koppany, a criminal lawyer who fell
into disfavor with the Hungarian Government by successfully defending people
accused of political and economic crimes.

'Well-Founded Fear'

''I had heard about asylum,'' he said. ''I had heard about a lot of refugees
here. I assumed if I got into trouble with my Government that the Americans
would hear my case, and I could stay.''

Although new immigration laws have allowed many illegal aliens to step forward
and seek citizenship here, the measures do not apply to the Mr. Koppany, 33
years old, his wife, Kornelia Nagy, 32, and their 3-year-old daughter, Karolina.

As recently arrived refugees from a country where human-rights abuses are known
to occur, the family entered the country with the understanding they had to seek
political asylum. The I.N.S. requires each applicant to prove he has a
''well-founded fear of persecution.''

Proving such a fear can be difficult. The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights,
which has lobbied for improving the asylum process, said thousands of applicants
from countries ranging from Hungary to Haiti were turned away each year.

Of the 30,000 political refugees a year whose cases are heard, many from the New
York metropolitan region, 7,500, or 25 percent, receive asylum, according to
Arthur C. Helton, who directs the Political Asylum Project for the lawyers'
group.

Leaving a Luxurious Life

A spokesman for the I.N.S., Verne Jervis, said it was against the policy of the
agency to comment on such individual cases as that of the Koppanys. He said the
agency always considered appeals. The lawyers' group said it had asked the
I.N.S. to reconsider the case.

''They are clearly deserving of protection,'' Mr. Helton said. ''I believe they
have wrongfully been denied asylum.''

The couple said they felt they had clearly demonstrated their fear of
persecution simply by having abandoned a luxurious life in Budapest - an
apartment in a fashionable section of the city, a summer cottage in a lake
resort and a sizable bank account.

Just 16 percent of the Hungarians who have applied for asylum this year have
received it, Mr. Helton said, compared to 80 percent of the Russians who apply.
The State Department said Hungary was considered one of the least politically
repressive nations in the Eastern Bloc.

Perched on the double bed in their bedrooom, decorated with a poster of the
Manhattan skyline and American flags, Mr. Koppany and Ms. Nagy talked, at times
briskly, at times mournfully, about their options.

'We Belong to No One'

They fear other Western countries might follow the United States decision and
deny them asylum. ''Now, we belong to nowhere,'' Ms. Nagy said. ''We belong to
no one.''

In documents on their case, the State Department said a weakness of Mr.
Koppany's request was that he had never been interrogated or imprisoned.

Should the couple be forced to return, they said they believed that under
Hungarian law they would face prison sentences for having applied for asylum
here. They said a friend had told them that Ms. Nagy had already been sentenced
to two years.

Mr. Koppany said he would face a longer sentence, for the charges stemming from
his defending a company that led the Hungarian police to search his office and
seek his arrest last year.

They are also upset by the possibility of leaving their dreams here - Mr.
Koppany's desire to work as a Legal Aid lawyer; their hope of finishing law
studies at New York University, where they had won a scholarship, and their wish
to see their daugher educated in American schools.

Ms. Nagy's aunt, Lili Vamos, who fled Hungary 36 years ago, said she could not
believe the couple would be asked to leave.

'Most people come here without anything, to be rich,'' Mrs. Vamos said. ''But
they left everything behind to come here and be poor.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Tamas Koppany and his wife, Kornelia Nagy, with their
3-year-old daughter, Karolina, in their basement apartment in the home of Ms.
Nagy's aunt, Lili Vamos (NYT/marty Heitner)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 20, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Moynihan's Pitch: A Man of Action

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 886 words


TO hear some New York politicians tell it, only half in jest, one would approach
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan for a history of immigration but go to Senator
Alfonse M. D'Amato for a passport. It is part of a perception of Mr. Moynihan as
a talker and thinker and Mr. D'Amato as a shouter and doer.

But, the politicians don't talk that way in front of Mr. Moynihan, the senior
Senator.

''If you are so stupid that you would go to a Senator for a passport, then go to
my colleague. But if you want to change foreign policy, you go to Moynihan,'' he
said, enunciating each word.

Mr. Moynihan was giving a preview of his coming campaign for a third term.
Shortly beforehand, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, co-chairman of the
Senate Democratic Campaign Committee, had joined him at a news conference to
announce that the committee was prepared to provide up to $1.2 million if the
Senator needs it. The money might come in especially handy if Senator Moynihan's
opponent is the prominent United States Attorney, Rudolph W. Giuliani.

In the interview, Mr. Moynihan concentrated on the nuts and bolts - and the pork
- he said he has delivered to New York over the past 11 years.

He boasted of an amendment to the immigration law that he helped write and that
was approved by the Senate and House last week. Mr. Moynihan's amendment was
considered of special interest to New York, with its diverse population and wide
range of international interests, because it would permit entry to some
controversial political figures who are now barred. The Senator also took credit
for Federal reimbursement for the rebuilding of the Schoharie Creek Bridge and
the maintenance of the New York State barge canal that he said he shepherded
through the Senate and House conferees last week.

The voters are likely to hear a lot about the Senator's work on Social Security;
his membership on two committees - finance, and environment and public works -
that handle one third of the Federal budget; his role in the 1986 tax bill,
which provided relief for New York municipalities and authorities; his bill that
ended the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway tolls in about five years, and his
sponsorship of two new Federal buildings in Manhattan.

''The characterization of Moynihan the thinker and D'Amato the doer is overly
simplistic and unfair,'' said Brad Johnson, New York State's lobbyist in
Washington. Mr. Johnson, a Republican, gave the Democratic Senator credit for
focusing on the Federal grant formulas that were ''ripping off this region.''

''The real battle is the battle over formulas; grants are made by computers,
formulas are made by legislators,'' Mr. Moynihan said, referring to what some
see as Mr. D'Amato's ability to make public relations hay out of Federal grants.

Nevertheless, a Democratic lobbyist, echoing other politicians, said that
Senator D'Amato's office was more cooperative. ''Dealing with Moynihan can be
totally frustrating; you don't know whether he's doing something for you or not
and when you go to somebody else, he gets furious,'' said the lobbyist, who
asked not to be identified.

The Senator's volatile temper is well known, intimidating even the usually
undaunted Mayor Koch. It has also produced a revolving-door staff - he has nine
administrative assistants in 11 years. A Moynihan defender, who preferred
anonymity, said that part of the problem is that many staff members and
politicians ''can't keep up with Moynihan intellectually.''

Mr. Moynihan has not faced strong opposition since he won the Democratic Senate
nomination in 1976. Republican Senator James L. Buckley had been elected by less
than a majority vote in a three-way race in 1970 and was a relatively easy
target for Mr. Moynihan in 1976. State Assemblywoman Florence Sullivan, Mr.
Moynihan's opponent in 1982, was unknown and inexperienced in statewide
campaigns.

In 1988, it could be different if Mr. Giuliani decides to run, although a recent
Marist College poll shows that both New York Senators enjoy an enviable approval
rating of about 60 percent.

Another prospective Republican candidate, Ronald S. Lauder, an heir to the Estee
Lauder cosmetics fortune, would probably be a much easier opponent despite his
family's enormous wealth. Mr. Lauder has had limited government experience as a
Defense Department official and Ambassador to Austria.

The 61-year-old Senator, whose political experience dates back to the
administration of New York Governor Averill Harriman in the mid-50's, has said
several times that this will be his last campaign. It seemed for a time that it
might also be his most personal campaign: There were hints that Mr. Moynihan
might be accused of having a drinking problem. Perhaps hoping to defuse the
issue, the Senator has spoken publicly about it, admitting to taking a drink or
two after working hours, but denying that it interferred with his performance in
the Senate.

He noted last week that just after starting a third term, he would be eligible
for the sort of Social Security benefits he claims to have helped save. But
then, reminded that an early retirement announcement would make him a lame duck
from the start of his third term, he said his decision was ''not irrevocable.''
The voters will decide next year whether Mr. Moynihan has to even make the
decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan with Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry,
co-chairman of the Senate Democratic Campaign Committee (NYT/Dith Pran)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 26, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Consulate Cutbacks Hinder Immigration

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 256 words


To the Editor:

''Chopped to the Bone at State'' (editorial, Nov. 28) speaks of embarrassments
caused by the failure of Congress to appropriate sufficient funds for American
consulates to function adequately abroad. Beyond the problems you mention, such
as long lines and inability to answer or take telephone calls, there is a
further problem that should be of concern to all Americans.

Many people who have established a legal right to immigrate to the United States
because of immediate or close family members who are United States citizens, or
a job offer for which there is a proven shortage of United States workers are
refused interviews by American consulates on the ground that their budgets do
not permit them to take out-of-district cases.

Accordingly, some of the most deserving individuals who seek to enter the United
States from countries where we do not have consulates, such as Cuba, Libya or
Iran, or individuals who fear to return to their home countries from Eastern
bloc countries, find themselves in a situation where their cases can float for
years without finding an American consulate willing to accept jurisdiction over
their cases.

It is an embarrassment that our Government is unwilling either to appropriate
sufficient funds or to permit consuls to charge sufficient fees to cover the
cost so that qualified individuals may legally enter the United States.

CHARLES C. FOSTER

Houston, Dec. 8, 1987

The writer is a former president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 31, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

1912 Immigrant to U.S. Finds Status Periled

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: REDDING, Calif., Dec. 30


Draped in silver satin and waving a makebelieve torch, 95-year-old Stefania
Ludwika Babinski proudly portrayed the Statue of Liberty as she wheeled her
chair around her nursing home one recent Halloween.

Now the matriarch of five generations of Polish-Americans who has lived in the
United States since 1912 may lose her state medical benefits because government
officials consider her an illegal alien.

The Shasta County welfare office sent Mrs. Babinski a notice earlier this year
advising her she was ''not legally present'' and therefore not eligible for the
state medical allowance that helps pay her room and board at her nursing home.

'This Is Her Country'

''I never had any doubts she was legal,'' said Rose Potemko, 66 years old, of
Redding, Calif., one of Mrs. Babinski's five children. ''She belongs here. This
is her country.''

But the family swallowed its pride several weeks ago and applied to make Mrs.
Babinski a legal resident under the new amnesty program of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Shirley Steins, 42, Mrs. Potemko's daughter, said today: ''We had to arrange
special transportation for her to get a physical to prove she wasn't bringing in
diseases from Poland. It's a little late; it was a farce.''

The family had to pay $185 in fees and was told Mrs. Babinski would also need an
AIDS test.

The trouble began when a state welfare worker reviewing the eligibility of
people receiving benefits found that Mrs. Babinski's file lacked proof of her
ever obtaining a green card showing she had become a permanent resident of the
United States. Mrs. Babinski no longer communicates well and could not produce
papers.

''Two years ago, they knew she was from Poland and they wanted documentation, so
I gave them her marriage certificate and other things proving she had been here
for 75 years,'' said Mrs. Steins. ''That was enough then, but now it is not
enough.''

Mrs. Potemko had proof only of the naturalization of her father, Stanley. The
welfare office would not accept a shopping bag filled with rent receipts,
medical bills and a marriage license.

Richard Griffith, an immigration service officer in Redding, where the family
applied for amnesty for Mrs. Babinski, said: ''Length of stay does not a citizen
make. It's interesting that she's been here that long and had no problems.''

However, the amnesty program now in effect offers legal status to aliens who can
show that they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982 have resided here
continuously since then.

Mrs. Steins recently learned that immigration officials in San Pedro who oversee
the amnesty program for the region may have found Mrs. Babinski's original
papers documenting her entry through Ellis Island, N.Y. That would be all the
proof needed that she is a legal resident and entitled to state medical
benefits.

Information Proves Promising

''The information being developed may indicate she is a legal resident,'' said
Gregory Ward, chief legalization officer at the immigration service's office in
Redding.

Meanwhile, the family is awaiting a ruling from an administrative law judge in
the next two weeks on the threatened cutoff of the state medical allowance.
Robert Creighton, who as deputy director of Shasta County's Social Services
Department oversees the state medical benefits program, would not discuss the
case except to say Mrs. Babinksi's benefits would continue until the issue was
resolved.

Mrs. Babinski raised her family in an inner-city Detroit neighborhood. She and
her late husband, both ardent Democrats, had two sons in the Navy in World War
II and displayed the American flag every Fourth of July and Flag Day.

''They were proud to be Americans and raised us up to be the same way,'' Mrs.
Potemko said. ''If we didn't vote, we were considered sloppy citizens ''If she
knew she were being branded illegal, it would hurt her. They did everything good
Americans would do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 3, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Fairness of Case Reviews for Cubans Is Challenged

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 2


Cuban detainees who rioted at two Federal penitentiaries in November may not be
properly represented as a new round of individual case reviews opens Monday, an
attorney for the detainees says.

Seventeen teams of officers from the Immigration and Naturalization Service will
begin reviews Monday on case files of Cuban detainees who were transferred to
nine Federal prison facilities after the riots, which heavily damaged the
Federal prisons here and in Oakdale, La.

Gary Leshaw, an Atlanta lawyer who helped negotiate the plan under which the
Cubans here agreed to surrender 89 hostages, said it would be virtually
impossible to find legal representation for about 1,900 Cubans who will have
their parole status reviewed in the next few weeks. The review is part of a
two-step process designed by Justice Department officials in the aftermath of
the riots. In the second part, departmental officials will conduct case reviews
to determine whether detainees are to be deported.

Mr. Leshaw said that advocates for the Cubans were concerned that the Cubans
might never have an opportunity to be heard in their own defense or even to
correct false information that could lead to deportation ruling.

''There is no way we can find representatives for all of those people in all of
those places,'' Mr. Leshaw said. ''We're trying to find some help, but we'll
never find people for all of them.''

Legal Help Is Sought

Mr. Leshaw, an attorney for the Atlanta Legal Aid Society, had represented a
number of the detainees in Atlanta. Now, he said, he is concentrating on seeking
assistance from lawyers and church organizations near the various Federal
prisons.

A Federal court has ruled that the Cuban inmates ''have virtually no
constitutional rights'' as they seek to end their detention and to avoid
deportation. Justice Department officials have said that the detainees may
retain lawyers to advise them in the review process, but that the Government
will not pay for their legal aid.

Representative Patrick L. Swindall, Republican of Georgia, said he was convinced
that previous immigration service reviews have not been fair in every case and
that some detainees have been held on the basis of false information. ''There is
no question, no question at all, that in the past people have been held for
erroneous reasons,'' Mr. Swindall said. In a letter to Assistant Attorney
General John R. Bolton, Mr. Swindall wrote, ''During my perusal of varous I.N.S.
detainee files, I found that on several occasions I.N.S. officials denied
re-parole based on erroneous information contained in the files, or on their
misreading of information contained in the files.''

Mr. Leshaw said the incorrect records, as well as a language barrier for many
detainees who do not speak English, might make the lack of counsel particularly
damaging.

''Unless they have some representative, they may never know what's in their
files until they've already been turned down for parole and are scheduled to go
back to Cuba,'' Mr. Leshaw said.

Cuban detainees had set fires and taken hostages at Oakdale and Atlanta after
learning that the United States and Cuba had reactivated a 1984 agreement under
which the United States could return as many as 100 Cuban detainees a month to
Cuba. Most of the inmates who rioted had come to the United States by sea from
the Cuban port of Mariel in 1980 and most are being held for crimes committed
since their arrival.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said many of
the detainees might never speak to the members of the review panels deciding
their fates. ''If they are approved for parole on the basis of a review of the
file, then there's no reason for an interview,'' Mr. Austin said. ''If the
review panel thinks it is a close case and an interview would be helpful, they
will schedule one. But for the rest of the people, there will be no interview
unless they specifically request it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 17, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

A CASE THAT CHANGED THE RULES

BYLINE: By JOHN P. MACKENZIE; John P. MacKenzie is a member of the editorial
board of The New York Times.

SECTION: Section 7; Page 21, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 816 words



CHADHA
The Story of an Epic Constitutional Struggle. By Barbara Hinkson Craig.
Illustrated. 262 pp. New York: Oxford University Press. $24.95.

THE case called Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha was a great
case because of its large abstractions - grand legal issues, ideological
currents, interest group pressures, historical timing. Although it started with
the question of one person's right to immigrate, the case changed the rules of
the ''legislative veto.'' It's also a story with a human dimension, since the
Supreme Court, in the course of reordering relations between the President and
Congress, rectified a personal injustice to an otherwise unknown immigrant named
Jagdish Chadha. The entire yarn demands a thorough, dramatic telling. In large
part Barbara Hinkson Craig, who teaches in the government department at Wesleyan
University, delivers just that.

The legislative veto, as it stood until 1983, was a wrong-way exception to the
way laws are usually enacted. The prescribed constitutional method is for
Congress to approve a bill, which the President either signs or vetoes, subject
to being overridden by two-thirds majorities of the House and Senate. The
backward way, usually used to retain some power in Congress: pass laws
delegating powers to executive or independent agencies, but allowing either or
both legislative chambers to nullify agency action they don't like. Every
President since Hoover has complained about the Congressional intrusion, even as
they yielded to it out of political weakness or because they found the device
useful to achieve specific ends.

For example, Presidents found the veto convenient for getting Congress to go
along with executive reorganizations. Legislators found it helpful in showing
constituents how they could clobber officious bureaucrats. The legislative veto
peaked between 1970 and 1975 as Congress reacted to Richard Nixon's imperial
Presidency by putting 89 veto provisions in the lawbooks. Congress was even
seriously considering a generic veto bill that would have tied strings to every
law dealing with Federal agencies.

Mr. Chadha's case showed the veto in its ugliest light. A native of Kenya of
Indian extraction, he came to the United States in 1966 as a student but became
virtually stateless because neither Kenya nor Britain wanted him when his visa
expired. The Immigration and Naturalization Service stayed his deportation on
hardship grounds, a move Congress allowed in 1940 but made subject to a
one-house veto. In practice, a single subcommittee chairman wielded that veto
power, never bothering to explain why Mr. Chadha and five other aliens were
chosen to have their deportation orders reinstated by a voice vote in the House
in 1974.

Ms. Craig tells how the plaintiff seeking justice, and Alan Morrison of
Washington, a lawyer who was itching to litigate the veto issue, found each
other. Mr. Morrison, schooled in the techniques of Ralph Nader's consumer-rights
organizations, felt especially aggrieved by a law with a veto provision that
could force consumer groups, after they had persuaded an agency like the Federal
Trade Commission to regulate in their favor, to defend their victory in
Congress, where industry could appeal, seeking a veto.

That litigious urge coincided with the Supreme Court's trend toward enforcing
the Constitution's separation of powers principle. In arguing the Chadha case,
Mr. Morrison persuaded the United States Court of Appeals in San Francisco to
strike down the veto provision. Judge Anthony M. Kennedy, now a Supreme Court
nominee, delivered the ruling on relatively narrow grounds. The Supreme Court
affirmed that judgment in 1983, but on grounds broad enough to nullify more than
200 veto provisions on the books. Chief Justice Warren Burger was right to rule
more broadly and cleanly, even at some risk to his title of champion of judicial
restraint. Ms. Craig's common-sense explanation for the Court's decision:
Congress had simply overdone the legislative veto.

The ruling didn't settle the underlying political contest between the Presidency
and Congress, but it fundamentally changed the rules of engagement. Ms. Craig,
avowedly fascinated by the issue, the cast of characters and the fates that
bound them together, provides much detail - enough for any serious student but
too much for the general reader. She displays the proper outrage at the
injustice met by Mr. Chadha, yet fails to make the reader care very much for the
protagonist personally. Her account of courtroom oral arguments misses much of
their drama by failing too often to report which Supreme Court Justice is asking
which question. Her book doesn't match more authoritative studies of other
Supreme Court cases. But it contributes substantially to public understanding of
a great case that has a happy ending and a power struggle that has no ending at
all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Jagdish Chadha (NYT/Terrence McCarthy)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 20, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Moscow Grants U.S. Couple An Asylum From Capitalism

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 19


An American couple who came to Moscow as tourists have been granted political
asylum after choosing life in the Soviet Union as an ''alternative to
capitalism,'' the Foreign Ministry spokesman said today.

The spokesman, Gennadi I. Gerasimov, identified the Americans as Theodore
Branch, 43 years old, and Cheryl Branch, 40, saying they were ''experts in mass
communications.''

In Erie, Pa., Mr. Branch's father, Clarence Branch, said his son had worked for
a radio station in Mount Dora, Fla.

The couple arrived in Moscow last month, ''declared their unwillingness to
return to the United States and asked for permission to live here as
immigrants,'' Mr. Gerasimov said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 22, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Immigrant Girl's Dream of Attending West Point Hangs in the Balance

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 21


On an unpaved street in the poorest section of the city, in a tiny house whose
front stoop has long since sunk into the dirt, lives a high school senior who
wants to escape to the Military Academy at West Point.

She will not even be allowed to apply.

The student, Xochilt Carreto, is probably going to be the valedictorian of her
high school. She is the president of her class, president of the Spanish Honor
Society, secretary of the National Honor Society and a member of the soccer,
cross-country and swim teams. She is battalion comander, the highest rank, in
the Pinkston High School's Reserve Officer's Training Corps. Her favorite
subjects are physics and mathematics.

One thing she is not, however, is an American citizen, a fact she says is the
fault of the American bureaucracy. She has lived here since 1973, when she was 3
years old, and she and four of her seven brothers and sisters walked over the
border from Mexico. A year earlier her mother gave birth to a son on United
States soil, allowing her to stay in the country legally and apply for ''green
cards,'' or legal alien status, for her other children.

Reason Is a Matter in Dispute

Why Miss Carreto did not receive such a card is unclear. She says that
immigration officials told her mother that her income as a laundress was
insufficient to support the entire family, and only two of the children were
granted legal status. Ron Chandler, district director for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service here, called that ''total hogwash.''

While officers often deny entry to an entire family if the income of the
breadwinner is so low that the family will be dependent on public assistance, he
said, ''Nobody in the immigration service ever said, 'You can only bring in two
children, you decide which ones.' ''

Whatever the circumstances were, the two oldest daughters received their green
cards in 1977 and the remaining children were placed on a waiting list to enter
the country as unmarried dependents of a legal resident. It was not until 1985
that Miss Carreto made it to the top of that list and received her green card.
In the interim, the family lived together illegally in the cramped West Dallas
house.

Miss Carreto flourished in her first decade in this country, rather like a
flower that somehow grows in a concrete lot. She is the only member of her
family to graduate from high school and the only one who hopes to go to college.
Her older sisters are married and raising children, much like their mother did.
Her older brothers are looking for jobs.

Special Member of Family

Members of her family, none of whom speak more than a smattering of English,
treat her like one who is different, appreciated but not understood. In a house
cramped with cots, she has her own bedroom and a queen-size bed. While the rest
of the rooms are gray and bare, hers has a bright red carpet, a matching
comforter and walls filled with posters, colorful fans and a large velvet
sombrero with silver trim.

She is equally set apart at Pinkston High School, which is 80 percent black, 20
percent Hispanic and usually sends fewer than 10 percent of its graduates to
four-year colleges. Most of those in her class who do attend college, ''will
just go to a junior college and start working in a fast food restaurant, she
said, adding, ''That will be it for them.''

One of her two best friends hopes to attend the University of Texas at Austin.
The other plans to be married upon graduation in June and will not go to
college. ''I'm trying to talk her into staying in school,'' Miss Carreto said.
''She said that won't bring her happiness.''

A Film Inspired Her

Miss Carreto decided what would bring her happiness last fall while she was
watching a film about the military academy at an R.O.T.C. meeting. No stranger
to self-imposed discipline - watching television, she says, makes her feel
guilty that she is not doing schoolwork -she remembers being awed by the
external discipline of West Point.

''I'm the one who has to make a difference in my family,'' she said. ''In middle
school they asked once 'what are you going to be?' I was embarrassed to say that
my father left before I was born, my mother never had any schooling, my brothers
didn't even have a job. I wondered would my kids be embarrassed when they talked
about me?''

Miss Carreto knew that only citizens could be admitted to West Point but decided
to apply anyway ''and see how far I could get, see if someone could help me,''
she said. She would be eligible for citizenship in 1990, before graduation from
the academy, and she hoped that might be sufficient.

But Federal law states that a person must be a citizen to become a cadet at the
academy, according to Capt. Harold Beal, who oversees Texas admissions at West
Point. The entry date this year is June 28.

Her school guidance counselor advised her to wear her R.O.T.C. dress uniform to
the interview with the academy nominating committee of Representative Martin
Frost, Democrat of Texas, the first step in the rather complicated road to West
Point.

She Impressed the Committee

Each member of the House and Senate is alloted five slots at West Point, and
when one of those slots opens, that member may nominate up to 10 candidates to
fill it.

Miss Carreto impressed Mr. Frost's committee. One member has appealed to Texas
A&M University on her behalf and she says she believes that school will offer
her a scholarship. She can attend A&M for two years and then reapply to West
Point, which accepts students up to 22 years old.

Were it not for her alien status, Mr. Frost said, she would be on the list of
nominees he plans to submit to West Point on Jan. 31. She would not be the
principal nominee, he said, but she would be an alternate. Mr. Frost and Senator
Lloyd Bentsen, another Texas Democrat, plan to introduce a bill granting
citizenship to Miss Carreto immediatly, but the bill is unlikely to be passed
before the end of the month.

Miss Carreto said she does not plan to give up. She is taking the Scholastic
Aptitude Test again this month, hoping to raise her score, which was 750 out of
a possible 1600, and well below the academy's unofficial cutoff score of 1050.

Long List of Resolutions

She knows that even if she is allowed to apply she might not be admitted. ''I'd
say her chances weren't good,'' Captain Beal said. ''I know she has a dream to
attend here, but so do the other twenty-one hundred people'' who apply from the
Southwest region.

Miss Carreto's ambition can best be seen in the list of New Year's resolutions
in magic marker on cardboard, tacked to her bedroom wall.

The list is a long one, with pledges ''To be honest,'' ''To obey my mother and
elders,'' ''To graduate number one,'' ''To study a little more'' and ''To cut my
hair.''

At the bottom, she had written ''To prepare for my marriage.'' Until recently,
she was engaged to an enlisted man she met in R.O.T.C. But she broke the
engagement, she said, because ''he didn't want to make enough of his life.''

Now, the last resolution is ''To prepare for West Point.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Xochilt Carreto (NYT/Jarrold Cabluck)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 24, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Asylum News Is a Miracle To L.I. Family

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 31, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 743 words


The news came to Tamas Koppany last Saturday, in a form letter from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Because his request for political asylum
had been denied and he had failed to leave the country, the letter said,
deportation proceedings would begin against him, his wife and their 3-year-old
daughter.

Mr. Koppany, a 33-year-old criminal defense lawyer, feared the family might be
forced to return to Hungary, which he fled more than a year ago fearing arrest
by the authorities for his legal work.

But on Wednesday, he got a telephone call from the Justice Department saying
that the decision had been overturned, and that the family could stay in the
United States after all.

For a family that had lost hope of remaining here, it was miraculous news
indeed.

Wearing the Flag

''This is the biggest thing that could have happened to us,'' said Mr. Koppany,
a tall, broad-shouldered man who has a small American flag sewn to the sleeve of
his coat.

In an interview yesterday in the Rockville Centre, L.I., home of an aunt, Lili
Vamos - who fled Hungary herself 36 years ago and who took them and their
daughter, Karoline, in - Mr. Koppany and his wife, Kornelia Nagy, spoke of their
move from Hungary.

Mr. Koppany left Hungary in October 1986 because, he said, the authorities
objected to his aggressive legal defense of people charged with political and
economic crimes, and were on the verge of arresting him on false charges. He and
his family came to the United States and applied for political asylum.

He got jobs delivering pizza and driving a taxi and a limousine. He and his wife
enrolled in a one-year postgraduate program at New York University Law School,
hoping to graduate and take the bar exam this summer.

But Mr. Koppany could not convince immigration officials that he would be in
political danger if he returned to Hungary. The agency said the United States
would not accept him and his work permit was revoked, he said.

Foreign Policy Blamed

Arthur C. Helton, director of the political asylum project for the Lawyers
Committee on Human Rights in New York, and the family's lawyer, said they had
been victimized by United States foreign policy. The State Department, he said,
is reluctant to offend Hungary while trying to improve relations between the two
countries, and the immigration agency tends to abide by State Department
recommendations.

A State Department spokeswoman declined to comment on the case yesterday.

Patrick S. Korten, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said the Justice
Department, according to its policy, had stepped in to overrule the immigration
service because of the case's ''unusual circumstances.''

Mr. Koppany and his wife were home when the Justice Department called, having
just finished their first set of law exams.

''The man told us that it was a very rare decision, and that sometimes it takes
time to correct mistakes,'' Mr. Koppany said. ''And then he said 'Good luck,'
and Kornelia and I began to cry.''

Doing Volunteer Work

As Karoline danced about the house in red tights with a strawberry on the knee,
Mrs. Nagy, a bankruptcy lawyer, talked about the couple's prospects. She has a
part-time volunteer job in bankruptcy court, and her husband is going to work
for Mr. Helton's group once a week, also as a volunteer. And they will try to
get paying jobs to tide them over while they finish school.

Mr. Koppany, who, like his wife, has become proficient at English, said it was
his love of law that makes him look forward to practicing in the United States.

''Here, a person has rights,'' he said, and he began to speak warmly of one of
his favorite Supreme Court decisions, the Miranda ruling that requires the
police to notify arrested people of their rights. In Hungary, he said, the
police interrogate defendants until they confess.

Another Form Letter

Mr. Koppany and his wife do not know where they will settle after they finish
law school and pass the bar. But they love Rockville Centre, despite the chilly
weather. ''It's just like Hungary,'' Mr. Koppany said. ''Only here, of course,
you have the sea.''

The day after the Justice Department called to tell him about his asylum, Mr.
Koppany said, he got another form letter from the immigration service, telling
him when to appear for his deportation hearing.

''But it was dated the day before they called, and so it was wrong,'' he said.
''I'm a lawyer. I notice these things.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Tamas Koppany and his wife, Kornelia Nagy, with their
daughter, Karoline, at home in Rockville Centre, L.I. (The New York
Times/Michael Shavel)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 1, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Release of Cubans Reported Up Since Riots

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 31


The Federal Government is releasing five times as many Cubans from prison each
month as it did before uprisings at two prisons last year focused attention on
the Cubans' efforts to remain in this country, according to a report today in
The Atlanta Journal and Constitution.

Since Dec. 4, when Cuban prisoners and Federal negotiators signed an agreement
ending an 11-day siege at the Federal Penitentiary here, the number of Cubans
freed has risen to about 100 a month from about 20 a month before the uprisings,
the newspaper said.

In the same period, about 1,200 Cubans were approved for release by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, although most of those had been
designated for release before the uprisings, the newspaper said.

Nearly 1,000 Cuban inmates seized hostages and took control of the Federal
Detention Center at Oakdale, La., on Nov. 21, shortly after the Government
announced that it had reached an agreement with Cuba that would allow the United
States to deport thousands of Cubans being held in the United States. The
inmates surrendered a week later. In Atlanta, about 1,500 detainees took over
the prison before surrendering.

Agreements ending both sieges promised that the Cuban inmates would receive
individual reviews on their immigration status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 7, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Valedictorian, Denied West Point, Will Settle for Texas A&M

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 6


A Dallas high school student who was not allowed to apply to the United States
Military Academy because she is not yet a citizen has received a scholarship to
Texas A&M University.

Xochilt Carreto, the 18-year-old valedictorian who is president of her class and
student head of the Reserve Officer Training Corps program at L. G. Pinkston
High School in Dallas, said she would attend A&M for at least a year but would
continue to pursue her goal of going to West Point.

Officials at A&M said they had read of Miss Carreto's problem and decided to
offer her a four-year President's Achievement Award, which will provide her with
$2,500 annually.

A 15-hour schedule costs A&M students who are Texas residents about $240 a
semester. Miss Carreto will be able to use the rest of the scholarship for other
school-related costs.

Miss Carreto has lived in Dallas since she was 3 years old, when her mother, a
laundress, brought her and her eight siblings from Mexico but listed only the
two eldest daughters on the immigration form. Miss Carreto, the second-youngest,
did not receive legal alien status until 1985, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service required that she wait five years more before applying
for citizenship.

Sought Legislative Relief

Miss Carreto decided she did not want to wait before trying for West Point. She
persuaded her Congressman, Martin Frost, to submit legislation before the House
Judiciary Committee seeking immediate citizenship. But the bill did not clear
the committee before the Jan. 31 deadline for West Point applications.

Another obstacle to Miss Carreto's plans to apply to the Academy was her score
the first time she took the Scholastic Aptitude Test: 750, out of a possible
1,600, well below the Academy's cutoff score of 1,050. Miss Carreto took the
test again Jan. 23 and is waiting to learn whether she did better.

For now, though, she has decided to attend A&M.

''It has an excellent R.O.T.C. program, and I thought it would prepare me for
West Point,'' she said. She still plans to apply to the Academy, perhaps next
year if Mr. Frost's bill is approved, or in 1990, when she will be eligible to
apply for citizenship through regular channels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

In Japan, Visitors Will Be a Little Less Alien

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 619 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 20


Japan, often accused of xenophobia and sometimes with justification, took a
small step this week to make visitors from abroad feel a bit less alien.

The Japanese Justice Minister, Yukio Hayashida, announced that he wanted to
change the signs that direct foreigners to immigration counters at Tokyo's main
international airport in Narita. The signs say ''Aliens.''

Perhaps, Mr. Hayashida said, it would be better to use a new term, such as
''Non-Japanese,'' or ''Other Passports,'' or something else considered less
irritating to those from overseas.

The ''Aliens'' signs are especially jarring to some foreigners making their
first visit here. More than a few have been vocal on the subject as they lined
up for Narita immigration inspections, with remarks commonly dwelling on
extraterrestrials and Sigourney Weaver.

Requests to Alter Signs

According to immigration officials, requests to alter the signs have come from
Japanese as well as foreigners, including airline representatives and travel
agents. As a result, Mr. Hayashida said, he would have to give the matter
serious thought.

In Japan, solicitousness of this sort is often extended to English speakers,
particularly Americans. It is quite a different story with other foreigners,
notably Koreans, who form by far the largest group of non-Japanese living in
this country.

Korean Minister's Story

The Rev. Choi Chang Hwa, a Korean Protestant minister in the western Japanese
city of Kitakyushu, had that point reinforced even as Mr. Hayashida on Tuesday
was reflecting publicly about ''Aliens.''

On the same day, the Japanese Supreme Court ruled that it was not Mr. Choi's
right to insist that television announcers pronounce his name as he wishes. It
was permissible, the court said, for them to read his name according to its
Japanese pronunciation, Sai Shoka.

A Sore Point for Koreans

The name issue has long been a sore point for Korean residents.

Both they and Japanese write their names with ideographs borrowed from Chinese.
Japanese tend to insist on using their own pronunciations at all times. For
example, Chun Doo Hwan, the South Korean President, is routinely called Zen
Tokan here.

To many outraged Koreans, this practice is roughly equivalent to an American
insisting on calling the West German Chancellor Mr. Cabbage because that's what
Helmut Kohl's last name means in English.

Mr. Choi, whose lawsuit has meandered through the courts since 1975, had
protested the mangling of his name on NHK, Japan's public broadcast network. He
demanded a correction, and, when the network refused, he went to court charging
''injury to his individual and ethnic pride.''

A Change in Policy

As it happens, NHK has since changed its policy, and now gives the proper Korean
reading for people living in North or South Korea. It does the same for Koreans
living in Japan when they wish. But many other television and radio networks
continue to follow the Zen Tokan path - even NHK announcers sometimes slip back
into old habits by mistake - and the issue remains a contentious one.

Difficulty in Pronunciation

In ruling against Mr. Choi, the presiding Supreme Court justice, Atsushi
Nagashima, acknowledged that a person's name ''symbolizes his individuality and
constitutes a part of his human rights.'' But that did not mean that NHK had
violated the minister's rights, he said, because the Japanese reading of the
ideographs was accepted social custom.

Justice Nagashima upheld a lower-court decision that had also gone against Mr.
Choi. For many people, that ruling went more directly to the heart of the
matter: it is difficult for Japanese to pronounce foreign names correctly, the
court observed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 28, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Moscow Opens Door a Bit to Former Citizens

BYLINE: By MAURA REYNOLDS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 702 words


For more than 50 years, citizens of the Soviet Union who were allowed to leave
understood that they would not be welcome back as visitors. But over the last
year or two significant numbers of recent Soviet emigres have been permitted to
return to their homeland for short visits.

''We have been exonerated,'' said Mikhail Lazar, a Jewish emigre who lives in
Brooklyn and who recently spent two weeks in Moscow.

The Soviet authorities acknowledge the shift but say they do not know how many
former citizens have been allowed to return on short-term visas. But travel
agencies, private groups and the State Department agree that the number is in
the thousands.

''In the past year and a half the Soviet Union has begun to grant tourist visas
to former Soviet citizens,'' Dan Grossman, an official on the Soviet desk of the
State Department, said. ''In the past almost no former citizens were granted
visas.''

Jerry Goodman, executive director of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry,
said the change also appeared to be part of a larger effort to improve relations
with the United States.

People Travel Club Ltd., which serves the New York emigre community - the
largest population of Soviet immigrants in the United States - has processed
1,500 visa requests in the last year, according to Marina Kovalyova, the
agency's owner.

''For Russians who left Russia, the question of not being able to see our
families was awful,'' she said. ''We essentially buried them when we left, even
though they were still alive. So for us, this is an incredible thing.''

Despite Moscow's apparent new leniency toward emigres, those who make the trip
are treated more like ordinary tourists than like expatriates.

''In the mentality of the Soviet Union, they are not Russians any more - they
are Americans,'' Mrs. Kovalyova said.

One of the first emigres allowed back was Roxanne Cogan, a granddaughter of
Scriabin, the composer who emigrated in 1973.

Mrs. Cogan, who is now a mathematics professor at San Jose State University in
California, said that after several refusals, the Soviet Consulate in San
Francisco suddenly encouraged her in late 1986 to reapply for permission to
visit her mother in Moscow. She quickly received a two-week visa, but it came
with unwritten restrictions.

''I was warned that I had to be back in my hotel before midnight or I would be
in trouble,'' Mrs. Cogan, 50 years old, said. ''But the people in the hotel made
an exception for New Year's.''

State Department officials said the returning emigres are a lucrative source of
hard currency for Moscow. Like most of those who return, Mrs. Cogan was required
to stay in a hotel for foreign tourists, paying between $100 and $150 a night
for a room. ''It cost me $1,400 just for the hotel,'' Mrs. Cogan complained.

''But it was a fantastic feeling,'' she said. ''I saw all my beloved people and
places, yet I was free. I could leave.''

Since then, the Soviet authorities have become more flexible about granting
emigres special family-stay visas so they can stay with relatives in their
homes, although the forms still take three or four months to process. Travel
agents said that because tourist visas were often granted in as little as two
weeks, most emigres were returning as tourists, even if they had families living
in the same city.

Mrs. Kovalyova, who owns the travel agency, said that when visa requests were
denied, it was usually because the emigres had asked to visit small towns where
the Soviet tourist board, Intourist, does not have an office.

State Department officials said the few problems that had developed were with
emigres who overstayed their visas. Because the Soviet Government does not strip
all emigrants of their Soviet citizenship, if a returning emigre should violate
the terms of his visa and Moscow still considers him a citizen, he may forfeit
his right to return to the United States, even if he holds American citizenship.

While emigres are revisiting Russia, many Soviet citizens are receiving
short-term visas to visit family members in the United States. The State
Department said almost 6,000 had visited relatives in America in 1987, four
times the annual average from 1980 to 1986.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 9, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Suit Charges Bias in Foster-Care Rules for Aliens

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 443 words


New York City and the Legal Aid Society sued the Immigration and Naturalization
Service yesterday, contending that alien children who are in foster care have
little chance to become legal residents of the United States.

''The I.N.S. policies leave foster children out in the cold without an
opportunity to participate in this historic one-time only immigration
legalization program,'' a Legal Aid lawyer, Lynne Kelly, said. She estimated
that 100 to 300 foster children and former foster children in New York could be
eligible to become legal residents. Most of the children entered foster care
when their parents, themselves illegal aliens, abused or abandoned them.

Federal rules require the children to show they will not be financially
dependent on the Government if they seek residency. In addition, they can be
excluded because their foster family has received cash from the Government for
their care.

At a City Hall news conference yesterday, Mayor Koch called the regulations
''another example of the Federal Government's mean-spirited approach to the
needs of the most helpless members of our society.''

Flexible Position Sought

A spokesman for the immigration agency acknowledged there had been problems.
''We have been looking for ways that would allow for the legalization of
children in foster care, within the confines of the law,'' the spokesman, Verne
Jervis, said.

He said that officials had been taking a flexible position on the problem ''out
of humanitarian concerns,'' but that New York and other states were not
satisfied and wanted an explicit change in policy.

The city and Legal Aid Society sued because of a May 4 deadline for illegal
aliens to apply for residency, Corporation Counsel Peter L. Zimroth said. The
suit contends that it is illegal to require foster-care children to prove they
are not likely to become ''a financial charge'' and urges adopting ''a lawful
policy with regard to foster children'' and an extension of the deadline for
legalizing applications, to May 4, 1989.

In the suit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the defendants
include Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d, the immigration agency and Immigration
Commissioner Alan C. Nelson.

The city sued on behalf of all alien children in its foster-care system during
the legalization period. Under the law, aliens without documents who can prove
continuous residence since Jan. 1, 1982, are eligible for residency.

There are also three plaintiffs who are children in foster care and who are
applying for legalization and risk denials. Ms. Kelly said the court papers used
pseudonyms for them ''for the safety of the children.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 12, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

For Soviet Emigres, Family Visits Still Difficult

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words


To the Editor:

''Human Rights Promise, and Promises'' (editorial, Feb. 23) notes in passing the
loosening of travel restrictions for relatives in the United States and Soviet
Union. Unfortunately, while 1987 brought some improvements, Soviet restrictions
on family visits remain more onerous than for emigration.

Our Government and the media focus on emigration from the Soviet Union, and all
but ignore the need for millions of relatives, including recent immigrants, to
visit loved ones. Emigration and visiting are separate but related issues for
many Americans, and United States policy should focus equally on both.

In 1987, recent emigres were first allowed to return to the Soviet Union.
However, like the millions of Americans of earlier emigrations, they must take
tours to see their loved ones. They must stay in expensive hotels restricted to
foreigners and are usually limited to stays of three or four days in all except
the major Soviet cities.

Each year in a recent six-year period, an average of 980 Americans received
permission to stay in relatives' homes. It takes four to six months to receive
such a visa, while a tourist visa takes only a few weeks. A separate visa is
needed to visit relatives in different regions.

In 1987, 5,700 Soviet citizens visited relatives in the United States, an
increase from an average of 1,500 of past years. A visa to the West costs 200
rubles, about a month's salary, or five months' pension for a collective farmer.
Travelers are mostly retired people, and two members of one family may rarely
travel together.

While we welcome the recent changes in Soviet policy, they are woefully
inadequate when measured against the needs of three million Americans of
Armenian, Byelorussian, Estonian, Jewish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Russian,
Ukrainian or other descent who maintain contact with relatives in the Soviet
Union.

Before the 1985 Geneva summit meeting, President Reagan said, ''the cause of
peace would be well served if more individuals and families . . . could come to
know each other in a personal way.'' Unfortunately, the Governments'
interpretation means that ''cultural exchanges'' and ''citizen dipmomacy f
flourish, whi r relatives in the two cotrtries find theirdifficulties in
maintaining normal human contacts continue.

Visits International for Soviets and Americans, VISA, of which I am a
chairwoman, advocates simplifying travel procedures for family visits. We
recommend eliminating visa fees and official invitation procedure, allowing home
visits, opening more cities and creating a method for quick action in cases of
serious illness or death.TAMARA HORODYSKY Berkeley, Calif., Feb. 26, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 13, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens on the East End

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 16, Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 444 words


RICHARD BERRYMAN, chief legalization officer for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's Long Island branch office, realizes there is a problem.
Not more than 12 people from the whole South Fork of Long Island have applied
for amnesty since last May 5, when the new law went into effect. But any tourist
visiting a Montauk restaurant or seaside hotel knows there are large number of
foreign nationals working on the East End.

Part of the problem, suggested Judith Hope, former Supervisor of East Hampton
Town, was that that the office phone number of the Immigration Service was not
listed anywhere in the phone book.

''We've had problems with the phone company from the beginning,'' Mr. Berryman
said. But he said the office's number and location has been publicized widely in
advertisements in the Long Island sections of New York City newspapers, as well
as in smaller, local papers.

Ms. Hope also pointed out that for aliens living in Montauk and other East End
communities, the choices for travel are a 3 1/2-hour drive by car, or an even
longer train ride, to Jamaica, Queens, and then east to the office on the
Hempstead line.

Mr. Berryman, while acknowledging the difficulty of the ride, pointed out that
aliens ''travel into Manhattan for their naturalization examinations.''

''We feel it's worth the trip,'' he said.

Ms. Hope said she first became interested in helping East Hampton's foreign
nationals register after reading an article that described the poor rate in the
Northeast of eligible aliens' taking advantage of the amnesty law. ''I know
there are aliens here who are eligible who would take advantage of the program
if they knew about it,'' she said.

Neither Mr. Berryman nor officials in East Hampton can estimate the number of
foreign nationals living or working in Montauk. It's almost like a miniature New
World out here,'' said Tony Bullock, Mrs. Hope's successor as Town Supervisor,
describing his town's pool of Irish, Mexican, Salvadoran, Costa Rican and other
Spanish-speaking workers.

Ms. Hope decided to ask the Immigration Service to conduct an outreach program
in Montauk and enlisted the help of Nick Monte, the owner of Gurney's Inn, to
provide a location.

The expiration date for the amnesty period is May 4, 1988. Ms. Hope, who
recently served on County Executive Patrick G. Halpin's task force on economic
development, described the task force's ''serious lament'' of the lack of a
labor force. ''With a large population of foreign nationals ready to fill that
need,'' she said, ''it seems a shame for them to miss the opportunity to become
American citizens. They are just going to miss the deadline.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 21, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTIONS

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 43 words


An article on Tuesday about the new immigration law and its implications for
child-care employment, and an accompanying picture caption, misidentified the
city where Deborah Davis runs a referral service for nannies. It is Pomona,
Calif., not Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 22, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FRONTONS ASK LOWER AGE LIMIT

BYLINE: By Jack Cavanaugh

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 17, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 738 words


CONCERNED over steadily declining attendance, the state's three jai alai
frontons are pushing for legislation that would lower the minimum age for
patrons to 14 to 18.

The frontons - in Bridgeport, Milford and Hartford - have come up losers in a
battle with the state lottery for the betting dollar. Adding to the frontons'
dilemma are recently tightened Federal immigration laws that are threatening to
stem the flow of players from the Basque region in Spain, which produces many of
the world's leading players.

The answer to the declining attendance and the potential player shortage,
officials at all three of the frontons in the state agree, is the development of
in-state players. But to get teen-agers interested in the game, they say the
legislation is needed.

Under the bill, which has been before the General Assembly's Public Safety
Committee, the minimum age also would be lowered to 14 at the frontons as well
as the Plainfield Greyhound Park track, which has also been experiencing a
decline in attendance. At both the frontons and the dog track, however, the
minimum age to place a bet would remain at 18.

''The fans want to see more local players, and we may have to develop them
because of the tougher immigration restrictions,'' said the chairman of the
board of Hartford Jai Alai Fronton, Louis Berenson. ''But we can't develop many
of them unless kids can go to the frontons and watch the best players, as they
do in other sports.''

Given the opposition to the bill by many committee members at a public hearing
in Hartford last Tuesday, the measure may never reach the floor of the
legislature.

''There's tremendous sentiment against it,'' said Senator Marie A. Herbst,
Democrat of Vernon who is co-chairwoman of the committee, which acts as the
legislature's gambling watchdog. ''The proposal is obviously designed to get
young people interested in jai alai, but if they want to do that they're
entitled, under the existing legislation, to hold clinics or exhibitions at the
frontons as long as there's no wagering going on at the time. It's the betting
aspect that concerns us.''

A lobbyist for the Plainfield Greyhound Park, William J. Roper, said attendance
had also been declining because of competition from the state lottery and from
dog tracks in nearby Rhode Island and Massachusetts.

However, neither Mr. Roper, nor Karen Kinsman, the track's general manager,
spoke in support of the bill at the hearing. ''We're relying on the wisdom of
the General Assembly,'' Mr. Roper said.  William K. Seymour, the spokesman for
the Division of Special Revenue, the arm of the Department of Revenue Service
that administers legalized gambling in the state, including jai alai, said the
agency opposed the measure. ''There's no need for this bill if the jai alai
operators turn to the existing regulations, which permit teen-agers under 18
into the frontons as long as there's no parimutuel wagering going on.''

A spokesman for the Bridgeport Jai Alai Fronton, Bob Beslove, said the fronton
had conducted free clinics during the summer when the facility was closed to
draw more teen-agers into the sport.

A development program for aspiring players is also operated at the American
Amateur Jai Alai in Milford.

Leonard Meyers, the president and a majority owner of the Bridgeport Jai Alai
Fronton, said the bill could help increase attendance since teen-agers between
the ages of 14 and 18 would have to be accompanied by an adult.

''Of course, we want to make more money, but we want to do more than that,'' he
said. ''All we're seeking is equity with the lottery, which is our major
competititon. As it is now, an adult can walk into a store with a child and buy
a lottery ticket, but can't bring the child to a jai alai fronton. I can't
accept that because gambling is gambling. And we're not proposing that all
children be allowed into the frontons and at the dog track, which is the case at
New York race tracks, but only kids 14 and older.''

Mr. Berenson said it was hypocritical not to permit younger teen-agers to attend
jai alai or dog-racing programs. ''It doesn't make any sense,'' he said. ''And
the thing I find most aggravating is that they say jai alai involves gambling,
but so do baseball, football and basketball on which far more money is bet
illegally. I don't think that young teen-agers at any sports event, including
jai alai, are going to be thinking about betting.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 30, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ERNEST FLEISCHMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 118 words


Ernest Fleischman, a lawyer who specialized in labor and immigration cases, died
of heart failure Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 76 years old.

During his 30 years with the New York City law firm of Delson & Gordon, Mr.
Fleischman represented the United Federation of Teachers and the Social Service
Employees Union in New York. He was active in civil rights causes and defended
several political figures from abroad who faced deportation.

Mr. Fleischman's first wife, Josephine, died in 1968.

Surviving are his second wife, the former Lucy Strauss; his sister, Dr. Edna
Fleischmann of Bethesda, Md.; two sons, Matthew, of Eugene, Ore., and John, of
Cincinnati, and three grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 8, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Haitians Suing U.S. Over Treatment in Detention

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 33, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 7


A civil suit against the Federal Government in which 30 Haitian men contend that
their breasts became enlarged because of their treatment in Federal detention
has ended its third day.

The case arises from a 1981 epidemic of this gynecomastia condition at the Krome
Detention Center North in southwest Dade County, where Haitians illegally in
this country were detained awaiting immigration status. Gynecomastia is a
condition in which men grow female breasts, and in its most severe form they
lactate.

The complaint by the plaintiffs, who are now living in the United States and
seeking residency status, centers on Government workers' use of R&C Spray, an
insecticide used to kill lice on objects that cannot be washed, and Kwell
lotion, an insecticide available by prescription only for the treatment of lice
and scabies on the body.

Witnesses Back Contention

Attorneys for the Haitians charged that the cause of the epidemic was as a
direct result of the use of the R&C Spray and the Kwell lotion on the Haitian
refugees. Expert witnesses and evidence suggest that ingredients in both
products combined with the already high levels of the insecticide DDT in the
Haitians caused a hormonal imbalance that would explain the high incidence of
gynecomastia at the detention camp.

The attorneys for the men said the active ingredient in Kwell lotion, lindane,
acts as a weak estrogen, a female hormone, and that one of the ingredients in
R&C Spray, phenothrin, supresses the male hormone, testosterone. In the worst
forms of the condition the breasts of the men were removed surgically.

An assistant United States Attorney, Ana T. Barnett, said in opening arguments
that no cause could be determined for the outbreak and that the use of the
chemicals was consistent with Public Health Service guidelines. Mrs. Barnett
said the gynecomastia possibly developed because the detainees were malnourished
or under stress.

Mrs. Barnett has also cited research conducted at the end of World War II on
American prisoners of war who suffered gynecomastia in epidemic proportions.
Scientists found the cause in those cases to be from the reintroduction of
protein in their diets, causing a hormonal imbalance that led to the breast
enlargement.

According to testimony, the Haitians were given unmeasured amounts of Kwell
lotion to spread over their bodies and were told by workers it would make their
skin soft. Other testimoney indicated the Haitians were doused with R&C Spray
upon arrival at the Krome center, even though the package states the insecticide
is not for use on humans or animals.

Witnesses, including Maria Rodriguez, who was employed as a screening
coordinator at the Krome center at the time of the epidemic, told of the
insecticide being used like a disinfectant in the clinics and dormitories used
by the Haitians under orders from the medical administrator.

Haitians on cleaning details told of being given cans of the spray daily by
government workers, who told them ''it was to keep the rooms clean and so no one
would get sick.''

It was the policy at Krome, Ms. Rodriguez said, to delouse only the Haitians.
Cubans and other undocumented aliens were not deloused upon arrival, Ms.
Rodriguez said.

According Ms. Rodriguez's testimony, when Haitians were transferred from the
Krome facility to Fort Allen, a detention camp in Puerto Rico, Public Health
Service workers were under orders to again apply Kwell Lotion to the detainees,
even when no evidence of lice or scabies was apparent. This was done with a
bucket of the lotion and a paint brush and was, in some cases, repeated several
times over several days if the detainee's departure was delayed, according to
testimony.

Judge Thomas E. Scott is hearing the case with eight jurors who are to act as
advisers. If the Government is found responsible, a second trial will be held to
determine damages.

The Government is expected to start presenting its case on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 10, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

7 of 30 Aliens Still at Large After Miami Prison Breakout

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 33, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 9


Seven aliens remained at large today from among 30 convicted felons who
scattered into the Everglades after scaling two fences at a Federal detention
center, the authorities said.

The prisoners, mostly Jamaicans and Haitians awaiting deportation, slipped
through a window at the Krome Avenue Detention Center late Sunday after they
chipped away an iron grate from its concrete casement, said Perry Rivkind,
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Twenty aliens were caught soon after the escape, while the rest managed to slip
into the Everglades, Mr. Rivkind said. Two more were tracked down by dogs early
today, and another was caught soon after.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 26, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Talks With Cubans in Louisiana Go On as Siege Is Said to Stabilize

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., Nov. 25


The standoff at a Federal detention center here, where Cuban refugees are
holding 28 hostages, continued for the fourth day today.

Negotiations between the two sides resumed this evening after a 24-hour
interruption, said Mark Sheehan, a spokesman for the Justice Department. The
inmates have given the authorities a letter with seven demands, he said.
Officials declined to make any of those demands public.

''We are mildly encouraged,'' Mr. Sheehan said. ''But that doesn't mean there is
going to be early or substantial progress. It looks as if it is going to be a
long time.''

Inmates Elect Representatives

Mr. Sheehan, who flew in from Washington to handle the Government's troubled
press relations, said the inmates had elected four negotiators. He said that
made the talks easier since the Government was no longer dealing with squabbling
factions.

J. Michael Quinlan, director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, said in
Washington that he was hopeful that the situation could be resolved soon because
the leadership of the inmates had ''crystallized'' in the last 24 hours.

Senator John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat who has been monitoring the
negotiations, said a list of inmate demands he had seen was similar to an offer
made Monday by Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d. Mr. Meese had proposed a
moratorium on the deportation of about 2,500 Cubans who arrived in the Mariel
boat lift and have gotten into trouble with the law.

''His offer and what they are asking are consistent,'' Senator Breaux said at a
news conference early this morning. He also said the inmates had proposed that
the Government send them to a third country.

Mediation Is Suggested

The failure to resolve the standoff, which began Saturday evening, has led a
number of groups to demand that the Government summon a mediator trusted by the
inmates. They have suggested the Rev. Augustin Roman, auxiliary bishop of the
Roman Catholic Diocese of Miami.

''They felt somehow that he understands their struggle,'' said the Rev. Roy
Bourgeois, a Catholic priest who recently finished serving a six-month sentence
in the center for protesting United States policy in Central America.

''It's unreasonable to expect Cuban inmates all of a sudden to say, 'I trust
you,' '' Father Bourgeois said at a news conference this morning. ''The bishop,
I feel, could break the standstill and move the situation forward.''

The Cuban-born Bishop Roman, who for years has represented the Miami diocese in
matters concerning jailed Cuban refugees, was asked late last week to fly to
Oakdale in a plane provided by the Federal Government. But according to his
Miami attorney, Rafael A. Penalver Jr., discussions about the bishop's
involvement in the crisis broke down on Monday when Administration officials
refused to put on paper a pledge that they would agree to a judicial review of
each of the jailed Cubans deemed ''excludable'' by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Message to the President

On Monday, Bishop Roman was instrumental in bringing together more than 20 Cuban
exile organizations at his church in Miami, where they signed a petition to
asking the Federal authorities to initiate judicial procedures to determine the
status of each prisoner and to release those who had served their sentences.

The police, who have surrounded the sprawling detention center, the National
Guard and the inmates periodically engaged in carefully orchestrated shows of
force designed to impress their determination on the other side, the authorities
said.

Late this afternoon, the inmates displayed a hand-painted sign saying, in red
letters, ''Mr. Reagan, if you deny our freedom, you kill us.''

J. R. Johnson, the warden, said the authorities continued to receive assurances
that the hostages had not been harmed. But he emphasized that the inmates have
threatened to kill the hostages if the authorities storm the compound.

''Every time there's any unusual activity, they threaten to injure the
hostages,'' said Mr. Johnson, who is not directly involved in the negotiations.
''We reinforce the fact that as long as they don't harm the hostages, we will
not come in.''

Both sides appeared to be preparing for a long siege. The authorities erected
several large camouflage tents and built a mobile hospital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Cubans Free One of 28 Hostages at Oakdale Center

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, LA., Nov. 26


Rebellious Cuban inmates, who last Saturday seized a Federal detention center
here, tonight released one hostage amid strong indications that the six-day
standoff had been settled.

Negotiators permitted a pool televison camera to film what appeared to be an
agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and a Cuban inmate leader
initalling an agreement that would release the remaining 27 hostages who have
been held since the Cuban refugees seized control of the center to prevent their
forced repatriation.

''We need to have a tight agreement by by 10 A.M.,'' the agent, whose name was
not immediately known, said on the videotape. The remaining hostages would be
released simultaneously with the signing of the agreement, he said.

Hopes for Settlement

The inmate who was freed, William Hoffpauir, was said by the authorities to be
in ''very good'' condition.

J. D. Williams, regional deputy commissioner of the Dallas office of the Bureau
of Prisons, said: ''Hopefully, sometime tomorrow we'lll reunite the remaining
hostages with their families.''

When the news was announced on local televisiion, the hostage families, many of
whom were staying in the Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church, immediately began
celebrating. But some family members said they would not believe the good news
until their actual release.

The families of Cuban inmates also expressed joy at the tentative agreement but
they remained concerned that the underlying probmlems had not been settled.

''I'm happy that it has finished without bloodshed,'' said Mireya Almaguer,
whose brother, Diego Lorenzo, is in Oakdale and whose uncle is an inmate in
Atlanta.

''But the injustice isn't finished,'' she said. ''It's still a nightmare. Maybe
now we can get together with our families.''

Earlier in the day, in what had been the most concrete sign of progress since
the crisis began, Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana , who has been
monitoring the talks, said Government negotiators were awaiting a final response
to a settlement they proposed Wednesday afternoon.

''It's a very good sign that thy haven't rejected our offer,'' Senator Breaux
said. ''They're going over it line by line and narrowing it down. We're waiting
for what hopefully will be a final response. I'm more optimistic today than
yesterday.''

However, Mark Sheehan, a spokesman for the Justice Department, took pains
tonight to dampen any optimism that the two sides might soon reach a negotiated
settlement. ''I don't see any quick resolution,'' he said. ''But we do see
satisfactory discussion.''

Similar to Meese Proposal

Senator Breaux said a number of items must still be negotiated but that the two
sides have learned to trust each other.

Like other Federal officials, the Senator refused to provide any details of
either proposal. He would say only that the Government's latest offer was
similar to the one made Monday by Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d.

Mr. Meese offered to impose a moratorium on the planned deportation of Cuban
detainees, who took over the detention centers here and in Atlanta to stop their
forced repatriation,. The inmates responded with a seven-point proposal, whose
details have not been made public.

Meanwhile, two inmates were taken out of the detention center this afternoon for
medical reasons. One, Enrique Concepcion, was suffering from a self-inflicted
stab wound to the abdomen, Mr. Sheehan said. He was in stable condition at a
local hospital. The second, Felix Marin-Diaz, was suffering from a reaction to
tranquilizers. The state police had delivered a shipment of tranquilizers to the
inmates earlier this week to help soothe violent prisoners. Mr. Marin-Diaz was
treated at a nearby mobile hospital and will be taken to another detention
center when he recovers, Mr. Sheehan said.

The wives of some of the Cuban detainees attempted earlier in the day to soothe
growing tension in this isolated town of 7,000 by giving the anxious families of
the hostages a turkey and a plate of fruit.

''Our husbands are in the same situation,'' Maria Monzon told the wife of one
hostage as the Cubans' wives delivered a turkey and a plate of fruit. ''I want
to say I'm sorry. It's difficult for all people today because we all wanted our
families in our houses.''

About 300 relatives of the hostages celebrated Thanksgiving with a mass and an
interdenominational service. They then gathered for a dinner at the Sacred
Hearts Roman Catholic Church.

''The families have held up remarkably well,'' said the Rev. James Stovall,
executive director of the Louisiana Interchurch Conference. ''But some are
beginning to ask serious questions: why it all happened and why there's been no
progress.''

After the dinner, a delegation of Cuban women, dressed in their Sunday finest
and pulling their children by the hand, nervously entered the church annex and
gave the hostages' families the turkey.

''We went with fear because we didn't know how they would react,'' Mrs. Monzon
said. A murmur of disapproval echoed through the low-slung hall. One hostage's
relative called the gesture ''ridiculous.'' But others were thankful. About a
dozen came out of the annex and soon, the women, husbands are facing one another
across a fence topped with razor wire, were hugging each other. Several cried.

''All we want is peace and that this situation ends in peace as soon as
possible,'' said Mrs. Monzon, who was holding her 4-year-old daughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Cubans in Louisiana Insist On Bishop to Mediate Talks

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 54, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., Nov. 28


The refusal of Government negotiators to allow rebellious Cuban inmates to meet
with outside mediators appears to have become a stumbling block to the release
of 26 hostages held at a Federal detention center here.

The 1,000 detainees, who seized control of the prison to protest the planned
deportaton of 2,600 refugees to Cuba, said they would refuse to resume
bargaining until they consulted with Auxiliary Bishop Agustin Roman of Miami.

An agreement to release the hostages Friday fell apart moments before they were
to be released. Officials of the Federal Bureau of Prisons and other agencies
speculated that the Cuban negotiators were unable to convince their fellow
inmates to accept it and said the Cubans made new, last-minute demands.

'America, Do Not Be Deceived'

The inmates, who have been barred from talking to outsiders, have communicated
their mistrust of the Government by means of signs painted on bedsheets. A sign
erected this morning said: ''America. We will release everyone when Bishop Roman
tells us the agreement is agreed.'' Another read: ''America, do not be deceived.
The BOP is delaying release by denying Archbishop San Roman from attesting to
the agreement. Why?''

The Government has said that the bishop's participation in the talks would be
''disruptive.'' Later today the officials erected a plywood wall that blocked
reporters' view of the signs.

In contrast to the negotiations in Atlanta, where outsiders temporarily joined
negotiations with 1,400 Cuban inmates holding 94 hostages in another Federal
prison, the Government has steadfastly insisted that a neutral mediator would
delay the talks here.

''I'm not saying we'll never allow a third party,'' the director of the Bureau
of Prisons, J. Michael Quinlan, said today in Washington. ''We are not going to
involve third parties until such time as the team feels that their involvement
will be relevant and will be helpful to the situation.''

Lessons of Attica

Mr. Quinlan said the Government appreciated offers of assistance, but was
relying on its own negotiators.

''We have some very sensitive negotiations that are going on,'' he said. ''One
of the lessons that was learned at the Attica riot back in the early 70's in New
York was that the Government needs to speak with one voice, and that when you
get other people into the negotiating process, it can well confuse the
situation.''

Forty-three prisoners and correction officers were killed in a four-day uprising
by convicts at the Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York in September
1971. Most of the deaths occurred when a force of lawmen retook the prison after
a team of civilian observers was unable to achieve a peaceful solution.

Mr. Quinlan said the failure of the tentative agreement was not a major setback.
''Although there has been a delay, we are still in agreement on substantive
issues, and the situation hopefully will be resolved soon,'' he said. #40,000
Pounds of Meat Mr. Quinlan also said today that the authorities had cut off the
water to the detention center. But Government spokesmen have acknowledged that
the detainees, who seized 40,000 pounds of meat when they took over the
commissary, can hold out for a long time.

After the breakdown Friday, the Government position seemed to harden. Senator
John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat who has been monitoring the crisis,
immediately warned the inmates that the Government could not make further
compromises.

''They have to understand there's only so far we can go,'' he said.

Government spokesmen have declined to explain why they allowed outsiders to
participate for a day in negotiations in Atlanta but not here. The authorities
in Atlanta have also complied with inmates' requests to speak to the press, but
officials here have not.

An group sympathetic to the Cubans contends that government secrecy has
contributed to the mistrust that seems to have blocked the resolution of the
standoff. ''The fundamental problem is that information has been very limited,''
said Steve Donziger, a spokesman for th Coalition to Support Cuban Detainees.
''The very lack of information has itself become a negotiating issue to the
Cubans.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of inmates of Federal Penitentiary in Atlanta forming a water
brigade after officials cut off water to the prison (The Boston Globe/David
Ryan)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Near the Oakdale Center, a Long Vigil but Not a Lonely One

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 54, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 805 words


Scott Sutterfield was never afraid of his job as a guard at the Federal
detention center in Oakdale, La., but he had a feeling that something unwelcome
might happen when he went to work Nov. 21.

The day before, the Government announced an agreement that would allow the
deportation of more than 2,500 Cubans detained in the United States, and the
1,000 detainees at Oakdale were clearly unhappy about it.

''He felt that something might go wrong there,'' said Mr. Sutterfield's
16-year-old girlfriend, Laurie Willis, of Oakdale. ''He asked me whether I would
stand by his side if he got hurt.''

A few hours later, the Cuban inmates rioted, burning buildings and seizing
control of the detention center, and Mr. Sutterfield was a hostage.

Videos, Cards and Reflections

In the ensuing week, reflections such as those of Miss Willis have dominated the
thoughts of the hostages' families and friends gathered at the Sacred Heart
Roman Catholic Center, about a mile and a half from the detention center. Housed
together at Sacred Heart and fed there by volunteers, they watch home videos,
play cards and, of course, talk about the 26 men for whom they are keeping
vigil.

Those at Sacred Heart have numbered as many as 200 at various times in the last
week. Few are residents of Oakdale, a town of 7,000 in southwestern Louisiana;
most traveled there from their hometowns across the state after learning of the
uprising last weekend.

The Federal authorities have blocked reporters' access to the church, saying
that any remark by the families might inadvertently put the hostages at risk.
But, while many relatives declined to comment, others, reached by telephone,
said they were not very worried about the hostages' safety, because guards and
inmates at the detention center were friendly with one another.

''Rudy always got along well with the Cubans,'' said Connie Brisolara, whose
23-year-old brother, Roy (Rudy) Troutman, was taken hostage after being called
in to work overtime the day the riot erupted. She said Mr. Troutman, who has
been an Oakdale corrections officer since the detention center opened two years
ago, had been taking a Spanish course because he wanted to be able to
communicate better with the Cuban inmates.

Another Oakdale guard, Mark Perrodin, with whom Mr. Troutman shares a house, is
also among the hostages. His mother, Barbara, said that she and her husband,
Calvin, learned that Mr. Troutman might be a hostage when a special report
interrupted the television program they were watching late on the evening of
Nov. 21.

''Mark had been camping with us and his little daughter last Saturday, and left
us at noon so he could be at work by 4,'' Mrs. Perrodin said. ''Then my husband
and I were watching TV a few hours later when we saw a report that there had
been a big fire at Oakdale. But we couldn't confirm that Mark was a hostage
there until 3:30 Sunday morning.''

Mrs. Perrodin said that her son, who has a degree in criminal justice from
McNeese State University in Lake Charles, La., was ''very gung-ho about his
job.''

''He looked forward to this as a lifetime career,'' she said. ''Knowing him,
this won't change his mind.''

A Polaroid to a Wife

Tina Jack, whose husband of two and a half years, Carlton Jack, is another guard
taken hostage, said she felt confident that he was safe, partly because from the
start of the revolt the inmates have sent the families Polaroid pictures of the
hostages, often inscribed with brief messages. ''I saw a photograph of him, and
he was smiling and looked fine,'' said Mrs. Jack.

Throughout the week, most relatives have been optimistic about the hostages'
ultimate release. Their hopes were especially high about 1 P.M. Friday, when
Government officials informed them that a deal had been struck with the
detainees. But less than two hours later the agreement collapsed, and the
anxious crowd at Sacred Heart had to ground 26 yellow helium balloons, each with
the name of a hostage, that had been set for release in a show of celebration.

As the waiting continues, a strong sense of camaraderie has developed among the
families, who eat almost all their meals together at the Sacred Heart center and
who participated there in a nondenominational service yesterday afternoon.

''They've all reached out,'' said Reba D. Byrd, ccordinator of the volunteer
effort at Sacred Heart. ''When some family members break down, people from other
families come over to comfort them.''

The grinding wait has damaged what sympathy the families did have for the Cuban
inmates. But none of the families complain about the Government's handling of
the hostage negotiations. ''The negotiators are doing the best they can,'' Mrs.
Perrodin said. ''Their main goal is to get the boys out, but they must remain
firm and they must take a stand.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of relatives and friends of hostages outside the detention center
in Oakdale, La., yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Bishop Who Speaks for Downtrodden

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 29


Auxiliary Bishop Agustin A. Roman, who was flown to Oakdale, La., this weekend
to make a videotaped appeal to Cuban inmates holding 26 hostages at a Federal
detention center, is a man who has never forgotten his humble roots, according
to those who know him well.

Born 58 years ago to a poor peasant family in San Antonio de los Banos, a town
near Havana, the Cuban capital, Bishop Roman (pronounced Ro-MAHN) has frequently
raised his low but firm voice in defense of the downtrodden, including political
prisoners in Cuba and the Mariel boatlift detainees in the United States.

Had Trust of Cuban Inmates

More important, because of his unassuming, some say saintly, demeanor, he has
gained the respect and trust of those he has defended. During the standoff,
rebellious inmates requested a meeting with him and religious leaders suggested
that he serve as an intermediary between Federal authorities and the detainees
who had taken over the facilities at Oakdale and Atlanta. In search of a
solution, Bishop Roman traveled to Washington for a Thanksgiving Day meeting
with Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d, and later asked for a written statement
clarifying the Government's position and promises. ''I will not and cannot trick
the prisoners or anyone else,'' he said. His request was rejected, but as the
standoff continued he was brought to Oakdale Saturday night.

Last March Bishop Roman issued a statement decrying the status of the inmates,
many of them Cuban felons who have served out their sentences in the United
States. ''It is a basic right that after a man or a woman has paid his or her
debt to society his or her freedom should be restored,'' he wrote.

Bishop Roman studied in seminaries in Matanzas, Cuba, and Quebec. Once ordained,
he returned to his native town but was expelled from the island in 1961 by the
Castro Government. The Roman Catholic Church sent him to Chile, where he worked
with poor Indians.

At the end of the 1960's he came to Miami and was instrumental in organizing a
group of Cuban exile municipalities. With their help he built the Ermita de la
Caridad, his parish church today, a shrine dedicated to the patron of Cuba.

In 1979 he was named Auxiliary Bishop, becoming the highest-ranking Hispanic
priest in the archdiocese of Miami. Bishop Roman, a frail-looking man with short
gray hair, works more than 12 hours a day, seven days a week, despite suffering
two major heart attacks this year.

He not only prays for the detainees ''but he also listens to their families'
problems and hopes,'' said the Rev. Sergio Carrillo, an associate for more than
a decade. He added:

''He's a pastoral man loved by everyone who knows him.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Bishop Agustin A. Roman (AP)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Text of Oakdale Agreement

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., Nov. 29


Here is the text of the agreement signed today, ending the eight-day uprising at
the Federal Detention Center here. The agreement was typed on the stationery of
Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d.

Upon the release of all remaining officers being held on the compound at F.D.C.
Oakdale, the following agreement will immediately be enforced.

1. Cuban detainess with families and/or sponsors who have already been approved
for parole will not have an arbitrary change made in their release decision.

2. The release of the Cuban detainees with no family or sponsor, who have
already been approved for parole, will be reviewed and a decision made within a
reasonable time. This will permit a full fair and equitable review within the
laws of the United States of each individual's status with respect to
eligibility to remain in the United States. All Cuban detainees at F.D.C.
Oakdale who have not been reviewed will receive an expeditious review of their
status and those eligible for release will be given the same consideration as
No. 1 and No. 2 above.

3. All Cuban detainess at F.D.C. Oakdale with medical problems will be sent
immediatley to medical facilities for evaluation and treatment. Once these
detainess are cleared medically, they will be given the same considerations as
No. 1 and No. 2 above.

4. Cuban detainees at F.D.C. Oakdale will be given I-94 and other documents
including work permit, when they are released. No detainee will be held by
I.N.S. without an appropaiate charge.

5. No Cuban detainees will be held liable for any damage, to this date,
sustained by the institution during the hostage situation at this facility.

6. It is understood that the American cadre at F.D.C. Oakdale did not have any
part in this situation and can be removed immediately.

7. Those Cuban detainees who have been accepted for entrance to another country
will be expeditiously reviewed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CUBAN INMATES IN LOUISIANA FREE ALL 26 HOSTAGES

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1823 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., Nov. 29


Cuban inmates today released 26 hostages they had held for eight days in the
Federal detention center here.

''They're free, they're free,'' screamed one hostage's' wife, who was carrying
the couple's small child on her shoulders, as she caught sight of her husband.
''Daddy is coming home.''

A few minutes after the hostages walked out of the facility into the arms of
their colleagues, a negotiator for the Government, four detainees and three
witnesses signed a formal settlement, ending what was believed to be the
second-longest prison siege in the country's history.

Under the accord, the Government agreed not to rescind parole decisions it had
already made for Cuban detainees with families or sponsors in this country. The
Government also agreed, as it had done before, to grant the detainees individual
hearings. [Text on page B10.] Cameras View Copy of Pact A copy of the settlement
was held up before television cameras, which zoomed in on the document, allowing
reporters to read its contents.

Federal officials in charge of the negotiations here said earlier that they
would not make public details of the agreement because it might complicate the
continuing negotiations in Atlanta, where 1,120 inmates, mostly Cubans, are
holding 90 hostages after releasing four early this morning.

Officials would not comment on what effect the pact might have on the Atlanta
situation, A Justice Department spokesman in Atlanta, Patrick S. Korten, said
the Oakdale terms had been ''disclosed'' to the detainees there through three
Cuban exiles who had tried to negotiate an agreement in Atlanta.

The release of the four hostages at the Atlanta facility was interpreted as a
good-will gesture, leading Federal officials to express hope in the talks.

Detainees Shown a Videotape

Freedom for the 26 hostages here came after the detainees were shown a videotape
of assurances by Auxiliary Bishop Agustin A. Roman of the Roman Catholic
Archdiocese of Miami. The inmates had demanded that the Bishop be allowed to
speak with them and tell them whether they could trust Government statements.

One hostage said from a hospital bed that he had been more afraid of what was
happening outside the prison than he was of what was happening inside. He said
that he harbored no bitterness toward his captors and that he planned to
continue working at the prison. [Page B10.] The detainees took control of the
detention center one day after the Government announced restoration of an
immigration agreement with Cuba under which the detainees faced deportation. The
detainees demanded that they not be returned to Cuba, which they fled in 1980
along with thousands of others in a flotilla of boats from the port of Mariel.

The agreement parallels the proposal made last Monday by Attorney General Edwin
Meese 3d, who offered a moratorium on deportation, an individual review of cases
and amnesty for crimes committed during the occupation.

The settlement does not specifically prohibit deportation to Cuba, the refugees'
principal goal during the takeover. Nor does it appear to give them new legal
avenues to prevent deportation.

But it does seem to provide the detainees more protection against forced
repatriation and makes it possible for them to go to a third country. It also
appears to accelerate the release of detainees into half-way houses.

J. D. Williams, the chief Government negotiator, said there would be no
reprisals against the 1,000 detainees. He said they would be dispersed to 45
Federal penitentiaries around the country. The center, which was heavily damaged
by fire during the takeover, is to be rebuilt, Federal officials said.

''It's an excellent agreement on our behalf,'' said Mr. Williams, who is the
regional director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. ''We did not give away the
store. It's an agreement we can all live with.''

Mr. Williams said the settlement signed today was identical to one reached
Thursday, which collapsed when the detainees demanded that Bishop Roman witness
the agreement.

'We Could Have Lost It'

But Mr. Williams defended the delay in summoning the Bishop, who witnessed and
signed the accord. ''There's a time and place for everything,'' he said at a
brief news conference. ''If we had brought him in earlier, we could have lost
it.''

The prison siege apparently was surpassed in duration only by the 11-day
takeover of the state prison in Huntsville, Tex., that ended in August 1974.

The hostages, who were released in small groups of six or seven starting at 2:20
P.M., appeared to be in good health. They were dressed in sport shirts and
smiled broadly as they walked through a cordon of officials. Many were jubilant
as they stopped to give bear hugs to their colleagues, who burst out in tears
and wild applause.

Receiving Examinations

The freed hostages were taken by bus to a local hospital, where they were
receiving physical and psychological examinations. One hostage, Webster
Chamberlain, the son of Oakdale's Police Chief, Virgil Chamberlain, was released
this evening so he could go to New Orleans to see his anemic 17-month-old
daughter, who was hospitalized last week.

Federal and hospital authorities have blocked reporters' access to the hostages.
But one hostage, Mark Perrodin, said by telephone this evening from his hospital
bed that he was ''doing great'' and planned to go back to work at Oakdale ''real
soon.''

Mr. Perrodin refused to discuss details of the hostage ordeal until the
authorities debriefed him tonight. He did say that the Cuban detainees ''treated
me fine, but I did lose about five pounds.''

The authorities said the hostages would be held at least overnight for
debriefing.

The blue bus carrying the hostages was met by a wildly cheering crowd of at
least 200 people. Most were family members who had sprinted to the hospital from
the nearby Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church. They began yelling, screaming and
crying as the bus approached. When the vehicle pulled into the emergency exit,
they began pounding on the barred windows of the bus; the recently released
hostages began pounding back.

Cries of Joy

Many of the hostages staggered as they got off the bus and a few needed help.
But most were wildly smiling; many were crying with joy and pumping their
held-up thumbs into the air.

''This is a blessing,'' said Albert Royal, a friend of many of guards who, like
many people in the cheering crowd, was wearing a newly minted T-shirt inscribed,
''Free the Oakdale hostages.''

Dr. George Mowad, who is also the Mayor, examined three of the hostages and
pronounced them in remarkably good condition. He said their first request was
for a bath and a hearty meal.

''Anything but rice,'' said one hostage.

One by one, the hostages and their families were reunited.

''The first thing he said is 'Baby, I love you; I'll never leave you again,' ''
recalled Donna DeSoto, the 28-year-old wife of James DeSoto, 30, a guard.

''Daddy, what did they give them?'' was the first thing Patrick Woods asked his
father, Verdun Woods, when they were reunified.

''I couldn't care less,'' Mr. Woods said he responded. ''All I was interested in
is what I got right here, you.''

While the hostages were being released, the detainees gathered in the yard of
the 18-month-old center. One by one, they stepped forward and dropped their
weapons - machetes, pipes and nail-studded sticks - in a pile outside the
administration building.

Formed Victory Signs

Many of the Cuban refugees hugged each other, waved their arms over their heads
and raised two fingers in victory signs. One wrapped himself in an American
flag, crossed himself and kissed the flag. Another pumped a hand-painted sign
saying ''Peace'' in red letters; while a third held aloft another American flag.

The joy of the inmates' families was mixed with the bitter knowledge that many
would soon have to pack up and move to follow their husbands.

''Wherever they go, I'll grab my clothes and rags and go on foot,'' said Almira
Carvajal, the American-born common-law wife of Angel Cespedes Campos. ''I'll
go.''

The hostages' release ended a standoff that began when the inmates took over the
facility in reaction to an announcement by the State Department that it had
signed an agreement with Cuba to deport more than 2,500 refugees, many of them
in jail here.

''Something surprises me as a Cuban: to think that a person would rather live in
a prison in another country than return to his country of birth,''Bishop Roman
said in a prepared statement, noting that today was the first day of Advent, the
beginning of the Catholic church's year. ''Let us also hope it will mark the
start of a new life for the refugees of Mariel.''

Optimism on Atlanta Seige

Bishop Roman today said he hoped that the settlement here would pave the way for
a negotiated agreement in Atlanta and volunteered his assistance.

''Men who seek liberty cannot find it holding others prisoners,'' he said in a
message to the Atlanta detainees.

The crisis, which began in a fiery takeover of the facility, ended with a
handshake, a signing and a blessing by the Bishop.

The events that led to the accord began in secret Saturday when the Bishop flew
in a Government plan to England Air Force base, 35 miles north of Oakdale. There
he taped a video message to the detainees.

Early this morning, the authorities began playing the message over loudspeakers
and television sets erected on the perimeter of the center, which opened 18
months ago as a minimum security prison.

'A Moment of Peace'

''This is a moment of peace,'' the Bishop said in a transcript of the videotape
released by the Government. ''I want you to release the prisoners who are in
your custody and I want you to demonstrate to the world the good will that every
Christian should have in his heart.''

In the statement, Bishop Roman told the inmates that he and his lawyer, Dr.
Rafael Penalver, had carefully read the agreement and that they endorsed the
compromise.

''We have reviewed the document in detail and I can tell you there is nothing
missing in it,'' he said in the message. ''It is my great desire that this
matter end this evening and that a new life will begin for you. I give you my
blessing.''

Early this afternoon, Bishop Roman traveled around the 47-acre facility standing
in the back of a white pickup truck. That apparently broke the three-day
deadlock.

The inmates soon began piling up their weapons in the courtyard in front of the
administration building. They then started to release the hostages in small
groups.

Bishop Roman, flanked by his lawyer and a Cuban civic leader, then entered the
administration building and sat down at a long table. The four detainee
negotiators followed, along with Mr. Williams.

The detainees and the Bishop then went over the agreement. Finally, Bishop Roman
signed, followed by Mr. Williams and the four detainees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Patrick Woods, former hostage; inmates at the Federal
detention center in Oakdale (pg. B10) (AP)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 10, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Officials Open Prison in Atlanta

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 68 words


Mike Caltibiano, an assistant to the warden of the Federal penitentiary, showing
an assortment of weapons found after Cuban inmates surrendered. Journalists were
given a tour of the detention center to examine the damage. ''This wasn't done
just because they didn't clean up one day,'' Mr. Caltibiano said. ''They went
through every room and systematically destroyed everything they could find.''
(AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 6, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

How Can U.S. Continue Indefinite Detention?

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 182 words


To the Editor:

In the aftermath of the prison uprisings by Cuban detainees in the Federal
detention centers at Oakdale, La., and Atlanta, with a new process established
to decide whether Cubans held in American prisons should be sent back to Cuba
(news story, Dec. 12), it is clearly time to evaluate whether the legality of
the indefinite detention of ''excludable'' aliens can be considered consistent
with the moral values of the United States.

Shortly before the prison uprisings, you reported that, of the 7,000 Cubans who
came to this country in the Mariel boatlift and remained incarcerated in
detention centers, roughly half had already completed their sentences (news
story, Nov. 9).

The toll of indefinite detention was recently attested to by Napoleon Ortigoza
Gomez, the political prisoner in Paraguay who was freed after a 25-year prison
term (news story, Dec. 21). The plight of the ''excludable'' Cubans indefinitely
detained in our country demands that we address the human rights issue of
indefinite detention.

CATHERINE A. O'BRIAN
  Houston, Dec. 23, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

From New York to Jamaica: Call for Apple Pickers

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: CLINTONDALE, N.Y., Sept. 4


Israel Stewart reached into an apple tree not much higher than his head and
gently twisted a ripe, red McIntosh from the branch and put it into a cloth bag
hanging from his shoulders.

Mr. Stewart is one of 1,550 legal aliens from Jamaica who came to the Hudson
Valley this year to harvest apples under an international program involving the
United States, New York State, Jamaica and the apple growers.

''Without them, there's no possible way of harvesting the crop,'' said Warren
Smith, the fruit expert of the Ulster County Cooperative Extension Service.
''There is absolutely no local labor available to pick apples.''

The Jamaican apple-picking force in the Hudson Valley, which works from August
through October, is augmented, however, by about 300 migrant workers from the
South, recruited by the state employment service.

Highly Successful Program

The importation of foreign workers to pick apples in New York dates to 1943,
when there was a shortage of farm help because of World War II. It has continued
because of the desire of the Jamaican workers to come north to earn better wages
and the reluctance of Americans to work in farm fields.

''It's a highly successful program,'' said Donald Irwin, a regional labor
specialist of the State Department of Labor, based in Kingston, N.Y.

It is also important for the economy of New York State, the second largest
apple-growing state in the nation behind Washington, with an annual crop in
excess of a billion pounds.

Today, on the opening day of the McIntosh harvest, Mr. Stewart and 31 colleagues
from Jamaica worked in the bright sun on the 250-acre family fruit farm operated
by Phillips Hurd here in Ulster County, halfway between the Hudson River and the
Shawangunk Mountains.

Picking slowly and methodically with both hands along a row of dwarf apple
trees, Mr. Stewart filled his bag in less than two minutes. He walked a few
steps and dumped the apples into a huge wooden bin that held 850 pounds of
fruit.

Earning 'Better Money'

''It looks like a good crop, not a bumper crop, but pretty good,'' said Mr.
Hurd, inspecting the apples in the bin. ''It's much better than last year, when
we lost half our apples to hail.''

Mr. Smith picked up an apple. ''These are magnificent apples,'' he said.
''They'll grade out as extra fancy, the best.''

As he continued to pick apples, Mr. Stewart explained why he left his own farm
in Trelawny in Jamaica, where he grows bananas, yams and oranges, to come north
to pick apples.

''I come to earn better money,'' he said.

Under a complicated agreement negotiated between the apple growers and the
Jamaican Government, Mr. Stewart and the other foreign pickers are paid 60 cents
for each bushel of apples they pick, with a guarantee of $5.03 an hour, set by
the Federal Department of Labor.

''They can double that minimum on a good day,'' said Mr. Hurd.

In addition, according to the State Labor Department, the alien workers receive
free housing and free transportation to and from Jamaica, if they work through
the end of the harvest season, usually Nov. 1.

''They can go home with a net of at least $1,800 to $2,500,'' said Joseph Russo,
an officer of the Valley Growers Cooperative, which negotiates with the Jamaican
Government each year for the workers.

Something Good About It

A representative of the Jamaican Government, Henry McGhie, who maintains an
office in Milton, in the heart of Ulster County apple country, said the system
worked well.

''We're happy with it and I think the Americans are happy with it,'' he said.
''It's been going on so long that there must be something good about it.''

Unlike the uncertainty caused by a new Federal immigration law on migrant farm
labor in New Jersey and the West, there has been no impact on the Jamaican
program in New York, according to those involved. About the only change will be
that Mr. Hurd and other apple growers will have to file new forms, listing their
legal alien workers.

Each year, before the United States Government permits the entrance of the alien
workers, a complicated procedure is followed to insure that they are not taking
jobs away from Americans.

''We spent $3,000 in advertising for six weeks to recruit local workers and
didn't get even one,'' Mr. Russo said.

Challenge to Program

With a certification from the state that local labor was not available, Mr.
Russo's cooperative then got approval from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to import foreign workers, before negotiating with Jamaica for them.

In addition to working in the Hudson Valley, some Jamaicans are also working in
New York's two other apple regions, the Lake Champlain area and south of Lake
Ontario in the western part of the state.

Despite the apparent success of the program, two Federally-financed
ogranizations have lawsuits pending challenging the minimum wages, which are set
by the Federal Department of Labor.

The Farm Workers Legal Services of New York Inc., based in New Paltz, sued the
growers on the grounds that the workers were underpaid in previous years because
the minimum wage set by the Federal Government was artificially depressed.

In addition, the Migrant Legal Action Program, based in Washington, has sued the
Federal Labor Department, contesting its method of setting the minimum wage for
the apple pickers.

The suits are in various stages of litigation, with no final determination
reached.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Linford Sinclair, a legal alien from Jamaica, picking McIntosh
apples at a fruit farm operated by Phillips Hurd in Ulster County, N.Y. (The New
York Times/Edward Hausner)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 313 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Picture Darkens for Would-Be Apple Pickers

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 3


Contrary to statements a week ago, the state's apple industry will apparently
not need any additional help from hundreds of migrant workers who have been
living on handouts while waiting for work.

Gov. Booth Gardner, who toured the orchards in the Yakima Valley this week, said
no additional state funds would be available for the migrants. At one small
migrant tent camp, the Governor was greeted by cries of ''Money! Money!'' The
state has already spent $40,000 in emergency aid, some of it in Federal funds,
to feed the jobless migrant workers. Private groups have donated almost $100,000
to aid them, state offficials said.

The situation came about when a record $750 million apple crop and fears of a
shortage of migrant pickers as a result of changes in the Federal immigration
laws led growers to conduct a widespread campaign to lure pickers to the
orchards, about 130 miles east of the coastal cities of Seattle and Tacoma.
Promised work by radio advertisements directed at Mexico and southern
California, the migrants arrived to find more workers than needed and a crop
that was late to mature. The Washington State Apple Commission, a growers'
industry group, had said all the workers would be needed once the
weather-delayed harvest was in full swing. But a survey of the state's largest
growers and grower cooperatives now indicates that there will continue to be a
labor surplus.

Many Turned Away Daily

About 500 workers a day have been turned away by state job agencies and up to
three times that many are probably rejected in the fields or on the job sites,
according to state officials.

Although the exact figures are in dispute, both state officials and private
charities estimate there are about 1,000 to 1,500 workers who have been unable
to find jobs or shelter. The United Farm Workers of Washington, which represents
the migrant workers, put the figure at ''several thousand.''

The emergency aid has provided food and places to live for many of the jobless
migrants. But hundreds are sleeping in tent camps, in their vehicles, in meeting
halls for growers and in emergency shelters.

For the last three weeks, food banks and charities in the central Washington
valleys, where half of the nation's fresh apple crop is harvested, say their
resources have been depleted by the surge of out-of-state fruit pickers.

Normally, the state depends on 38,000 migrant workers to harvest the nation's
biggest apple crop. But this year the apple commission estimated that up to
50,000 workers would be needed. No figures are available yet on exactly how many
pickers are in the orchards.

George Finch, a spokesman for the United Farm Workers, said the state should
help the stranded migrants get back home or ask for money from the Federal
Department of Labor to assist them in finding temporary work.

'No Money to Get Back Home'

''There are thousands still here who want to leave but have no money to get back
home,'' Mr. Finch said.

Mr. Finch said the state could pay the migrants' way home or have them airlifted
home by the National Guard.

Some growers now fear that the state's reputation will suffer and future apple
crops face legitimate labor shortages because of the credibility problem this
year. ''No question but that there will be serious repercussions that could hurt
us for years to come,'' said Bernie Sims, vice president of Snokist Growers, a
large grower cooperative in the Yakima Valley.

Mr. Finch said, ''The workers are saying they will never come back here again.''

Because the apple growers pay relatively good wages for farm labor, some workers
left jobs in California to come to Washington. Mr. Finch said the situation had
also hurt the pickers who live in the state and depend on the month-long apple
harvest to help them through the winter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company
