
                               1 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 08, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Immigration Employment Provisions Dropped; Sen. Simpson Blasts Business
Community in Attempt to Keep Overhaul Bill Intact

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 831 words


Succumbing to pressure from the U.S. business community, Sen. Alan K. Simpson
(R-Wyo.) announced yesterday he was dropping from his controversial immigration
bill all provisions aimed at reforming employment-based immigration.

The move came after intensive lobbying by business leaders, who had joined an
odd coalition of liberal, conservative, labor, religious, ethnic and
pro-immigration groups in an all-out attack on the bill. The coalition's aim has
been to split the bill, which was originally intended to crack down on illegal
aliens while reducing legal immigration, including that related to employment,
by about 20 percent from its current level of nearly 800,000 people a year.

The announcement marked the latest twist in congressional efforts to reform the
nation's immigration laws this year -- efforts already roiled by Republican
infighting, election-year politics and moves by powerful agricultural interests
to insert a guest-worker program that would assure a supply of cheap farm labor
in case measures to stem illegal immigration work too well.

The Clinton administration strongly opposes the proposed guest-worker program,
which would give temporary visas to as many as 250,000 foreign laborers. It also
opposes the dropping of the Senate bill's original provisions on
employment-based immigration, especially constraints on the hiring of skilled
foreign temporary workers at lower wages to replace Americans, said Labor
Secretary Robert B. Reich.

"We're deeply disturbed that these provisions, which are vitally important to
protect American workers, have been thrown overboard," he said in a telephone
interview. He said he would urge the president to "veto any immigration bill
that fails to protect U.S. workers and their wages."

By placating the business community, Simpson said he hopes to keep his bill
intact during debate in the Senate Judiciary Committee, preserving measures to
cut back on the "chain migration" of extended families under the current law.

However, Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), the committee's leading advocate of
employment- and family-based immigration, said he intends to pursue his effort
to split the bill next week.

The controversy has highlighted sharp divisions in the Republican Party over
immigration, which has emerged as a potent issue in this election year. Critics
of current policy argue that most Americans want cutbacks on both legal and
illegal immigration, which they see as taking jobs from citizens and imposing
huge costs on government. Supporters of legal immigration argue that it helps
keep America competitive in the global economy and serves to unify families in
the tradition of this nation of immigrants.

A bill similar to Simpson's is scheduled to come to the floor of the House this
month. A major lobbying effort by the business community, including some of the
nation's leading high-tech computer and software companies, succeeded in
amending the House bill to preserve much of the current system of
business-related immigration.

Among the measures that Simpson said he would drop were a reduction in the
number of employment-based immigrant visas from 140,000 to 90,000, a fee of $
10,000 or 10 percent of annual compensation charged to employers for each
immigrant worker they bring in, a requirement that employers petitioning for
foreign workers showed they tried to recruit Americans, a ban on laying off U.S.
workers and replacing them with immigrants, and restrictions on the hiring of
temporary "nonimmigrant" workers.

Simpson had argued that the reduction of employment immigration visas did not
represent a significant cut, since only 93,000 of the 140,000 available were
actually used last year. He said the fee, intended to fund the training of
American workers, was part of efforts to streamline procedures and save
employers much greater sums that they currently pay to immigration lawyers.

While business lobbyists said they welcomed the dropping of these provisions,
Simpson, who is retiring this year after 18 years in office, made it clear that
the concessions have left him bitter and frustrated.

"The business community so distorted everything we were up to," he told the
committee. "They know they're going to get the best and the brightest, but they
chose to link up with those who have never wanted to do anything about
immigration, ever. It may have worked, but I think they were a little too cute
by half."

He indicated that there may be moves to restore the provisions when the bill
reaches the Senate floor.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) said he would refuse to go along with "turning
our backs on American workers" by creating "new loopholes in immigration law"
that favor the recruitment of foreigners.

He said some firms bring in foreign workers to replace qualified Americans, pay
the foreigners lower wages and drive competitors with U.S. employees out of
business in what amounts to a "double whammy" for American workers.


LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dayna smith, New American Faces About 100 people became citizens
on Capitol Hill. Flanked by INS officials, from left, are Carla Suarez from the
Philippines, Elizabeth Milere from Peru and Cheryl Morgan from Liberia.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               2 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 12, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Legal Obstacles, Staffing Impede Bid to Get Employers

Lisa Leff

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B4

LENGTH: 591 words


By targeting employers instead of undocumented workers, the Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986 marked a major departure from previous attempts to
combat illegal immigration. The idea was to weaken the economic magnet that
pulled so many people to the United States.

But eight years later, the program, not the immigrant job market, has grown
feeble. Burdened by staffing shortages and legal loopholes, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has made enforcing the employer sanctions an increasingly
low priority.

Since the INS began inspecting work sites for compliance in 1988, less than 0.4
percent of the nation's bosses have been issued fines or warnings for using
illegal workers, according to the agency. In the 13,829 cases that led to fines,
employers paid an average of $ 1,603 each, although the law allows for fines of
up to $ 1,300 for every illegal worker on a payroll.

Jack Shaw, chief of the INS investigations division, said in an interview that
employer sanctions have been a neglected aspect of the agency's mission.

"The system is self-policing. Employers are expected to comply, but in practice
they can't be held accountable," Shaw said. "In their lifetime, they will never
see an immigration officer unless they stand up and scream that they have a
factory full of illegal aliens."

One reason is a proliferation of phony Social Security cards and work
authorization permits, which give "every employer ... a good faith defense,"
Shaw said.

If a company maintains personnel files that show it asked foreign-born workers
for documentation, "there is no strong basis for showing the extent to which the
employer may be winking at the law," he said.

Shaw said his division has a backlog of more than 2,000 leads -- but with the
equivalent of 350 agents working sanctions cases, the tips probably will go
unexamined. More pressing demands, such as cracking down on immigrants who
commit felonies, gang violence and organized crime, have cut into the number of
officers available to look for immigrants who are working illegally.

Since 1986, INS agents have arrested 52,850 foreign nationals during work-place
raids, or 1.5 percent of the 3.5 million illegal immigrants the INS estimates
are living in the United States. As many as 70 percent of the illegal workers
who are arrested never show up for their deportation hearings or never leave the
country, the agency estimates.

Advocates from groups as diverse as the Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund and
the Federation for American Immigration Reform agree that employer sanctions
have been ineffective but disagree about the remedy.

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus repeatedly has sought repeal of the provision,
saying it has caused employers to discriminate against people with
foreign-sounding accents and names. Groups with an anti-immigration agenda have
pushed for a mandatory national identification card to combat document fraud,
causing an outcry from civil libertarians.

At the request of the INS, the Clinton administration has included in its 1995
budget $ 23 million for additional agents, including 200 low-level officers who
would be assigned almost exclusively to employer sanctions cases. The budget
also would earmark $ 10 million for making fingerprints a part of work
authorization permits and setting up a telephone verification system for
employers.

Shaw said that despite deficiencies, employer sanctions should still be a part
of the overall strategy. "It's not toothless," he said. "Its bite has to be
corrected."


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FROM LEFT, INS AGENTS JOE BEAHN, BOB CAMERON, TOM PERRYMAN AND
LEWIS SPURRY PREPARE FOR THE MORNING RAID ON THE LANDSCAPING CONTRACTOR IN
CROFTON. KEITH JENKINS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                               3 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 6, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Hiring Bias Attributed To '86 Immigration Act;
Fear May Push Employers to Shun Foreign-Born

Ann O'Hanlon, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 1145 words


Marta Fuentes, a 14-year resident of the United States who has a green card, is
scared to apply for a job. The last time she tried, a company official accused
her of having a falsified green card, temporarily took her Salvadoran passport
and then left the room while another "gringo," as Fuentes tells the story,
watched over her from the doorway.

Fuentes left in tears, with her passport but no job, and is in no mood to try
again. "I'm very afraid, very timid," she said.

A job for Fuentes would mean money to supplement the $ 400 a week her husband
makes from construction work. It would mean new clothes for their four
daughters, meat more often instead of the routine eggs and beans, maybe even
insurance for the truck. But for now, at least, they will make do.

Her experience is common. Discrimination against foreign-born job applicants is
widespread in the United States, according to studies by the Urban Institute and
the General Accounting Office. And although such discrimination may be age-old,
the same reports suggest that the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act has
aggravated it.

The law's primary intent was to discourage illegal immigration by thwarting
employment opportunities for undocumented workers. Immigration officials and
advocacy groups say that the law is not achieving that goal, and its sponsor,
Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), agrees.

The federal Commission on Immigration Reform this week recommended supplanting
the verification requirements with a national computer registry containing the
names of all people who may work legally in this country.

But according to both the agency that handles complaints -- including the one
Fuentes filed -- and the GAO report, the law has had quite an effect on how
employers treat job applicants.

The law requires employers to verify each applicant's right to work in the
United States. Applicants can decide which document or combination of documents,
from a list of 29, to offer as verification. Employers who skirt this process or
who hire undocumented workers are subject to penalties by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS).

Latino and civil rights organizations lobbied against these employer sanctions,
arguing that they would promote discrimination against all applicants who appear
or sound foreign. Their lobbying resulted in an anti-discrimination provision
that prohibits bias based on national origin or citizenship status.

The lobbying also yielded a small INS offshoot, the Office of Special Counsel,
which is responsible for enforcing the anti-discrimination provision. The office
receives complaints from job applicants who allege discrimination and, like INS,
prosecutes employers who violate the law.

The office has received 3,700 complaints since its inception, 68 percent of
which were filed by Latinos. "There's a lot of confusion out there. We find
employers are reacting to their fear of being sanctioned by the INS," William
Ho-Gonzalez, the office's director, said.

One result is that employers demand a specific document, such as a green card,
believing that only that document proves the right to work.

Another result is what happened to Fuentes: The employer questions the validity
of the document. "That's where employers get into trouble," said OSC employee
Ginette Milanes. "They try to do the INS's job and that's not really what the
law requires them to do." Employers are required to see a document that appears
"reasonably genuine" to them.

About 19 percent of employers fail to find that zone. The General Accounting
Office reported in 1990 that nearly one-fifth of employers discriminate against
foreign-appearing or foreign-sounding people expressly as a result of the law.

"It simplifies their lives to take a blue-eyed blond with a Brooklyn accent,"
GAO staff member Laurie Ekstrand said. The report was one of three requested in
the statute itself to determine the law's effectiveness and effect on
discrimination.

Because no discrimination study was done before the law was passed, those GAO
findings have been contested, especially by Simpson. "The GAO is not the font
and oracle of all Washington," Simpson said.

He takes issue with the study because he said it fails to distinguish between
generic discrimination and discrimination caused by the law. He said various
public-interest groups manipulate the GAO staff to "make sure that they get
politically correct before they write the report."

Simpson argues that a principal provision of the law -- the legalization of 3
million immigrants -- is overlooked. He does concede, however, that the law
"doesn't work properly." He has offered legislation that would ease the
verification system -- and the burden placed on employers by the immigration
act.

And indeed, much of the problem seems to be ignorance, not ill will, on the part
of employers. "Employers a lot of times are surprised at what we're saying,"
said Rosa Navas, coordinator of the Workplace Justice Project, a group funded by
the Office of Special Council to educate workers and employers about the
anti-bias aspects of the act. "People assume it's okay to discriminate."

Even with the help of the Workplace Justice Project and two dozen other groups
funded by the office, the 32-member agency and $ 7 million budget are minuscule
compared with that of the INS, which has a staff of 18,000 and a budget of $ 1.5
billion. As of August 1992, INS had assessed more than $ 47 million in fines
while the office had assessed $ 640,000 in fines and back-pay awards, according
to a report by the Urban Institute.

Ho-Gonzalez said the INS cases tend to be employer raids, resulting in multiple
infractions, whereas his office's cases usually are filed either by an
individual or a small group.

In addition, petitioners to the office often face obstacles. "These are not
people who would ordinarily come forward to complain," Ho-Gonzalez said.
"They're people who have either cultural or linguistic barriers that don't make
it easy for them. The second thing is many of them are afraid of government."

Fuentes fits that profile. She fled El Salvador at age 19, after her mother was
warned that the guerrillas were planning to kidnap Marta. Fourteen years later,
she has a household of six with about $ 300 in monthly surplus beyond rent and
utilities. She also tries to send money to her mother, who is still in El
Salvador.

Had her legal work documents been accepted in May, she would be preparing
airline meals at night for $ 5 an hour. The spokesman for the Grace Culinary
System, the target of Fuentes's complaint, said the company is cooperating fully
with the Justice Department and feels "we've not acted improperly." The company
offered Fuentes an interview immediately upon verbal notice of the complaint,
which Fuentes said she turned down because of her previous treatment by the
company.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                               4 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 02, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

INS 'Enforcement Deficit' Tied to Law; Voluntary Compliance Provision Fails to
Deter Hiring of Illegals

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1446 words


On one side of the battle are the factories, shops, restaurants and families
that employ some 200,000 illegal immigrants here. Facing them are just 18
federal immigration officers enforcing the law prohibiting that employment.

These officers are up against more than just numbers. Their regulations require
them to give businesses three days' notice before they can inspect employment
records and, in all but rare cases, they interview workers only after receiving
an employer's permission. About 40 percent of their work involves spot checks on
businesses randomly selected by a computer with no reason to assume anything is
amiss. Such visits produce few violations.

"I'd guess you'd have to say this is an unusual form of law enforcement," said
Demetrios Georgakopoulos, who is in charge of enforcing the employment law at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service's (INS) New York office. "Our goal is
to bring about the highest rate of compliance possible. We do not measure our
success by the number of fines we issue or the number of aliens we detain."

Most laws create enforcement mechanisms and set out punishments on the
assumption that some people will break the rules. But the 1986 federal law
prohibiting employment of illegal immigrants is different: It assumes that if
employers are given enough information and encouragement, they will obey. And
although policymakers generally agree this strategy has failed to halt the flow
of illegal immigrants to the United States, the Clinton administration and
leading Republicans in Congress have reaffirmed their commitment to it as they
plan a new assault on illegal immigration this year.

Congress is expected soon to take up proposals for a computerized registry of
eligible workers that is designed to make it more difficult for illegal
immigrants to find work. But critics argue this approach will not begin to solve
the problem for the same reason the voluntary approach has not succeeded: It
will not deter businesses that deliberately employ illegal workers because they
work for substandard wages.

"Businessmen owners are not scared of the INS because it is never around," said
Wilfredo Larancuent, director of organizing for the Amalgamated Clothing and
Textile Workers Union in New York, adding. "It is not a threat, and that makes
the whole thing a joke. If a guy running a sewing loft or a laundry or a
restaurant needs to cut labor costs, he knows he can hire a few illegal workers,
pay them less than the minimum wage and get away with it."

At the INS, enforcement of the employer sanctions law has become a low priority
item. Since 1989 the number of agents assigned to enforcement has dropped by
more than half, as has the number of fines issued. While the INS is getting more
than 2,000 additional personnel this year, only 38 are projected to be added to
the staff investigating violations of the law,

Despite an illegal immigrant population nationwide of an estimated 4 million,
the INS completed only 1,761 cases producing fines against employers in 1993,
the last year for which figures are available, and it had only 318 people
assigned to enforcement. By comparison the Border Patrol now employs nearly
5,000 agents.

As resources have dwindled sharply, more cases have gone uninvestigated. By last
September the INS had accumulated a backlog of 36,000 leads on possible
violations it had been unable to check out, according to a report by the General
Accounting Office.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner conceded, "We have a substantial enforcement
deficit because our resources have steadily declined in this area just when we
needed to be boosting them." She blamed Congress for scaling back administration
requests for additional investigators in recent years even as it mandated new
tasks for them to take on.

There is a consensus among policymakers that the flow of illegal immigrants to
the United States has reached troubling proportions. In his State of the Union
address last week President Clinton spoke of the need to halt "the kind of abuse
of our immigration laws we have seen in recent years," and endorsed plans to
begin work on the computerized workers' registry and on improved identity
documents.

The administration is expected to unveil a detailed initiative and spending
proposals within a few days. Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), chairman of the
Senate Judiciary immigration subcommittee, introduced a bill last week that
would also create a computerized verification system for workers.

Under the 1986 law employers are required to ask job applicants for documents
showing they are authorized to work, but employers are not required to verify
the documents' authenticity. As a result, many illegal immigrants use
counterfeit papers to get work, and their employers are deemed blameless.

The proposed registry and improved documents are designed to make it more
difficult for illegals to use fake identities. But critics of the voluntary
compliance strategy argue the new proposals will not affect the substantial
number of employers who knowingly violate the law. Although the majority of
employers want to comply, "it's not them you have to worry about, it is the
others," said Saskia Sassen, professor of urban planning at Columbia University.

Those employers belong to the shadow world of the underground economy that
Sassen has chronicled in several books. "These employers violate all kinds of
laws when it comes to their workers whether it be laws on overtime, the
environment or safe working conditions, and hiring illegal workers is just one
of many irregularities," she said. "No computer registry will make a difference
in these cases because these employers are not looking for easier ways to
comply. On the contrary, these workplaces can only exist under an umbrella of
violations."

The rapid expansion of the service industries, competition from national chains
in areas such as food services and retailing, global competition in many areas
of manufacturing and economic downturns have all helped create a sector of the
economy that operates on thin profit margins and employs large numbers of low
wage workers.

Secretary of Labor Robert E. Reich recently described this way of doing business
as "the low road to competitiveness . . . hiring illegal immigrants, paying them
very little in conditions of squalor and lack of safety that rival conditions in
the Third World."

Just how big a chunk of the work force is employed in this sector of the economy
-- and how big a challenge it poses in the enforcement of immigration law -- is
a sharply disputed issue even within government.

According to the INS, 90 percent of all employers are in compliance with the
law. But the Labor Department, which inspects four times as many business each
year as the INS, puts compliance at a mere 47 percent. One reason for this
discrepancy, administration officials said, is that Labor Department officers
judge compliance when they conclude their inspection, while the INS defers a
decision until it has given an employer "educational assistance" and
opportunities to correct mistakes.

The INS is reevaluating its enforcement strategies and said it intends to target
sectors of the economy known for consistent violations. But even this initiative
is based on increasing voluntary compliance with the creation of a new
verification system that is expected to take several years.

"The way you go after the bad guys is by promoting compliance," said Meissner,
the INS commissioner. "You get as much compliance as possible so you can target
resources at the problem areas."

@CAPTION: FALTERING EFFORTS

Fines and warnings brought by the Immigration and Naturalization Service against
employers of illegal immigrants have declined . . .

Cases of sanctions

AGAINST EMPLOYERS

'89

Cases resulting in warnings: ... 2,108

Cases resulting in fines: ..... 3,547

'90

Cases resulting in warnings: ... 2,644

Cases resulting in fines: ..... 2,242

'91

Cases resulting in warnings: ... 1,444

Cases resulting in fines: ..... 2,184

'92

Cases resulting in warnings: ... 1,262

Cases resulting in fines: ..... 2,447

'93

Cases resulting in warnings: ... 1,094

Cases resulting in fines: ..... 1,761

. . . as have the number of investigators and proportionate spending.

Investigators

ENFORCING EMPLOYER SANCTIONS

Cases resulting in warnings:

'89: 544

Cases resulting in fines:

'94: 288

Sanctions budget

AS PERCENTAGE OF INS INVESTIGATIONS BUDGET

Cases resulting in warnings:

'89: 28%

Cases resulting in fines:

'94: 16%

SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service


LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: TWP

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                               5 of 351 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 1995 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

MEXICAN ENVOY URGES U.S TO CURB IMMIGRANT BIAS

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A24

LENGTH: 303 words


Mexico's foreign minister, warning of "extremist tendencies,"

urged the U.S. government yesterday to educate Americans to combat prejudice
against Mexican immigrants.

Jose Angel Gurria, speaking at a meeting of U.S. and Mexican government
officials, also delivered an implicit swipe at proposed anti-immigrant
legislation in some U.S. states, saying repression could not make immigration
disappear.

"With utmost concern we observe the emergence of extremist tendencies,
intolerant ideologies and hostile attitudes against Mexicans and people of
Mexican origin," he said.

"The leadership of the United States government to educate public opinion in
some regions and sectors of this country, to denounce and to reverse these
trends, is of vital importance."

Migration, he told the United States-Mexico Binational Commission, "cannot be
dealt with through short-term policies; most certainly it cannot be suppressed
with violence and it will not disappear with repression."

Gurria's remarks appeared targeted at legislation such as California's
Proposition 187, which would deny welfare benefits to illegal immigrants.

The law has been blocked by the courts, but similar moves have begun in other
states.

The minister said his government is trying to ensure jobs for Mexicans in their
country but he said migration was an "undeniable reality"

rooted in history and "accentuated by the asymmetry in the levels of income
between both nations."

Secretary of State Warren Christopher, opening the one-day meeting, applauded
Mexico's efforts to improve social conditions and steps to end what he called
the inhuman traffic in illegal migrants.

"We will do all we can to curb illegal immigration, and at the same time, we are
committed to facilitate the legal movement of people and goods across our
border," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                               6 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 10, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrant Smuggling on Rise; Truck Found in Md. With 40 People Part of
Wide Problem, Officials Say

Pamela Constable; William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1038 words


The discovery of 40 illegal immigrants crammed into a truck approaching the
Chesapeake Bay Bridge two days ago has alerted officials here to a problem that
immigration authorities say is spreading across the United States: the
organized, criminal smuggling of foreigners to provide low-wage labor.

Immigration officials said the Anne Arundel County incident, in which 19
Mexicans and 21 Guatemalans were found in the back of a rental truck that
crashed near a tollbooth, was the first time in nearly two years that an
immigrant smuggling operation had been uncovered in this area. In April 1994, 63
illegal Chinese immigrants were found being held captive in a Prince George's
County house.

"This far north of the border, we usually discover these things only when there
is a traffic accident or violation. But in my opinion, a large percentage of
persons illegally employed in this area get here with someone's assistance,"
said Benedict Ferro, director of the Maryland district of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Other INS officials said the discovery of the smuggled immigrants also was an
indication that with the U.S. government cracking down on border crossings in
California and Texas, workers from Mexico and Central America who normally would
try to sneak north on their own are turning to long-distance smugglers for help,
exposing themselves to physical abuse and extortion.

"These individuals had been in the back of a van for two days, traveling nonstop
from Arizona to the Eastern Shore, under horrific conditions," said Russ
Bergeron, a national spokesman for the INS. "The smugglers know they are at
risk, so they keep moving without the least concern for the safety and rights of
their passengers. They just want to deliver the load and collect the fee."

Immigration agents spent much of yesterday questioning the immigrants, most of
whom are in detention facilities in Jessup and Salisbury. Officials would not
allow journalists to speak with them. They said that they believed some could
provide testimony about the operation and that the immigrants were being
delivered to work in a kind of industry particular to the Eastern Shore.

The driver, an 18-year-old Mexican national, was being held in Anne Arundel
County on charges of driving without a license and operating a rental vehicle
without permission. Five teenagers in the van were moved to a juvenile detention
facility in Pennsylvania, officials said.

Ferro expressed sympathy for the passengers and disgust for the smugglers,
saying such operations put the INS in the uncomfortable position of "arresting
victims. This is not fun for us," he said. Officials described the passengers as
hungry, ailing and crowded into the small rental truck with no light or toilet.

On the other hand, the drama of a harrowing, clandestine flight highlighted an
issue that immigration authorities have been eager to publicize: the need for
increased efforts across the country -- not just along the 2,000-mile
U.S.-Mexican border -- to deter and investigate illegal, land-based immigration.

"This case graphically illustrates that what we are dealing with are organized
criminal enterprises that put people at risk," Bergeron said. "It's not enough
to simply increase our presence at the border. We need to have a multifaceted
strategy, so we can maintain a flexible response to the problem."

In the last several years, immigrant-smuggling operations have been uncovered
periodically in New York, New Jersey, California and Texas. Some involved trucks
or vans transporting Mexicans northward from the border; others were more
elaborate and abusive schemes in which Chinese immigrants were held prisoner in
safe houses, working off debts under slave labor conditions.

In April 1994, INS and FBI agents discovered 63 Chinese immigrants being held
for ransom in a house in Mitchellville. They said Chinese gang members were
demanding up to $ 30,000 for each immigrant from their families in New York,
after unloading them from a freighter off the Virginia coast.

The discovery of the truck near the Bay Bridge was the first time in recent
memory that a group of smuggled Latin Americans had been seized in this area.
But local INS agents periodically arrest illegal Latin American workers in
restaurants, hotels, farms and food processing plants. Last week, 75 illegal
immigrants, mostly from El Salvador and Honduras, were seized in business raids
in Montgomery County.

In the smuggling case, authorities said they would keep the adults in custody
until investigators decide whom to hold on charges of smuggling or as witnesses.
The rest will be given a choice of requesting a hearing before an immigration
judge or returning to their own countries. Ferro said that most had requested to
return home and that the Mexican and Guatemalan embassies had offered to help
them.

INS officials say the Bay Bridge incident appears to reinforce indications that
smugglers have been using more organized and sophisticated methods to get people
across the border and deliver them to jobs thousands of miles away.

Another disturbing aspect, Bergeron said, is that smugglers increasingly are
collaborating with illegal labor contractors who supply workers to "unscrupulous
employers" for prearranged jobs. That is what INS officials believe happened in
the Bay Bridge incident.

"You don't cram 40 illegal aliens into the back of a rental van and drive 48
hours nonstop from Arizona to the east coast of Maryland without a specific
destination and a specific objective," Bergeron said.

"We're seeing sophisticated organizations with contacts in various parts of the
United States," he said. The more expensive smugglers offer "package deals" in
which people pay to be taken across the border, provided with counterfeit
documents, transported somewhere in the U.S. interior and set up in jobs.

In an anti-smuggling operation last month in Arizona, the INS apprehended 818
illegal immigrants at the Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix in a one-week period.
The illegal immigrants were being smuggled to 52 cities in 28 states and the
District of Columbia, the INS found.

Staff writer Paul W. Valentine contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               7 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 29, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Moves Against Human Smugglers Near San Diego

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 618 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 28


Following a rash of fatal accidents involving vehicles packed with undocumented
aliens speeding north from the border, federal immigration officials today
announced they are tightening border control in the mountainous region of
eastern San Diego County.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said the
expansion of the two-year-old Operation Gatekeeper border control initiative was
partly in response to a series of recent illegal immigrant smuggling-related
accidents, including a horrific crash April 6 in which seven illegal immigrants
were killed and 18 injured while trying to evade a permanent U.S. Border Patrol
checkpoint along Interstate 15.

Meissner said the Border Patrol's clampdown in the built-up western sector of
the frontier at Imperial Beach and Chula Vista had forced human cargo smugglers
-- called "coyotes" -- to turn to the winding and less-traveled mountain roads
further east in their efforts to reach Los Angeles and inland cities. The
"coyotes" typically meet illegal immigrants as they cross the border and, for
fees of $ 300 or more, pack them into cars and trucks for what often becomes a
dangerous, high-speed journey through the mountains to avoid patrols and
checkpoints.

One high-speed pursuit April 1 turned into a cause celebre in the Hispanic
community after local sheriff's deputies beat two of 11 illegal immigrants in an
overloaded pickup truck, and the beating was filmed by local television
stations. That incident also prompted intense public debate over whether police
were endangering public safety with such high-speed chases. On April 26, a van
crammed with 25 undocumented aliens collided with a Border Patrol vehicle 30
miles east of San Diego, killing two immigrants and injuring 19 others.

"It is this treacherous mountainous area that is one of the last provinces of
the smugglers. They're turning to it with total disregard for the safety of
their human cargo, and although it is a terrifically difficult area for us to
enforce, we will do it," Meissner said.

She said 185 additional border agents will be deployed in the eastern part of
the county to prevent the illegal aliens' access to popular "loading up"
locations and highway routes northward. The new deployment will establish a zone
of control that will now run 30 miles from the Pacific Ocean to Tecante, she
said.

Backing up the new agents, Meissner said, will be two new helicopters, 172
additional ground sensors, seven new night-vision scopes, 23 additional portable
lighting units, new horse and canine units and eight miles of new fencing in the
Tecante and Campo areas on the border.

"By concentrating these additional agents and resources in the East, we will
push illegal traffic further away from San Diego County's built-up areas . . .
and into areas where we have the advantage against the smugglers," Meissner
said. She said the advantage stems from the longer time it takes illegal
immigrants to reach a highway in the eastern part of the county, coupled with
the fact that smugglers and aliens are more exposed in rural areas.

Meissner said the Border Patrol had already augmented the Temecula checkpoint,
about 75 miles north of the border on I-15, with 26 permanent agents since
January. In addition, some of the 128 new agents are being deployed at
temporary, high-visibility roadblocks on side roads in the Temecula area that
smugglers have been using in an attempt to avoid detection at the permanent
checkpoint.

When asked if the illegal immigrants would not simply move their crossing points
further east, Meissner replied, "Once you go further east you end up in Arizona,
where we have already tightened up. "

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996May 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               8 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 23, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

A Free-Trade Zone in the Traffic of Humans; Central America Has Become Conduit
for World's Illegal Migrants

Douglas Farah, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1824 words

DATELINE: BELIZE CITY, Belize


This spring, U.S. officials noticed an unusual pattern of passengers
disembarking at the tiny airport here. Weekly flights from Cuba were unloading
only single Chinese men, with no luggage, who immediately boarded waiting vans
and disappeared across the border into Guatemala. Several were later arrested
near Los Angeles.

They left half of their valuable round-trip tickets with immigration officials,
a Belize requirement, allowing U.S. and Belizian officials to track the
itineraries: from mainland China to Southeast Asia, where most of the world's
heroin comes from, to Amsterdam, one of the favored ports of entry into Europe
for narcotics. After a brief stay, the men then headed to Cuba to catch the
flight to Belize.

Subsequent investigations showed the men had paid up to $ 30,000 for false
Belizian visas, which allowed them to leave China and transit legally through
Cuba and other nations. But they were headed for the United States.

"There is a huge global problem with illegal alien smuggling," said Jonathan
Winer, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state for law enforcement and crime.
"It is no longer just the migrant movement of people that has always existed,
but relatively new organized businesses that literally span continents."

The visa scheme in Belize -- shut down after U.S. protests -- is just one
example of the growing sophistication of the multibillion-dollar illegal human
smuggling rings that move hundreds of thousands of people each year to the
United States.

The criminal rings, according to Central American and U.S. immigration experts,
have ties to organized crime in China, Hong Kong, India and Pakistan and have
now spread throughout Central America. U.S. officials estimate at least 10,000
illegal aliens from outside the region move through Central America each month
on their way to the United States.

Drug-Running Sideline

And the same organizations that trade human cargo often engage in drug smuggling
and other illicit trafficking. U.S. officials said they think many illegal
migrants, such as those traveling through Belize, defray the cost of their
passage by carrying narcotics from Asia to Europe.

The situation was viewed as critical enough for President Clinton in 1993 to
declare the phenomenon a "threat to national security," and an interagency task
force coordinated at the White House is drawing up ways to combat the human
flow. But instead of slowing down, business is booming. And there is still only
one resident Immigration and Naturalization Service agent for all of Central
America, based in Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

"It is not enough," said German Sanchez, director of Panama's immigration
office, who has won high marks from U.S. officials for moving aggressively
against the illegal sale of Panamanian travel documents. "It is similar to the
war on drugs, where the country most hurt by this traffic is the United States.
They want us to fight it, but they give us no resources. People do not want to
stay here; they want to go to the United States."

Central America's role in the illegal smuggling business has grown enormously
since the bloody civil wars that wracked the region ended four years ago. It is
a primary route, as one senior State Department official said, for three
reasons: "Location, location, location."

With coasts on the Atlantic and Pacific oceans and a long tradition of
corruption, the region is attractive because Central Americans have, over two
decades, developed sophisticated smuggling networks of their own to enter the
United States illegally.

Roberto Troncoso, a lawyer and former head of Panama's human rights commission
that investigated the Chinese migration, said Panama is acting as a free-trade
zone in the transport of human beings. "Here, the Chinese come in, we give them
a new label, and we reexport them to wherever they want to go," Troncoso said.
"It is an almost perfect combination of location and people."

And Central America is popular for another reason. It is not a crime in any
country in the region to transport illegal aliens, meaning that if a person is
caught, the migrants can be deported but the transporter faces at most a
misdemeanor fine.

"What you have is a business that is almost as lucrative as drug trafficking,
but with virtually none of the risks," said one regional authority. "So the
business grows."

U.S. and Central American officials, as well as sources in the 100,000-member
Chinese community in Panama, said the most lucrative business is trafficking in
Chinese.

A recent State Department report said that while the number of Chinese illegal
aliens is a small part of the total illegal migration problem, "its connection
to crime and corruption makes it a serious problem for the United States and
other governments."

In 1994, then-CIA Director R. James Woolsey estimated in congressional testimony
that some 100,000 Chinese were smuggled into the United States each year, the
bulk of them through Central America. A senior State Department official said
the figure has dropped some but that each migrant paid an average of $ 35,000
for the trip, making the business worth from $ 2 billion to $ 3 billion a year.

Some of that money, U.S. and Central American officials said, is used to pay off
officials across Central America. The most sophisticated band operates out of
San Jose, Costa Rica, and Managua, Nicaragua, law enforcement officials said. No
country is immune.

Passport Trade

Senior Honduran immigration officials said they have found that at least 20,000
naturalization cards, used to obtain Honduran passports and residency cards,
were printed outside normal channels and sold during the administration of
former president Rafael Callejas. Honduran and U.S. officials familiar with the
case said the cards were sold for between $ 25,000 and $ 50,000 apiece to
Chinese smuggling organizations in Hong Kong, netting an estimated $ 625
million. No one has been arrested or charged for the fraudulent sales.

Only a fraction of those who received the cards stayed in Honduras more than a
few days or hours, the investigators said. Instead, they used the cards to leave
China, then entered the pipeline of people moving illegally to the United
States.

"There is big, big money involved in this, which is why our lives have been
threatened and we live in fear," said a Honduran immigration official who
investigated the case. "The trafficking organizations have lawyers, they have
structures, they have protection, and they threaten us."

Ernesto Paz, the foreign minister of Honduras in the government of Carlos Reina
that took office 20 months ago, was removed from his post and arrested in
August, accused of selling passports and trying to auction off the lucrative
consular positions in Hong Kong and Taipei -- where traffic in visas and
residency cards can bring in hundreds of thousands of dollars. He has denied the
charges and is awaiting trial.

William Pryce, the U.S. ambassador in Honduras, said that combating illegal
migration there "is high on our priority list" and that the United States was
trying to work with the Reina government "to stem the flow."

Two senior immigration officials in Belize were removed earlier this year when
they were discovered photocopying official travel documents, allegedly for
falsification. Another prominent Belize businessman, James Wang, was arrested.
Wang is being defended by Dennis Barrow, the brother of Dean Barrow, who is
deputy prime minister and the nation's attorney general. Diplomats here said the
close relationship between the defending attorney and the attorney general
raised serious questions of conflict of interest.

U.S. Ambassador George Bruno said "the changes that occurred in the immigration
department are viewed as a positive sign" that the Belizian government is
cracking down, but he said constant vigilance against new routes is crucial.

Immigration experts across Central America said the number of migrants from
India and Pakistan is growing rapidly, although it still lags far behind the
Chinese. Like the Chinese, they pay about $ 35,000 per person, while South
Americans -- mostly Ecuadorans and Peruvians -- heading north generally pay
about $ 8,000.

Visa to Legality

For Central American officials, the most lucrative business is selling visas and
passports, because the safest way for migrants to get out of China is by air,
and to board an aircraft, they have to show they have a visa to another country.
Once they have a visa to virtually anywhere stamped in their passports, they can
travel legally.

Once the migrants arrive in Central America, they often destroy their passports
and begin making their way north, through Guatemala and Mexico, for a
clandestine trip across the border to the United States. The passports are
destroyed, according to migration officials, because if migrants are caught
without papers indicating where they are from, it is much more difficult to
deport them.

Honduran and U.S. sources said they were still investigating an even more
ominous sale of passports by Honduras. In 1993, British and U.S. intelligence
services detected the sale of 17 passports to Russians, several of whom were
among the most notorious members of the Russian mafia. There were also
reportedly five top-level scientists whose movements may have been detected if
they traveled as Russians. Instead, they used their Honduran passports to travel
to Iraq and Libya, where they are suspected of helping the outlaw regimes with
weapons programs.

With the growth of the business has come the growing importance of Chinese
criminal organizations. U.S. officials estimated there are about 50 Chinese
gangs involved in smuggling people, and they subcontract the job of moving their
cargo from place to place. The main groups now are 14K and the Flying Dragons,
based in Taiwan.

Most of the Chinese migrants, according to investigators, come from Fujian
Province, near Hong Kong, and most of those who make it go to New York's
Chinatown, an enclave of the Fujianese.

The migrants who are unable to pay the smugglers up front for the cost of their
trip often are forced to work off their debts if they or their families do not
come up with the money, leading to years of virtual slavery once they reach the
United States. INS agents report frequent torture of those held, including
beating, raping and cutting off the fingers of those whose families cannot come
up with the money.

"People who are smuggled suffer extraordinary abuse and are often forced into
crime when they arrive here -- prostitution, drug trafficking and petty crime,"
said Winer of the State Department.

"They go through all this often for a lifetime of slavery," said lawyer
Troncoso, who investigated forced labor of Chinese migrants in the Chinese
community in Panama. "They do it so their children can have a better life. But
it is very, very sad."


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, luis galdamez for The Washington Post; Map, lamont w. harvey,
Chinese line up in Acajutla, El Salvador, after more than 100 of them were
detained following their arrival by boat. They await deportation back home.
Routes from China vary, but the destination is always the United States.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                               9 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 28, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Report to Clinton Urges Global Attack on Growing Trade in Alien-Smuggling

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1199 words


In a report to President Clinton, an interagency working group on the smuggling
of illegal aliens to the United States has painted a grim picture of what it
calls a "growing trade in human cargo" and recommended a more aggressive global
effort to combat it.

The report, result of a nine-month study by officials of the State Department,
Justice Department, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), Coast Guard,
CIA and FBI, describes widespread official corruption and lax law enforcement in
several countries as facilitating the flow of hundreds of thousands of people
through highly lucrative smuggling pipelines that often lead to the United
States. A copy of the report, sent to the president last month, was obtained by
The Washington Post.

While anti-smuggling efforts by the United States and other countries have begun
to have an impact, "a great deal more remains to be done," the report says.
However, its prescriptions of augmenting U.S. enforcement capability overseas
and expanding training programs in foreign countries are running up against
increasingly severe budget constraints, administration officials said.

"Viewed globally, trafficking in illegal migrants is an enormous problem," the
study says. "This growing trade in human cargo earns smugglers billions of
dollars in annual profits" and is "made possible by staggering levels of
official corruption." The report recommends dealing with alien-smuggling "at its
source, as well as in those transit countries through which migrants are moved
to the United States."

Since alien-smuggling is a crime in only a few countries and penalties tend to
be minimal, many trafficking organizations "operate with near impunity," the
report says. In addition to being suborned by smugglers, it adds, authorities in
some countries are reluctant to fight the trade because they view it as a
"victimless crime."

U.S. officials express hope such views may be changing as "transit countries"
grow increasingly concerned about the corrosive effects of corruption,
criminality by illegal migrants and tendency of many people in the smuggling
pipeline to settle along the way.

In a case that exemplified this concern and signaled closer cooperation among
the United States and Latin American countries, authorities in Ecuador, Honduras
and Costa Rica this month acted on information provided by U.S. agents to break
up a major alien-smuggling ring allegedly headed by Gloria Canales, a
naturalized Costa Rican originally from Peru.

"In order for transnational criminals to be successful in moving aliens halfway
around the world, they have to build networks," said Jonathan Winer, deputy
assistant secretary of state for international narcotics and law enforcement
affairs. "It's absolutely critical that governments do the same thing." Building
networks of diplomacy and law enforcement "is the core of the strategy that
President Clinton has signed off on and instructed us to carry out," he said.

"The White House recognizes that this is becoming a national security problem,
not just an immigration problem," Winer said.

Although Congress has turned down INS requests to fund more "overseas
deterrence" initiatives, the agency plans to "shift some resources internally"
to add about 15 more agents to offices abroad, INS Commissioner Doris M.
Meissner said. She said other efforts include greater information-sharing with
foreign governments and "more diplomatic pressure . . . on host countries in
particular cases."

Of significant concern lately has been the growth of Europe as "a major gateway
to the United States for illegal migration and alien-smuggling," in part because
of reduction of border controls and collapse of strong central authority in the
former communist states, the interagency working group's report says. Up to
500,000 illegal aliens enter Western Europe each year, with a similar number
waiting in states of Central Europe and the former Soviet Union, and many "will
eventually attempt to illegally enter the United States," the report says.

"Moscow has emerged as a major transit hub with an estimated 200,000 illegal
aliens in temporary residence at any time," the working group says. Among them
are an estimated 60,000 Chinese and up to 40,000 South Asians, mainly Indians,
most of whom are awaiting passage to the United States via Latin America and
Europe, the study says, citing intelligence reports.

In Central America, all seven of the region's countries have been used to funnel
people north to the United States, often overland through Mexico. The annual
smuggling traffic includes an estimated 100,000 people from outside the region
and 200,000 to 300,000 Central Americans, the report says.

Guatemala, in particular, has become a regional center for smugglers who bring
in illegal aliens by air, land or, in the case of Chinese, by sea from ships
that unload their human cargo along the coast.

Similarly, the Caribbean has developed into a major conduit and source of
illegal migrants, who include growing numbers of people from Albania, the former
Yugoslavia and other Central European states, in addition to Latin Americans and
Asians, the interagency study says.

It identifies the Dominican Republic as "the key problem country" in the region.
While police there have tried to arrest alien-smugglers, the country's judicial
system is riddled with corruption and generally has let them go, an
administration official said.

In China, where alien-smuggling has become highly organized and enormously
profitable, trafficking gangs succeed in moving up to 50,000 people a year to
the United States at fees of up to $ 35,000 each, the study says. Most arrive by
commercial aircraft, typically in small groups with fraudulent documents, while
thousands of others are smuggled aboard ships, usually obsolete driftnet fishing
vessels, the report says.

"Corruption of airline personnel, airport authorities and government officials
is a key factor in the smuggling of illegal Chinese at most stages of their
travels," it says.

The report criticizes Taiwan for "unsatisfactory" cooperation against
alien-smugglers. Despite repeated U.S. requests, Taiwan has failed to halt use
of its ships for smuggling and has not made alien-trafficking a crime, the
report says. "It's a huge irritant in our relations," a State Department
official said.

In addition to pressing foreign countries to criminalize alien-smuggling, the
U.S. government should revoke or deny visas of foreign officials involved in the
trade, the working group recommends. It urges "expanding our overseas
enforcement capability and . . . overseas training programs" with additional
personnel. Specifics of the recommendations are still classified, administration
officials said.

While facing budgetary constraints, "initiatives to deal with this problem are
relatively high priority," an official close to the White House said.

"Our government has been doing a good job in getting its act together, but
there's a lot more to do," the State Department's Winer said. "The traffickers
are better organized than we are, and collectively they're certainly better
financed than we are."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              10 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 02, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Pork-Barrel Politics Clouds INS Outlook; Agency Blessed by Congress Is Stymied

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 1062 words


Things seemed to be looking up for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Congress, in its zeal to combat illegal immigration, was throwing money at it
and ordering up more Border Patrol agents -- more, in fact, than the agency said
it wanted.

Then, according to administration and congressional sources, pork-barrel
politics reared its ugly head.

The result has been a squabble over rival new sites for Border Patrol training
-- the two main contenders are in South Carolina and Arkansas -- and over how
much money really is needed to produce the new agents and other INS employees
that Congress mandated.

The Justice Department says the House and Senate negotiators' selection of a
closed Navy base in Charleston, S.C., as the sole new site -- a choice made
largely at the behest of Sen. Ernest F. Hollings (D-S.C.) -- will cost taxpayers
more than twice as much as the department's proposed solution and will reduce by
more than 60 percent the number of new Border Patrol agents who can be fielded
in fiscal 1996.

The choice is included in a report by the House-Senate conference on the
appropriations bill that funds the Commerce, State and Justice departments.
Hollings's office rejects Justice's figures.

In any case, the dispute has thrown confusion and delay into INS plans to train
1,500 Border Patrol agents and 3,500 other immigration enforcement officers this
fiscal year to fulfill the congressional mandate.

With time pressures growing, Attorney General Janet Reno plans to lead a
delegation to Charleston shortly to try to sort out the mess.

At the core of the controversy is a congressional requirement that the INS post
1,000 additional Border Patrol agents "on the front lines" of the U.S.-Mexico
border to deter illegal immigration in 1996. To achieve the buildup, which is
part of a plan to hire 3,204 new full-time employees under a 26 percent funding
increase, the INS was told to recruit 800 new agents and move 200 others from
domestic posts far back from the border. Congress also ordered the agency to
assign 400 more inspectors to legal ports of entry on the border.

The INS felt it could not put more than 700 new agents through its existing
facilities at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Ga.,
without jeopardizing quality. So the agency began to search for an alternative
site and, after discussions with the Navy, announced it had picked the
Charleston Naval Base, which had been mothballed as part of the military's
base-closure program.

However, according to administration officials, when the INS and its parent, the
Justice Department, began working out the details with the Navy, the costs of
setting up the training facility at Charleston began to escalate and the time
frame for starting it began to stretch out. Part of the trouble, officials said,
was that hazardous waste left at the base posed serious environmental problems,
notably for the construction of driver-training and firing ranges, and that old
barracks to be used for dormitories and classrooms badly needed renovations.

"The cost of those conversions seemed to go up the more we looked into them," an
INS official said.

Finally, a frustrated Reno decided to reevaluate alternative sites -- Eaker Air
Force Base in Arkansas, Fort Bliss in Texas and Fort McClellan in Alabama --
that had been bypassed in favor of Charleston. An evaluation team concluded that
Eaker (pronounced "acre"), a former B-52 base located in Blytheville, met INS
needs. Using it would save money, backers said, because it has high-rise
dormitories built since 1985, a firing range and plenty of runways that could be
turned into driving ranges. By contrast, more building and renovation of
facilities would be necessary to rely exclusively on Charleston.

Hollings, having already trumpeted the choice of Charleston to his constituents,
reacted angrily to the reevaluation, but eventually accepted an arrangement
under which the INS would train its Border Patrol agents at Glynco and Eaker and
set up facilities to train immigration officers at Charleston, congressional and
administration sources said.

But that did not sit well with Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), chairman of the
commerce, state, justice and judiciary subcommittee of the House Appropriations
Committee. He wanted only one new training site. Hollings, the ranking Democrat
on the Senate subcommittee, insisted that it be Charleston. A stipulation to
that effect was inserted in the conference report, which approved $ 5 million
for renovations at the base.

The Justice Department calculated that total startup costs for its plan to split
the training among Glynco, Eaker and Charleston would come to $ 8.9 million,
compared to $ 18.8 million for using only Glynco and Charleston. Officials were
at a loss to figure how they could do what Congress wanted for $ 5 million.

"It is still business as usual in the U.S. Senate," said a Dec. 14 "Dear
Colleague" letter signed by Rep. Blanche M. Lambert Lincoln (D-Ark.) and four
other House members. It charged that Hollings "rolled out the pork barrel" in
favor of his home town in the House-Senate conference, a move it said would cost
taxpayers $ 10 million and delay the deployment of extra Border Patrol agents
until 1997.

After President Clinton vetoed the conference report for reasons unrelated to
the INS controversy, more than 20 House members wrote Rogers to urge the
conference committee to "reject this power play" and reconsider its anointment
of Charleston.

A spokesman for Hollings denied that pork-barrel politics was involved and said
Charleston was originally chosen by the Justice Department in part because it is
only a two-hour drive from Glynco and has "fine medical facilities." The
spokesman said the senator had no comment on the letters, but indicated that he
was sticking by his guns. "The facility is going to the place the Justice
Department selected at the beginning of the process," the spokesman said.

For their part, administration officials denied that Clinton's roots in Arkansas
had anything to do with the Justice Department's tilt toward Eaker. "We all just
hated that Eaker came out on top" in the reevaluation, one source said.

"We knew it would look political, but we were just trying to pick the best, most
cost-effective site that would get the agents trained."


LOAD-DATE: January 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, REP. BLANCHE LAMBERT LINCOLN SEN. ERNEST F. HOLLINGS

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              11 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 05, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

INS Chief Highlights Reform In Political Asylum System; Year-Long Campaign
Slashes New Claims by 57%

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 731 words


A year-old effort to reform the U.S. political asylum system and minimize fraud
has achieved "dramatic success," reducing new asylum claims filed with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service by 57 percent, INS Commissioner Doris M.
Meissner said yesterday.

"For many years our nation's asylum system was out of control and fraught with
abuse," she told a news conference. "The INS has fixed a broken system through
asylum reforms," notably by ending the virtually automatic issuance to asylum
seekers of work authorizations, which had become a "magnet" for spurious
applications, Meissner said.

However, the agency still has a backlog of about 460,000 pending asylum cases,
up 13,000 from a year ago, and efforts to accelerate the reduction of that case
load depend on additional congressional funding.

Moreover, the agency has yet to come to grips with the thousands of failed
asylum seekers who remain in the country illegally. An INS program to step up
deportations of illegal immigrants so far has focused largely on those who have
committed major crimes and has not particularly targeted those who used phony
asylum claims to get into the country in the first place.

Meissner said the reform measures not only have reduced abuse of the system, but
have improved the government's ability "to quickly provide protection to those
who deserve it."

The United States grants political asylum to foreigners already in the United
States who can demonstrate "a well-founded fear of persecution" if they are
returned to their home countries. Successful claims allow the applicants to
legalize their status in the United States even if they entered illegally.

While reducing asylum claims filed with the INS from 122,589 in 1994 to 53,255
in 1995, the reforms also have helped the agency double its productivity in
processing asylum cases, thus preventing the backlog from increasing
significantly, Meissner said. The agency issued statistics showing that it
completed 126,165 asylum cases in 1995, compared to 60,788 in 1994.

The figures for asylum claims do not include 14,700 requests for political
asylum that were filed by illegal aliens in immigration courts to defend against
deportation. Nor do they include any of the 250,000 applications filed as a
result of a 1990 court case on behalf of Salvadorans and Guatemalans who
previously had not qualified for political asylum.

In fighting abuse of the system, the INS said it has stepped up investigations
of middlemen, including lawyers, who turned the filing of spurious asylum claims
into a thriving business. The investigations have led to indictments in Los
Angeles, San Francisco, New York and Arlington.

In Arlington last year, agents of the INS Washington District Office broke up an
asylum-fraud ring that had filed at least 1,500 fraudulent applications, largely
on behalf of Latin Americans, district director William Carroll said. The
applicants had paid up to $ 500 each for the service, which was aimed at
obtaining legal work permits, he said.

The principal in the case, Ludmilla Rincon, who had posed as an attorney while
heading a company called "Metropolitan Immigration Services," was convicted on
fraud charges and subsequently died in prison, Carroll said.

Before the new INS regulations took effect a year ago, many illegal immigrants
were routinely given work authorizations on the basis of false asylum claims
that they knew would take years to go through the system, INS officials said.
Now these permits are issued only when an applicant is actually granted asylum
or has not received a decision within 180 days.

While INS officials said they believe the new regulations are a significant
deterrent to illegal immigration, a recent interagency study describes the
smuggling of aliens into the United States as a growing problem. Officials said
many illegal aliens continue to claim political asylum on arrival in order to
get into the country, then vanish into the growing population of illegal
immigrants and work without the previously issued authorizations.

"It's like a game of hide and seek," one State Department official said. "As
soon as you touch base, you're home free."

INS officials said it would take more time and resources to close the remaining
holes in the system, including the ability of many illegal immigrants to avoid
deportation indefinitely.

LOAD-DATE: January 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              12 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 15, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Some Progress at INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 329 words


A YEAR AGO, the Immigration and Naturalization Service put into effect new
regulations to control abuse of the political asylum program. Commissioner Doris
Meissner recently released figures that indicate progress. The problem has been
this: Although immigration law authorizes sanctuary to be given to people in
fear of political persecution at home, too many undocumented immigrants had
figured out that they could indefinitely postpone deportation merely by
requesting asylum. They would be automatically given work permits, and, because
of the backlog of cases awaiting adjudication, they could often disappear into
the general population without much chance of being found. In 1994, 123,000 new
applications were filed (up from 56,000 three years earlier), and the backlog
exceeded 425,000.

In response, the INS decided to issue work permits only to those granted asylum
or waiting more than 180 days for an adjudication. Within a year, applications
dropped by 57 percent to 53,000. Then Congress approved a request for more
asylum officers and judges, and the new positions -- which are still being
filled -- have enabled INS to complete more than twice as many cases as it did
last year. Finally, most individual claims for asylum are heard within 60 days
instead of waiting months, or even years, as was the case before. While the
backlog remains almost unchanged, the figure is deceptive, inflated by a sizable
number of petitions filed pursuant to court order by certain Salvadorans and
Nicaraguans.

Although some challenge has been made to the claims of progress made by the INS,
it is certain that considerable distance has been covered in improving
procedures. And this kind of effective enforcement is, paradoxically, the best
way to deal with the anti-immigrantion political climate. Legal immigrants and
those who have valid claims for asylum will be the beneficiaries of policies
that make the law work as it is meant to -- and should -- work.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              13 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 09, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Md. Crash Reveals 40 Immigrants; Officials Say Group Was Being Smuggled To
Eastern Shore

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 660 words


A small rental truck jammed with 40 dazed and hungry immigrants crashed into a
car at a Chesapeake Bay Bridge tollbooth late Wednesday, ending what U.S.
immigration authorities said was a grueling two-day trek to smuggle them from
Mexico to Maryland's Eastern Shore.

Police said they found the closed, darkened 15-by-7-foot cargo "box" on the
Ryder rental truck packed with 33 men and four children, one a girl. Three other
men were in the cab of the truck.

The group, ranging in age from 13 to 45, was cold, ill-clothed and had eaten
little, said Ben Ferro, director of the Maryland district of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

"Jugs of urine were hanging inside the vehicle. . . . There were feces" in
plastic bags, Ferro said. "They had two nights in the [truck] with little food.
. . . It was a kind of desperate group."

Two of the truck's occupants were hospitalized with minor injuries from the
crash, as was the driver of the car hit by the truck, according to Maryland
Transportation Authority Police, who patrol the state's toll bridges and
tunnels.

The truck's driver, identified by police as Hermelindo Velasquez Rivera, 18, was
charged with driving without a license and operating a rental vehicle without
authorization. He also was being investigated as a possible illegal immigrant.

Authorities said the group assembled in Mexico near the Arizona border, then was
picked up by the truck, which had been rented Monday in Chandler, Ariz., a town
of 100,000 near Phoenix. The truck sped more than 2,300 miles across the
country, arriving two days later at the Bay Bridge, they said.

Officials would not reveal who rented the truck and said the Mexican and
Guatemalan nationals could not be interviewed by reporters before today.

On Maryland's Eastern Shore, the chicken processing industry for years has been
considered by INS officials as a magnet for illegal workers. Ferro would not say
yesterday whether the 40 truck passengers were bound for a poultry plant. He
said only that they were going to an "industry specific" to the Eastern Shore.
An investigation is continuing, he said.

In July, 86 people suspected of being illegal immigrants, including 42 who
worked at a poultry plant, were detained in back-to-back sweeps on the Eastern
Shore.

The smuggling of immigrants into Maryland, as well as the rest of the United
States, is a common phenomenon but is rarely discovered while they are being
transported, Ferro said in an interview.

"It's really tragic that they're subjected to this kind of thing," he said. "We
do not look kindly on these [smugglers] and the way they treat their clients."

His words echoed those of a federal interagency report to the White House in
December that called for more aggressive efforts to stem the "growing trade in
human cargo," both in the United States and around the world. The report said
that hundreds of thousands of illegal workers are transported annually through
lucrative smuggling pipelines, with many reaching the United States.

In the Washington area, most illegal immigrants are discovered only after they
have arrived and are employed. Last week, 83 suspects were rounded up at their
jobs by INS agents in the largest sweep in Montgomery County in five years.

Just before the Wednesday night crash, the rental truck was reported to be
"moving erratically" as it pulled into the toll plaza at the west end of the Bay
Bridge near Annapolis at 8:41 p.m, said police spokeswoman Lori Vidill. Without
warning, it rear-ended a 1986 Toyota Celica stopped in a toll lane and crashed
into a tollbooth, Vidill said. Police arrived immediately, opened the back of
the truck and discovered the occupants, she said.

The group, 21 Guatemalans and 19 Mexicans, was being held yesterday at an INS
facility in south Baltimore, pending possible deportation and other proceedings,
according to Ferro. They were fed and given warmer clothing, he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              14 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 26, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

The Plight of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 337 words


One can fairly be disconcerted with the tone of The Post's coverage of the
recent Immigration and Naturalization Service raids in Bethesda ["Stunned,
Scared and Saddened," Metro, Feb. 11]. The situation is not as one-sided as it
was portrayed.

It is perfectly fair to portray the anxieties of the illegal immigrants who were
picked up. After all, many had families to support here and back home, and they
were subject to deportation and loss of income.

But what The Post failed to convey is that many of these people are here
illegally. They came here with prior intent to violate U.S. laws on entry and
residence. They knew before they left home that they would be violating U.S.
immigration laws. But that didn't stop them. They can survive and thrive here
because we do little to enforce our immigration laws, at a cost to our own labor
market.

Genuine as their tears and individual plights might be, their right to be here
is no stronger (and is perhaps weaker) than the millions of poor in other
countries who have opted not to violate our laws. Failure to enforce our laws
invites future waves of illegals.

In fairness, The Post ought to give a break to those charged with enforcing our
immigration laws. And spare us the moans of the employers. Their interest is
profit, not salvation. It is no secret that many of the restaurants in the area
are staffed by wretchedly paid people with dubious documents.

LEWIS D. JUNIOR

Chevy Chase

After years of living in California -- a state hard hit by the illegal
immigration problem -- I thought I was hardened to the plight of those crossing
the border. But somehow that picture of the detained woman kissing her sleeping
little girl touched my heart.

To think that someone would be desperate enough to make such a hard and
dangerous journey with a child reminded me of how lucky we really are. People
need to be more compassionate to those whose only real "fault" in life was being
born on the wrong side of the border.

JANE ELLIS

Ashburn


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, margaret scott

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              15 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 29, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Congress to Confront GOP Immigration Split; Legislation Holds Risk of Offending
Key Groups

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 930 words


Patrick J. Buchanan wants to build a "security fence" on the Mexican border to
"stop illegal immigration cold." Lamar Alexander wants to create "a new branch
of the armed forces." Malcolm S. "Steve" Forbes welcomes legal immigrants as
"good for America" -- and business. Robert J. Dole hails the U.S. heritage as "a
nation of immigrants" but adds that "there are limits."

Dueling sound bites from candidates for the Republican presidential nomination
have put immigration at the forefront of this year's presidential campaign. The
bursts of rhetoric on the subject leave many unanswered questions, but they have
helped to crystallize the serious divisions on immigration that exist within the
Republican Party.

These divisions are about to come to a head in Congress, where both the Senate
and House are set to debate legislation aimed at cutting back on legal
immigration, as well as cracking down on illegal entries.

The first battleground is the Senate Judiciary Committee, where influential
Republicans have joined forces with a motley coalition of business, labor,
religious, ethnic and pro-immigration groups to attack a major immigration
reform bill sponsored by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), a retiring party elder
who seeks to make the legislation his swan song. The opponents want to split the
bill, shelving the sections dealing with legal immigration and focusing only on
illegal immigration. The committee is to take up the measure today.

In March, the full House is scheduled to consider an omnibus immigration reform
bill sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.). While Smith is confident that he
can beat back attempts to split his bill in similar fashion, key Republicans,
including House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (Tex.), have expressed
reservations about restricting legal immigration and other elements of the
package, notably steps toward establishment of a national employment
verification system to check the identities of job-seekers.

"Immigration is a high-stakes issue for the Republican Party" and divisions over
it "may have serious political consequences" this election year, said Frank
Sharry, director of the National Immigration Forum, which supports legal
immigration. Although there is broad support for curtailing illegal immigration,
measures against legal immigrants, he said, risk offending many new voters,
including Hispanics and Asian Americans in California, Texas, Florida, Illinois,
New York and other states rich in electoral votes.

These voters are "politically up for grabs," Sharry said. "If the Republicans
are going to alienate the fastest-growing groups of new voters, it's hard to
imagine them sustaining their majority through the next election."

The prospect clearly worries influential Republicans such as former education
secretary William J. Bennett and former housing secretary Jack Kemp. In a news
conference yesterday, they issued a study extolling the benefits of legal
immigration in an effort to correct what they described as distortions in the
presidential campaign and in Congress.

Leading the anti-immigration charge on the campaign trail has been Buchanan, who
promises to build a "security fence" along the U.S.-Mexican border and defend it
"with troops if necessary." He also advocates a five-year "moratorium" on legal
immigration to give America time to absorb the "flood" of immigrants in recent
years.

At times, his critics say, Buchanan's rhetoric has seemed tinged with
xenophobia. "Listen, Jose, you're not coming in this time!" he shouted at one
recent rally. During his 1992 campaign for president, he complained of having to
walk past "these guys . . . sitting on the corner playing bongo drums" in his
own home town, Washington, D.C.

Behind the applause lines, however, details of Buchanan's plans seem to be in
short supply. At times he has spoken of erecting a "double chain-linked security
fence" along 250 miles of border, and at other times the distance has been 60 or
70 miles. Precisely where along the 2,000-mile border this fence would go up and
how much it would cost remain open questions.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, there is already a
total of 316 miles of fencing along the border, including 44 miles of reinforced
fences made of surplus iron runway mats in the most heavily traversed areas.

Then there is the problem of using troops to repel illegal aliens, which
immigration experts say would violate long-standing legal constraints on using
the military for domestic law enforcement purposes.

Neither Buchanan nor Alexander has clarified this point, and Alexander has at
times reacted testily when asked how much his proposal to create a new branch of
the armed forces to deal with illegal immigration and drug trafficking would
cost.

"It's not a serious proposal," said Dan Stein, head of the anti-immigration
group, Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Forbes, meanwhile, reflects a libertarian, pro-business view of immigration,
arguing that legal immigrants help America to maintain its high-tech edge in the
global economy. He derides the idea of creating a new branch of the armed forces
as the typical problem-solving approach of a "lifetime politician."

For his part, Forbes says he wants to "reform the INS" and "streamline
deportation procedures." Like his opponents, however, he provides no details of
what he has in mind.

Dole has called immigration "a big issue in '96" but has avoided taking firm
stands so far on specific controversies, such as the Simpson bill in the Senate.


LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, In Atlanta, Patrick J. Buchanan catches up on the news
before appearing on ABC's "Good Morning America."

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              16 of 351 DOCUMENTS


                              The Washington Post

                   February 29, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Congress to Confront GOP Immigration Split; Legislation Holds Risk of Offending
Key Groups

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 930 words


Patrick J. Buchanan wants to build a "security fence" on the Mexican border to
"stop illegal immigration cold." Lamar Alexander wants to create "a new branch
of the armed forces." Malcolm S. "Steve" Forbes welcomes legal immigrants as
"good for America" -- and business. Robert J. Dole hails the U.S. heritage as "a
nation of immigrants" but adds that "there are limits."

Dueling sound bites from candidates for the Republican presidential nomination
have put immigration at the forefront of this year's presidential campaign. The
bursts of rhetoric on the subject leave many unanswered questions, but they have
helped to crystallize the serious divisions on immigration that exist within the
Republican Party.

These divisions are about to come to a head in Congress, where both the Senate
and House are set to debate legislation aimed at cutting back on legal
immigration, as well as cracking down on illegal entries.

The first battleground is the Senate Judiciary Committee, where influential
Republicans have joined forces with a motley coalition of business, labor,
religious, ethnic and pro-immigration groups to attack a major immigration
reform bill sponsored by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), a retiring party elder
who seeks to make the legislation his swan song. The opponents want to split the
bill, shelving the sections dealing with legal immigration and focusing only on
illegal immigration. The committee is to take up the measure today.

In March, the full House is scheduled to consider an omnibus immigration reform
bill sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.). While Smith is confident that he
can beat back attempts to split his bill in similar fashion, key Republicans,
including House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (Tex.), have expressed
reservations about restricting legal immigration and other elements of the
package, notably steps toward establishment of a national employment
verification system to check the identities of job-seekers.

"Immigration is a high-stakes issue for the Republican Party" and divisions over
it "may have serious political consequences" this election year, said Frank
Sharry, director of the National Immigration Forum, which supports legal
immigration. Although there is broad support for curtailing illegal immigration,
measures against legal immigrants, he said, risk offending many new voters,
including Hispanics and Asian Americans in California, Texas, Florida, Illinois,
New York and other states rich in electoral votes.

These voters are "politically up for grabs," Sharry said. "If the Republicans
are going to alienate the fastest-growing groups of new voters, it's hard to
imagine them sustaining their majority through the next election."

The prospect clearly worries influential Republicans such as former education
secretary William J. Bennett and former housing secretary Jack Kemp. In a news
conference yesterday, they issued a study extolling the benefits of legal
immigration in an effort to correct what they described as distortions in the
presidential campaign and in Congress.

Leading the anti-immigration charge on the campaign trail has been Buchanan, who
promises to build a "security fence" along the U.S.-Mexican border and defend it
"with troops if necessary." He also advocates a five-year "moratorium" on legal
immigration to give America time to absorb the "flood" of immigrants in recent
years.

At times, his critics say, Buchanan's rhetoric has seemed tinged with
xenophobia. "Listen, Jose, you're not coming in this time!" he shouted at one
recent rally. During his 1992 campaign for president, he complained of having to
walk past "these guys . . . sitting on the corner playing bongo drums" in his
own home town, Washington, D.C.

Behind the applause lines, however, details of Buchanan's plans seem to be in
short supply. At times he has spoken of erecting a "double chain-linked security
fence" along 250 miles of border, and at other times the distance has been 60 or
70 miles. Precisely where along the 2,000-mile border this fence would go up and
how much it would cost remain open questions.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, there is already a
total of 316 miles of fencing along the border, including 44 miles of reinforced
fences made of surplus iron runway mats in the most heavily traversed areas.

Then there is the problem of using troops to repel illegal aliens, which
immigration experts say would violate long-standing legal constraints on using
the military for domestic law enforcement purposes.

Neither Buchanan nor Alexander has clarified this point, and Alexander has at
times reacted testily when asked how much his proposal to create a new branch of
the armed forces to deal with illegal immigration and drug trafficking would
cost.

"It's not a serious proposal," said Dan Stein, head of the anti-immigration
group, Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Forbes, meanwhile, reflects a libertarian, pro-business view of immigration,
arguing that legal immigrants help America to maintain its high-tech edge in the
global economy. He derides the idea of creating a new branch of the armed forces
as the typical problem-solving approach of a "lifetime politician."

For his part, Forbes says he wants to "reform the INS" and "streamline
deportation procedures." Like his opponents, however, he provides no details of
what he has in mind.

Dole has called immigration "a big issue in '96" but has avoided taking firm
stands so far on specific controversies, such as the Simpson bill in the Senate.


LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, In Atlanta, Patrick J. Buchanan catches up on the news
before appearing on ABC's "Good Morning America."

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              17 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 02, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Two Chinese Detained

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 92 words


Immigration officials detained a Chinese woman and a 16-year-old Chinese boy
yesterday morning after investigating what officials believe to be a safe house
for illegal immigrants in the District.

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Russ Bergeron said officials
charged the woman, whom he would not identify, as an illegal immigrant after
officials executed a search warrant in the 1600 block of Fifth Street NW.
Bergeron said that the boy could be charged but that for now authorities are
trying to find adequate care for him.

LOAD-DATE: March 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              18 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 03, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

INS Has a Hard Time Deporting Illegal Immigrants It Can't Find

Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1302 words


For 33 illegal immigrants living in Maryland, the dire notices from immigration
officials arrived in the mail late last year. You are to be deported, the
letters said, so report to a Baltimore office in January, carrying your luggage
for the plane flight home.

Only one did. The rest never showed up.

Such disappearances are anything but unique. Indeed, deportation notices are so
routinely flouted that agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have
developed a sardonic name for them: run letters.

"We call them that because when people get them, they know it's time to run,"
INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said.

Fifteen years after an explosion of unlawful immigration began, huge holes
remain in the federal government's system for deporting immigrants who have been
ruled illegal, forcing the INS to play a desperate game of catch-up.

Despite an image that strikes fear in illegal immigrants -- underscored last
month when the agency apprehended more than 100 people in workplace raids in
Maryland and Virginia -- INS officials acknowledge that the reality often is
less Draconian.

Not counting cases involving prison inmates, who couldn't flee, nearly half of
all deportation orders last year were issued to illegal immigrants who vanished
before their hearings, according to federal data.

The leakage is so rampant that INS officials, and even some immigration lawyers,
say it is undermining the credibility of federal deportation laws.

"Until the Clinton administration, very little attention was applied to
enforcing final orders," said Warren Leiden, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "It hasn't been a credible threat, and it
undermines people's desire to respect the law."

In the Washington area, nearly 3,000 of the illegal immigrants who have received
deportation orders in recent years remain at large, officials said.

Nationally, 83,793 deportation orders were issued to illegal immigrants who were
not in prison, according to the Executive Office of Immigration Review, which
administers federal immigration courts. Of those, 44.5 percent -- or 37,246 --
were issued for immigrants who could not be found.

Most of the illegal immigrants who disappear move and often get new
identification papers with different names, officials said.

Federal officials said they are toughening the process, especially for those
immigrants who threaten public safety by committing felonies. But, they said,
immigration authorities still are overcoming a decade of neglect and are
changing laws that made systematic enforcement all but impossible.

"We need to restore some credibility to the overall process," said David Martin,
general counsel for the national INS headquarters in Washington. "These orders
aren't taken as seriously as they ought to be. It's quite legitimate to think
the risk of flight has become higher."

Signs of a growing crackdown were evident last month, following a series of
workplace raids in Montgomery County, in which 83 immigrants were arrested.
Using newly available federal money, INS officials kept 61 suspects in jail --
at a cost of $ 60 a day -- by setting bail for as much as $ 5,000.

The higher bails stirred protests among some local Latino leaders, who called
them excessive. Immigration lawyers also expressed fears that the rights of
immigrants might be thwarted by increased efforts to deport those who are here
illegally.

Jose Pertierra, a Washington immigration lawyer, said at least one of his
clients was forced to leave the country recently, even though he had no criminal
record and was about to receive permanent residency. "There's no doubt he would
have received an extension in the past," Pertierra said. "The judges are feeling
real pressure, especially with the criminal aliens."

Most of the area's estimated 80,000 illegal immigrants live quietly for years
before being identified and summoned to deportation proceedings. In addition,
many stand a good chance of eventually winning permanent residency because they
are related to legal residents or are being sponsored by an employer.

In the Washington area, officials say they are making progress in carrying out
deportations. Last year, 410 illegal immigrants were deported by local INS
offices, compared with 330 in 1994, and deportations are occurring at a faster
pace this year, officials said.

When immigrants are apprehended, their deportation cases can take a year or
more, and most illegal immigrants have numerous avenues for seeking permanent
residential status.

Because of the length and complexity of the process, immigration judges and
lawyers said there are compelling reasons for allowing immigrants to remain free
on bail -- even though they ultimately may flee. "A lot of these people aren't
real criminals. Nobody wants to see some restaurant worker locked up that long,"
said I. Jay Fredman, a Washington immigration lawyer.

But John F. O'Malley, assistant director of detention and deportation in the
Baltimore INS office, said he often was forced to set low bonds for illegal
immigrants purely for funding reasons. Although many were unlikely to show up
for hearings, he said, he simply had no money to keep them in local jails.

"It got to a point where I was playing 'Let's Make a Deal.' I'd ask them if they
had a thousand dollars, and if they didn't, I'd lower it," O'Malley said. "These
bails were not appropriate to the risk of flight. In many of these cases, there
is no hope of relief. What incentive do they have to show up?"

Once illegal immigrants make it back to the streets, the process of finding them
again can be maddeningly slow.

"Our success record after they run is not very good," said Benedict Ferro,
director of the Baltimore INS office, which oversees Maryland. "I would consider
us very fortunate if we find 15 to 20 percent of them."

INS officials said they were overwhelmed in the late 1980s and early '90s as
immigrants poured into the country, especially from Central America and South
America. While the estimated number of illegal immigrants ballooned to 4.5
million, INS resources remained largely stagnant.

William Carroll, the agency's Washington regional director, said he has only 22
agents to investigate the 37,000 illegal immigrants believed to live in the
District and Virginia. "That's fewer than I had five years ago," he said.

Because of such disparities, officials said they have focused their greatest
efforts on illegal immigrants who threaten public safety, concentrating on those
who have entered the criminal justice system.

Federal immigration judges hold regular deportation hearings inside the D.C.
jail and in state prisons in Maryland and Virginia. Such prison-site hearings
have been key to a nationwide effort by the Clinton administration to remove
criminal immigrants. INS officials also have worked with local jails to identify
criminals who may be here illegally.

In addition to more money for investigating and detaining people suspected to be
illegal immigrants, officials are relying on better use of computers and other
technology to help turn the tide.

An electronic fingerprint scanner will make it easier to learn the true
identities of immigrants using false identification documents. At international
airports, deportation orders are computerized, allowing INS inspectors to
quickly detect deported immigrants who try to sneak through Customs.

Even with those improvements, immigration officials will continue to fight an
uphill battle, said Martin, the INS general counsel.

"We're never going to get 100 percent, but we can get enough to change people's
behavior," Martin said. "I could see a scenario where more people would comply
with the law if they thought we were going to catch them anyway."

LOAD-DATE: March 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              19 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 20, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

House Tackles Immigration Reform

William Branigin; John E. Yang, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 860 words


The House of Representatives opened debate yesterday on the broadest immigration
reform bill in 30 years, bringing to the floor sharp disagreements in both
parties over such issues as whether to reduce the number of legal immigrants,
create a new agricultural guest-worker program and increase government oversight
of private business.

The country's systems for controlling legal and illegal immigration are "clearly
broken" and urgently need reform, said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), the bill's
chief sponsor. Opponents, including prominent Republicans, argue that legal
immigration is not a problem and that efforts should be focused on curbing the
influx of illegal aliens instead.

Behind the bill's central aims of cracking down on illegal aliens and gradually
cutting back legal immigration are more complex controversies over big
government, welfare abuse and the changing face of American society. Parts of
the bill are strenuously opposed by an odd amalgam of conservative Republicans,
liberal Democrats, libertarians, ethnic groups and refugee advocates, including
the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees.

Although the most acrimonious and public splits over the bill have appeared
among Republicans, sharp divisions also have surfaced in the Democratic Party.

In a move that surprised bill sponsors, the Clinton administration came out
yesterday in opposition to the bill's provisions on legal immigration,
announcing support for an amendment to delete cuts in family-sponsored,
employment-based and refugee admissions. The administration previously had
expressed strong backing for the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform,
which had recommended significant cuts in all three categories.

In a news conference before the opening debate, Smith nevertheless predicted a
"great victory" in his year-long effort to push through the voluminous bill. He
also expressed optimism that the Senate, whose Judiciary Committee voted last
week to split a similar immigration bill into two parts dealing with legal and
illegal immigration separately, would put the package back together on the floor
so that comprehensive reform legislation could be passed this year.

Smith says immigration reform is needed to correct a system in which 80 percent
of all immigrants are admitted without regard to skills or education, 20 percent
of federal prisoners are illegal aliens, half the country's estimated 4 million
illegal immigrants obtain jobs and benefits through fake documents, and
applications by immigrants for Supplemental Security Income have increased 580
percent since 1982.

According to Smith, his bill would cut illegal immigration in half in five years
by doubling the number of Border Patrol agents and making it more difficult for
illegal aliens to get jobs and government benefits. At the same time, he said,
the bill would continue "generous levels of legal immigration" at an average of
700,000 a year for the first five years, compared with about 775,000 in 1995.
The bill would limit immigration by the "extended families" of naturalized U.S.
citizens in order to increase admissions of spouses and minor children of legal
permanent residents, Smith said.

Critics say that legal immigration would drop by at least 30 percent from
current levels after five years under the Smith bill and that many U.S. citizens
would be unfairly prevented from bringing in their parents, adult children and
siblings.

Human rights advocates oppose the bill's provisions to cut refugee admissions in
half from the current level of 100,000 a year and to tighten the rules for
people who enter the United States illegally and then seek political asylum. The
latter could be sent back to their countries immediately if they failed to pass
an on-the-spot interview by an asylum officer, while asylum seekers who are
already in the United States would have 30 days from their date of entry in most
cases to file an application.

Among the most controversial provisions is a pilot program under which
businesses would verify the employment eligibility of prospective new hires by
calling into a government database. Under pressure from business leaders, Smith
agreed to make the program voluntary, instead of mandatory, over a three-year
period in five states with large immigrant populations.

A conservative Republican faction spearheaded by Rep. Steve Chabot (Ohio), the
sponsor of an amendment to kill the verification provision, charges that the
program would constitute massive federal intrusiveness, giving Washington
authority over millions of hiring decisions and foreshadowing a national ID
card. Chabot has dubbed the phone-in system "dial 1-800-BIG BROTHER."

Powerful farming interests also have weighed in, promoting an amendment to
establish a program that would bring in 250,000 agricultural guest workers a
year in case the proposed crackdown on illegal aliens led to a labor shortage.

Smith said he would strongly oppose the amendment, which also has alarmed the
Clinton administration. The Texas Republican and administration officials say
such a program is unwarranted and would increase illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              20 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 22, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

House Passes Major Immigration Bill Without Reducing Legal Limits

William Branigin; John E. Yang, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 844 words


The House yesterday approved a major immigration bill after stripping it of
provisions aimed at reducing the influx of legal immigrants.

The final vote of 333 to 87 came after the Clinton administration threw its
support behind a move to limit the legislation essentially to a crackdown on
illegal immigration. The bill beefs up the Border Patrol, streamlines
deportation procedures, toughens penalties for alien smuggling and document
fraud, and makes it more difficult for illegal aliens to receive education and
welfare benefits.

Earlier, a vote on a key amendment, which passed 238 to 183, deleted sections
that would have reduced levels of legal immigration from about 775,000 a year at
present to about 700,000 annually for the first five years and fewer than
600,000 a year after that.

The bill, originally conceived as the most ambitious effort to overhaul U.S.
immigration laws in 30 years, addressed an issue that has sparked hot political
rhetoric on the campaign trail in this election season and that promises to
figure in both parties' attempts to woo electoral vote-rich California.

Deleting the provisions on legal immigration removed the most contentious parts
of the bill and brought it more closely into line with a Senate version now
before its Judiciary Committee.

By shifting their focus to a crackdown on illegal aliens, the representatives
seized an issue on which there is broad agreement but did little to lower the
overall influx of immigrants, most of whom come to the United States legally.

Voting on other amendments, the House rejected efforts by powerful agricultural
interests to insert a new guest-worker program into the bill. One defeated
amendment would have allowed admission of up to 250,000 agricultural guest
workers a year, and another would have let in up to 100,000 a year.

The Clinton administration's support for the amendment to strip the bill
surprised its chief sponsors, Texans Lamar S. Smith (R) and John Bryant (D).
Clinton had previously expressed support for the recommendations of the
bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform, which had called for significant
cuts in legal immigration and upon which portions of the House bill were based.

"We were able to keep our promise and produce a bipartisan bill that is truly in
the national interest," Smith said. He said that losing the legal reform
provisions was "clearly a disappointment" but that the issue is unlikely to die.
"I don't think the administration appreciates the strong feelings [of Americans]
on immigration reform," he said.

The vote was immediately hailed by members of an eclectic pro-immigration
coalition that united business, labor, ethnic, religious, liberal, conservative
and libertarian groups. It was bitterly denounced by advocates of lower
immigration levels, who charged that the bill had been gutted by special
interests.

Supporters of the amendment -- sponsored by an unlikely alliance of two
conservative Republican freshmen and a veteran liberal Democrat -- portrayed the
bill's effort to reduce legal immigration as unfair.

Rep. Dick Chrysler (R-Mich.), one of the sponsors, said the bill was "closing
the door on families of U.S. citizens." He added, "I cannot justify voting for
the drastic cuts in legal immigration because of problems in illegal
immigration."

"It is fundamentally wrong to take the justifiable anger about our failure to
deal with the issue of illegal immigration and piggyback on top of that anger a
drastic . . . cut in permanent legal immigration, a cause and a force that has
been good for this country," said Rep. Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.), another
sponsor.

"We are a nation of immigrants," said Rep. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.), the third
co-sponsor. "Congress should preserve that proud tradition, not threaten it."

Opponents argued that the two issues of legal and illegal immigration could not
be separated.

"A fundamental problem in our current immigration system is that more than 80
percent of all legal immigrants are now admitted without reference to their
skills and education" and 37 percent lack even a high school education, Smith
said. "This surplus of unskilled immigrants hurts those Americans who can least
afford it, those at the lowest end of the economic ladder."

"You've got to deal with legal immigration -- that's where the numbers are,"
said Bryant. Illegal immigration is estimated to add 300,000 to 400,000 people
to the U.S. population each year, while the number of legal immigrants and
refugees has exceeded 1 million in some recent years.

Bryant on Wednesday expressed "great disappointment and contempt" for the White
House's surprise decision to support stripping the legal immigration provisions
from the bill, calling it a "politically cowardly" reversal of a year-old
position. "It is a simple case of caving in to political pressure," he said.

Administration officials said they still support modest reform of legal
immigration and hope to include measures to protect U.S. workers in any new bill
on that issue.


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, IMMIGRATION BILL HIGHLIGHTS Key provisions of the House
immigration bill: Leaves legal immigration as is under current law, following
the passage of an amendment to strip the bill's provisions on legal immigration.
Current annual level of about 775,000 includes 480,000 family-sponsored
immigrants, 140,000 employer-sponsored immigrants, 55,000 diversity-lottery
admissions and 100,000 refugees.  Reinforces the Border Patrol with 1,000 new
agents a year for five years to crack down on illegal immigration across the
U.S.-Mexican border.  Mandates construction of 14 miles of new triple fencing on
the border south of San Diego.  Expands wiretap authority and strengthens
criminal penalties to combat alien smuggling and document fraud.  Streamlines
deportation proceedings and creates new grounds of inadmissibility, with new
penalties for remaining in the United States illegally.  Allows the deportation
of accused terrorists on the basis of secret evidence and makes membership in a
terrorist organization grounds for barring entry into the United States.  Allows
the summary exclusion of illegal aliens seeking political asylum if they fail to
pass an interview at the port of entry, and gives those already in the country
180 days from their date of entry to apply for asylum.  Establishes a voluntary
three-year pilot program in five states under which employers could verify the
employment eligibility of job-seekers by calling in their Social Security
numbers to a government database.  Gives states the option of denying free
public education to illegal alien children.  Blocks illegal immigrant parents
from receiving federal welfare benefits on behalf of their U.S.-born children.
REP. JOHN BRYANT

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              21 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 22, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

The Key to Controlling Our Borders

Bill McCollum

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 870 words


The key to controlling our borders and stopping illegal immigration is
eliminating Social Security document fraud.

Many aspects of U.S. citizenship are validated by issuance of a genuine official
document. An American citizen planning a trip overseas has to apply for a
passport. The U.S. passport houses anti-fraud mechanisms such as security
threads and heat-sensitive inks. When citizens want to become certified to drive
a car, they are required to take a series of tests and often have their
photograph and other personal information taken.

So why is the one document that is most commonly used to prove eligibility for
employment -- the Social Security card -- nothing more than a flimsy paper
document that is easily counterfeited? Good question. As it stands, an illegal
immigrant wanting a Social Security card can go to a street corner and purchase
a fake for as little as $ 30.

The only way to control the crisis of illegal immigration is to eliminate the
lure of employment. The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act adopted
sanctions making it illegal for employers to knowingly hire illegal aliens.
Since then, anyone seeking employment in this country, whether a citizen or not,
has had to produce a couple of documents from an approved list to confirm
employment eligibility. The most commonly used form of verification is the
combination of the Social Security card and a driver's license.

These reforms were well intentioned, but a decade later it is conservatively
estimated that more than 4 million illegal immigrants reside in the United
States, with a net increase of 300,000 to 500,000 each year. In addition,
federal agents seize millions of fraudulent documents -- particularly Social
Security cards -- on a continual basis. Obviously, employer sanctions aren't
working.

Even if our borders were sealed against illegal immigration, only half the
problem would be addressed. Nearly 50 percent of all illegals residing in the
United States entered the country legally but overstayed their visas.

The immigration legislation now moving through Congress proposes a pilot program
in at least five states that would make use of a voluntary telephone
verification system for prospective employees. This confirmation process would
allow employers to make toll-free inquiries to ensure that the new hire is not
an illegal alien, by verifying the name and Social Security number. But even
with the adoption of such a system, if the Social Security card can easily be
counterfeited, employer sanctions won't work.

What is needed is a simple upgrading of the Social Security card. This would
replace today's card with one that offers the best possible security against
counterfeiting, forgery, alteration and fraudulent use. The commissioner of the
Social Security Administration (SSA) should be responsible for determining the
specific improvement to the physical design and technical specifications
according to guidelines that would be placed into law.

To ensure the integrity of the new document, any changes should adhere to
specific, clearly outlined performance standards. The card should have to be as
secure against misuse as the U.S. passport, and as secure against counterfeiting
as the newly designed $ 100 bill -- both of which boast extremely low rates of
fraud. In 10 years or so, only such an upgraded card should qualify to confirm
employment eligibility.

SSA says its latest card is "secure enough" for its purposes, and it opposes
anti-fraud upgrades that are essential to combat document fraud. SSA is so
resistant that it has tried to undermine the proposal by labeling it a "national
ID card" and has made outlandish claims that the upgrade would cost as much as $
6 billion. The Congressional Budget Office, however, estimates the cost would be
approximately $ 510 million over 10 years.

Contrary to what is being said by opponents, this proposal is not the gateway to
creation of a national ID. The Social Security card is already used to verify
eligibility for employment. In making the card more tamp er-resistant, the
government gains no new information and the card would be used no differently
than it is now. No fingerprints, retina scans or magnetic data strips would be
involved.

Opposition tactics have had an effect. The House has chosen -- by an extremely
close vote -- not to adopt an amendment to require improvements to the Social
Security card. The issue will not go away, though, because the problem remains.
Until we institute effective controls, we will continue to receive hundreds of
thousands of illegals each year.

Immigrants bring growth, creativity and opportunity to America. They are the
cornerstone of much of our great nation's cultural heritage. Immigration should
once again be seen as a noble experience that enriches America -- both
economically and culturally -- rather than one demeaned by criminality and
deceit.

To accomplish this, we must make employer sanctions work and cut off the magnet
of jobs. Adopting measures to reduce document fraud is the first pivotal step
that must be taken.

The writer, a Republican representative from Florida, is a member of the
subcommittee on immigration and claims.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              22 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 27, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Ring Forged Immigration Documents, INS Says

Lan Nguyen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 570 words


Federal authorities have broken up what they described as the area's largest
document counterfeiting ring, which used street sales to peddle thousands of
forged green cards and other identification to illegal immigrants.

Immigration officials said yesterday that they have arrested six people,
including two South Arlington brothers identified as the leaders of the ring.
Gerardo and Hector Garcia-Barrera allegedly hired street vendors to solicit
business from illegal immigrants, predominantly in the Adams-Morgan area of the
District. All of the suspects are Mexican citizens who are in the United States
illegally, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said.

"These aren't people sitting in their bedrooms making a couple of cards," said
William J. Carroll, director of the INS's Washington office. "This is an
organized business . . . that is making thousands and thousands of cards."

INS officials said they have not completed their investigation.

Officials said the brothers have been manufacturing forged immigration and
Social Security cards for at least a year. Officials said they have not
determined how many vendors were part of the organization or how much money the
ring made, but the INS estimated that each vendor may have sold as many as 1,000
cards a year for as much as $ 150 a card.

"These documents are used by illegal workers to take millions of income from
legal workers," Carroll said. "These documents are used to get food stamps.
Criminals hide behind these documents to change their identity [and] to avoid
arrest."

Gerardo Garcia-Barrera, 21, was arrested Thursday and charged with selling
counterfeit documents, and Hector Garcia-Barrera, 22, was being held on
immigration charges.

The INS also arrested four alleged document vendors -- all residents of Mount
Pleasant Street in Northwest Washington. Ricardo Mora Jimenez, 25, and Martin
Flores, 26, were being held on immigration charges. Marc Antonio Ruiz-Dominguez,
23, and Luis Vasquez-Soriano, 23, were charged with selling counterfeit
documents.

The vendors "would be walking around [Adams-Morgan], and they'd see somebody who
looked foreign, who looked new, and ask, 'Hey, do you need a green card?' " INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron said.

Officials said the Garcia-Barrera brothers imported forged documents that
resembled green cards, Social Security cards and employment authorization forms
from a Mexican printer. They personalized the documents using a typewriter and a
laminating machine in their Queen Street apartment, officials said. The cards
were good enough "to deceive employers when they produced them," Carroll said.

INS officials said the ring's size demonstrates the demand for forged documents.
"What it means is the illegal population in the metropolitan D.C. area is large
enough to supply its own document vending and manufacturing industry," Bergeron
said.

Community activists who work with immigrants praised the INS for targeting
counterfeiters. "These counterfeiters prey on the desperate and the
ill-informed," said Peter Dimitrios Katson, an immigration lawyer with the
Spanish Catholic Center in the District.

"The counterfeiters aren't telling the people who are buying them that they can
be arrested, jailed and deported," Katson said. "These counterfeiters are out
there ripping these people off, making it look like this is what immigration is
all about."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              23 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 01, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Critics of Immigration Bill Assail Limits on Asylum; Dole Leads Senate Push That
Preserves Program Shortening Cubans' Wait to Apply for Residency

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 775 words


Before he was granted political asylum here in March, Alan Baban says he watched
soldiers take away his father and brother, was jailed for more than a year by
the Iraqi government, suffered torture in prison, fled to the United States with
a false passport and spent 16 months in a U.S. jail as an illegal immigrant.

But under provisions of the recently signed anti-terrorism law and an
immigration bill before the Senate, critics of the measures say, the odyssey of
the 27-year-old Kurd would have ended at a U.S. airport, where he would have
been summarily turned back by immigration officers.

The case of Baban, who now lives in Arlington, is among those being put forward
by human rights groups and immigration advocates in an effort to head off
changes in U.S. asylum law. The changes would make it more difficult for
foreigners who enter the country illegally to remain in the United States and
obtain legal status by claiming they would face persecution if sent home.

"The United States should err on the side of too many people coming in, not too
few," Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) told a news conference yesterday.

The asylum issue is one of the more controversial aspects of a bill on illegal
immigration that is being debated on the Senate floor. Leahy and Sen. Michael
DeWine (R-Ohio) plan to offer an amendment to repeal the anti-terrorism law's
changes on asylum-seekers and delete a similar provision from the immigration
bill, replacing them with a special process that can be invoked by the attorney
general to "exclude" illegal immigrants in situations of extraordinary
migration.

Another provision, which would have ended a 30-year-old program for Cuban
refugees, was deleted from the immigration bill yesterday after Senate Majority
Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan.) rose in opposition to it. The bill, sponsored by
Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), sought to repeal the 1966 Cuban Refugee
Adjustment Act, which allows Cubans who flee their country to apply for
permanent U.S. resident status after living in the United States for only a
year.

By a 62-37 vote, the Senate decided to keep the program until a democratic
government replaces the communist rule of Fidel Castro.

"To repeal this act would hand the Castro regime a propaganda victory, but would
not appreciably affect the number of Cubans reaching the United States," Dole
said. President Clinton also has opposed repeal of the act, which has strong
support among Cuban-American voters in Florida.

After a debate last week that pitted Simpson against other Republicans, the
Senate voted overwhelmingly to keep the issues of legal and illegal immigration
separate. Simpson had sought to restore provisions to the illegal immigration
bill that he said would have reduced the influx of legal immigrants by about 10
percent.

The bill has been tied up by wrangling between Republicans and Democrats over
efforts by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) to introduce an amendment to raise
the minimum wage. Dole has managed to fend it off so far, but Kennedy has vowed
to keep bringing it up in future debates.

In promoting a more restrictive approach toward asylum-seekers, Simpson and
other advocates of lower immigration levels have argued that the U.S.
hospitality has been abused by thousands of people who make unfounded claims of
persecution in their homelands in order to gain entry to the United States,
often after arriving with false documents or no documents at all. Like the new
anti-terrorism law, the Simpson bill would allow an immigration officer at a
port of entry to evaluate an asylum claim of an illegal alien on the spot and
summarily "exclude" the person without judicial review.

Leahy and other critics argue that many legitimate refugees must use false
documents to flee their countries, often do not speak English well enough to
argue their cases themselves and may be too traumatized to immediately bare
their experiences to a total stranger.

"These individuals are not terrorists; they're fleeing from terror," said Allen
Keller, a member of Physicians for Human Rights who runs a clinic for torture
survivors.

"If I had to prove my case at the airport and had the wrong interpreter, I would
have been sent back to my death in Iraq," said Baban, the Kurdish refugee whose
asylum request was accepted only after a lengthy review process.

On the other hand, said Rosemary Jenks of the Center for Immigration Studies,
the backlog of nearly 500,000 asylum applicants with pending cases "is very good
evidence that our asylum policy is out of control. Only about a quarter of
applicants have legitimate claims, she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              24 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 02, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Senate Votes to Make Female Genital Mutilation a Federal Crime

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 592 words


The Senate voted yesterday to make female genital mutilation a federal crime and
to repeal a provision of the recently signed anti-terrorism law that restricts
the ability of illegal aliens to enter the United States by claiming political
asylum.

The votes were taken on amendments to a bill on illegal immigration being
debated on the floor. Sponsored by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), the bill is
aimed at cracking down on illegal aliens by strengthening the U.S. Border
Patrol, stiffening penalties for alien smuggling and making it more difficult
for illegal immigrants to obtain jobs and government benefits.

By a voice vote, the Senate approved an amendment by Sen. Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.)
to criminalize the practice of circumcising girls by cutting off all or part of
their genitalia. The painful ritual, often performed without anesthesia by
medically untrained practitioners, has been imported to the United States in
recent years by immigrants from Africa and the Middle East.

The amendment sets penalties of up to five years in prison and fines for those
who perform genital mutilation on girls under 18, a practice Reid described as
"a horrible custom" that should not be permitted to take root in U.S. immigrant
communities. In a compromise with advocates of more restrictive immigration
policies, Reid agreed to withdraw language in the amendment that would have
offered political asylum to women who claimed to be fleeing the ritual in their
home countries.

In a highly publicized case, the Board of Immigration Appeals, the highest
immigration court in the United States, is to hear arguments today in Falls
Church on a bid for political asylum by Fauziya Kasinga, 19, who says she fled
her native Togo to avoid genital mutilation.

By 51 to 49, the Senate yesterday approved an amendment to repeal a provision of
the anti-terrorism law that cracks down on asylum seekers who enter the country
with false documents or no documents. That provision, and a similar one in the
Simpson bill, would allow immigration officers at U.S. ports of entry to
evaluate on the spot the asylum claims of illegal aliens and turn them back if
they failed to demonstrate a credible fear of persecution in their home
countries.

The amendment, sponsored by Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.), essentially preserves
a lengthy process of judicial review for asylum claimants. But the measure also
gives the attorney general special authority to summarily "exclude" illegal
aliens in situations of extraordinary migration.

In opposing the amendment, Simpson argued that it would "gut" an effort to
reform a system that allows thousands of illegal aliens to enter or remain in
the country by making fraudulent asylum claims, even though they may have been
brought in by professional smuggling rings and presented false travel documents.

Simpson argued that those with valid asylum claims are far outnumbered by
charlatans who are "gimmicking the system."

In another narrow vote, the Senate tabled an amendment to delete the bill's
provisions for a pilot program to verify the employment eligibility of job
seekers in states with high concentrations of illegal immigrants. The amendment
also sought to eliminate a requirement that state driver's licenses and birth
certificates meet federal document-security standards. Simpson, backed by
Democrats Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.) and Dianne Feinstein (Calif.), argued that
the provisions were vital to prevent illegal immigrants from obtaining jobs and
benefits by using fraudulent documents.


LOAD-DATE: May 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEN. ALAN K. SIMPSON

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              25 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 03, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Senate Votes, 97-3, To Tighten Borders; Bill Also Limits Benefits for Legal
Immigrants

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 913 words


The Senate overwhelmingly passed an immigration bill yesterday that would
reinforce the U.S. Border Patrol, crack down on the smuggling and employment of
illegal aliens and impose new restrictions on the ability of legal immigrants to
obtain government benefits.

The bill, similar to one passed by the House in March, was approved 97 to 3
after eight days of debate marked by sharp differences among Republicans over
several key issues and skirmishing between Republicans and Democrats over the
minimum wage.

Although, in the end, only three Democrats voted against the bill, it
immediately came under fire from private groups on both sides of the immigration
debate. Advocates of lower immigration levels charged that it had been "diluted"
to the point of meaninglessness, while immigration proponents assailed its
restrictions on legal immigrants' access to public benefits as "mean-spirited."

Like its House counterpart, the Senate bill emerged from the legislative process
without its original provisions aimed at reducing the number of legal
immigrants. The bill's sponsor, Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), attempted on the
Senate floor to insert what he described as modest cuts in the annual visa
levels for legal immigration, but he was soundly rebuffed in a move led by
freshman Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) to keep legal immigration visa numbers
in a separate bill, effectively shelving the issue for the time being.

President Clinton welcomed the bill as an endorsement of his administration's
"comprehensive immigration strategy," which he said had already made "historic
progress" in cracking down on illegal immigrants at the border and the
workplace. But he said the bill "goes too far in denying legal immigrants access
to vital safety net programs, which would jeopardize public health and safety."

In a floor speech, Senate Majority Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan.), his party's
presumptive presidential nominee, hailed the bill as a "long-overdue" effort to
balance the U.S. heritage as a nation of immigrants with tougher enforcement of
American "sovereignty" at the nation's borders.

"We cannot remain a great country and fail to control our borders," Dole said.
He said the bill's provisions provide "for the first time a realistic hope that
our Border Patrol can cope with illegal immigration."

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) forecast a tough fight in a congressional
conference over an amendment in the House version that allows states to deny
free public education to illegal immigrant children. Such a provision, which
Kennedy said he strongly opposes, was never offered in the Senate and could
trigger a veto if it reaches Clinton.

Kennedy said the most important parts of the bill were those aimed at shutting
off the "job magnet" for illegal immigrants by setting up pilot programs to
verify the employment eligibility of job seekers and by cracking down on
document fraud. "The job is the magnet, and document fraud is how the illegals
circumvent the law," Kennedy said in a telephone interview.

The bill would nearly double the strength of the Border Patrol, an arm of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), by adding 4,700 new agents over
the next five years. It would also add 600 INS investigators to crack down on
alien smuggling, illegal employment and visa overstays.

Foreigners who enter the United States legally, but then overstay their visas,
account for as many as half the country's roughly 4 million illegal immigrants,
a population estimated to be increasing by about 300,000 a year, according to
INS estimates.

The bill would increase detention space for illegal aliens to at least 9,000
beds by September 1997 and add 700 Labor Department investigators over the next
two years to enforce labor standards in areas with large illegal immigrant
populations.

In a close vote, the Senate approved creation of pilot projects aimed at
developing a system to verify eligibility for employment and public assistance
and agreed to federal standards for birth certificates and state drivers'
licenses to reduce document fraud. Conservative Republicans had charged that the
verification system would lead to creation of a "national ID card," although
this was expressly ruled out in the bill.

The bill would make it easier to deport "criminal aliens" by, among other
measures, changing the definition of an "aggravated felony," which triggers
expedited deportation, to sentences of one year, instead of five years at
present.

It would also authorize the INS to spend an additional $ 12 million on physical
barriers along the U.S.-Mexican border south of San Diego, including triple
fences and high-tech detection devices.

In some of its most controversial provisions, the bill seeks to limit
immigrants' access to federal benefits and reinforce longstanding provisions
prohibiting legal immigrants from becoming "public charges." Legal immigrants
would be subject to deportation if they received federal welfare benefits for
more than 12 months during their first five years in the country.

Under complex provisions for family-based immigration, the income of an
individual who sponsors an immigrant's entry would be added to that of the
immigrant to determine eligibility for federal means-tested benefits such as
health care, nutrition, housing and job training programs.

To sponsor an immigrant in the first place, a person would have to earn 125
percent of the poverty level.


LOAD-DATE: May 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig; Chart ; , IMMIGRATION BILL PROVISIONS The
Immigration and Financial Responsibility Act of 1996, which was approved in the
Senate by a vote of 97 to 3 yesterday, would crack down on illegal aliens at the
border and in the workplace and would make it more difficult for legal
immigrants to receive public assistance. It would: * Almost double the number of
Border Patrol agents over the next five years. There are currently almost 5,000.
* Create pilot projects to improve the means by which employers can verify
whether a job applicant is eligible to work in the United States.  * Increase
penalties for counterfeiting documents, selling or using fraudulent documents,
and smuggling aliens into the country.  * Authorize the development of
standardized birth certificates and other identification documents with features
that will make them more difficult to counterfeit.  * Cut off many legal
immigrants from a variety of health care and welfare programs by requiring that
any income earned by the legal immigrant's sponsor must be counted in
determining whether the immigrant qualifies for the programs.  Sen. Alan K.
Simpson (R-Wyo.), left, and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) during news
conference.  Sens. Simpson, left, and Kennedy discuss the immigration
legislation.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              26 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 04, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

97-3 Vote Fails to Quell Immigration Debate

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 865 words


In crafting a bill to curb illegal immigration and restrict even legal
immigrants' access to public benefits, the Senate achieved a compromise that
satisfied the great majority of its members, but left private groups on both
sides of the debate fuming.

After eight days of debate, the Senate immigration bill was approved Thursday 97
to 3, with only Democrats Paul Simon (Ill.), Bob Graham (Fla.) and Russell
Feingold (Wis.) opposed. Now it will go to a conference committee for
reconciliation with a House version, which is similar with the notable exception
of a controversial provision allowing states to deny free public education to
children of illegal immigrants.

Both measures would beef up the U.S. Border Patrol, increase penalties for alien
smuggling and create pilot programs aimed at weeding out illegal aliens from the
nation's workplaces. But neither bill deals with legal immigration levels, which
declined for the fourth straight year in fiscal 1995 but are now projected to
rise sharply.

From nearly 720,500 people last year, the number of legal immigrants admitted to
the United States, including refugees, is expected to exceed 900,000 annually in
1996 and 1997, according to projections of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The surge is attributed largely to the effects of a 1986 law that
granted an amnesty to 2.7 million illegal aliens, allowing them first to become
legal residents and then citizens with the right to petition for the legal
admission of their spouses, minor children and parents.

Despite polls showing that most Americans want reductions in legal as well as
illegal immigration, the sponsors of the House and Senate bills -- Rep. Lamar S.
Smith (R-Tex.) and Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) -- were unable to fend off a
coalition of business, labor, conservative, liberal, ethnic, religious and civil
rights groups that lobbied hard against any change in legal immigration levels.

Passage of the Senate bill thus met with an angry reaction from the
restrictionist side of the debate, those who want to rein in what they say are
historically high levels of legal immigration caused mainly by the unbridled and
self-perpetuating "chain migration" of extended families.

The Senate "betrayed the will of the overwhelming majority of the American
people, who think the current system is broken and that substantial reductions
in legal immigration are needed," said K.C. McAlpin, deputy director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based advocacy group.
"We think this bill is hardly worth enacting. . . . The Congress chose to cave
in to the cheap-labor interests, the immigration attorneys and the ethnic
lobbies that favor the status quo."

He said the congressional crackdown on illegal immigration also falls far short
of curbing aliens' "easy access" to jobs and benefits and amounts mostly to
"posturing."

Also echoing the restrictionist view was Rosemary Jenks, a senior analyst at the
Center for Immigration Studies, who said the Senate bill would still have a
"significant" impact on illegal immigration. However, "it's a real shame for the
American people that the Senate, like the House, was not able to make the tough
choices that were needed on legal immigration reform," she added. "Congress
needs to remember that this issue is not going to go away."

Advocates of immigrants' rights, on the other hand, were outraged by provisions
that make it more difficult for people to sponsor relatives for admission as
immigrants and that restrict the access of legal immigrants to most federal
means-tested public assistance, including welfare programs, low-income housing,
student loans, Head Start and disaster relief.

To be eligible as a sponsor, someone would have to earn 200 percent of the
poverty level under the House bill and 125 percent under the Senate version. As
in current law, the sponsor's income would be added to the immigrant's to
determine eligibility for federal benefits, but the House and Senate bills would
greatly expand the types of assistance that are restricted and lengthen the
period during which an immigrant would be barred from receiving them.

Except for pre- and postnatal nutrition and school lunch programs, an immigrant
under the Senate bill could not receive public benefits until he or she had
worked and paid taxes during 40 quarters, the equivalent of 10 years, but they
need not be continuous, or had become a naturalized U.S. citizen. If the legal
immigrant received any means-tested federal assistance for more than 12 months
in the first five years, the person would be subject to deportation.

"Even programs which are available for undocumented immigrants, such as
immunizations and emergency medical and disaster relief services, would be
denied to legal immigrants under this bill," complained Raul Yzaguirre,
president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group.

Calling the bill a "travesty" and an unprecedented display of "anti-immigrant
demagoguery," Yzaguirre charged that lawmakers "have cynically exploited
legitimate public concern about illegal immigration to attack the rights of
legal immigrants."


LOAD-DATE: May 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dave gatley, To avoid Border Patrol, "Banzai" runners sprint
against traffic flow through U.S. port of entry at San Ysidro, Calif.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              27 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 26, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Immigration Bill's Effects Debated; Measure Aimed at Illegal Aliens Has
Consequences for Legal Residents; Immigration Bill Goes to Far, Clinton Says

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1377 words


Luis Lara, 4, loves painting and playing with the toy dinosaurs at his brightly
decorated Head Start classroom in Falls Church. His mother is proud of how
quickly he is learning English and following directions in the year since he
arrived here from his native Peru.

But under immigration legislation pending in Congress, future immigrants like
Luis could be deported if they spend more than a year in a means-tested program
such as Head Start during their first five years in the United States.

The deportation provisions are among the measures aimed at legal immigrants in
separate Senate and House immigration bills.

The main thrust of the legislation is to control illegal immigration. But
several other proposals would deny legal residents a wide array of needs-based
benefits under new eligibility standards that would count the income of their
sponsors as their own. In addition, even if the immigrants qualify, they risk
deportation if they receive more than 12 months of benefits.

Supporters say the measures reinforce the century-old policy intended to prevent
immigrants from becoming "public charges." Critics say the proposals prevent
immigrants from assimilating and endanger public health. States will also have
to spend millions of dollars to administer the costs of verifying citizenship
and immigration status for everything from children's soccer leagues to foster
grandparents to English classes.

A bipartisan consensus has developed in favor of restricting public benefits
offered to legal immigrants. It is driven by the need to finance welfare reform
plans and by concern that elderly immigrants have become one of the fastest
growing groups receiving aid. But congressional Republicans and Democrats and
the Clinton administration differ on how far the restrictions should go.

Similar restrictions were included in the vetoed welfare and budget bills. But
an immigration bill is likely to become law. A House-Senate conference committee
is to be formally named in early June, but Republican staff members from both
houses are already drafting a final bill under which millions of legal
immigrants would be effectively barred from receiving a host of benefits,
including Medicaid, and possibly, financial aid for college.

Illegal aliens are not eligible for most programs under current law.

Most legal immigrants are sponsored by relatives who promise to support the
newcomers under current law, and recent immigrants can be deported if they
become "public charges." Neither provision has been enforced much. One proposal
that has broad support would enforce sponsors' pledges of support by making the
promises legally binding.

"All we are saying is the sponsor, the person who made the move to bring in the
legal immigrant, is going to be responsible," said Sen. Alan K. Simpson,
(R-Wyo), the driving force behind the legislation. "Why should the rest of us
cough up the money when the sponsor has not done it yet?"

In addition, the bills would also extend the time and scope of programs for
which a sponsor's income is counted as the immigrant's own in determining
eligibility for between 50 to 80 needs-based federal, state or local government
programs. The more restrictive Senate bill includes college loans, job-training
and Head Start.

Although a legal immigrant could have a low enough income to qualify for
benefits, many would become ineligible once the income of their sponsors and
their sponsors' spouses are counted.

At the City University of New York, for example, that would affect about 25
percent of the 27,000 incoming freshmen, an official said.

The Senate bill would apply to all future immigrants and current legal residents
in the country less than five years. Under the GOP proposals, the ineligibility
period would extend to citizenship or until the immigrant has worked at least 10
years, earning enough to pay income tax. For immigrants already here, that
period would remain in effect for five years.

The sponsor's income now is counted along with the immigrant's only for Aid to
Families with Dependent Children, Supplemental Security Income and food stamps
and only for three to five years, depending on the program.

But for the first time, legal immigrants would be barred from receiving Medicaid
because their sponsors' incomes would be counted as their own. They would lose
diagnostic screening, immunizations and treatment for communicable diseases,
health experts said, increasing the public health risk.

"Tuberculosis and other communicable diseases do not respect distinctions
between citizens and noncitizens," said E. Richard Brown, president of the
American Public Health Association.

Health experts say medical care, unlike food, shelter or money, cannot be shared
between a sponsor and an immigrant. Immigrants who cannot get treated would be
forced to use expensive emergency and hospital services.

Some public hospitals, such as Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami, will then
force the local community to raise taxes or consider cutting services if they
cannot get Medicaid reimbursement for treating the immigrants, said Sen. Bob
Graham, (D-Fla.).

Unless the immigrant would be left homeless and hungry, Simpson maintains there
should be no exception to holding the sponsor -- not taxpayers -- responsible
for all the immigrant's needs.

"It does not matter what type of extraordinary situation you want to describe to
us all," he said, during debate on the bill. "All of them will be genuinely and
authentically touching, they will move us, maybe to tears. . . . All we are
saying is that the sponsor will pay first."

Critics say the bills go too far because they remove the safety net from legal
immigrants who must pay taxes and serve in the military. Even if sponsors refuse
to help out, their incomes are still counted as those of the immigrants, and in
most cases, the immigrants would be effectively barred from receiving aid.

"This goes to their ability to access basic health and safety and education
programs," said Josh Bernstein, a policy analyst for the National Immigration
Law Center, an advocacy group.

The immigration bills also broaden the grounds for deportation as a "public
charge."

With narrow exceptions, both bills would deport any legal, permanent residents
who receive certain needs-based assistance for 12 months, within five to seven
years after coming to the United States.

Under the Senate bill, for example, immigrants who receive college financial aid
-- including work-study -- risk deportation.

If the Senate bill had been law when Luis Lara came to the United States two
years ago as a toddler, he could be sent back to Peru this fall.

Not only would this be unfair to immigrant children, said his mother, Lucia
Cabrera, a home-care provider, but "how could I pay for all those plane tickets
back and forth?"

Dick Day, chief counsel to the Senate immigration subcommittee replied:

"Who wants to keep a kid out of Head Start? But there's not enough money for all
American-born kids to get into Head Start."

The House bill has fewer grounds for deportation. But unlike the Senate version,
which has a five-year statute of limitations, the House bill would allow U.S.
officials to deport an immigrant at any time on the grounds that they once
received government benefits.

That means future immigrants like Maria Cruz, 23, a receptionist at a District
legal services clinic, could be sent back to El Salvador because she received
Medicaid seven years ago.

"I think it's very bad," said Cruz. "I used those benefits to stand up on my
feet."

President Clinton has warned that the legislation goes too far in restricting
health and other benefits for legal residents, but he is unlikely to veto the
bill because of those measures, analysts said.

Budget officials estimate the bills will save the federal government between $ 5
billion and $ 7 billion over seven years. But critics say any federal savings
will shift costs to states and counties because all states will be required to
verify citizenship, immigration and sponsorship status.

An analysis by the National Conference of State Legislatures estimates the cost
of administering 10 of 54 means-tested programs is $ 744 million.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1996May 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 28, 1996

CORRECTION: A photo caption on Sunday incorrectly stated that a 4-year-old legal
immigrant could be deported if pending immigration legislation in Congress
passes. The deportation provisions would affect only future immigrants.

GRAPHIC: Photo, margaret thomas, Luis Lara, a 4-year-old legal immigrant, right,
with Rocio Albarracin, left, could be forced out of the country if legislation
pending in Congress passes. The bill would make acceptance of means-tested
government aid, like the Head Start class Luis attends, in the first five years
of residence in the United States grounds for deportation.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              28 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 28, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigration: Congress Passes the Buck

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A10; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 437 words


In praising the Senate version of the anti-illegal immigration bill ["Focus on
Illegal Aliens," editorial, May 6], The Post highlighted the bill's intention to
improve enforcement of our nation's immigration laws.

The Post's support for this goal is admirable. However, it failed to acknowledge
the many devils hidden in the details of this legislation.

Sixteen months after passing the Unfunded Mandate Reform Act of 1995, Congress
has blatantly reneged on its commitment. A Congressional Budget Office analysis
shows that new provisions to target fraudulent drivers' licenses and birth
certificates will pass as much as $ 200 million in costs to state governments.
And to make matters worse, the Senate immigration bill would refuse to allow
states without significant immigrant populations to opt out of these costly
provisions.

Also, while the Senate bill claims to target only illegal immigration, the
National Council of State Legislatures has estimated that new measures to
prevent legal immigrants from participating in just 10 assistance programs will
put a $ 744 million strain on state and local budgets.

The Constitution gives the federal government sole responsibility for
immigration. Yet Congress is passing the buck to state and local taxpayers.
That's hypocrisy, pure and simple.

Equally important as this bill's fiscal consequences is the fact that it
endangers public health. The Senate bill effectively bars legal immigrants from
Medicaid and public health coverage, forcing hospitals into a painful Catch-22.

If a legal immigrant's sponsor can't pay for medical services and the federal
government refuses to reimburse for treatment, a hospital has two choices. It
can deny nonemergency medical coverage -- which increases the risk of
contagions, epidemics and other health problems to the public. Or it can accept
the patient, assume a significant financial loss and risk a permanent
interruption in services to all patients.

Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami is one of those hospitals that will be forced
to walk this tightrope. In 1995 it was forced to assume $ 60 million in costs
from legal immigrants who could not pay. If this bill cuts off Medicaid
payments, that amount will skyrocket.

If hospitals turn patients away or restrict services, the person sitting next to
you on the bus or standing behind you in line at the grocery store is less
likely to have been screened for communicable diseases.

We can only hope that the conference committee rethinks the Senate's misguided
approach to immigration reform.

BOB GRAHAM

U.S. Senator (D-Fla.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1996May 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              29 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 11, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Taped Beating Galvanizes Latino Community; Hispanic Residents of California
Fight What They See as Growing Intolerance of Immigrants

Cassandra Stern, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1016 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Hispanic unity and activism are growing in the face of what many Latinos here
say is a darkening climate of racism and scapegoating toward illegal and legal
immigrants alike.

The impetus for this new activism was the April beating of two illegal
immigrants by Riverside County sheriff's deputies, which was videotaped, as well
as efforts by California in the past two years to curtail services to
undocumented aliens.

"It is abundantly clear that when people viewed the beating, they saw
themselves," said Cecilia Munoza of the National Council of La Raza, a
Washington-based umbrella group. "Latinos are very angry. The respect due us as
citizens has been called into question and we will not stand for it."

One response has been a dramatic increase in the number of people seeking
citizenship and an increase in enrollment in citizenship classes, said Andrea
Skorepa, executive director of Casa Familiar, a community-based social services
agency located at the border in San Ysidro. "They feel they are not protected if
they aren't citizens, so they better become citizens."

According to the Coalition for Humane Immigration Rights of Los Angeles, 10,073
Mexican immigrants living in Los Angeles County became U.S. citizens in 1994. In
1995 that number more than doubled to 25,617.

Luke E. Williams, the coalition's executive director, said that not only are the
naturalization numbers up, so is voter registration. Since the beginning of the
year, his group has noted a nearly 30 percent rise in the number of people
registering at the same time that they take their citizenship oaths.

Hispanic leaders say an atmosphere in California of mistrust and outright
contempt for Latinos, native born and immigrant, has been increasing since the
1994 adoption of Proposition 187, which was pushed by Gov. Pete Wilson (R) and
would bar illegal immigrants from receiving social services, public education
and health care. The constitutionality of the proposition was immediately
challenged in court and an injunction has prevented its implementation. The
Hispanic leaders maintain that the strong anti-immigrant rhetoric from
politicians and others has provided a politically convenient outlet for racism.

"The message came through that you can target certain groups as long as you are
targeting them not because of their race but because of their immigration
status," said Thomas Saenz, the Los Angeles counsel for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Education Fund. "It was an open invitation to discriminate
against people who fit the broad, sweeping profile of undocumented workers."

Wilson, who championed Proposition 187 during his 1994 reelection campaign,
maintains that California is forced to pay more than $ 3 billion a year for
services for undocumented aliens, which he says amounts to an unfunded mandate
by a federal government that has been unable to effectively control the state's
border with Mexico.

However, community activists contend that Wilson has exaggerated figures spent
for services for illegal immigrants and has ignored the eco nomic benefits of
having a large supply of inexpensive labor, as well as the taxes paid by the
immigrants.

"I'd love to have every undocumented worker not go to work for a month and watch
what happens to the economy. I think people would really wake up and see how we,
as Americans, benefit from that cheap labor," said Raymond Uzeta, executive
director of the Chicano Federation of San Diego.

"No one is saying that there is no cost of undocumented aliens to the taxpayer.
On the other hand, how many people are paying sales tax, paying into Social
Security, which they will never draw, and contributing to the economy," Uzeta
said.

Wilson's critics charge that his anti-immigrant stance and support of
Proposition 187, which was passed easily, was a campaign ploy to exploit white,
middle-class fears by using illegal immigrants as scapegoats for a slumping
economy.

"Politicians need something to galvanize their support. It's very easy to
galvanize support by pointing the finger at some other," Saenz said.

But some of the support for Proposition 187 came from the Latino community
itself, which is divided over illegal immigration.

Hispanic citizens who were born and raised in the United States often resent the
illegal immigrants because they are breaking the law and because the citizens
feel "they are painted with the same brush," Uzeta said.

And the immigrant community itself has been far from united.

"The Mexican American community sometimes views the new immigrants with mistrust
because they are coming here to compete with them," said Jose Angel Pescador
Osuna, Mexican consul general for Los Angeles. He said older immigrants are more
conservative and many fear that new immigrants, illegal and legal, will take
away their jobs.

Pescador said the rancor toward the Latino community in California is well known
in Mexico, but does not deter people from wanting to come here.

To a large extent, the beatings by the Riverside deputies, one of whom also was
taped uttering a racial slur -- and a more recent episode in which a truck full
of illegal immigrants, chased at high speed by police, turned over, killing
seven -- have sparked enough anger to bridge many of the divisions in the
Hispanic community.

"The overwhelming response from the Latino community at large has been very
clear outrage. This has really been the unifying event since Proposition 187,"
Luke Williams said of the beating incident, which has been covered not only in
Los Angeles but also in Mexico and prompted strong criticism from the Mexican
government. Through Pescador, the Mexican government obtained travel visas and
paid for the families of the beating victims to visit them here.

"This was torture. Someone was beat up because the officer decided he was going
to punish them on the spot," said Samuel Paz, a lawyer working with the American
Civil Liberties Union on behalf of one of the victims, Alicia Sotero Vasquez.
"You cannot beat up people, regardless of their immigrant status."


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996June 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, tv photo via reuter, The April beating of two illegal immigrants
by sheriff's deputies from Riverside County has encouraged activism by Hispanic
groups.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              30 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 17, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

The Immigration Bills: Facts vs. Fantasies

Alan K. Simpson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 586 words


Congress will soon begin the important task of ironing out the differences
between the House and Senate versions of legislation aimed primarily at reducing
illegal immigration. Meanwhile, various organizations and special interest
groups are cranking up zealous efforts to derail this important and sensible
measure -- and to demonize its advocates. Once again, we are being deluged by
op-ed pieces featuring attacks that range from the silly to the sinister. And we
hear repeatedly about the great evils contained in this legislation from those
who are uninterested in responding to most Americans, who believe we should "do
something" to slow illegal immigration. In an effort to present a few tidy facts
in the face of so much frenetic fantasy, allow me to explain what is not
contained in either version of the House or the Senate illegal immigration
reform bill.

Neither bill creates a "national ID card." Despite organized fear campaigns,
this legislation will not result in restrictions on personal freedom. The Senate
bill simply requires that various pilot projects be conducted in order to test a
more reliable system to verify citizenship or work-authorized legal alien
status. This will make possible the effective enforcement of the current law
prohibiting the "knowing" employment of illegal aliens.

Such a system will be a major improvement over current practice. Now, employers
have little way of knowing who is "legal," because false documents are
inexpensive and accessible. Once the pilot projects are complete, Congress must
then vote on whether to adopt one on a national level. Again, nothing will go
into effect without a second nod from Congress.

This legislation is not racist or nativist. It is a sensible attempt to reduce
the number of foreign nationals who enter our country illegally or who remain
here after their visa or authorized period of stay has expired. After all, the
first duty of any sovereign nation is to protect its borders.

To say that this is "nativist" is demagoguery. A racist or nativist bill could
not have passed the Senate by a vote of 97 to 3 and the House by a vote of 333
to 87.

This legislation is not harsh on legal immigrants or their U.S. relatives who
sponsor them. The Senate bill contains a provision requiring all sponsors to be
legally responsible for providing needed financial assistance. Also, the income
of the sponsor is "deemed" to be that of the immigrant for all purposes of
determining financial eligibility for public assistance. Thus the sponsor, not
the taxpayers, will be required to provide first for an immigrant in the event
that he or she needs assistance.

The general policy is nothing new. We had laws on our books dating to the
previous century requiring that immigrants cannot enter if they are likely "at
any time" to become "public charges."

Finally, this legislation is not unneeded. Some have made the claim that more
immigration -- both legal and illegal -- is what this country needs. Anyone who
believes that has not been listening to taxpayers who are being adversely
affected -- for example, by welfare abuse, schools that are overcrowded and
beset by demands for "multicultural" curricula, rising crime and expensive,
time-consuming deportation procedures. Both the Senate and House bills tackle
the problem in a rational, sensible and fair way, one that advances the
interests of most of our citizens -- and thus our national interest.

The writer is a Republican senator from Wyoming.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              31 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 20, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Dole Urges Illegal-Immigrant Curbs; In California, Candidate Pushes for Law
Letting States Deny Education

Thomas B. Edsall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 19


Robert J. Dole today intensified efforts to draw a clear distinction between his
stand and that of President Clinton on immigration, the issue that propelled
Republican Pete Wilson from underdog to landslide victor in this state's 1994
gubernatorial contest.

Dole, the presumptive GOP presidential nominee, endorsed an amendment to pending
immigration legislation that would allow states to refuse to provide public
education to children who are illegal immigrants.

"It's not that we are not compassionate," Dole said, but "where do you draw the
line?" Illegal immigration "represents a drain on public resources, again with a
disproportionate impact on California," he said, costing taxpayers in this state
$ 2.6 billion for education, health and incarceration costs.

The sponsor of the amendment, Rep. Elton Gallegly, a Republican who represents a
part of Los Angeles, spoke before Dole, saying, "It's time to stop making
apologies for putting Americans first."

Dole faces an uphill struggle in forcing a battle on the Gallegly amendment. The
House passed the provision, but it was not included in the Senate version of
immigration reform. A House-Senate conference committee is expected to take up
the legislation soon, but 47 senators, enough to sustain a filibuster and keep
the bill from coming to a vote, have written to the Senate leadership to declare
their opposition to the amendment. If they are successful blocking congressional
action, Clinton will not have to choose between vetoing or signing the
legislation, which he favors without the Gallegly provision.

The measure, in addition, does not have unanimous Republican backing. Texas Gov.
George W. Bush has indicated that he would not take advantage of the option of
denying education to illegal immigrants if the measure was passed, while Wilson
has been a strong backer of the Gallegly provision.

Clinton campaign aides argued today that passage would have the unintended side
effect of increasing crime and delinquency by forcing large numbers of children
out of schools into the streets.

That position has the backing of a number of law enforcement officials and
groups. Yesterday, the Clinton campaign released statements of opposition to the
Gallegly amendment from a wide range of groups, including the Fraternal Order of
Police, the International Brotherhood of Police Officers, the International
Union of Police Associations, the National Black Police Association and the
Chicago superintendent of police.

"Putting hundreds of thousands of additional children on some of the toughest
streets in our country translates into a windfall of potential new victims for
the predators who work those streets," Gilbert G. Gallegos, president of the
274,000-member Fraternal Order of Police, wrote in a letter to Dole before the
candidate's resignation from the Senate.

Nelson Warfield, Dole campaign spokesman, replied that eliminating access to
schools will reduce the incentives of foreigners to enter the country illegally.
"If you take responsible steps to decrease the allure of coming to this county,
then illegal aliens will act in their self-interest and not come here in the
first place," he said.

In addition to Dole, House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) has sought to turn the
Gallegly amendment into a Republican confrontation with the White House.
"Offering free, tax-paid goods to illegals has increased the number of
illegals," Gingrich said during House debate. "This used to be the land of
opportunity; now it's the land of welfare."

Dole argued that the cost of providing public education to illegal immigrant
children in California, which he estimated at about $ 1.8 billion annually,
could be used to provide legal citizens and residents with a host of benefits.

In an accompanying news release, the Dole campaign said the money could pay for
the hiring of 51,000 new teachers, allowing the state to reduce the
pupil-teacher ratio to less than 20-1, to build 2,340 new classrooms annually,
or to buy five computers for every classroom in the state.

Staff researcher Barbara J. Saffir contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp/david ake, Finishing a three-day California swing, Robert J.
Dole signals a thumbs-up at a campaign rally in Woodland Hills.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              32 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 21, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

INS Arrests 10 Workers in High-Security Landing Area

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 538 words


Ten allegedly illegal immigrants were arrested yesterday in a high-security zone
at Anacostia Naval Station, where they were paving a landing area often used by
a helicopter squadron that transports President Clinton and other government
officials.

At a news conference yesterday afternoon in Arlington, federal immigration
officials said the landing area was so restricted that their agents were not
allowed onto the construction site to interview the workers. They said agents
were called to the site after Navy security officers expressed concern about the
workers' legal status.

A source close to the investigation called the helicopter area a "top-secret
kill zone," meaning that intruders could be shot for entering it. Immigration
officials said that the workers had obtained false residence documents and that
it was not clear whether their employers, two area construction companies, knew
they were illegal immigrants.

"This case vividly highlights the problem of counterfeit immigration documents,"
said William J. Carroll, director of the Washington district for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. "The use of these documents means lost jobs for
legal workers and complicates issues of security and identification."

Carroll said at least one of the workers had bought a false "green card," or
alien registration card, from a counterfeiting ring that was broken up by the
INS last month. He said the 10 workers were being paid a total of about $
208,000 a year, which he said could now be used to employ legal workers.

Spokesmen for the Navy and the Marine Corps said they could not discuss the
arrests in detail, but immigration officials said they were cooperating with the
Naval Criminal Investigative Service.

The 10 workers -- apparently the only workers at the site -- were from Mexico,
El Salvador and Guatemala, INS officials said. All 10, including one woman, are
in custody and are likely to be deported unless they can convince an immigration
court that they should be allowed to stay, according to the INS. They were
employed by two contractors, Fort Myer Construction Co. and CNF Construction Co.

Offices of both companies were closed by the time the news conference ended, and
company officials could not be reached yesterday evening.

Under an executive order signed by Clinton in February, companies with federal
contracts that are found to have knowingly hired illegal immigrants will be
barred from further federal work.

The companies could be fined $ 2,000 or more per worker if investigators
conclude that they knew the documents were false. Immigration officials said the
immigrant workers also could face criminal charges for misusing government
documents.

The INS has been cracking down recently on workplaces where illegal immigrants
find jobs, including hotels, restaurants and construction sites. INS officials
said yesterday's arrests were the result not of a planned raid but of inquiries
they received from Navy officials.

Anacostia Naval Station is an administrative center that houses several military
commands. It also is the local operating base for a Marine helicopter squadron
based in Quantico that carries the president and other officials.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              33 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 22, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Navy Had Screened Workers Arrested by INS at Anacostia Base

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 821 words


Ten construction workers arrested Thursday as illegal immigrants while on the
job at Anacostia Naval Station had been screened and cleared by the Navy to
enter the high-security area, based on identity documents they gave their
employers, according to the companies they worked for and federal immigration
officials.

The workers, who were paving a flight ramp for Marine helicopters that are used
to carry President Clinton and other officials, were arrested by Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents after Navy security officers became suspicious
about their legal status. Immigration officials said that some were carrying
false residency documents and that others had none.

Officials of the two construction firms that hired the workers -- all of whom
are from Mexico or Central America -- said they had complied with the law by
requesting two pieces of identification from each worker. They also said they
had forwarded the workers' names, Social Security numbers and other information
to Navy officials so they could be cleared to work at the base. They were not
able to say when the paperwork was sent to the Navy or how many days the workers
had been reporting to the site.

"This is a complete surprise to us. You don't knowingly hire illegal aliens and
then turn around and give the Navy a roster of them," said William Custead, an
estimator for C&F Construction Corp., based in Washington. "We follow the letter
of the law. We work at six or seven Navy locations. Some have higher security
than others, but we always give them a roster."

Chris Kerns, a vice president of Fort Myer Construction Co., also of Washington,
said his firm is careful to check workers' legal status while trying not to
discriminate against those who appear to be foreign.

"Our hiring is in accordance with the law and with our strict policy that
workers have to be properly documented," Kerns said. "In addition, before anyone
can get onto any military installation, we must submit their names and Social
Security numbers and other information in advance so they can be approved by the
security people. It is a basic procedure."

Fort Myer Construction is a major local contractor headed by Jose Rodriguez, a
prominent Portuguese immigrant. C&F Construction, a smaller firm, is partly
owned by Rodriguez's daughter and son-in-law. Officials of Fort Myer
Construction said that the two firms are separate entities but that Fort Myer
worked as a subcontractor for C&F on the Anacostia Naval Station job.

A spokesman for the Navy was unable to answer questions yesterday about security
procedures for workers at the Anacostia station or other Navy facilities. But
officials of the INS said Navy security officers at the station had raised
initial questions about the workers and had done "an exemplary job" in
cooperating with the INS.

According to Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman, Navy officials at the base had
recently expressed concerns about contractors hiring illegal immigrants and had
asked INS agents to come to the base and discuss the issue Thursday. While the
agents were there, they were asked to check on some workers who did not have
proper identification that day. They arrested the 10 workers shortly after that.

"The security people had been worried [that] some of them . . . might be illegal
because of the way they dressed, and they seemed to speak no English," Bergeron
said yesterday. On Thursday, he said, Navy security officers called from the
field and said some workers had arrived "with no ID, and we can't communicate
with them."

Bergeron said that the flight ramp, a highly restricted area, is patrolled by
security officers 24 hours a day and that workers would be under constant
surveillance. But he noted that if the workers were using false documents, a
Navy security search would turn up no information about them, even if they had
criminal records.

"I don't think the fault lies with the Navy. They triggered the arrests," he
said. Bergeron said that since February, when Clinton signed an order barring
federal contractors who knowingly hire illegal immigrants, federal agencies have
been more alert for signs of such violations. "Yesterday's case is a classic
example," he said.

If the INS finds that the two construction firms violated the law, they can be
fined $ 3,000 or more for each worker in addition to losing future contracts.
Both Fort Myer Construction and C&F have numerous federal contracts, and Fort
Myer won a large majority of D.C. government paving and sewer contracts in the
1980s under sheltered-market and set-aside programs for minority contractors.

The 10 workers, including one woman, are in INS custody at local detention
centers. Immigration officials said they are likely to be deported. They have
the right to request a hearing and to try to persuade an immigration judge that
they should be allowed to remain in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              34 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 23, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

INS May Discipline Four Senior Managers; Probe of Scheme to Deceive
Congressional Task Force Prompts Action

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 296 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has recalled two senior managers to
Washington and reassigned two others in response to a Justice Department
investigation of an elaborate scheme to deceive a congressional task force
during a visit to Miami last year, an INS spokesman said yesterday.

The inquiry found that senior INS officials ordered the release of more than 100
illegal aliens from a Miami detention center, doubled staff and altered
detention procedures at the Miami International Airport, and lied to
congressmen, INS superiors and investigators to conceal problems of overcrowding
and understaffing and create a false image of efficiency.

A report summarizing the investigation recommended disciplinary action,
including possible criminal prosecution, of senior INS officials involved in the
deception. The summary did not name the officials.

The INS has recalled Carol D. Chasse, the agency's eastern regional director in
South Burlington, Vt., and Walter D. Cadman, the district director in Miami, to
Washington headquarters for assignment to nonsupervisory positions starting
Monday, INS spokesman Paul Risley said.

Robert L. Brown, the INS district director in Cleveland, was named to replace
Chasse in an acting capacity and Robert A. Wallis, the district director in
Houston, was assigned to fill in for Cadman.

The INS also detailed Chasse's deputy, Michael Devine, to a nonsupervisory job
in Vermont and moved Cadman's former deputy, Valerie Blake, from her current
post as a district director in Minnesota to a nonsupervisory position in Dallas,
Risley said.

He said the moves do not imply "any culpability or guilt," but are a "necessary
step" while the Justice Department considers formal disciplinary action against
the four.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              35 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 28, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

The Immigration Bills: Dangerous Legislation

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 594 words


Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) claims that the House and Senate immigration bills
that are being reconciled in conference are "rational, sensible and fair" ["The
Immigration Bills: Facts vs. Fantasies," op-ed, June 17], and he complains that
various "special interest groups" are trying to derail this "important and
sensible measure." As an official of one of the groups that opposes this
misguided initiative, I write to differ both with the appropriateness of this
immigration legislation and with the senator's characterization of those who
oppose him on this issue.

Those of us who oppose Mr. Simpson's bill are not "special interest groups"
acting in our own self-interest. We represent Americans across this nation who
recognize the dangers inherent in the legislation. While we criticize this bill
as misguided, we are not "uninterested" in addressing the issue of illegal
immigration. Not only do we respect our country's right and need to protect its
borders and enforce its laws, we support reasonable measures, some of which are
to be found in this legislation, that will enhance the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's effectiveness.

But much of this bill is not about controlling the flow of illegal immigration.
Rather, among its other flaws, the bill would deny asylum to victims of torture
and persecution and would allow states to deny public education to innocent
children. And it would have harsh implications for individuals already here as
legal immigrants: It would prevent many legal, taxpaying immigrants from gaining
eligibility for such basic services as immunizations, child-care and nutrition
programs.

Moreover, legal immigrants who try to increase self-sufficiency by taking
English classes, learning job skills or securing loans to attend college could
be deported under this legislation as a "public charge." Further, the onerous
expansion of existing income requirements for sponsors would have the effect of
disqualifying many ordinary Americans from sponsoring their spouses and children
for admission as legal immigrants.

Sen. Simpson's bill contains provisions that are harsh, unfair and inhumane. We
must reject this kind of legislation.

RICHARD T. FOLTIN

Legislative Director and Counsel

Office of Government and International Affairs

The American Jewish Committee

Washington

I was dismayed that Sen. Simpson portrayed the "public charge" immigration
exclusion provision in the past tense. His statement that "we had laws on our
books dating to the previous century requiring that immigrants cannot enter if
they are likely 'at any time' to become 'public charges' " is misleading in that
this provision still exists in precisely the same wording in the present
Immigration and Nationality Act.

As one who has been involved for many years, and admirably so, in immigration
work on the Senate subcommittee on immigration (indeed, as its chairman for much
of the time), Sen. Simpson should have been more accurate. Instead of implying
that the "public charge" provision should be brought back, he should have urged
that the existing provision be retained and strengthened.

Sen. Simpson is correct when he says that it is nothing new. However, like so
much of the act, it needs to be enforced, which is what this provision of the
Senate bill attempts to do by requiring sponsors to be legally responsible for
providing financial assistance.

F. PAUL MURPHY

Fayetteville, Pa.

The writer was a chief inspector for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service from 1978 to 1987.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              36 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 29, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Like Moths to an Olympic Flame; Immigrants Drawn to Atlanta Despite Crackdown

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1328 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


After paying a smuggler $ 1,000 to sneak him into the United States and working
a minimum wage job as a dishwasher in Florida, Rigoberto Mejia saw fortune
finally turn his way when he arrived in this boom town preparing to host the
Summer Olympics.

He landed a job as an asbestos remover at a suburban construction site and stood
to earn $ 47,500 this year. But unfortunately for the 29-year-old Mexican, the
job was at a Veterans Administration hospital, which made him a target of a
recent presidential order aimed at rooting out illegal alien workers from
federal projects.

Caught with seven co-workers in a June 12 raid by Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) agents, Mejia was soon on his way back to Mexico. Summarily
deported. A relatively rare misfortune here.

As Atlanta has busied itself with preparations for the centennial Summer Games,
illegal immigrants have been flooding in, and the government seems unable to
stem the tide. Despite stepped-up raids on federal work sites, INS agents
acknowledge that their efforts are hardly impeding the underground labor force
that continues to swell this booming metropolitan area of 3.3 million people.

Construction sites are everywhere, many of them employing workers that agents
suspect are in the country illegally. But with the INS preoccupied by Olympics
security preparations with other federal agencies and concentrating on
enforcement of the executive order, officials say, many illegal aliens working
at private-sector construction sites, restaurants, hotels and other
service-industry businesses are essentially getting a bye.

Already a rapidly growing metropolis before the Olympic expansion started, the
Atlanta area has become a major stop on an illegal immigration pipeline that
brings thousands of workers from the U.S.-Mexican border to the East Coast.

In February, the crash in Maryland of a rental truck crammed with Mexican and
Guatemalan illegal immigrants led to the discovery of an alien-smuggling
operation that had also delivered human cargo to Atlanta, INS officials said. In
March, an INS crackdown, Operation Mountain Passes, intercepted more than 1,200
illegal aliens who were being smuggled through Colorado, many of them en route
to southeastern states.

According to Joe Greene, the INS district director in Denver, "many of those
heading for Georgia said they were going to find jobs in the Atlanta area in
service industries because of the Olympics."

Last month, INS agents found 34 Mexican illegal immigrants locked in a horse
trailer in a motel parking lot near Atlanta and arrested the American driver.
The Mexicans, packed shoulder to shoulder in the 8-by-20-foot trailer for three
days without food or water, were being smuggled to jobs in north Georgia by an
Arizona-based ring, INS officials said.

"I've never seen loads like this before."

With only 52 agents to cover four states -- Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina and
South Carolina -- the INS here has its hands full dealing with the truck and
trailer loads of aliens that have been pouring into the Southeast. "These loads
have been coming in here like crazy this past year," said Russ Parry, an INS
supervisory special agent.

The influx of both legal and illegal immigrants has begun to change the face of
Atlanta in recent years, especially in the northern suburbs where Asian and
Latino newcomers have congregated. In Chamblee, so many Asian restaurants and
other businesses have sprung up that Atlantans have nicknamed the suburb
"Chambodia."

In Smyrna, where an estimated 5,000 Latinos have settled, the city council
recently passed an ordinance requiring all public signs to be in English.

"People are real fearful," said Chuck Johnson, a social worker who deals with
immigrants. "Jobs seem unstable," he said.

In recent months, the INS office here has been inundated by tips, many of them
from U.S. construction workers, about suspected illegal aliens. The tipsters
often complain that illegal workers are taking jobs from Americans or receiving
preference in overtime assignments, perhaps because employers are able to
exploit them in ways that would not be possible with American workers.

"Who's an illegal going to complain to?" said Charlie Key, an official of the
North Georgia Building and Construction Trades Council. "They're wide open to be
victimized."

It was tips from American workers, investigators say, that led to last week's
roundup at the VA hospital and to two raids that resulted in the arrest of 48
illegal aliens at a new federal building under construction just across the
street from the INS office here.

Last year, an INS raid on the Olympic Village construction site netted 37
illegal construction workers but left behind dozens of others who managed to
hide in heating ducts, sewers and the upper floors of buildings, officials said.
Since then, there have been no raids on Olympics-related construction projects,
some of which have fallen behind schedule and are being rushed to completion in
time for the opening of the games next month.

At the VA hospital, INS agents suspected that a number of illegal workers
managed to elude capture by hiding in an asbestos-removal area that the agents
were not permitted to enter.

The eight arrested workers were employed by a subcontractor, National Service
Cleaning Corp., which later insisted that all had presented genuine-looking
work-authorization documents when they were hired. Aaron Gilman, a lawyer for
the company, said the firm "did what the Immigration and Nationality Act
requires" by asking for documents before hiring the men.

"The law often puts employers in a very precarious situation," he said.

Wearing a white T-shirt and a blank expression, Mejia appeared dumbfounded as
agents put plastic handcuffs on him, frisked him and loaded him into an INS van.
He readily admitted that he had crossed the border illegally, mumbling that he
felt driven to do so by the economic crisis in Mexico.

The stocky Mexican said he had worked up to 70 hours a week here at wages that,
with overtime, would have paid him $ 47,500 this year. For his wife and three
children, accustomed to getting by on the $ 20 a week he earned as a mechanic in
Mexico, his remittances of up to $ 500 a week meant the difference between
poverty and plenty.

Of the eight arrested, one was quickly freed when he was able to show legal
status. Mejia and three other Mexicans were bused to Dallas for repatriation
across the U.S.-Mexican border. The remaining three -- a Peruvian, a Nicaraguan
and a Honduran -- were released pending a hearing before an immigration judge
because, unlike the Mexicans, they could not be immediately repatriated and
there was not enough bed space to detain them, INS officials said.

In interviews at the Atlanta INS office before they were deported, the four
Mexicans said they thought their employer realized they were illegal immigrants.
"They clearly knew we didn't have papers," said Mejia as he sat in a basement
cell. He told investigators that he did not present identification when he was
hired.

A cellmate, Victor Lopez, 22, said he had used a fake Social Security card to
get jobs in a hotel and another asbestos-removal company in Florida after
crossing the border a year ago. He said he and his asbestos co-workers at the VA
hospital were given adequate protective gear, but that the job was still
difficult and risky. American employees had come and gone, he said.

"They didn't want to work in that kind of business," Lopez said of the
Americans. "They would want more money because it's dangerous." Besides, he
said, his bosses could "push harder on Hispanics" than on Americans.

Asbestos was a common insulating and fire-proofing material before it was
discovered that one kind of asbestos fiber can cause lung cancer. Now, some
states require the removal of asbestos when it is uncovered during renovations
or other construction projects.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, erik s. lesser for The Washington Post, INS agents handcuff a
suspected illegal alien during a raid at a Georgia construction site.  Rigoberto
Mejia, center, is arrested during an INS raid near Atlanta. He had been working
on renovation project at a Veterans Administration hospital.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              37 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 20, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Passing the Buck on Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 567 words


The Post's news story "U.S. to Ease Strict Chinese Asylum Policy" [Aug. 5]
indicates that the president is passing the buck on asylum policy to district
directors at the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). Since these
officials already have the authority to grant parole to undocumented aliens for
humanitarian reasons, the directive accomplishes little new.

I know that the directive circumvents enforcement of the present asylum law. It
does not clarify the status of Chinese aliens found excludable and deportable by
immigration judges and the Board of Immigration Appeals. It wastes taxpayers'
money.

Why go through the cost of the asylum-hearing process if we are going to
disregard the findings and allow undocumented aliens to remain here? The
directive fails to clarify future policy; rather, it will worsen the immigration
crisis. If new mechanisms are needed to allow undocumented aliens into the
United States, then Congress should be designing them to ensure a consistent
national policy.

INS district directors, free to expand individual interpretation in granting
stays of deportation, will create a profusion of asylum policies among the 36
INS districts. A new mechanism can only aggravate problems at the agency. Audits
by the General Accounting Office cite continued management problems and
indecisive leadership at INS.

Since June 6, 1993, the Clinton administration has spent millions of dollars
detaining 279 Chinese asylum-seekers brought here by the smuggling ship Golden
Venture. Because the cost of their care already includes due-process immigration
hearings and appeals, the wisdom of creating a new bureaucratic mechanism to
keep them in the United States is questionable.

The Golden Venture Chinese represent a minute fraction of the undocumented
aliens in the INS asylum system. What will stop the president's new mechanism
from being applied to the millions of illegal aliens entering this country each
year?

As counsel for the INS, I represented the government at exclusion hearings for
35 Golden Venture Chinese. Most admitted that they had not been persecuted under
the family planning policies of the People's Republic of China. Unmarried
teenagers expressed their fear of future abortions and sterilizations. Married
men with two, three and four children also spoke of their fears of enforced
sterilization. Only one alien stated that he had been sterilized after fathering
a second child, and he attributed the action to his feud with a family-planning
official over ownership of farmland.

The Golden Venture Chinese turned out to be economic migrants each willing to
invest $ 30,000 to be smuggled into the United States in pursuit of a better
standard of living -- hardly a reprehensible motivation but not one of the
recognized asylum criteria.

The slightest change in U.S. immigration policy can have a tidal wave effect on
desperate Third World people; one need only look at Haiti. The president's
directive will result in even more illegal aliens being smuggled into this
country by criminal smuggling rings. Although the U.S. asylum law is in dire
need of updating, such changes come best from Congress, not from bureaucratic
fiat. The new immigration mechanism will merely legitimize the old saying --
once an illegal alien gets here, he never leaves.

JAMES H. WALSH

Washington

The writer is an immigration policy consultant.


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              38 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 15, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Study Boosts States' Bid for Greater Federal Burden in Immigration Costs

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 803 words


A federally commissioned study yesterday offered support to state governments
that have complained loudly about the costs of illegal immigration and insisted
that Washington take on a larger share of the burden.

In its most dramatic example, the report calculates that seven high-immigration
states will spend nearly three times as much on incarcerating illegal immigrants
who have committed crimes after entering the United States as Congress has
appropriated for next year.

Conducted by the Urban Institute, a Washington think tank that in the past has
stressed the benefits of immigration, the study is certain to become a
significant and controversial entry in the debate over how federal, state and
local governments should share both the costs of services to illegal immigrants
and the taxes they pay.

Alice M. Rivlin, acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, which
commissioned the report, said in a statement that it "provides the best
information to date about the costs that states incur and the revenues they
receive in connection with undocumented aliens."

Led by Govs. Pete Wilson (R) of California and Lawton Chiles (D) of Florida,
several state governments have argued that illegal immigrants represent a huge
net drain on their treasuries and that Washington should make up the alleged
shortfall because policing the nation's borders is a federal responsibility.
California and Florida have filed lawsuits to get more federal funds.

The study examined only the seven states with the largest populations of illegal
immigrants -- Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and
Texas -- and on many specific points, it differs with cost and revenue estimates
produced by state governments. But the report generally supports the assertion
that illegal immigrants present substantial costs to state governments.

The report puts a $ 3.1 billion annual price tag on the cost of educating
undocumented children in public schools. It estimates at $ 471 million the cost
of imprisoning illegal immigrants who have committed crimes here. Meanwhile, it
totals revenue from state sales, property and income taxes at an estimated $ 1.9
billion. On both expenditures and revenue, the study examined only some aspects
of the situation and did not attempt an overall cost-benefit analysis of the net
effect of illegal immigrants on state budgets.

Entitled "Fiscal Impacts of Undocumented Aliens: Selected Estimates for Seven
States," the 199-page report bases its assumptions on a calculation by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that 3.4 million illegal immigrants lived
in the United States in October 1992 and that this population has grown by
nearly 300,000 people a year since then.

"This study leaves no doubt that there are costs, and so now the only question
is how you allocate those costs between federal and state governments," said
Demetrios Papademetriou, director of the immigration policy program at the
Carnegie Endowment.

In response to growing complaints by state governments, the Clinton
administration has gone further than any previous presidency to address the
touchy issues of federalism and fiscal responsibility raised by illegal
immigration.

Congress first established a federal responsibility for sharing the costs of
incarcerating illegal immigrants in 1986, but no previous administration sought
funds for this purpose. Last April, President Clinton asked Congress for $ 350
million to fund the program.

But Congress designated only $ 130 million for state incarceration costs next
year as part of the $ 30 billion crime bill, which envisions reimbursements of $
300 million to $ 350 million in the following five years.

The Urban League study estimates that California alone spent nearly $ 368
million last year on incarceration costs, and Wilson, who has regularly
complained about illegal immigration costs during his reelection campaign, has
dismissed the crime bill as an "empty promise."

"The Urban Institute's findings are a validation of what Pete Wilson has been
saying all along," said Leslie A. Goodman, Wilson's deputy chief of staff. "It
is time to stop the foot-dragging and stonewalling in a debate about the
numbers. We want action."

Immigration advocates have thus far tried to avoid entering into the fiscal
argument between the states and federal government.

Cecilia Munoz, chief of the immigration program at the National Council of La
Raza, a Washington-based umbrella group of Latino organizations, said "the costs
issue is certainly a very powerful tool for people running for office and the
loudest voices belong to candidates. The real question is whether the nation can
implement rational immigration policies and I worry that the debate about money
moves us further away from that, not closer."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              39 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 17, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

HUD to Block Housing Aid to Illegal Aliens;
Agency to Begin Enforcing Law 14 Years After Passage

Ann Mariano, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: REAL ESTATE; PAGE E1

LENGTH: 1018 words


The Clinton administration has decided it is going to enforce a law that denies
housing assistance to illegal immigrants in the United States, 14 years after
the measure was passed.

People who have entered the country without government permission will be barred
from getting the rental and mortgage subsidies that are available to citizens
and legal immigrants with low incomes, according to the Department of Housing
and Urban Development.

In the past, some undocumented aliens have been able to live in public housing
or receive rental assistance, even though they are not entitled to the aid.

Families composed of illegal immigrants and citizens, who usually are children
born after their families arrived in the United States, will get partial
assistance, according to HUD.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 3.4 million residents
were in the United States illegally in October 1992 and that 600,000 have
arrived since then. About 70,000 illegal aliens live in the Washington area,
including an estimated 8,000 students, according to private studies. Educating
illegal immigrant students costs about $ 50 million a year, the studies said.

HUD Secretary Henry Cisneros said his department's decision to bar undocumented
aliens from housing assistance is a move that was "long overdue." It is not
known how many undocumented immigrants receive such housing aid or at what cost.

Organizations representing Hispanic Americans and other groups said they believe
anti-immigrant forces in Washington and throughout the country influenced the
decision to enforce the law.

Several bills recently introduced in Congress to curtail aid to illegal
residents are evidence of the growing trend, they said, as is action by the
Virginia legislature that bars illegal immigrants 18 and over from attending the
state's schools.

Arnoldo Ramos, executive director of the Council of Latino Agencies here, and
other activists said they believe there is growing antagonism toward newcomers
to the United States.

HUD's action "is clearly part of a trend to penalize immigrants as a whole,"
Ramos said. "It's a nationwide trend."

Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, the nation's
largest Hispanic advocacy group, said: "We are concerned that the proposed rule
goes beyond what the law requires. Our reading of the law ... suggests that full
financial assistance be provided to any otherwise eligible household that
includes at least one citizen or legal immigrant."

A major problem "is that people enforcing the rules often have no way of
determining who is an illegal or legal resident," said Zixta Martinez, housing
policy analyst for La Raza.

"People who look Hispanic end up being turned away" from potential jobs, rental
homes and other opportunities even if they are legal residents, she said.

Anti-immigrant sentiment is high in California, where residents will vote Nov. 8
on a measure that would prohibit extending many services, including public
school education, welfare, medical and other public assistance, to illegal
immigrants.

Critics of the California measure said it violates some constitutional
guarantees, including the right a free public education. The state has a large
immigrant population, including an estimated 300,000 children who are attending
public schools, according to state officials.

A 1983 Supreme Court ruling guaranteeing all students a free public education
regardless of their immigration status came in a close vote -- with five
justices in favor of the education guarantee and four against.

Seven states with the largest populations of illegal immigrants in the country
were surveyed recently by the Urban Institute, a Washington think tank. It
reported this week that those states spend $ 3.1 billion annually to educate
children of these illegal immigrants and another $ 471 million for imprisoning
those who have committed crimes in this country. At the same time, they collect
an estimated $ 1.9 billion in taxes from the aliens.

The states are Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and
Texas.

The National Fair Housing Alliance said it found evidence of disparate treatment
of some legal residents when it investigated the way help was provided to
victims of last January's earthquake in California. The alliance said some
Hispanic residents who lost their homes and asked for government aid often were
asked to show proof of their legal status, even though most had lost all their
belongings in the disaster. At the same time, non-Hispanic victims' word was
accepted as to their legal status, the group said.

And, for the first time, a California law was amended to say that only victims
of the earthquake who were citizens or legal immigrants were eligible for aid
from the state, said Nelson A. Diaz, the HUD general counsel.

Wendy N. Zimmerman, a specialist on immigrant and language policy with the Urban
Institute, said the HUD action is "more or less in line" with recent trends
toward excluding legal and illegal immigrants from some government services.

"I'd be interested in knowing HUD's rationale for not enforcing the law for 14
years," she said. "My guess is that it was not worth the effort because it was
not a big problem."

Diaz said the law is going to be enforced because HUD Secretary Cisneros "wanted
all the laws enforced and implemented. We felt obligated to do it."

While illegal immigrants may use many federal services, including housing aid,
immigration officials believe that few live in public housing, according to
Diaz.

Because the wait for a unit is months and years in many areas of the country,
most people who were illegal aliens when they apply for public housing have
become legal immigrants or citizens by the time their names get to the top of a
list, he said.

Congress twice stopped HUD from putting the law into force, in 1983 and in 1986.
But now, Diaz said, "there is an anti-immigrant feeling" in the country.

Enforcement of the law will begin after the department issues regulations and
allows 60 days for public comment, HUD said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              40 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 17, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

States and Illegal Immigration

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 486 words


SEVEN STATES bear the burden of providing services to 86 percent of the 4
million illegal aliens in this country, and they have stepped up their campaign
to have the federal government take over some of those costs. A few have even
gone to court to force Washington to cooperate. Immigration advocates have
played down this problem, a few asserting that these people actually contribute
more in dollar terms to state coffers than they take out. This week the Urban
Institute, a research organization under contract to the federal government for
this purpose, issued a report providing some relevant statistics. The institute
made no recommendations about the federal government's obligations in this area,
but the report provides support for the states' case. Researchers also took the
opportunity to reemphasize an extremely encouraging fact published in another
Urban Institute study a few months ago about the economic success of legal
immigrants and refugees in this country.

Almost everyone who comes to the United States without papers or illegally
overstays his valid visa heads for the same states: California, New York,
Florida, Texas, New Jersey, Illinois and Arizona. The Urban Institute estimates
that in an average year, they pay state income, sales and property taxes to
those states totaling $ 1.9 billion. But the states, in turn, must supply
certain services, among them three that are very expensive. In the seven
jurisdictions studied, for example, annual costs for educating undocumented
children come to $ 3.1 billion, Medicaid to cover emergency services and
childbirth costs $ 422 million, and providing prison facilities for the tens of
thousands of illegals who commit crimes here requires expenditures of $ 471.4
million. This leaves the states billions of dollars in the hole because of what
they claim is ineffective enforcement of the immigration laws by the federal
government. They need and deserve help, not only in the form of prevention but
in cost-sharing, too.

Even those who enter the country legally often need help in the beginning.
Families and sponsors take care of many who come on immigrant visas, and the
federal government provides a stipend to refugees. But the Urban Institute
experts who produced the earlier report noted the rapid success of these groups,
in contrast with the undocumented. They have the advantage of being able to work
legally, of course, which the undocumented cannot do. But the single fact of
their economic success is a testament to their determination, hard work and
ambition. That fact should diminish the fears of those who worry that all
immigrants are a burden on this society. That is certainly not true of those who
arrive through legal channels, for within a short period of time they not only
cease to need special help but are contributing more than their share to the
country's economy and its state and federal treasuries.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              41 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 29, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Starts Deportation Of Hostages

Joe Donnelly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MARYLAND WEEKLY (MONTGOMERY); PAGE M1

LENGTH: 679 words


The illegal aliens whose collective dream of slipping into the United States got
as far as a safe house in Prince George's County are facing the reality of a
drawn-out deportation process while the men accused of smuggling them here face
criminal charges.

INS officials said that immigration judges have already ordered deportations of
several of the 64 Chinese nationals discovered in a rented house in the 10500
block of Forestgrove Lane in Mitchellville when it was raided last spring by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the FBI. Deportation proceedings are
pending for the remaining illegal immigrants not facing criminal charges,
officials said.

For some, their deportation cases will mean a fast trip back to China. Others
may be able to work administrative and legal channels for several years,
according to Don Crocepti, the acting INS director in Baltimore.

Papers filed in U.S. District Court in Baltimore charge Chong Hua Chen and Chong
Chao Chen, a father and son from Prince George's County, with being part of a
ring that conspired to bring 110 Chinese here illegally from the province of
Fujian. The immigrants were believed to be headed to New York's Chinatown when
the plot to transport for pay, then hold the hopeful immigrants for ransom was
hatched, according to the documents.

The freighter ferrying them to the United States landed in Virginia in
mid-March. Federal agents, working on a tip from a hostage's relative, raided
the Mitchellville house on April 5.

Officials said that the smugglers asked for up to $ 30,000 in ransom for
hostages and threatened to beat or, in one case at least, kill them if relatives
and friends did not come up with the money for their release.

An FBI spokesman said the immigrants were standing or sitting "wall to wall" in
the basement when agents raided the house. It did not appear that the smugglers
had used handcuffs or other devices to restrain the immigrants. That would have
been unnecessary, said Andrew Manning, an FBI spokesman in Baltimore.

"Where would they go? This was only supposed to be a way station on their way to
New York," he said.

Chong Hua Chen and Chong Chao Chen are among four men being tried in the case on
charges of kidnapping, smuggling, extortion, transporting aliens, and even
firearms charges.

One defendant has pleaded guilty. A verdict in the Baltimore trial is not
expected until mid-October. Five others accused in the plot have trials pending
in New York.

In the Baltimore trial, one 39-year-old woman testified that she was kept in the
basement for 15 days before the raid, during which time the immigrants were
watched by armed guards working for the smugglers.

Under federal law, the government has no obligation to provide legal
representation for illegal immigrants, but INS workers say they did provide a
list of local immigration lawyers and advocacy groups that often give illegal
immigrants free legal representation.

Immigration officials in Washington and Baltimore revealed some details about
the Chinese aliens who are not facing criminal charges.

About two months ago, 56 were transferred to detention facilities near New
Orleans, where most are still being held pending a hearing or deportation. None
has yet been deported, although an undisclosed number have been given final
deportation orders.

Two others are in detention in Wicomico County where all were originally held
after the April raid. One faces criminal litigation and the other is appealing
deportation, according to an INS spokesman in Washington. It is expected that
all of the illegal aliens eventually will be ordered back to China.

However the more savvy among the Chinese nationals could delay that process for
up to two years, Crocepti added. Exhausting appeals available in INS deportation
procedures can take up to a year, he said. Then the illegal aliens can try the
legal system, either to seek asylum or challenge deportation.

"They have due process," Crocepti said. "One could realistically draw it out in
the litigation process for two years."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              42 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 29, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

California's SOS on Immigration;
Initiative Would Cut Off Illegals' Benefits, Schooling

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1554 words

DATELINE: BUENA PARK, Calif.


On a routine visit to an Orange County social service center three years ago,
Barbara Coe became frightened by the changes immigration had brought to her
community.

"I walked into this monstrous room full of people, babies and little children
all over the place, and I realized nobody was speaking English," recalls Coe, a
60-year-old grandmother. "I was overwhelmed with this feeling: 'Where am I?
What's happened here?' "

Now those feelings, shared by millions of other Californians, are propelling a
campaign to enact a ballot initiative in November that could change life for
legal and illegal immigrants across the United States.

Coe was trying to help an elderly friend secure some public health benefits but
was turned down. "When the counselor told me that lots of those people waiting
were illegal aliens and they were getting benefits instead of citizens like my
friend, I walked out of there so outraged I decided I had to do something."

What she did was organize a citizens group, the California Coalition for
Immigration Reform, that like many others in the state demanded less
immigration. But with the help of some Reagan-era immigration officials and a
few political professionals, her group hit upon an idea that has caught fire:
Use a ballot initiative to deny illegal immigrants access to basic public
services.

Proposition 187 would prohibit illegal immigrants from receiving social or
welfare services, ban them from public schools and universities and prevent them
from receiving publicly funded health care, except for emergency treatments.
Anyone seeking these benefits would be required to document their immigration or
citizenship status, and administrators would be obliged to report "suspected"
illegal immigrants to the authorities.

Proponents argue the initiative would save the state money and make California
so uncomfortable for undocumented immigrants that they would go home. Gov. Pete
Wilson (R) has called it "the two-by-four we need to make them take notice in
Washington."

Despite strong opposition from critics who contend it would not alleviate the
root causes of illegal immigration, recent polls show Proposition 187 is favored
by about 60 percent of California voters -- with support from all racial,
ethnic, financial and political categories.

Riding a tempest of antipathy toward illegal immigrants, the proposition is
changing both the substance and the tone of the debate over immigration policy.
Its backers call it the SOS (Save Our State) Initiative, but it is having an
impact far beyond California. The outcome of the vote could help determine how
immigration is handled by Congress next year and what place it will take on the
agenda for the 1996 presidential campaign.

The passions aroused by the proposition were on display one recent evening here
in Buena Park, an Orange County suburb about 20 miles from Los Angeles. About
3,000 supporters of Ross Perot's political organization, United We Stand
America, had jammed into a conference center. As they waited for Perot, one of
the warm-up speakers was William King, a retired Immigration and Naturalization
Service official and a leader of the proposition campaign.

Illegal immigrants are like burglars, King said, because "they both trespass
with criminal intent." In a rising voice he continued: "Just as a burglar comes
into your home to take your property, the illegal alien is coming here to take
your jobs and deplete your resources."

As King predicted victory for the proposition, the crowd interrupted with a
standing ovation, something they did not give Perot later when he talked about
budget deficits and trade agreements.

Fear of illegal immigration is related to the anxieties over economic decline
and cultural confusion that fueled Perot's 1992 presidential campaign, and as
usual the federal government is getting the blame.

But there is an additional factor. "People have seen their communities change
right before their very eyes and that has them worked up," said Coe as she took
a break from distributing leaflets at the Perot rally.

Orange County, for example, was an overwhelmingly white, middle-class,
conservative community not long ago, but like the rest of Southern California it
has undergone demographic change at breakneck pace. In the 1980 census, its
population of 1.9 million was 87 percent white. By 1990, immigrants made up
nearly a quarter of the population of 2.4 million, and more than half of them
had lived in the United States for 10 years or less.

Supporters readily admit that the proposition would be subject to a flock of
lawsuits on privacy and discrimination issues as well as the 1982 U.S. Supreme
Court decision in Plyler v. Doe holding that all children have a right to a
public education regardless of their immigration status.

"Certainly it is meant to provoke court action," said Alan Nelson, INS
commissioner from 1982 to 1989 who is a coauthor of the initiative. "There's
nothing new about getting decisions reversed when circumstances have changed,
and in immigration terms we are a world away from 1982."

A broad coalition of interest groups has mobilized to oppose the initiative,
including the state's largest teachers and school board associations, law
enforcement groups, medical associations, state employees and other unions and a
variety of Hispanic and Asian groups.

"It is unconscionable that we would be punishing children to get back at their
parents," said Sherry Loofbourrow, president of the California School Boards
Association.

State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, the Democratic candidate for governor, has
called the proposition "mean-spirited and wrongheaded." She compares it to the
mass deportation of Mexican workers during the Depression and the internment of
Japanese Americans during World War II.

"The people asked to produce a lot of documents or who get named as suspects are
going to be people with an accent or with a foreign-sounding last name or with
skin that is not white," said Antonio Gonzalez, president of the Southwest
Voters Registration and Education Project, a Hispanic group.

But those fighting the initiative recognize that these objections have limited
popular appeal. "We do not have our heads in the sand," said Loofbourrow.
"Everyone understands that this is an overwhelmingly powerful issue, and
everyone is anxious to deal with it, but we want to deal with it intelligently
and productively."

In a strategic decision that could shape the immigration policy debate for
years, opponents have decided that they must acknowledge that illegal
immigration is a problem demanding immediate solutions. The illegal influx has
to be cut, they acknowledge, but they contend the initiative is a bad way to go
about it.

Police officials, for example, contend that young people pushed out of school
would become criminals or victims of crime. Doctors worry that denying them
immunizations would help spread disease.

"People are focusing on the overall issue now, which makes the proposition very
appealing, but we needto convince them to focus on its details and specific
consequences," said Scott Macdonald, spokesman for Taxpayers Against 187, an
umbrella group of opponents. To accomplish that end they have hired a
politicalconsulting firm, Woodward and McDowell of Burlingame, Calif.,
thatspecializes in defeating initiatives.

"Typically initiatives start strong and then fade in the stretch as people
become familiar with them," said Macdonald, pointing to "Big Green," a
wide-ranging environmental protection referendum proposition that lost in 1990.
But the opposite example is Proposition 13, the measure to roll back property
taxes that was enacted on a wave of voter outrage in 1978.

This fall the political dynamics are anything but typical, because Proposition
187 is so closely linked to the hotly contested race for governor between Wilson
and Brown.

Instead of being debated on its own merits, the proposition has become a litmus
test on the broader illegal immigration issue. Wilson dismisses Brown's critique
of the proposition and maintains that she is "lacking the courage" to fight
illegal immigration. "She seeks to discredit SOS and to vilify the vast majority
of Californians who support SOS by calling them mean-spirited, racist, immigrant
bashers," he contends.

Wilson's campaign not only lends credibility and legitimacy to the proposition
but also constantly keeps the issue at a boil. Although neither side in the
proposition campaign has raised enough money to buy television advertisements,
Wilson is regularly broadcasting spots that demand immediate solutions to the
illegal influx.

Meanwhile, a quiet battle is underway for the Latino voters who could account
for as much as 12 percent of the electorate this year. Hispanic activists are
almost entirely opposed to the initiative, but public opinion polls indicate
that their constituents are about evenly split.

The initiative could also affect President Clinton's prospects for reelection in
a state that was vital to his 1992 victory.

An administration official preoccupied with California politics said, "The races
out there are so tight and so important and he is going to be in the state so
much that it seems inevitable that he'll take a position on the initiative
before the campaign is over."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              43 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 30, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

INS Clears Student

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A 20-year-old illegal immigrant on a $ 100,000 scholarship to the University of
Chicago won the right to stay in the United States after a hearing in
Immigration Court.

Instead of being deported, Rafael Ibarra, a former San Diego high school
valedictorian, will return to classes and continue studies toward a medical
career.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it will not appeal the decision,
which means Ibarra can apply for U.S. citizenship.

Ibarra's mother smuggled him from Mexico in 1980, a year after she had come to
the San Diego area to marry an American, who later abandoned them. Ibarra said
he tried to apply for legal residency in 1988, but was turned away by INS
officials.

When university officials asked him to clarify his status after receiving his
scholarship, he decided in June of last year to turn himself in.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              44 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 1, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

White House Rejects Registry Idea By Immigration Panel, Officials Say

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8

LENGTH: 968 words


The Clinton administration has rejected the major recommendation of a bipartisan
commission to help contain the politically explosive issue of illegal
immigration, administration officials said yesterday.

The recommendation to immediately create a massive computerized registry of
persons eligible to work in the United States was presented in a report to
Congress yesterday by the Commission on Immigration Reform. The panel's
chairman, former representative Barbara Jordan (D-Tex.), was appointed by
President Clinton.

The computer registry was the crucial element in the commission's plan to
improve enforcement of the 1986 law prohibiting the employment of illegal
immigrants, but a senior White House official said, "It is very premature to
talk about a new mega database and the multibillion-dollar expense that it would
entail."

Over the past year Clinton and senior administration officials have often
previewed the commission report as a new blueprint for a long-range immigration
strategy. The administration successfully held off demands for major legislation
from both Democrats and Republicans in Congress this past year by arguing that
any new initiative should await the report.

But rather than a consensus-building proposal, administration officials said the
commission proposed an ambitious and expensive experiment that had provoked
considerable controversy even before it was officially delivered.

Ethnic and immigrant groups complained that the commission's plans would not
only be expensive and ineffective but would also heighten discrimination. Civil
liberties organizations and some conservative intellectuals complained that the
proposals would intrude on privacy rights and could lead to the creation of a
national identity card.

The administration is now preparing the ground for its own legislative
initiative next year, and officials said the commission's proposals will perform
an important function. The administration will embrace the goals put forth in
the commission report, the officials said, while producing its own specific
policies to reach them.

"We agree with almost everything in the commission report," said a senior
Justice Department official. "We share the commission's aims, but we recognize a
need to test the means for achieving those aims, and we are not sure we'll reach
the same conclusions they did."

Denying access to the workplace, the commission report said, "is the linchpin of
a comprehensive strategy to reduce illegal immigration."

Attorney General Janet Reno said in a statement "we support the commission's
recommendation that employer sanctions be enforced more vigorously." But, she
made no mention of the commission's recommendation of a national registry of
workers. Nor did she mention the commission's other major recommendation, which
called for an array of pilot programs to test various methods of verifying a
worker's identity -- such as counterfeit-resistant Social Security cards and
driver's licenses.

The commission concluded that enforcement of the law prohibiting illegal
immigrants has been hampered by the difficulties that employers face in
determining whether a job applicant is eligible to work based on citizenship or
immigration status.

The commission argued that with a computerized registry of workers, employers
could dial into a government computer and instantly know whether or not an
individual was an illegal immigrant. Then, the employer would have to verify
that the applicant is the same person that the computer has approved.

These problems have bedeviled policymakers for almost 20 years, since illegal
immigration was first recognized as a problem. Confident that her commission had
hit on the right formula, Jordan urged the president to move swiftly.

"The good news is that Congress doesn't have to do anything," Jordan said at a
National Press Club luncheon. Arguing that Clinton has the authority to act
immediately on his own she said, "if he wants to say 'we like these
recommendations, let's start the pilots,' he could start it tomorrow."

Instead, the administration responded with statements expressing interest in the
commission's ideas but promising to explore them with programs already underway
rather than by embracing the new proposals.

"Our approach will be one of steady progress and increments because we don't
want to waste money and we want to make sure we get it right," said a White
House official.

For example, the administration did accept the commission's goal of finding
better ways to establish a job applicant's identity, but it did not suggest
anything as grand as the issuance of new social security cards.

"Worker identification must be made more fraud-resistant," Reno said, "and the
number of documents that can be used for employer verification must be reduced.
We have already made some progress on this, and we will propose legislation next
year to enable us to do more."

To a large extent the administration objections are based on the scale of the
projects proposed by the commission. The new database would marry information
from the Social Security Administration and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) to eventually create files on each of the roughly 150 million
persons eligible to work in the United States.

The pilot programs that the commission proposed launching immediately would
encompass five of the nation's most populous states.

"When you launch pilots that cover California, Texas, New York, Illinois and
Florida, you are not testing any more, you might as well be doing it for real
because you will have affected so many people," said an administration official.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the INS, said that the administration would
merely expand an existing pilot program to experiment with 200 employers.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              45 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 19, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Documenting Workers

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 360 words


On behalf of the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform, let me correct the
record regarding The Post's news report [Oct. 1], quoting unnamed administration
sources, estimating the cost of the commission's recommended test of a simpler,
more fraud-resistant means of verifying authorization to work.

The Social Security Administration (SSA) estimates that the cost of designing
and operating a registry to verify the Social Security numbers of newly hired
employees would be about $ 300 million over a five-year period. The system would
work in much the same way that credit card companies validate charges by
telephone. Operating it nationally would run about $ 32 million annually. The
largest part of the funds required, $ 122 million in the first year of operation
and $ 30 million thereafter, would be devoted to clearing up discrepancies found
in SSA records. The cost of pilot programs to test this system would, of course,
be considerably lower.

Additional funds would be needed to address errors in the records of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The Clinton administration has already
pledged significant funding to improve the SSA and INS databases, a move that
the commission fully supports regardless of the future of our proposal. No
Americans should need worry about the quality of their Social Security records;
no immigrants should need worry that INS has lost their files.

The Office of Management and Budget recently contracted with the Urban Institute
to assess the costs that illegal aliens impose on society. While the commission
has serious reservations about the adequacy of the data available for
determining the actual costs of illegal immigration, the Urban Institute
estimate of $ 2 billion in net costs to seven states gives a rough picture of
the situation.

Spending less than $ 300 million over five years to test the most promising
option to save billions per year is a wise investment. That is why the
commission recommends a measured, phased-in testing of the registry to determine
effectiveness at every step of the way.

BARBARA JORDAN

Chair

U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform

Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              46 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 23, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Central Americans Protest Uncertain Future Under Refugee Amnesty Program

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 852 words


Last year, when Benjamin Dinarte's 17-year-old daughter was shot and killed by a
suitor in his native El Salvador, Dinarte could not go home because of his
uncertain immigration status. Two months ago, when his mother died there, he
could not attend her funeral.

"It leaves a terrible hurt in the heart, but I had no choice," said the
47-year-old computer packer from Falls Church, who feared he would not be able
to return to the United States. "If I could only become a resident and get my
papers, the first thing I would do is go home and visit my father."

Dinarte and his wife, Edith, were among several thousand Salvadorans and
hundreds of Guatemalans who rallied in Lafayette Square across from the White
House yesterday to demand permanent residency for an estimated 200,000 Central
Americans whose permission to live in this country is due to expire Dec. 31. A
few other former refugees joined the march out of sympathy for the plight of
their fellow Central Americans.

Chanting "Are we illegal? No. Do we want to stay? Yes," the crowd marched in
double file from Mount Pleasant south along 16th Street NW and gathered in
Lafayette Square to hear speeches, poetry and a haunting ballad by Salvadoran
singer Lilo Gonzales that began with the lyrics, "If they deport me, I promise I
will take you in the soul of my guitar. ..."

The protesters, who came from as far as Boston and Newark for the demonstration,
have been living in the United States under a temporary amnesty that was first
granted to undocumented Salvadorans for 18 months in 1990, extended for a year
by President Bush and extended again by President Clinton.

If the amnesty is not extended a third time or converted to permanent permission
to stay, the entire group could be deported. More likely, tens of thousands of
them could be fired by employers nervous about having illegal workers on their
payrolls.

"Realistically, we know no one will be deported on January 1st, but the
community would continue to live in a state of great uncertainty," said Saul
Solorzano, director of Carecen, a nonprofit refugee assistance agency in Mount
Pleasant. "All we ask is that the government give us an answer soon, so we can
help people start planning their lives."

Administration officials said Friday that no decision has been made but that
there are discussions going on between officials at the Justice and State
departments and that the Salvadorans' legal status will be clarified within a
month.

Michael Manuel, acting spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said even if the temporary amnesty ends in December, deportations would not
begin soon. He said most affected Salvadorans could continue to work and that
many could reopen old petitions for political asylum.

"Whatever happens, we are not talking about a mass movement of people out of the
country," Manuel said. "This will be a gradual process, even if it is denied."

One argument for ending the special immigration status is that the 10-year civil
war in El Salvador, which sent half a million people fleeing north to the United
States, ended with a peace accord in 1992. But many demonstrators yesterday said
their native country was still volatile, impoverished and crime-ridden.

"The war may be over, but there is still no condition of democracy or security.
The peace is only apparent," said Ruth Zavala, an Avon sales representative from
Red Bank, N.J., who fled El Salvador five years ago. She said her husband was
kidnapped by armed men in 1981, when both of them were students, and never seen
again.

"We were persecuted in El Salvador, and we have felt persecuted here," Zavala
added, referring to the mounting wave of anti-immigrant sentiment in the United
States. "We don't want to be on welfare; we want to work and be legally secure,
so we don't feel like refugees forever."

Aside from El Salvador's political problems, officials in both countries have
practical reasons not to deport the exiles. With postwar unemployment extremely
high, Salvadoran authorities dread having tens of thousands of workers dumped on
the economy. From the United States's point of view, processing and shipping
such huge numbers of people is costly and time-consuming.

On the other hand, public sentiment against immigrants, especially illegal
aliens, has created pressure in Congress not to grant the Salvadorans any more
leeway.

Several hundred thousand undocumented Salvadorans received a permanent amnesty
in the late 1980s, and there is a large additional backlog of pending asylum
claims.

Yesterday, however, many protesters were pinning their hopes on the slim chance
of an executive decision to simply let them stay. Asked how they would face
being forcibly returned to El Salvador, a number of people shook their heads in
despair.

"There is no work in El Salvador. I send $ 200 a month home to my wife and
children, and if I did not, they would not eat," said Jose Pinera, a 55-year-old
gardener who lives in Langley Park in Prince George's County. "It is lonely
here, but I sleep well knowing that here at least I can provide for them."


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MANUEL MEDINA, WHO EMIGRATED FROM NICARAGUA, PARTICIPATED WITH
DAUGHTER SHARON MICHELLE, 3. CRAIG HERNDON

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              47 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 6, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Fortress America? Suddenly, the Golden Door Is Closing

Roberto Suro

SECTION: OUTLOOK; PAGE C3

LENGTH: 1877 words


THE SUMMER of 1994 marked a turning point in the history of immigration to the
United States. It may mark the beginning of the end of an era, dating from the
1960s, in which an influx of Latino and Asian newcomers changed the face of
America. Regardless of what happens on election day in California, where illegal
immigration has polarized an entire campaign season, the political dynamics of
the issue have changed irrevocably. Cracking down on illegal immigrants has been
embraced by politicians across the ideological spectrum who now debate only the
appropriate means. Inexorably the status of refugees and legal immigrants have
become part of the fray.

If 1994 is remembered as the year when America began to close its doors, then
Aug. 18 will be the date to remember. That evening, just in time for the 11 p.m.
news on the East Coast, Attorney General Janet Reno announced that henceforth
Cuban rafters would be sent to an internment camp on the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay. Cubans were once the most privileged immigrants; like Berlin
Wall jumpers and Russian ballet dancers, they were Cold War icons. For more than
30 years they served as evidence of America's moral superiority. Then, in the
summer of 1994, President Clinton put Cubans behind barbed wire, and no one much
complained.

Clinton's decision may have been prompted by the potential danger to the
reelection campaign of Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles. But the groundwork for the
decision was laid in response to another governor, California's Pete Wilson, a
Republican and a foe. Wilson put illegal immigration on the national political
agenda by making it the key issue in his reelection effort. In an innovative
formulation, he denounced porous borders as an unfunded federal mandate and
demanded that Washington make up the losses to his state treasury. Fearful of
the political fallout in a state that is the keystone to his own reelection
prospects, the president embraced Wilson's diagnosis and ordered up his own
cure.

Having resisted GOP legislation to boost the Border Patrol in 1993, Clinton
launched his own initiative as part of the crime bill passed last summer.
Although the administration disputed the amount of money illegal immigration
costs states, it embraced the logic of reimbursement and began writing checks to
Sacramento and other state capitals.

By the time the summer was over, however, Clinton had not only extended the
illegal immigration crisis to the Cubans, but had also broadened the fiscal
arguments against immigrants to cover those who are here legally. A major
financing provision of the welfare reform plan Clinton unveiled June 15 involved
further limiting legal immigrants already-restricted access to the welfare
system.

The politics of restriction got another boost from an unexpected quarter when
the Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by former U.S. representative
Barbara Jordan of Texas, declared that the illegal influx needed urgent
attention and proposed the kind of aggressive crackdown that had mostly been
advocated by conservative Republicans in the past and had never gotten very far
in Congress. Immigration advocates complain that Jordan, perhaps unwittingly,
provided white liberals, African Americans and assorted Democrats all the
political cover they needed to take up a restrictionist agenda.

"Jordan and the commission put forward what they thought were carefully crafted
proposals and insisted that they were not advocating a national I.D. card, but
in the current political atmosphere they've lent credibility to the idea that
expensive and potentially intrusive measures are necessary to fight illegal
immigration," said Cecilia Munoz, chief immigration analyst for the National
Council of La Raza.

In the heat of the current campaign, politicians as ideologically diverse as
Wilson and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) have said they favored an identity
card plan to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs. Jordan, meanwhile,
has boldly staked her reputation as a civil rights leader on a promise that
there would be no harmful effects in terms of civil liberties and
discrimination.

None of this would have been possible except for the fact that immigration,
legal and illegal, is accentuating all kinds of fears in much of the public. In
the past and in many other countries immigration has often aroused economic
insecurities and provoked anxieties about the unknown. But in the United States
today, immigration seems to be hitting several different hot buttons at once.

Most current immigrants are not of European origins, and so their growing
numbers play into age-old anxieties about race as well as newer debates over
issues like multiculturalism. Because many are poor they heighten taxpayer
resentments over social spending. Because immigration policy is a federal
matter, the ongoing illegal influx gets tagged as one more sign of Washington's
incompetence. Ragged people heading north in makeshift sea vessels become
symbols of a world that is out of control and unresponsive to American
imperatives.

Finally, all of these factors resonate with the profound but often poorly
articulated concerns over the nation's identity, direction and future that
underlie so much political discourse.

"We are in the first stage of the post-modern period of immigration, and from
now on immigration policy is going to be addressed in a fundamentally different
way than in the past," says Wade Henderson, chief of the NAACP's Washington
office and a long-time power broker on immigration issues. "The political
pressure to do something is building, and restrictionist proposals that once
seemed far out are now being taken seriously."

Nowhere has that been more evident than in Congress.

During the past session dozens of measures were introduced to further reduce
illegal immigrants' already very limited access to public benefits, to greatly
expand the Border Patrol or to slash the number of visas for legal immigrants.
The administration together with key Democratic leaders managed to squash all
the big proposals, and by late summer was beginning to develop a legislative
initiative for next year.

"Rather than just trying to stifle all the action, we are going to put out our
own proposals in 1995," said a senior administration official. "For one thing we
would not be able to keep a lid on this issue again and for another we want to
be in an affirmative posture rather that on the defensive going into the '96
elections."

Reno has already said that the administration will promote measures to combat
document fraud and to enhance enforcement of laws prohibiting employment of
illegal immigrants. It may also seek broader authority to deal with "immigration
emergencies" like the ones that erupted in the Caribbean last summer.

Where the legislative proposals will begin is easy to figure. Where they will
end is impossible to predict.

Two major questions of degree remain to be answered: How far is the public
willing to go in fighting illegal immigration? And will the restrictionist
impulse carry over into legal immigration, producing substantial cuts in the
number of people admitted?

"What's been happening with refugees is very much tied to a change in public
attitude toward immigration in general," said Diana Aviv, director of the
Washington office of the Council of Jewish Federations. "All immigrants now tend
to be viewed as a financial burden regardless of their contribution, and that is
because of what's happened in California."

The so-called "Save Our State" initiative on the California ballot outlaws
virtually all services to illegal immigrants. Proposition 187 grew out of
Wilson's insistence that immigration must be viewed as a fiscal issue, and the
governor has been its most prominent supporter. But cutting costs is only one
objective. Proposition 187 would require public officials to report anyone
"suspected" of being an illegal immigrant. Alan Nelson, a Reagan-era immigration
official and a co-author of the initiative, said "it sends a message to the
illegal alien that we will not tolerate their living here against the law and
that they should go home."

Opponents, which include the state's largest teacher, school board and medical
associations, complain that the intent is to make schools and hospitals
instruments of immigration policy. "The goal is to create a climate of fear so
the undocumented will leave but inevitably anyone who looks foreign or sounds
foreign would come under the shadow of suspicion," said Scott Macdonald,
spokesman for Taxpayers Against 187, a coalition of opponents to the measure.

The Jordan commission concluded that for public safety reasons immunizations and
a few other services should be provided to illegal immigrants. It noted also
that efforts to restrict illegal immigrants' access to public services should
"conform to constitutional requirements," referring to the 1982 Supreme Court
decision mandating that all children receive a public education regardless of
immigration status -- a decision that proponents of Proposition 187 seek to
challenge by getting the initiative enacted; they had a powerful voice on the
nine-member commission in the person of Harold Ezell, a former immigration
service official who co-authored the proposition with Nelson while serving on
Jordan's panel.

The commission's most lasting contribution, however, may lie in a policy
formulation that inextricably links legal and illegal immigration into one
political package. In presenting the commission's report to Congress, Jordan
said, "if we are to preserve our immigration tradition and our ability to say
yes to so many of those who seek entry, we must also have the strength to say no
where we must."

This rhetoric is loaded with common sense, and it has been employed by others,
including Clinton, in the past. But Jordan is the first to justify a massive new
program to combat illegal immigration on the basis that it is necessary to
preserve the integrity of legal immigration.

"While Ms. Jordan and the commission probably thought that they were reinforcing
the distinction between legal and illegal immigration, they may have unwittingly
contributed to the further blurring of that distinction," said Demetrios
Papademetriou, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace.

Jordan's report is already being used to justify measures more stringent than
those she has envisioned. Proponents of cutbacks in legal immigration, like Sen.
Alan Simpson (R- Wyo.) have coined a corollary to her argument: if a drastic
reduction in illegal immigration is necessary to preserve the integrity of the
legal flow, as Jordan argued, then the legal flow should be cut down until there
is proof that illegal immigration has been brought under control.

Jordan might not countenance such proposals, but that is not going to stop
anyone in the super-heated atmosphere that surrounds this issue. Preserving the
credibility of the immigration system is the slogan. Cutting costs is the
rationale. New limits are the objective. Illegal immigration will be the initial
target, but fewer legal immigrants may be the inevitable result.

Robert Suro covers immigration issues for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, THOMAS KERR FOR TWP

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              48 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 13, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Courts Walk Fine Line on Immigration Issues Raised by California Law

Joan Biskupic, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 1374 words


For as long as the United States has been trying to keep some immigrants out,
the Supreme Court has been struggling with how much the Constitution protects
those who get in anyway and live here illegally.

California's newly adopted Proposition 187, which bars illegal immigrants from
receiving many public services, eventually will be tested against a backdrop of
cases that give such immigrants only some of the rights citizens and permanent
residents have.

But the array of decisions since the late 19th century, when immigration
restrictions began, also emphasize that Congress -- not the states -- have
authority over immigration. The court also has said states cannot deny public
education to immigrant children living here illegally.

In a key 1982 ruling in a Texas case, the justices said they did not want to
sentence children who were here through no fault of their own to a perpetual
underclass. That case may have particular relevance to the new California law,
which was challenged in court immediately after it was passed last week.

All told, while the court has said illegal immigrants cannot "share in the
bounty" the country offers citizens and legal residents, it has walked a fine
line in deciding whether specific constitutional protections apply in specific
cases.

Amid the new public fervor over illegal immigrants, it is likely the justices
would be even more reluctant to offer broad rulings or depart from precedent as
Proposition 187 and other anti-immigrant controversies arrive on their doorstep.

"Even though it is now a conservative court," said Harvard law professor
Laurence H. Tribe, a majority of the justices are likely "to dig in their heels
against what looks like a nativist, racist and hysterical action. Rather than
being swept up in the tide, they would see it as theirs to stop."

But Dan Stein, a lawyer and executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which wants the 1982 Plyer v. Doe case reversed, said that
the decision giving undocumented children the right to a public education "was a
radical departure from the rule that Congress establishes whatever rights an
alien has."

Stein, who says scarce public resources should not be spent on people who are
here illegally, contends the ruling is ripe for reversal by a court whose makeup
is far more conservative than it was in 1982.

A separate California case, now pending in a federal appeals court, concerns the
speech rights of non-U.S. citizens.

The question arises as part of the government's seven-year effort to deport a
group of Palestinian activists who supported the terrorist Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine. The Justice Department contends that people who are not
citizens lack full First Amendment protection. Lawyers on the other side say
that stance would wrongly establish a two-tier system of speech and association
rights for citizens and those living here illegally, or even legally but not
naturalized.

For close to a century, the Supreme Court has said that even illegal immigrants
are guaranteed the Constitution's due process of law. That means that before an
illegal can be imprisoned for a crime or otherwise deprived of life, liberty or
property, the government must hold a fair hearing. Yet, at the same time the
justices have ruled that all rights and benefits given legal residents do not
necessarily extend to illegal aliens.

"Congress regularly makes rules that would be unacceptable if applied to
citizens," Justice John Paul Stevens said in a 1976 case.

Illegal immigrants cannot "advance even a colorable constitutional claim to a
share in the bounty that a conscientious sovereign makes available to its own
citizens and some of its guests," Stevens said in a unanimous decision upholding
denial of some Medicare benefits to people who were not legal residents or had
not lived in the country five years.

" ... Congress may decide that as the alien's tie grows stronger, so does the
strength of his claim to an equal share of that munificence."

Plyer v. Doe was the first test of whether undocumented immigrants are covered
by the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal legal protection.. The case arose
after Texas barred children of illegals from attending public schools unless
they paid a special tuition. In a 5 to 4 decision, the court said the protection
extends to everyone living within the country's borders.

Against that framework, the court went on to say that Texas had failed to show
that the school prohibition furthered some substantial goal that would outweigh
the immigrants' rights.

The law "imposes a lifetime hardship on a discrete class of children not
accountable," for their illegal status, Justice William J. Brennan Jr. wrote for
the majority. "The stigma of illiteracy will mark them for the rest of their
lives."

Brennan said the situation "raises the specter of a permanent caste of
undocumented resident aliens, encouraged by some to remain here as a source of
cheap labor, but nevertheless denied the benefits our society makes available to
citizens and lawful residents."

Yet the decision was limited to children and to public education. Brennan, who
retired in 1990, also stressed that, in examining a federal program, the court
would be far more deferential to Congress, which has broad power over
immigration, and to the executive, which has primary control for foreign
relations.

The new California law, approved with 59 percent of the vote, would deny illegal
immigrants non-emergency medical services and public education on all levels.
Immigration activists sued the state immediately last week, and federal and
state judges have temporarily suspended enforcement of the law.

"The opponents of Proposition 187 have one very big thing going for them: that
the law was enacted by the state," not the federal government, said Georgetown
law professor David Cole, who specializes in immigration law.

Opponents also naturally rely on the 1982 decision's holding that children
should not be penalized for being brought here illegally.

"There's nothing that has changed since Plyer in terms of the law," said Mark
Rosenbaum, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California. "All that has changed is the political uproar."

Of those justices who were in the majority in the Texas case, only Stevens
remains on the court. Of those who dissented, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist
and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor remain.

The justices at the power center, Anthony M. Kennedy, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and
David H. Souter, are especially deferential to precedent. The others are Antonin
Scalia and Clarence Thomas, who read constitutional protections narrowly, and
Stephen G. Breyer, the most recent justice, who appears more liberal.

Stein, without wanting to specify the lineup, is optimistic that the votes would
be there to reverse Plyer v. Doe. He and other supporters of the California law
note that when the court ruled against Texas, it said state policies penalizing
illegal immigrants would fare better if they were consistent with federal
regulations.

In 1982 Congress had not prohibited the employment of illegal immigrants or
taken other strong steps to try to close the border. That changed four years
later in a major overhaul of immigration law that included a prohibition on
hiring undocumented workers.

Supporters of Proposition 187 say the court may interpret that as a signal to
the states that they can now go further in discouraging illegal immigration.

The most recent immigration cases at the high court have enhanced the power of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service and other executive branch officers
against illegal immigrants.

In a 1990 case involving the Fourth Amendment's protection against unreasonable
searches and seizures, Rehnquist focused on constitutional provisions that use
the term, "the people."

That usage, he said, supported by three other justices, "suggests that 'the
people' protected by the Fourth Amendment and by the First and Second Amendments
... refers to a class of persons who are part of a national community or who
have otherwise developed sufficient connection with this country to be
considered part of that community."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              49 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 24, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Mexican Leader Assails Anti-Immigrant Law;
Zedillo Says Proposition 187 Could Violate Human Rights of Mexicans Living in
California

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A27

LENGTH: 864 words


Mexico's President-elect Ernesto Zedillo warned yesterday that the vote by
Californians to crack down on illegal immigrants by approving Proposition 187
could have dangerous political consequences if it leads to violating the human
rights of Mexicans living in California.

"We are rather offended by Proposition 187," Zedillo said in an interview with
editors and staff members of The Washington Post. "We don't think this is the
way to deal with the problem. In fact, it only politicizes the problem,
dangerously politicizes it. We do not want to see this California problem become
a national problem.

"We cannot object to legitimate enforcement of U.S. laws," added Zedillo, here
to confer with President Clinton before his Dec. 1 inauguration as president.
"Yet we have to be very outspoken when we see that enforcement might lead to
deprivation or violation of basic human rights. . . . And we regard access to
education and health care as such rights."

Proposition 187, approved by a 3 to 2 ratio, would bar illegal immigrants from
receiving publicly funded health services, except in emergencies, and would
prevent their children from attending California public schools. Republican Gov.
Pete Wilson, a staunch backer of the initiative, said here last week that
incoming Republican leaders of Congress have promised to consider legislation
that would extend these measures throughout the United States.

U.S. advocates of tougher measures charge that Mexican authorities have done
little to halt the illegal immigration traffic beyond keeping token police
forces at official border crossing points, and in the past, many Mexican
governments tacitly encouraged poor Mexicans to leave in order to keep
unemployment from building to explosive levels.

Zedillo said the Mexican government is doing the best it can, but he cited the
great difficulty of policing a border stretching from the Gulf of Mexico to the
Pacific Ocean.

Proposition 187, aimed primarily at the thousands of Mexicans who cross the U.S.
border in search of work, was the latest in a series of upsetting events that
have buffeted Mexico's stability the past year.

Zedillo became the presidential candidate of the ruling Institutional
Revolutionary Party, known by its Spanish initials as the PRI, after the party's
original nominee, Luis Donaldo Colosio, was assassinated in March. In addition,
the country suffered through a peasant rebellion in southern Mexico, kidnappings
of several prominent businessmen and the mysterious murder of PRI Secretary
General Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, which triggered rumors he was killed by
forces opposing reform of the long-entrenched party.

Deputy Attorney General Mario Ruiz Massieu, the victim's brother and chief
investigator in the case, announced in Mexico City yesterday he is resigning
because top party officials are blocking his investigation. Zedillo, interviewed
before Ruiz Massieu's announcement, said he did not have enough information
about the case to make any judgments, but he promised the inquiry will be
pursued vigorously after he becomes president.

The one bright spot for Mexico's power elite has been success of the North
American Free Trade Agreement, which in 11 months has touched off a major boom
in trade between Mexico and the United States. Zedillo said NAFTA and other
trade liberalization measures are the way to put the brakes on illegal
immigration because they will create jobs capable of keeping Mexico's
impoverished masses at home.

Yet, even the chief architect of NAFTA, outgoing President Carlos Salinas de
Gotari, felt compelled to condemn Proposition 187, saying, "The voices of
intolerance have returned." Zedillo said yesterday the action by California
voters "unfortunately could become an issue with the Mexican public" that would
strain U.S.-Mexican relations and deal a setback to the economies of his country
and U.S. border states.

Zedillo said economic progress in Mexico will reduce the number of Mexicans
crossing illegally into the United States, since most sneak in looking for work
they cannot find in their own towns and cities. He indicated no plans to
increase efforts by Mexican border police to prevent the illegal crossings from
the Mexican side, where would-be emigrants over the years have faced no legal
restraints.

"Fortunately, our people seem to be distinguishing the California situation from
the position of the [U.S.] federal government," he said. "It is clear to
Mexicans that President Clinton has opposed Proposition 187 and has questioned
its constitutionality. In fact, in Mexico, we don't really blame the people of
California. We understand that the situation arises from an economic situation
[in California] that is rather critical."

Nevertheless, Zedillo warned, "While we make a very clear distinction between
what is a state policy and a national policy, we hope it doesn't mark a national
trend. We hope, as it is debated in the United States, that the negative aspects
of this approach will become apparent and it will be defeated, politically as
well as legally. It goes against so many human values that always have been
championed by the United States."


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MEXICAN PRESIDENT-ELECT ERNESTO ZEDILLO CALLS PROPOSITION 187
DANGEROUS. DAN MURANO

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              50 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 4, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration: Making Americans;
'Our collective cultural task is to remember what we were and what we still
are.'

William J. Bennett

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 2164 words


Proposition 187, California's ballot initiative which deprives illegal aliens of
such publicly funded services as education and health care, won an overwhelming
victory last month. A handful of states have expressed interest in putting
similar measures on the ballot. Legislation may be introduced in the 104th
Congress that would reduce legal immigrant quotas by as much as 50 percent. And
some prominent conservatives are now arguing for a moratorium on legal
immigration.

Just a few years ago, immigration issues went virtually unmentioned; soon they
will be near the top of the national political agenda. For the first time in
decades, the GOP will decide immigration policy -- and at a time when
Republicans are engaged in a vigorous debate about what direction to go. The new
majority party now has an opportunity to craft legislation that is responsible,
effective and consonant with the best aspects of the American character.


The most contentious part of the entire immigration debate is illegal
immigration. When Jack Kemp and I came out in opposition to Proposition 187, we
knew we were going against strong and deep political currents. But I believed
then and I believe now that the proposition is meretricious, shortsighted (i.e.,
throwing 300,000 children out of school and onto the streets) and employs means
that are profoundly anti-conservative and pernicious (to wit: charging private
citizens with the duty of identifying people they "suspect" to be illegal and
requiring them to turn the names over to state and federal authorities). It is
worth noting that there are already reports from California that Proposition 187
is creating fear among legal immigrants and massive confusion in courts and
schools, and among doctors, police officers and social service providers.

Illegal immigration is a very serious problem, and all Americans, especially
Californians, are right to be upset and angry. Every sovereign nation has the
right and the duty to control its borders. We need to put into place policies
that will curb illegal immigration and assist the states in their efforts to do
the same. These measures should include beefing up border patrols and deploying
them more intelligently; expediting the deportation process, particularly for
illegal immigrants convicted of a crime; cracking down on fraudulent immigration
documents; overhauling the Immigration and Naturalization Service; changing some
of the requirements for immigration sponsorship; and reducing the number of
employment eligibility documents. A number of these proposals have been
recommended by the House Republican Task Force on Illegal Immigration and the
new Republican majority will, I hope, act on them.

There is also this obvious but often overlooked point to be made: Politicians
need to legislate with an eye toward predictable consequences. As Proposition
187 demonstrates, this is no small matter. One of the reasons California has a
much more serious illegal immigration problem than border states such as Arizona
and Texas is that in the 1980s some California politicians supported policies
that induced illegal immigration into their state.

In 1985, for example, one of the people who pushed hardest to include a "guest
worker" provision in the immigration reform bill (which enjoyed strong support
from California agricultural interests) was then-Sen. Pete Wilson. He eventually
supported a scaled-back version of his original amendment, which allowed 350,000
"guest workers" into the country temporarily so that crops could be harvested at
cheap rates. In 1986 Sen. Wilson, along with others, held up passage of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act until that provision was added. The
legislative compromise that resulted and which Wilson supported legalized more
than 1 million illegal immigrants. Having put in place a job magnet and having
essentially laid out a welcome mat for illegal immigrants in the 1980s, Gov.
Wilson should not be surprised that he now has an illegal immigration problem.


But the larger and more important issue before Congress and the country is legal
immigration. While there are some minor reforms worth examining, my views on
legal immigration are guided by an explicit underlying conviction: Legal
immigrants are a net plus for America and hence current policy is essentially
viable. In this, the distinction between legal and illegal is fundamental. And
making this distinction is critical to policy.

Studies show that legal immigrants are often self-selected on the basis of
industry, hard work, self-reliance and a respect for time-honored American
principles. They hold strong family values and deeply rooted religious faith.
And immigrants are making important contributions to America in the fields of
science, engineering, biotechnology, computer hardware and software, to mention
just a few.

The Manhattan Institute and the Urban Institute have provided important
empirical evidence about immigration. In 1993, the United States admitted just
over 900,000 legal immigrants. While recent decades have seen large numbers of
immigrants arrive in this country, their numbers are half what they were during
the last wave of immigration. Eight percent of our population is foreign-born,
compared with double that figure at the turn of the century. Contrary to popular
opinion, immigration does not cause higher unemployment rates for U.S. workers
(in part because of the jobs immigrants create with new businesses they start).
Except for refugees, immigrants who arrived in the past decade receive welfare
payments at lower rates than native-born Americans. They are a huge net
contributor to Social Security, and annual taxes paid by immigrants more than
offset their costs to society, generating a net annual surplus of $ 25 billion
to $ 30 billion.

In one of the most comprehensive studies ever done on the link between crime and
legal immigration, economists Kristin Butcher and Anne Morrison Piehl find "no
evidence that immigrants are more likely to engage in criminal activity than
natives. In the individual data, in fact, whether or not one controls for other
demographic characteristics, immigrants are significantly less likely to commit
crime. ... [W]e find no evidence that areas with high levels of immigration have
experienced disproportionate growth in criminal activity over the last decade."

Historians have noted that during the 19th century there were real questions
about whether the Irish, Italians, Chinese and Polish immigrants were capable of
being assimilated. The Irish were despised "for their ignorance, poverty and
superstition." German immigrants were considered an affront to American culture,
in part because they wanted to preserve their traditions and language. In the
early part of this century, Jewish immigrants were among the least skilled of
all immigrant groups that arrived.

There are two important historical facts to keep in mind. The first is that
during times of economic uncertainty and social disrepair, immigrants are always
among the first (and easiest) targets of public antipathy. The second is that
virtually every group that has come to America's shores has been spurned upon
its arrival, and anti-immigration sentiments have run through public opinion
polls for as long as we have had reliable information. Yet these groups have not
only assimilated, they have become welcome and valuable members of American
society. (Recent public opinion surveys show that the once-despised Irish now
consistently rate as the nationality which most benefits this nation).


The immigration issue evokes the strongest passions in the cultural, and not the
economic, arena.  Indeed, immigration cannot be fully understood outside a
larger cultural context. There is an alarming reluctance in our schools and
universities to affirm, advance and transmit our common American culture. And
while it has profound implications for immigration, I believe contemporary
American society's most serious problems are more fundamental than, and
different from, immigration. Our problem does not have to do with legal
immigration but with assimilation -- and assimilation not just for people born
in foreign lands but for the people born in this nation.

Cultural anthropologist David Murray has referred to new-born children as the
"ultimate undocumented aliens." By that he means that children are not born with
any culture or society; they must be helped to become citizens every bit as
urgently as, say, refugees from Southeast Asia. If we fail the American-born
children, they will be the aliens who overwhelm us. And this is precisely what
we are seeing happen today.

Because of American diffidence and neglect, many children are not being
acculturated and socialized. The repayment for that neglect is now being played
out on our urban streets, in hospital emergency rooms, in our courts and our
classrooms. In too many places, republican virtues are not being inculcated.

The advocates for ending immigration argue that immigrants pose a cultural
threat to America and that our society is no longer capable of assimilating
them. But pinning the blame on immigrants for America's social decay is a dodge
and a distraction. And it happens to be exactly wrong. One can make a strong
argument that many new immigrants have been corrupted by those same degraded
aspects of American culture that trouble so many American parents.

It's time we get on with the real work that needs to be done: Revivify our
character-forming institutions and put an end to misguided government-sponsored
policies that foster social fragmentation, resegregation and racial tension. The
argument for dismantling the current welfare state and stopping its corrupting
dependency has received an extensive public hearing. But there are three other
areas that bear on this issue.

Bilingualism: Mastery of English is a key to individual opportunity in America.
Teaching English to those whose native language is not English is a continuation
of the struggle to provide for all Americans the opportunity to participate
fully in our political, economic and social life. Having a common language is an
essential condition of a unified nation. We should not be bashful about
proclaiming fluency in this language as a critical educational goal, and we
should not be timid in reforming our policies so as to secure it.

Multiculturalism: One of the arguments that the anti-immigration advocates rely
on is that immigrants promote ethnic separatism and their foreign culture will
contaminate our culture. In fact, radical multiculturalism has its origins in
America and finds its intellectual home in America's elite universities. Francis
Fukuyama has pointed out that "the ideological assault on traditional family
values ... was not the creation of recently arrived Chicano agricultural workers
or Haitian boat people, much less of Chinese or Korean immigrants." Rather, he
says, it "originated right in the heart of America's well-established white,
Anglo Saxon community."

Counting by Race: Quotas, race norming, racial gerrymandering and set-asides
undercut the founding American principle of equality under the law. These
policies judge individuals on the color of their skin, not on the "content of
their character," and they have the effect of prying Americans apart. We need to
reestablish a principle that many of us thought we settled three decades ago:
the moral case for putting a de jure end to racial discrimination and
preferences. A good place to advance the cause is in California, where right now
a group is undertaking an effort to place a civil rights initiative on the
primary election ballot in 1996. Called the California Civil Rights Initiative,
it is a constitutional amendment prohibiting the state and its "subdivisions"
(colleges, agencies or local governments) from "us[ing] race, color, ethnicity,
national origin, sex or religion as a criterion for either discriminating
against, or granting preferential treatment to, any individual or group in the
operation of the state's system of public employment, public education or public
contracting."

"The first step in liquidating a people is to erase its memory," the historian
Milan Hubl says in Milan Kundera's "The Book of Laughter and Forgetting."
"Destroy its books, its culture, its history. Then have somebody write new
books, manufacture a new culture, invent a new history. Before long the nation
will begin to forget what it is and what it was."

Our collective cultural task is to remember what we were and what we still are.
If we once again get that right, then immigrants will fit in and flourish, as
they always have. If we keep getting it wrong, then it won't really matter where
the people come from. For whatever their place of origin, they will be citizens
without a culture, and they will bear children without a future.


The writer is a former secretary of education and currently co-director of
Empower America.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, MARGARET KELLY

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              51 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 24, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

GOP Would Deny Legal Immigrants Many U.S. Benefits

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1435 words


As a spinoff from their "Contract With America," House Republicans have drafted
legislation that would bar most legal immigrants from 60 federal programs,
prohibiting them from receiving free childhood immunizations, housing
assistance, Medicaid, subsidized school lunches and many other federal benefits.

The proposal is part of the Republicans' welfare reform plan and is designed to
save nearly $ 22 billion over five years, which would be used to finance work
programs for welfare recipients.

Debate over the proposal will be the first important test of how the immigration
issue plays on the national political stage since California voters last month
approved Proposition 187, which would deny many public services to illegal
immigrants.

Specifically, the GOP proposal will test whether popular hostility toward
illegal immigrants extends as well to those who entered the United States
legally, underwent lengthy and detailed screening and were granted the right to
remain here permanently.

Supporters of the Republican plan say they are harkening back to the days of
Ellis Island -- when government inspectors turned away newcomers likely to
become paupers, and settlement houses looked after those who fell on hard times.

"This is not a departure from traditional immigration policy because we have
always required that people come here because they can get ahead through hard
work, not because they can go on welfare," said Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr. (R-Fla.),
a prominent supporter of the measure, which is part of the Republicans'
"Personal Responsibility Act."

A Congressional Budget Office study found that more than three-quarters of the
savings would come from denying income assistance and health care to elderly or
disabled immigrants.

Recognizing the potential hardship that might be involved, Shaw said, "These
people just happened to be here when they developed certain needs, and our
thought is that the taxpayers do not have a responsibility towards them if they
are noncitizens."

The legislation would exempt two groups of legal immigrants from the prohibition
on receiving services: refugees during their first six years in the United
States and legal immigrants over age 75 who have been in the country for at
least five years. Illegal immigrants are not explicitly eligible for any federal
programs.

Immigration advocates and other opponents note that current immigrants, unlike
those who arrived by steamship a century ago, join a society that has created an
extensive public safety net for the needy, the elderly and the infirm. They
argue that it is unfair to let people into the country but then deny them the
help offered to others who fall on hard times.

In a report to Congress in September, the nonpartisan Commission on Immigration
Reform stated flatly, "The commission recommends against any broad categorical
denial of public benefits to legal immigrants."

Former representative Barbara Jordan (D-Tex.), who chaired the commission,
argued that legal immigrants are as subject to unexpected setbacks, such as
illness, injury or unemployment, as citizens are. "The commission is not
prepared to lift the safety net out from under individuals who, we hope, will
become integral parts of our social community," she said in presenting the
report.

Immigrant advocates point out that many of those who would be cut off from
benefits under the Republican proposal turned to federal programs only after
living in the United States, working and paying taxes for many years. In New
York's Chinatown, Suichi Mock, 73, is typical of retired garment workers who
draw Supplemental Security Income (SSI), one of the largest programs that would
be declared for citizens only.

She and her husband, who was paralyzed following a stroke, draw $ 710 a month in
Social Security benefits. Neither has any pension benefits or other retirement
income despite the fact that between them they worked for 40 years in the United
States. The $ 150 they get from SSI, she said, "means food for us."

Speaking through a translator, she said, "I would work if I could, but ..."
Trailing off, she holds up hands that seem frozen in a gnarl. "If they take this
money away from us, I can't think of what I would do except maybe go back to
China."

Then, almost as afterthought she mentioned another alternative. "I could try to
become a citizen, but I don't know how I would pass the test."

Most immigrants become eligible for citizenship after five years. They then
usually have to pass a naturalization test showing they can speak and read
English and have a general knowledge of U.S. government and history, although
under special provisions some elderly immigrants can take the test in their
native language.

The Republican proposal already has sparked debate over whether immigrants would
feel obliged to seek citizenship for purely financial reasons while in the past
it has been viewed as a more idealistic process.

Sen.-elect Rick Santorum (R-Pa.), who helped write the immigrant eligibility
provisions of the Republican bill as a member of the House, said, "I don't think
there will be a rush of people becoming citizens to qualify for welfare, but if
they do it for material reasons, there's nothing wrong with that."

Most legal immigrants enter the United States under the sponsorship of
relatives, who must promise to support the newcomers. Immigrants are not
eligible for welfare programs for up to five years after they arrive unless
their sponsors die, become ill or become poor themselves.

Widespread allegations of fraud and abuse by family sponsors are often cited by
supporters of the Republican plan to justify cuts in immigrants' eligibility.
The Jordan commission, among others, has argued that stricter enforcement of
sponsorship pledges will solve the problem without cutting off all benefits.

Republicans are not alone in promoting the idea that welfare reform can be
financed by removing immigrants from the expensive programs, Medicaid and SSI.
Last spring, a group of 90 moderate and conservative House Democrats joined with
Republicans in urging a near-total cutoff, and in June, President Clinton said
his own, more modest, welfare reform proposal would be financed in part by
tightening eligibility for noncitizens.

But the current House Republican proposal greatly expands the list of programs
that would be off limits to legal immigrants.

"We would agree with the premise that immigrants should be self-supporting, but
this measure goes far beyond that," said Sandra Lief Garrett, a vice president
of the New York Association for New Americans, the nation's largest nonprofit
immigrant and refugee service agency.

"Legally admitted, hard-working, tax-paying immigrants would be denied access to
programs like childhood immunizations, screening for lead poisoning, job
training and school nutrition," Garrett said. "We are not talking about welfare
dependency."

Most of these smaller programs are not affected by the Republican welfare reform
proposal in any other way except for the elimination of immigrant eligibility.

By focusing attention on the costs and benefits of legal immigration, the
proposal seems likely to provoke a reevaluation of policies that add nearly
900,000 people a year to the nation's population.

For decades, these newcomers have been viewed as people on their way to becoming
Americans, and legal immigration has enjoyed an almost sacrosanct position as an
expression of American traditions and values. With this proposal they become
part of an ideological debate over dependency and an emblem of government
programs that are under fire from all sides.

"In part, this is a fund-raising measure," said Santorum, "but if you look at
the targets of the proposed cuts, we are saying that the kind of immigrants we
want are people who will take responsibility for themselves and not rely on the
federal government."

Others view cutting immigrants' eligibility as a way of attacking unwanted
social programs.

"Our belief is that nobody should get these programs, but if welfare is not
going to be eliminated outright, then we argue that it should be for citizens
only," said Steve Moore, an analyst for the Cato Institute, a conservative think
tank.

Opponents of the proposal say these arguments simply make immigrants into
scapegoats. "If the Republicans want to get rid of the entire safety net, then
they should have the courage to say so instead of picking on a group of people
who cannot vote," said Rafael Lantigua, a physician and community leader among
immigrants from the Dominican Republic living in New York.



LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, THE HOUSE REPUBLICANS' WELFARE REFORM PROPOSAL WOULD BAR
MOST LEGAL IMMIGRANTS FROM 60 FEDERAL PROGRAMS, INCLUDING:

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              52 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 7, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Clinton Administration to Bolster Border Controls;
1,200 New Agents, Inspectors to Be Hired Amid Concern About Mexico's Economic
Crisis

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 828 words


Amid concerns that Mexico's economic crisis may spark an increase in illegal
immigration, the Clinton administration yesterday announced it will reinforce
border controls this year by hiring more than 1,200 new Border Patrol agents,
Immigration and Naturalization Service inspectors and other personnel.

"With the resource allocations that we are announcing here today, we will
complete our plan to take control of the entire Southwest border," Deputy
Attorney General Jamie Gorelick said at a news conference here.

Senior administration officials insisted that the border initiative represents a
major success story on a politically volatile issue. Since Wednesday Attorney
General Janet Reno has been on a four-day, barnstorming tour of California,
Arizona and Texas that includes seven separate news conferences to announce the
new resources.

After initially calling for a cut in Border Patrol strength in 1993, the
administration reversed its position and committed itself to a border crackdown
last February, largely in response to demands from Republicans in Congress. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) received an unprecedented 25
percent increase in its budget for the current fiscal year through last summer's
crime bill and other legislation.

With 800 new agents, the Border Patrol will grow to a total of 5,000 agents by
the end of this year, but the new Republican leadership appears likely to seek
even greater deployments. Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee, said in a recent interview he
plans to reintroduce a proposal he first proposed last year with the
cosponsorship of Rep. Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.), the new House speaker, that would
expand the Border Patrol to 10,000 agents.

Although President Clinton is due to submit his budget proposals for the next
fiscal year in early February, Gorelick said the administration was still trying
to determine what funding it would seek for immigration controls.

"We believe that additional resources may well be needed," Gorelick said. But
determining how much more might be needed, she added, "is not scientific. We are
doing something that has never done before, which is to try to secure a border
that has never been secure."

The deployments announced yesterday included only 65 new Border Patrol agents
for the El Paso sector, 135 fewer than had been requested by local Border Patrol
chief Silvestre Reyes. He has become a hero among advocates of tougher border
controls and is widely credited with developing the strategy that underlies the
administration's initiative.

On his own authority Reyes launched "Operation Hold the Line" in September 1993
with a substantial show of force on the levees of the Rio Grande. Both the
administration and its critics depict the operation as an overwhelming success.

In explaining why El Paso is receiving a relatively small share of the new
agents, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner told the news conference that the
illegal traffic appeared to shifting toward southeastern Texas. The bulk of the
300 new agents deployed in Texas would go there, she said.

The new Border Patrol deployments come at a time of growing concern that the
United States may face a new wave of illegal immigration due to the Mexico's
economic crisis.

Although she said the stunning 35 percent devaluation of the peso in late
December had yet to produce a notable change in migrant flows, Meissner said,
"it of course will increase the economic pressures on the people of Mexico."

The devaluation makes migration "a much more attractive economic endeavor
because the dollars sent home by people working in the United States buy so much
more in Mexico," said J. Edward Taylor, economist at the University of
California, Davis, who has done extensive studies of rural Mexico.

In contrast, Jorge Bustamante, director of the College of the Northern Border, a
Tijuana-based think tank, argued that the devaluation raised the costs of
getting to the United States.

"Paying off smugglers, transportation, living expenses while looking for work in
the United States -- all of these things are paid for with dollars and they have
suddenly become much more expensive," Bustamante said, noting numerous studies
that show these costs exercise considerable influence over the volume of traffic
across the border.

In the long run much will depend on how the crisis affects unemployment and
inflation in Mexico, said Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, a visiting scholar at the
Inter-American Development Bank. "There is no reason to expect the kind of
protracted, deep structural crisis which produced a great increase in migration
in the 1980s," he said.

All of the experts agree that the sluggish California economy may have as much
of an influence on illegal immigration as anything that happens in Mexico.
"People coming home saying they could not find work is probably the greatest
deterrent," Bustamante said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              53 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 26, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Estimates of Migration From Peso Crisis Are Overstated, Experts Say

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 906 words


Several immigration experts argue the Clinton administration has greatly
exaggerated the number of illegal immigrants likely to head north as a result of
Mexico's economic crisis unless Congress approves a proposed package of $ 40
billion of loan guarantees.

Instead of the 500,000 additional newcomers per year the administration has
forecast -- if the package fails -- the actual increase in the number of
Mexicans coming to the United States and remaining here could be as little as
40,000 people a year. If so, the U.S. government would issue guarantees on $ 1
million of loans per immigrant avoided.

Independent experts in the field said the administration's prediction is based
on a fundamental misreading of a key expert's work and ignores several important
recent developments. These include the administration's efforts to crack down on
illegal immigration at the border, the slow pace of economic growth in
California and the new anti-immigrant political atmosphere in the United States.

"It is absolutely indefensible scientifically to make mechanistic calculations
that pretend to show that certain events like a devaluation [of the Mexican
peso] will yield a specific result in migration flows," said Demetrios
Papademetriou, director of the immigration policy program at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace.

Although all the experts agreed a deep and prolonged economic crisis in Mexico
would eventually increase migration pressures, they said the administration
erred particularly in offering a precise prediction for a complex event.

Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, was specific
when she presented the administration's case for the package at a White House
briefing on Friday.

Arguing immigration was second only to the loss of U.S. jobs as a reason for
supporting the package, Tyson said, "and it's our estimate, which is now being
confirmed by other independent scholars, that if Mexico doesn't get through this
crisis, one could see as much as a 30 percent increase in immigration flows.
That's about a half-million people."

In congressional testimony yesterday Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin again
wielded the potential for a 30 percent increase as justification for the support
program. Secretary of State Warren Christopher warned, "Our determined efforts
to control illegal immigration could be overwhelmed."

The administration's warning an additional 500,000 illegal immigrants a year
might be headed north was developed in consultation with Thomas J. Espenshade, a
professor of sociology at Princeton University and a highly regarded expert on
immigration.

Espenshade employs a statistical model that attempts to predict how illegal
flows across the southern border are affected by changing economic
circumstances. The model estimates the number of people who cross the border
illegally.

Starting from a base of 2 million illegal border crossers a year, Espenshade
said in an interview he calculated that the 40 percent devaluation of the peso
since Dec. 20 would increase the flow by about 460,000 people a year. Applying
some of its calculations, the administration rounded the number up to half a
million people, an official said.

But, the majority of those crossers remain in the United States for only short
periods of time, sometimes just a few hours.

"It is a well-documented phenomena, especially in the Texas border cities, that
Mexicans cross over illegally simply to shop, or go to work or stay on this side
for a short period of time, and so you can't use these figures to predict the
long-term impact," said Frank D. Bean, a sociologist at the University of Texas
at Austin who helped develop the model Espenshade is now employing.

Espenshade accepts estimates by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
that the illegal immigrant population of the United States amounts to nearly 4
million people and that it grows by only 250,000 to 350,000 people a year with
only half the flow coming through the southern border. Applying his calculation
to that flow, he said, the net long-term increase of illegal immigrants due to
the recent peso devaluation would be about 40,000 people a year, although he
said he regarded that as a highly speculative figure.

According to INS estimates, the resident population of Mexican illegal
immigrants grows by about 130,000 people a year. Applying the 30 percent
increase predicted by the administration to that figure produces an additional
39,000 people a year. Espenshade's model uses data collected by the INS between
1977 and 1988, and cannot be updated because it relies on statistics the INS
stopped collecting because they were considered unreliable, said Jeffrey S.
Passel, an expert in the demography of immigration at the Urban Institute.

Asked about the experts' criticism of its immigration prediction, an
administration official said, "Our sense is that this is the best analysis
available."

"What's most surprising about the administration's use of this model,"
Papademetriou said, "is that it undercuts its own message that things are
getting better on the border."

Having poured resources into border controls, including more than 1,200 new
personnel this year, the administration claims it has made illegal crossing much
more difficult and that the flow is declining. However, Espenshade's model
assumes the enforcement effort has no effect.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              54 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 07, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

IMMIGRATION; $1 Billion Rise Proposed for Enforcement

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 775 words


The Clinton administration yesterday proposed spending an additional $ 1 billion
to crack down on illegal immigration at the border and the workplace by adding
hundreds more immigration agents, expanding deportations and experimenting with
computerized identity checks for job seekers.

Nearly half of the new money, one of the few spending initiatives in the new
budget proposal, is promised to the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS), which would get a 24 percent budget increase to $ 2.6 billion. On top of
increases in the past two years this would represent a 71 percent rise in the
agency's budget since 1993.

The other large chunk of money, more than one-third of the additional funding,
would go to state governments to help pay for providing emergency medical care
to illegal immigrants, incarcerating those who have committed crimes here, and
some education programs. The Customs Service, the Labor Department and other
agencies of the Justice Department would get the remaining funds.

Contending that the administration is trying to make up for the neglect of its
predecessors, Attorney General Janet Reno said at a news conference, "three
years ago it was clear that this administration had inherited a stepchild
immigration agency that had suffered decades of neglect." The proposed funding
increases, she said, are part of a strategy to "control the border and bring the
INS into the 20th century before the 21st century."

The major challenges to the administration's plan are likely to come from those
who demand more rather than less spending.

"This is not a strategic policy plan to combat illegal immigration as much as an
effort at political appeasement, and it does not begin to remedy the crisis that
afflicts California," said Leslie Goodman, spokesman for California Gov. Pete
Wilson (R), who has been President Clinton's chief antagonist on illegal
immigration.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, said: "It is a promising start, but it is not enough. We welcome
the fact that the president is putting the money in the right places, but we
need to do more."

One area of spending that Smith said he expected Congress to expand involves
proposals by the Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by former
representative Barbara Jordan (D-Tex.), to help employers identify illegal
immigrants who are trying to get jobs.

Less than 3 percent of the cost of the administration's new immigration
initiative -- $ 28.3 million -- is designated to fund pilot projects recommended
by the Jordan commission.

Moreover, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said yesterday that the administration
envisioned spending three years experimenting with various alternatives before
deciding whether to implement the centerpiece of the commission's
recommendations -- a national computer registry of all workers.

Controversy also was developing around the administration's proposal to fund
part of the increased spending by charging a fee for legal border crossing. The
fees of $ 1.50 per person and $ 3 per vehicle would be used to pay for improved
immigration and customs facilities at the border.

But the proposal instantly provoked opposition from border communities that rely
economically on regular and rapid visits by Mexicans and Canadians. With
legislators from border states almost unanimous in their opposition, Smith said,
"the crossing fee is just too controversial to pass Congress, and it would be
better to just forget it."

Much of the administration's proposal builds on efforts launched last year at
the urging of Congress to fight illegal immigration at the border. The new
budget plan would add 700 Border Patrol agents to an existing force of nearly
5,000, about the same increase as last year. Envisioning much greater efforts in
the future, the administration promised to bring total Border Patrol strength to
7,000 agents by the end of the century.

On another front, the administration's proposal envisions adding 365 new INS
investigators to the personnel that enforce the law against employing illegal
immigrants, a 73 percent increase in an area that received diminished resources
in recent years.

In addition, the Department of Labor would get 202 new employees to investigate
violations of labor standards in sectors of the economy that are known to employ
large numbers of illegal immigrants.

@CAPTION: Attorney General Janet Reno contends the administration is trying to
make up for the neglect of its predecessors. Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) says
the budget request is "a promising start, but it is not enough."


LOAD-DATE: February 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              55 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 20, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Area Immigrants Join Rush to Citizenship; Fear of Losing Benefits Spurs Even
Those Legally in U.S. for Years

Lena H. Sun; Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1350 words


Oscar Armando Lopez, a truck driver from Guatemala, came to the United States 25
years ago. Ten years ago, he studied for his government test on English and on
U.S. history and became a permanent resident. But only last weekend did he
appear at a workshop in Mount Pleasant seeking to become a U.S. citizen.

"It seems like American people and the Congress are against immigrants and
Spanish people these days," he said as a volunteer helped him through a six-page
citizenship application at the Casa del Pueblo, a Latino service agency on
Columbia Road NW.

"I don't understand why, but we are in trouble," Lopez added. "I gained a lot of
respect at my work when I became a resident. But if I get sick and lose my job,
maybe I can't get help unless I'm a citizen. So I guess it's time."

As debates on Capitol Hill and in state legislatures focus on burdens created by
legal and illegal immigrants, an increasing number of legal permanent residents
across the country suddenly are seeking to become U.S. citizens -- often years
after they first became eligible to apply.

In the Washington area, where legal and illegal foreign-born residents make up
nearly 13 percent of the population, increasing numbers of immigrants are taking
the standardized citizenship test and applying to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to become citizens, according to community groups and INS
officials.

From October 1994 to February, officials said, the Baltimore district
headquarters of the INS received 70 percent more applications than in the same
period the previous year. In the Washington office, which serves the District
and Virginia, applications rose 33 percent during the same period, a spokesman
said.

Nationally, applications increased 78 percent from October to January compared
with the same period the year before, with some of the biggest jumps in
California and Texas, INS officials said.

A major reason for the rush is fear stemming from November's Proposition 187 in
California that barred illegal immigrants from educational, social and
nonemergency medical services. There also is concern about Republican welfare
proposals now before Congress to deny federal assistance to legal immigrants who
are not citizens. A federal judge temporarily has blocked enforcement of
California's referendum measure.

A welfare reform bill pending on the House floor would bar legal noncitizens
from participating in the five largest federal-aid programs: Medicaid, food,
disability, Aid to Families with Dependent Children and Title XX social service
programs that help children, the elderly and the disabled.

"A lot of people who are eligible [for citizenship] but just didn't get around
to it are now feeling a pressure to become a citizen," said Richard Caterisano,
deputy director of the Baltimore INS district office.

Nationally, the number of people taking the citizenship test doubled last fall,
from about 4,000 to 8,000 a month, according to Monte Perez, an official with
the Princeton-based Educational Testing Service. The service began administering
the exam once a month several years ago, and officials said they plan to expand
this fall to four times a month.

Other factors also may be contributing to the surge. The INS has ordered
immigrants who received their permanent residence cards, known as green cards,
before 1979 to replace them with machine-readable versions by today, and some
may be choosing to become citizens instead, according to an INS official.
Illegal immigrants who became permanent residents under the 1986 amnesty law did
not become eligible for citizenship until 1993, and some have begun applying in
recent months, officials said.

The INS estimates that there are 9 million to 10 million immigrants who are
legal permanent residents in the United States. By April, 5.3 million adults and
about 700,000 children will be eligible for citizenship.

Many legal immigrants have been content with their status as permanent
residents. The permanent residence card, which they usually receive through
their U.S. employers or through family members who are citizens or permanent
residents, allows them to live and work in the United States indefinitely.

Permanent residents must pay taxes and serve in the military if called upon, and
they are entitled to almost all the benefits of citizenship except the right to
vote, seek federally elected offices and hold most federal government jobs. But
permanent residents who want to sponsor immediate family members to come the
United States must wait several years, while U.S. citizens may sponsor relatives
immediately. Family sponsorship is one of several ways foreigners can legally
immigrate to the United States.

In general, permanent residents are eligible to become citizens after living in
the United States for five years. With some exceptions, they must pass a civics
and English proficiency test, after which they obtain the rights and privileges
of natural-born citizens.

Some permanent residents choose not to become American citizens because they
want to return to their native countries to retire. Others say they already are
treated much the same as U.S. citizens.

"Citizenship hasn't made a great deal of difference in the past," said Anne
Shirk, refugee coordinator for the Episcopal Diocese of Washington, "but now,
with what's happening, it's clearly going to begin to make a difference."

In the Washington area, 10 community centers offer the citizenship test. Among
the permanent residents who took the test last weekend at St. Margaret's
Episcopal Church on Connecticut Avenue NW were a New Zealand woman and a German
woman who had been in the United States at least 25 years as legal permanent
residents, Shirk said.

At the Casa del Pueblo, volunteers from a Latino civic group called GANAS said
they were amazed at the heavy response to their Spanish-language radio ads for a
citizenship preparation class last weekend. More than 100 people came seeking
information, and about 40 stayed to fill out forms.

For four hours, families crowded around tables listening to volunteers translate
a series of questions from the citizenship form. Some became embarrassed or
annoyed at the questions about whether they had belonged to a communist party,
been a prostitute or a drug dealer or been in a mental institution.

"Some of the questions seem ridiculous, but we don't want to make any mistakes,"
said Rene Ventura, who drove from Loudoun County with his wife, Hilda. "When one
is a citizen, one has more rights. I want to stay here and vote for my
president."

At the Indochinese Community Center nearby, the number of immigrants taking the
citizenship test has nearly doubled in the last two months, officials said. Last
weekend, center officials had to give the 20-question, multiple-choice
citizenship test in three shifts to accommodate the 77 people who showed up. As
they waited their turn, the immigrants sat in the grassy courtyard, memorizing
the three branches of U.S. government and who was president during the Civil
War.

"We are legal permanent residents, and every year we pay taxes and we obey
American law," said one man, surnamed Chu, who did not want his full name used.
A former electrical engineer from China, Chu, 52, has been working as a cook in
a Chinese restaurant for the last seven years to support himself and his wife.

"I used to think there was no difference between a U.S. citizen and a permanent
resident," he said, speaking in Mandarin. "But now, because of what happened in
California, and because the Republicans want to cut benefits, we feel
threatened."

German Salas, 54, was among those at the center preparing for his test. The
kitchen manager of the Childe Harold restaurant in the District, Salas has been
in Washington for 20 years, and his son is in the U.S. Army. The Bolivian native
and his wife, Angelica, never felt the need to become citizens -- until
recently.

"Right now, it's not too good," he said, referring to the political climate for
immigrants. "So if I can't vote, I have no protection."


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, lucian perkins, Pon Thepvonga, left, goes over instructions for
the citizenship test with Bolivian native German Salas, who wife, Angelica, is
beside him. (Photo ran in an earlier edition)

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              56 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 30, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Mother, Son Get Prison for Fraud; Two Filed False Papers for Illegal Immigrants

Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VIRGINIA; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 632 words


A mother and son who ran an immigration consulting agency in Falls Church have
been sentenced to federal prison as part of a crackdown against businesses that
provide counterfeit documents to illegal immigrants.

Luzmila Centeno Rincon, 63, was given a two-year term after pleading guilty to
conspiracy and fraud charges. Her son, German Alberto Alvarez, 36, was sentenced
to two years and nine months in prison on similar charges.

Prosecutors said the two, who ran Metropolitan Immigration Services, filed more
than 1,500 fraudulent claims seeking political asylum on behalf of undocumented
immigrants seeking a quick, easy way to remain in the United States. They
charged as much as $ 500 and concocted stories falsely claiming the applicants
had been victims of political persecution in their homelands.

Authorities said they are investigating several other agencies and lawyers who
have tried to tap into a lucrative market at the expense of undocumented
immigrants. Other arrests are expected soon, they said.

Some consulting operations are legitimate and could be run by lawyers or
nonprofit organizations, federal officials said. But others operate through the
grapevine out of storefront offices or homes and win the trust and money of
clients by making lofty promises.

Many clients of the Falls Church business, whose stories unraveled during the
federal investigation, now face deportation. Had they not filed phony documents,
some could have had legitimate claims to stay.

"A lot of people got hurt," said Assistant U.S. Attorney William P. Joyce, who
handled the case with agents from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"It was a severe disservice to the aliens."

Federal officials said that besides doing a lucrative business in Northern
Virginia, Rincon and Alvarez traveled to North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and
other states, creating a market through word-of-mouth and doing business at
motels and through a toll-free telephone number. They worked in communities such
as Sanford, N.C., a rural area south of Raleigh that is heavily populated with
migrant workers from Mexico and Guatemala.

"The majority of our Hispanic population here comes from an agricultural
background, and many have little or no formal education," said Bill McFadden, an
activist who is helping about 25 of Rincon and Alvarez's clients in North
Carolina. "They are very vulnerable and are easy victims for unscrupulous
practitioners who prey on their lack of education, ignorance and fear.

"I'm cleaning up the mess," McFadden said. "I've got victims in my office every
day, crying. [Rincon and Alvarez] were looking people in the eye and lying to
them. They told them everything would be rosy."

Rincon and Alvarez typically filed asylum applications as a means of getting
their clients work authorization cards. While the asylum applications were
pending -- sometimes for years -- the work permits remained valid, giving the
immigrants a false sense of hope and security, authorities said. But when cases
finally were reviewed, many who did business with Rincon and Alvarez wound up
facing deportation.

INS officials streamlined procedures nationwide in January so that future asylum
decisions will be made much sooner. And, in another step to curb abuses, INS is
requiring asylum applicants to wait for six months, or until their cases are
decided, to obtain work authorization.

Rincon, of Falls Church, and Alvarez, of Herndon, played down their activities
at their sentencings this month in U.S. District Court, contending they filed
fewer than 100 fraudulent applications.

But Elizabeth Goyer, an INS agent, said that she reviewed more than 1,500
applications and that "I was unable to find any application that appeared to be
a legitimate claim."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              57 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 07, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

Clinton to Press Ouster of Illegal Immigrants Charged With Crimes 9500000696:

Tom Kenworthy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 715 words


President Clinton yesterday promised to expedite deportation of illegal
immigrants charged with breaking U.S. laws, even if they are not convicted.

"It simply doesn't make any sense for us to have illegal aliens in our custody
in our courts and then let them go back to living here illegally," said Clinton
in his weekly radio address. "That's wrong and we should stop it."

The president, noting the United States is deporting about 40,000 illegal
immigrants a year, also pledged to clean out a huge backlog of 100,000 aliens
awaiting deportation proceedings by streamlining the process.

He also said he has asked the Justice Department to prepare a plan to identify
what he estimated were hundreds of thousands of people ordered to leave the
country who "then disappear back into the population."

"We cannot justify continuing to have this large number of illegal aliens in our
country simply because our court system won't process them," Clinton said.

Clinton's speech on illegal immigration, an issue that could be a focal point of
the 1996 presidential campaign, came at the end of a week in which the White
House sent Congress a package of legislation to bolster U.S. border protection
efforts.

If it is passed, the proposed legislation would add 1,500 Border Patrol agents,
authorize border-crossing fees if local communities approve, establish a pilot
worker-identification system, boost sanctions on employers who hire illegal
workers and streamline the deportation process.

The package is similar to proposals introduced by Republican lawmakers, although
Clinton's proposal for border crossing fees is vigorously opposed by
border-state lawmakers.

The renewed focus on immigration policy also came in the same week that one of
Clinton's potential rivals in 1996 -- California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) --
scrambled to limit the political damage stemming from revelations that he had
employed and failed to pay Social Security taxes on an undocumented Mexican
worker in the 1970s.

Wilson last year made immigration, particularly his support for a state ballot
initiative eliminating many services for illegal immigrants, a keystone of his
reelection campaign for governor.

And he has said he intends to make the issue a central theme of his presidential
bid, which is expected to be announced formally later this month.

With immigration a critical issue in key electoral states such as California,
Florida and Texas, Clinton has been on the offensive since early this year to
protect his flanks against Wilson and other GOP candidates for the presidency.

The administration initiatives have focused on tougher border protections
through increased manpower and technology, drying up work opportunities for
illegal immigrants through tougher sanctions and the pilot worker-identification
program, and swifter and surer deportation procedures.

"This problem was neglected for 12 years," a senior White House official said
yesterday. "There's never been a coordinated set of deterrent strategies."

In his speech yesterday -- a few hours after he celebrated the Mexican holiday
Cinco de Mayo at a fund-raiser and showing of the film "My Family" that
celebrates a Mexican immigrant family -- Clinton paid tribute to the
contributions made by immigrants over many decades.

But he emphasized the United States "must be able to control our borders."

"Our nation was built by immigrants," he said. "But we won't tolerate
immigration by people whose first act is to break the law as they enter our
country. We must continue to do everything we can to strengthen our borders,
enforce our laws, and remove illegal aliens from our country."

Concurrent with introduction of its immigration legislation, the White House
also announced an abrupt change in how it deals with Cuban refugees, announcing
that from now on Cubans intercepted on the high seas en route to the United
States will be taken back to their homeland.

The first test of that change is underway, as 13 Cuban refugees who had been
picked up by a cruise liner Wednesday were transferred to a Coast Guard ship in
the Caribbean yesterday.

"The Cubans are on board a Coast Guard cutter and we are awaiting a decision on
disposition," Coast Guard spokesman Lt. Michael Wilson told Reuter.


LOAD-DATE: May 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, PRESIDENT CLINTON

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              58 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 13, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

High-Tech Firms Oppose Major Immigration Cuts; Entry for Skilled Technicians Is
Defended

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 859 words


As the congressional debate over immigration heats up, powerful elements of the
American business community are entering the fray to oppose major proposed cuts
in legal immigration that many companies fear would inhibit their ability to
compete in the global economy.

Dozens of executives from leading high-tech firms yesterday descended on Capitol
Hill to argue for separating the issues of legal and illegal immigration in
proposed legislation that is moving through the House and taking shape in the
Senate.

The lobbying effort reflects concerns among U.S. companies that their ability to
hire highly skilled foreign talent as legal immigrants will become ensnared in a
political backlash against illegal immigration.

"Legal immigration strengthens and energizes America," the National Association
of Manufacturers, which counts 13,500 corporate members nationwide, said in a
statement. "America's high-tech employees and international personnel should not
be considered in the same bill as undocumented entrants and criminal law
violators."

The main target of the lobbying effort is a House bill sponsored by Rep. Lamar
S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.
It would cut legal immigration by 30 percent, reduce refugee admissions by more
than 50 percent and crack down on illegal immigrants through a variety of means
including border fences and more Border Patrol agents.

The bill also calls for creation of a computer registry to verify that
prospective employees are legally eligible to work in the United States.

In the Senate, Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) is introducing a bill that would
slash legal immigration even more sharply as part of legislation that, like the
House version, links legal and illegal immigration in the same bill.

In addition, the bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform headed by
former congresswoman Barbara Jordan (D-Tex.) yesterday released a report that
offers detailed recommendations for cuts in legal immigration while supporting
"the basic framework" of immigration policy.

Although the proposed cuts in admissions of highly skilled foreigners would
affect a relatively small portion of annual immigration, they have caught the
attention of such firms as Microsoft, Motorola and Texas Instruments, which were
among nearly 60 high-tech firms whose executives voiced their objections on
Capitol Hill yesterday.

Up to now, the most outspoken opposition to cuts in legal immigration has come
from Hispanic organizations, religious groups and other traditional immigration
advocates, which have much less clout than the business community with the
Republican-controlled Congress.

Of the legal immigration limit of nearly 800,000 for fiscal 1995, "skills-based
admissions" are set at 140,000. The Smith bill would directly and indirectly
remove more than 32,000 of these admissions, while the Simpson bill would cut
them to 75,000. The Commission on Immigration Reform recommends a level of
100,000.

"Our ability to get the best talent in the world is critical to us," said
Kenneth M. Alvares, a vice president of Sun Microsystems, a fast-growing Silicon
Valley computer chip company. Restricting that ability "is going to kill us," he
said. "We will not be able to compete."

The firm, which employs 16,000 people, has been unable to fill more than 1,000
highly technical positions and feels it must recruit foreigners. If cuts in
skilled admissions are enacted, Alvares said, his company might be forced to do
its design work abroad.

"We have thousands of companies that care about this," said Phyllis Eisen, a
senior policy director at the National Association of Manufacturers. "If they
can't get the people they want, they will move overseas."

Such immigration cutbacks thus could result in a loss of jobs in the United
States, said Charles Billingsley, a spokesman for the Information Technology
Association of America. "I don't think that's what the legislators have in
mind."

Proponents of the Simpson bill argue that reducing the influx of immigrants is
what the American public wants. In order to address the need for engineers and
scientists, say congressional sources close to the Simpson bill, the legislation
would require employers of highly skilled immigrants to pay a fee equal to 30
percent of the employee's first-year salary into a fund to help finance training
for Americans.

A potentially far-reaching provision of the House and Senate bills is the
provision for a centralized computer verification system, which employers would
use to check that a prospective new hire was legally in the country and eligible
to work.

Company executives expressed concern that inaccurate or incomplete responses
from the new system could result in large numbers of "false denials" of
employment to qualified applicants and lead to costly lawsuits. With 65 million
new hires a year in the United States, an error rate of only 5 percent would
cause the computer to wrongly reject more than 3 million people, and tests of
federal data bases have shown error rates closer to 30 percent, critics of the
proposal said.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              59 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 03, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

Employment Database Proposal Raises Cries of 'Big Brother'

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 1070 words


Are future employers going to have to call "1-800 BIG BROTHER" to get government
approval to hire a job applicant? Or are such fears alarmist reactions to a
simple scheme intended to weed out illegal immigrants from people seeking
employment in America?

The question lies at the heart of a debate over one of the most controversial
provisions of proposed immigration reform legislation now taking shape in
Congress.

In a recent vote that pitted conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats
against fellow party members, the House Judiciary Committee narrowly rejected an
amendment that would have eliminated a requirement that employers check with a
government database to verify an applicant's eligibility to work in the United
States.

Strong objections to the requirement came from an odd assortment of Republicans
and Democrats, business and labor, conservatives and liberals, special interests
and libertarians. The narrowness of the vote and the crossing of party lines
appeared to foreshadow a tough and potentially divisive floor fight when the
bill comes before the full House.

Similar measures are in a Senate bill sponsored by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.)
and in a 1994 report of the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform chaired
by former Democratic congresswoman Barbara Jordan of Texas.

The House bill, introduced by Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), calls for the
attorney general to establish a mechanism by which an employer would call a
toll-free number or use a computer to submit a job candidate's name and Social
Security number for verification against a database to be run by the Social
Security Administration. An Immigration and Naturalization Service database also
would be used to check some applicants' alien registration numbers.

The agencies would have three days to respond to verification requests, and a
prospective employee would have 10 days to straighten out any error if the
computers failed to match his or her name and number.

The program would start with pilot projects in five states with high populations
of illegal aliens and take effect nationwide in October 1999.

Smith said his bill would help reduce document fraud by illegal aliens and "lift
the burden of law enforcement on business." It would simplify the process of
checking worker eligibility, he said, and absolve employers of liability if a
new hire approved by the mechanism turned out to be an illegal alien.

"There is simply no other way to protect American citizens . . . and reduce the
magnet of jobs," Smith told the committee. More than 40 percent of the estimated
4 million undocumented immigrants in the United States entered the country
legally and overstayed their visas, Smith said. These aliens cannot be stopped
at the nation's borders and must be deterred at the workplace, he said.

But critics say that in its zeal to combat illegal immigration, Congress is
steering the nation toward an "Orwellian nightmare," an era of all-knowing
federal oversight whereby officials will be able to verify citizenship by using
high-tech national identification cards.

"This is an unprecedented assertion of federal power," argued Steve Chabot
(R-Ohio), who introduced the amendment to eliminate the verification system. He
described the toll-free calls to get government approval for new hires as
"dialing 1-800-BIG BROTHER."

"It will be costly to operate, it won't work, and it will send exactly the wrong
message as to whether the government is to be the master or the servant of the
people," Chabot said. "We should get the federal government out of the face of
innocent citizens."

Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) charged that the bill would usher in an era of
"all-intrusive government" and impose "a massive unfunded mandate on honest
businesses and their employees."

Grover G. Norquist, head of Americans for Tax Reform, said, "The right of an
American to work should not be contingent upon approval from some brand-new
inside-the-Beltway bureaucracy."

A number of critics questioned the wisdom of establishing a system that would
affect all Americans in order to identify the 1.5 percent of the population who
live and work in the United States illegally. With about 65 million people
changing jobs or entering the labor market each year in this country, skeptics
also expressed doubt that the Social Security Administration could handle a
potential volume of calls exceeding 30,000 an hour.

Supporters of the plan denied it would involve creating any new bureaucracy,
computer database or national identification card. The system would serve to
check only whether a job-seeker's name matched a Social Security or alien
registration number in existing databases, they said.

However, Rep. Bill McCollum (R-Fla.) said he intends to offer an amendment on
the House floor to create a "more secure" Social Security card with a photo, a
hologram and "perhaps a biometric identifier." Otherwise, he said, an employer
would have no way of knowing whether the prospective employee was presenting
someone else's Social Security number. Biometric identifiers include
fingerprints and retina scans.

"Without hardening that card . . . it's going to be very easy to continue to
have fraud in the system," McCollum said. He insisted, however, that he was "not
talking about creating a national identification card."

Although many countries have national identification cards -- and the Social
Security card in many ways serves that purpose now -- the idea of instituting
such an ID card hits a raw nerve among many Americans who value individual
rights. So far, no member of Congress has openly called for a national ID card,
at least by that name.

Opponents of the verification plan point to how the Social Security card has
evolved beyond its original purpose. Created in 1935 to track contributions to a
fund, Social Security numbers now are used as identifiers on job applications,
tax returns, driver's licenses, credit forms and a multitude of other documents.

Now, critics say, microchip technology can make ID cards especially intrusive.
According to an analysis by the Cato Institute, one newly patented ID card can
hold a photo and 1,600 pages of text. Another identification system developed by
a major defense contractor consists of a microchip the size of a grain of rice
that can be implanted under the skin with a syringe and read with a scanner.


LOAD-DATE: October 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, newsday; Photo ; Chart, The Washington Post, FOREIGN-BORN IN THE
U.S. BY STATE OF RESIDENCE, 1994 Texas -- 8.0% New York -- 8.4% Florida -- 9.2%
California -- 34.3% All other states -- 40.1% SOURCE: Bureau of the Census Since
passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act in 1986, an underground market
in fake identification cards and work authorization papers has mushroomed. Such
fraud is the target of pending legislation.  REP. LAMAR S. SMITH REP. JOHN
CONYERS JR.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              60 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 21, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Aliens and Work Eligibility

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 467 words


AS CONGRESS moves to revisit immigration regulation this fall, much concern has
been expressed about a proposal to strengthen enforcement of the law that bars
illegal aliens from working here. It is legitimate for the government to protect
the job market for citizens and legal aliens and to discourage illegal entry by
removing the incentive for foreigners to come here in order to find employment.

Since 1986, it has been unlawful for employers to hire undocumented workers, but
enforcing that prohibition has been difficult and often ineffective. Critical
documents such as work permits and Social Security cards are susceptible to easy
forgery and are being sold openly in areas with a high concentration of
immigrants. So an easier and more secure system that will enable employers to
check the immigration status of workers is being sought.

There has always been uneasiness over the idea of introducing national identity
cards. These have a resonance of the worst kind of repressive society. In fact,
a system much more similar to the credit card checks with which Americans are so
familiar is being considered. And it is already being tested with good results.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service, at the direction of Congress and
President Bush, embarked on the first phase of a pilot project in March 1992. A
group of nine employers, with work forces ranging from 130 to 50,000, used
telephones to obtain information from INS data banks. Almost 2,500 aliens were
checked through this system, and 236 were found to be ineligible for work. When
adverse information turned up, a second, more thorough check was made
automatically.

No one who was found ineligible after two reviews contested the finding, and no
complaints of discrimination were filed. The employers liked the system, which
saved paperwork and avoided the costs of inadvertently hiring ineligible workers
and having to replace them later. All said they would even be willing to pay the
government for this service.

Phase two of the experiment, which will involve 200 employers and add computer
access, is about to begin. The final phase, using 1,000 employers, will start
within the year. If the results continue to be satisfactory from the employers'
point of view and free of civil liberties problems, which has been the case so
far, national implementation will be worth considering.

Privacy is an important concern, and, of course, computer mistakes are always
possible. But if misinformation is easily corrected, as it has been so far, and
the data involved are limited to information that is already a matter of public
record, fears should fade. In another year or so, the complete results of the
pilot study will be available. Final decisions in legislative form should be
postponed until then.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              61 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 04, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Sen. Simpson Offers Overhaul Of Legal, Illegal Immigration; Bill Would Limit
Employment, Family Sponsorship

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 890 words


Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) introduced a bill yesterday to overhaul the
nation's legal immigration system by sharply reducing annual admissions of
family-sponsored immigrants and imposing new restrictions on those who come to
the United States for employment.

Citing a need for a "breathing space" in the annual growth of legal immigration,
Simpson said his bill would curtail the "chain migration" of immigrants'
extended families and protect U.S. workers and new college graduates from
"unfair competition" by foreigners, who often accept lower wages.

The proposed legislation would lower nonrefugee admissions by about 25 percent
to 540,000 a year, including 90,000 employment-related immigrants and 450,000
family-sponsored immigrants. In a major change certain to encounter stiff
opposition from U.S. businesses, the bill would also effectively bar companies
from hiring foreign students immediately upon graduation from American
universities.

The bill is the last major piece of a series of GOP legislative initiatives
aimed at reducing both legal and illegal immigration. While there is a broad
bipartisan consensus on the need to fight illegal immigration, measures to pare
down family- and employment-based legal admissions have aroused intense
controversy in both parties and are expected to become a hot political issue in
the 1996 election year.

A broad immigration bill that passed the House Judiciary Committee last month
has sharply split Republicans, creating some strange political bedfellows on key
issues and foreshadowing a potentially divisive debate when the bill reaches the
House floor, probably next year.

The House bill, introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) and passed 23 to 10 by
the Judiciary Committee on Oct. 24, already is coming under attack from an
unlikely alliance of conservative Republicans, liberal Democrats, immigration
advocates and elements of the business community. They want to split the bill,
allowing provisions on illegal immigration to go forward while shelving the
sections on legal immigration.

In introducing his long-awaited bill on the Senate floor yesterday, Simpson, who
chairs the Senate subcommittee on immigration, said Americans are growing
"increasingly restless and dissatisfied" with annual levels of immigration that
are more than five times higher than they were in 1953. Including refugee
admissions, legal immigration exceeds 800,000 a year.

"Curbing, even stopping, illegal immigration is not enough," he said. "It is
time to slow down, to reassess, to make certain we are assimilating well the
extraordinary level of immigration the country has been experiencing in recent
years."

Simpson indicated he wants to combine the new bill with a pending one on illegal
immigration before presenting the package to the full Senate Judiciary Committee
this year.

He said his bill would limit family-based immigration to the spouses and
unmarried minor children of U.S. citizens, with some exceptions for parents, and
would cap visas allotted to spouses and unmarried minor children of lawful
permanent aliens at 85,000 a year. In addition, 150,000 of the 450,000 annual
family-sponsored immigrant visas would go toward reducing a backlog of more than
1.1 million spouses and minor children of permanent residents whose petitions
have been approved.

The bill does not deal with refugees, of whom 90,000 can be admitted next year.

Some of the bill's most controversial provisions call for capping
employment-based permanent immigration at 90,000 a year, down from 140,000 at
present, and requiring employers to pay a fee equal to 30 percent of the
immigrant worker's annual salary into a fund to finance the training of American
workers. Additional provisions are aimed at discouraging the use of temporary
foreign workers to replace Americans.

Foreign students who graduate from U.S. universities would have to work outside
the United States for two to five years, depending on their education level and
desired immigration status, before they could come back as employment-based
temporary or permanent immigrants.

In the House, 10 California Republicans signed a letter urging the bill be split
to avoid "further delay of needed efforts to stop illegal immigration." The
letter argued that linking legal and illegal immigration in the same bill "has
resulted in a backlash of resentment from our legal immigrant communities."

The signatories included Reps. Jay Kim, the only Korean American in Congress;
Robert K. Dornan, a presidential candidate; David Dreier; and Dana Rohrabacher.

In response, 35 congressmen wrote to Speaker Newt Gingrich to strongly oppose
dropping legal immigration reform from the bill, warning that such a move "could
have serious political consequences in the 1996 presidential and congressional
elections." Among the signers of the letter, circulated by Rep. Bob Stump
(R-Ariz.), were Rep. Bill Archer (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee, and Gerald B.H. Solomon (R-N.Y.) chairman of the House Rules
Committee.

High levels of legal immigration "have resulted in overcrowded schools and
hospitals, scarce employment, inadequate housing and a deteriorating standard of
living, as well as an undue burden on state and local governments who must
provide the services," the letter said.

LOAD-DATE: November 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              62 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 29, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Citing Progress, Administration Vows to Restore Credibility of Immigration
System

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 687 words


Reversing what it described as "years of neglect" of U.S. immigration
enforcement, the Clinton administration yesterday announced record removals of
illegal aliens and pledged to "restore credibility to our nation's immigration
system."

In a joint news conference, Deputy Attorney General Jamie S. Gorelick and
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said
that by the end of this year, U.S. authorities will have removed more than
51,600 criminal and illegal aliens from the country, a 15 percent increase from
last year and 75 percent more than in 1990.

"The president asked us to reverse years of neglect of our immigration laws,"
Gorelick said. "This record number of removals shows we can meet the immigration
challenges we face."

The number includes people formally deported after judicial proceedings and
those who simply were "excluded," or barred from entering the country, after
being found inadmissible at legal ports of entry. Of the total, nearly 32,000
were "criminal aliens," who committed a crime in the United States and were
detained by INS agents under a new program, then deported immediately after
finishing sentences in county, state and federal jails, Gorelick said.

The removal figure does not include thousands of illegal aliens who voluntarily
go home without formal proceedings after being apprehended at work sites and
other places across the country. Nor does it account for the more than 1 million
persons a year who are caught trying to sneak over the nation's borders and are
summarily repatriated.

Critics of U.S. immigration policy say that while removals may be up, they still
represent a small percentage of the roughly 4 million illegal immigrants in the
country, a population that is increasing by an estimated 300,000 to 400,000 a
year.

"We inherited a failed program," Gorelick said in defending the administration's
performance. "There were minimal numbers of deportations when we took over."

Of the people removed in fiscal 1995, nearly 70 percent came from Mexico. The
next largest numbers came from Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, the Dominican
Republic and Jamaica. Although Chinese illegal immigrants have become a
significant problem for U.S. authorities in recent years, only 300 were removed
in fiscal 1995, largely because they are allowed to claim political asylum based
on fears of repression by Beijing's communist government following the Tiananmen
Square massacre or opposition to the country's one-child birth control policy.

According to Meissner, the INS expects to increase removals substantially in
1996 through increased funding for several initiatives. In particular, the
agency expects to receive an additional $ 46.1 million and hire 635 more
personnel for its Enhanced Institutional Hearing Program, which processes
criminal aliens for deportation while they are serving jail sentences. Its
still-pending budget also includes an increase of $ 42.7 million and 418 staff
members for additional detention facilities and more than $ 26 million to locate
and remove illegal aliens apprehended at work sites.

On the border with Mexico, the federal government has taken a tougher line on
criminal aliens who return to the United States after having been previously
deported, prosecuting such cases as felonies rather than misdemeanors this year
for the first time.

According to Alan Bersin, the attorney general's recently appointed "border
czar," 1,315 previously deported criminal aliens were prosecuted and jailed this
year for returning to the United States, a 448 percent increase from last year.

Another innovation, called "port court," has been used on the southwestern
border to punish and deter illegal border crossers who use phony documents to
try to enter the United States.

Under the program, these violators, who formerly were repatriated without any
sanction, are detained pending exclusion proceedings that subject them to felony
prosecution if they return. More than 3,000 people have been detained and
excluded by the port court program in the last six months, Bersin said.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              63 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 29, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Smuggling, Via Portable Toilet

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Police have charged three people with trying to smuggle at least 17 illegal
immigrants across the Mexican border by cramming them into a portable toilet,
officials said.

A spokesman said the border patrol discovered the would-be immigrants in a
"portoilet" strapped to the back of a pick-up truck as they stopped near the
small California town of Pine Valley five miles north of the border Tuesday.

"They were pretty much stacked up inside there," said Border Patrol spokesman
Ron Henley.

He said the agency had been tipped off by a source several weeks ago that
smugglers might try the novel approach, and he noted that the toilet, designed
for handicapped individuals, was larger than standard ones.

The three U.S. citizens were jailed on alien smuggling charges. Fifteen Mexican
citizens were returned home, and the other two were being held as material
witnesses to testify against their alleged smugglers, Henley said.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              64 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 02, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

83 Aliens Arrested in Montgomery; Biggest Immigration Sweep In Years Hits 37
Restaurants

Dan Beyers, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 735 words


Federal immigration agents descended upon Montgomery County's busiest commercial
corridor yesterday to arrest 83 undocumented immigrants working in dozens of
restaurants, part of Maryland's largest one-day roundup in at least five years.

The day-long operation, informally called the Big Chill by immigration
officials, extended from downtown Bethesda to Gaithersburg and included
delicatessens, bagel shops, sit-down restaurants and McDonald's franchises.
Thirty-seven restaurants were targeted in all.

Illegal workers are arrested every week in Maryland, but large-scale operations
such as yesterday's are rare in the Washington area, said Louis F. Nardi, the
agent of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service who directed the sweep.

"The people we picked up today represent just a drop in the bucket of the
illegal alien community that resides in Montgomery County," Nardi said. "We
wanted to send a clear message to employers that if you hire unauthorized
workers, you run a real risk of sanctions."

Ben Ferro, director of the INS in Maryland, said, "We found today a disturbing
number of restaurants that are winking at or ignoring their responsibilities."

INS officials said illegal immigrants arrested in the raids will be asked to
leave the country voluntarily or face deportation proceedings. Restaurants found
to have knowingly hired illegal workers face fines of up to $ 2,000 a worker for
a first offense.

"We expect that at least 50 percent of the restaurants will be fined once we
conclude our investigation," Nardi said. "Some of the restaurants involved have
already been cited once in the past."

The roundup sent many restaurant owners scrambling to brush up on federal
immigration law and to check their employment records. Others, however,
complained bitterly that the effort was misdirected.

"There are good people in this world and bad, and the two people they took away
from my restaurant are good people," said Paul Golkin, owner of the 85-seat East
End Cafe in Bethesda. "They showed up every day. They worked hard. With all the
real problems we face these days, you think they'd have something better to do."

Golkin said he had been trying to help one of the arrested workers obtain her
green card to live and work permanently in the United States. He said he never
asked about his employees' immigration status when he hired them, which federal
law requires employers to do.

"I believe in treating people like humans. The only people I'm prejudiced
against are lazy people," Golkin said.

Marcia Harris, executive vice president of the Restaurant Association of
Maryland, said many restaurant owners struggle to stay on the right side of
immigration law.

"It's especially difficult for mom-and-pop businesses who don't have a personnel
department. They don't even have a personnel director," she said.

Immigration officials said all the restaurants targeted in the sweep had been
identified through tips.

INS agents arrested people who did not carry a green card or other authorization
to work. The workers, who made $ 4.50 to $ 9.50 an hour, were handcuffed and put
on a bus to a National Guard armory in Silver Spring for processing.

Most sat silently in a cordoned-off corner of the armory gymnasium waiting to be
fingerprinted, photographed and charged before being transported to a detention
center on Maryland's Eastern Shore.

A few workers, however, were freed yesterday.

INS agents charged two women and then released them so they could meet children
returning home from school. A teenage boy was released to his parents. And 10 of
the arrested people, including an 18-year-old McDonald's employee, were found to
be in the United States legally.

Clariza Esquivel, who lives in Rockville after emigrating with her family from
El Salvador five years ago, said the INS picked her up about 8:30 a.m. while she
was working at the McDonald's near Wintergreen Plaza.

Esquivel said she was not carrying her papers as required by law. But she tried
to explain to the agents that they could verify her status by looking at her job
application.

"They told me they didn't care about that, that they had to see the card,"
Esquivel said. "They didn't ask for things nicely. Everything was done rudely.
They pushed us and they yelled at us. And they handcuffed us."

Staff writer Manuel Perez-Rivas contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, INS officer Joseph Glorioso directs suspects into
an armory in Silver Spring after a roundup of undocumented immigrants in
Montgomery County.  Immigration officers take handcuffs off some suspects
detained at Montgomery restaurants.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              65 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  February 14, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Penalties Added for Illegal Workers

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 550 words


President Clinton yesterday signed an executive order to prohibit companies that
knowingly hire illegal aliens from receiving federal contracts.

The executive order, part of a "comprehensive strategy" to combat illegal
immigration, is aimed at reducing "the job magnet that draws illegal immigrants
to this country," Clinton said.

"American jobs belong to America's legal workers," he said in signing the order,
which was first announced in his State of the Union address. "We are determined
to restore the rule of law to our nation's immigration system."

Clinton insisted the order would not burden employers with "needless paperwork"
or result in employment discrimination. And it would not apply to businesses
that violated only "minor technical provisions" or hired ineligible employees in
good faith based on documents that appeared to be genuine, the White House said.

Under a 1986 law, it is already illegal for companies, including government
contractors, to hire ineligible workers, and they can lose existing federal
contracts for serious offenses. Now, such companies also would be barred for a
year from competing for new federal contracts, a sanction the White House called
a "powerful deterrent."

Critics, however, described the action as largely superfluous and politically
motivated.

"I'm not sure it's particularly meaningful," said Frank Sharry, director of the
National Immigration Forum, an immigration advocacy group. "It's more show than
substance." He said his group does not object to the order and that the
administration deserves credit for tightening control of the southwestern
border, deporting criminal aliens and reforming the asylum system. But as the
presidential campaign heats up, he said, the White House "seems more concerned
with public relations than with substantive progress."

Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies, said the
government should establish a reliable national system to verify legal status of
new employees before further punishing businessmen for hiring them. "It's
putting the cart before the horse," he said.

Jay P. Krupin, a lawyer whose firm represents employers, called the executive
order "an election-year maneuver" that responds to Republican issues,
particularly in light of the strong showing by Patrick J. Buchanan in the Iowa
caucuses Monday. Buchanan advocates building a "security fence" along the
U.S.-Mexican border and using "troops if necessary" to repel illegal crossers.

As part of a crackdown on illegal workers in connection with the presidential
directive, federal authorities Monday raided a construction site in Atlanta and
arrested 20 Mexicans and Hondurans working on a new $ 200 million federal office
building. The illegal aliens, who were earning $ 7 to $ 14 an hour, were working
directly in front of the Atlanta office of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS).

On Feb. 8, federal agents arrested 22 Mexicans working illegally at construction
sites on Camp Lejeune Marine Corps Base in North Carolina, the INS said. The
workers were employed by six companies holding federal contracts worth $ 37
million.

Authorities are investigating to determine whether any of the firms involved in
either case knowingly violated immigration laws.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, reuter, Clinton looks up as he finishes signing executive order
sanctioning companies that knowingly employ illegal aliens.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              66 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 30, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Agents Arrest 118 Illegal Workers in Va.

John W. Fountain, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. H02

LENGTH: 390 words


Since January, federal agents have arrested 118 immigrants working illegally
throughout Virginia, representing an estimated $ 2.2 million a year in lost
wages for Americans, federal officials said yesterday.

The arrests by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service are part of a
crackdown on illegal workers who hold jobs paying more than the minimum wage,
said William Carroll, director of the agency's Washington area field office. By
targeting those workers and the companies that hire them, the INS hopes to
create more jobs for legal workers, Carroll said.

"In a very short time, we have developed a very productive means of saving wages
for qualified workers and returned lost opportunities to our local communities,"
Carroll said in a written statement.

Most of the people arrested in the INS raids in Virginia were construction
workers who were paid $ 8 to $ 11 an hour, Carroll said. That, according to INS
officials, represents a departure from the traditional pattern of illegal
immigrants holding low-paying, unskilled jobs. Officials said the arrests also
show that illegal immigrants increasingly are seeking employment in Virginia
outside the Washington area.

"What we have uncovered here is an extensive problem from Norfolk to Richmond to
Fredricksburg to Northern Virginia where individuals are illegally working in
jobs that are significant in the sense that these particular positions are well
above the minimum wage," Carroll said.

The agency did not have figures on how many of the arrests were made in Northern
Virginia.

On Thursday, INS agents arrested 21 Mexican and Salvadoran workers at Arban &
Carosi Inc. in Woodbridge, which manufactures structural units used in
construction. Officials estimate that those jobs averaged $ 14,000 a year.

A company spokesman yesterday did not return phone calls.

The latest INS raid occurred yesterday morning at a Virginia Beach construction
firm, although no arrests were made. Ten workers employed illegally at the
company apparently knew about the raid and were not there when agents arrived,
INS officials said. It was the 13th such raid in Virginia since Jan. 13.

The home countries of the workers who have been arrested also include Nicaragua,
Venezuela and Canada.

All of those arrested are awaiting deportation, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              67 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 18, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Crackdown Targets Foreign Workers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 370 words


In a major crackdown on employment of illegal aliens in the eastern United
States, federal agents have arrested 1,176 foreign workers from 32 countries at
more than 100 businesses, some of which face heavy fines or loss of federal
contracts, the Justice Department said yesterday.

The arrests resulted from Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
operations in 19 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands March 18 to
April 12, officials said. The raids targeted businesses traditionally associated
with employment of illegal aliens, including construction companies in Maryland
and Virginia, garment factories in New York and restaurants in several states.

The crackdown comes as part of an effort to reduce the "job magnet" that
continues to attract illegal immigrants to the United States and undercuts legal
workers and law-abiding businesses, Deputy Attorney General Jamie S. Gorelick
told a news conference.

"The Clinton administration's border control initiatives have made it harder for
illegal aliens to get here," she said. "The goal of our work-site enforcement
efforts is to take away their reason to come in the first place."

The arrested workers held jobs that paid more than $ 15.5 million a year --
wages that now will be available to legal workers, officials said. The INS is
working with state employment agencies to find legal workers to fill the vacated
jobs and has asked Virginia counties to help identify welfare recipients who may
be interested.

"The message we are sending out is that we are going to save jobs for Americans
and legal permanent residents," said William J. Carroll, director of the INS
Washington District Office.

While the Clinton administration insists work-site enforcement is a high
priority in its fight against illegal immigration, some experts suspect the
crackdown is geared to election-year politics.

"Every time you turn around, the administration is looking for a good
opportunity to go public with this message: 'Employers beware,' " said Demetrios
Papademetriou of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He said it
remains to be seen whether the commitment to employer sanctions will be
maintained after the election.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1996April 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              68 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 01, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

3 Indicted In Immigrant Smuggling; Md. Crash Revealed 37 in Truck Cargo Box

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 558 words


A federal grand jury in Baltimore indicted two Guatemalan men and a Mexican man
yesterday on charges of smuggling 37 illegal immigrants from Arizona to the
Delmarva Peninsula in a rental truck that crashed at a Chesapeake Bay Bridge
tollbooth last month.

Reports of the crash horrified many in the Washington area because the 37 men,
women and children were packed into a cargo box like cattle without food, water,
light or bathroom facilities during the 48-hour trip. It also focused attention
on a long-suspected but rarely illuminated route for illegal immigration to the
Eastern Shore, where poultry plants and farming operations have long employed
migrant workers.

Israel Perez-Herrera, 34, a Guatemalan citizen, allegedly rented the truck Feb.
5 in Chandler, Ariz., according to the federal indictment. Prosecutors say he
was aided by 18-year-old Hermelindo Velasquez-Rivera, also of Guatemala, and
Luis Alfredo Hernandez-Herrera, 23, of Mexico.

Velasquez-Rivera also was charged with driving without a license and violating
the truck's rental agreement when he crashed the truck at the Bay Bridge two
days later.

The indictment charges the three men with transporting and harboring illegal
immigrants, as well as with conspiracy to do so. Each defendant faces a maximum
sentence of five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Carmina Hughes said the men are in the custody of
immigration officials. Hughes would not comment on whether they were believed to
have been part of a smuggling organization or acted independently. She also
would not say whether authorities would prosecute potential employers who may
have been planning to hire the passengers.

"I'm not sure there is an organization," Hughes said. "They're the three we
think are criminally culpable at this point."

One of the passengers who traveled in the truck, Genaro Cux-Garcia, told
journalists last week that the trip was treacherous. He described riding hungry,
thirsty, damp from rain and sick from the stench of human waste kept in plastic
bags.

In addition to the three men indicted yesterday, Cux-Garcia and 31 other
passengers are being held at the Wicomico jail, in Salisbury, pending
deportation hearings, immigration officials said. They were transferred there
Monday from the Howard County jail. Immigration officials made the decision to
transfer them last Friday, the same day articles about Cux-Garcia appeared in
The Washington Post and Baltimore Sun. Officials said five juveniles are being
held in Pennsylvania.

Hundreds of Washington area residents have offered to help the truck's
passengers with donations or by opening their homes, giving them work or
sponsoring them for residence.

Immigration officials said the adult passengers can post bond of $ 7,500 to $
20,000, while the juveniles must post $ 1,000, to be released until their
hearings. None had been able to do so by late yesterday, said John O'Malley,
assistant district director for detention and deportation at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Baltimore.

Ed Campos, a social worker with Adventist Community Services, said lawyers have
volunteered to represent the truck's passengers free. However, Campos said, they
have been frustrated in their efforts to get the names of all the passengers
from immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              69 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 07, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Driver Suspect in Beating Incident Is Charged With Smuggling Aliens

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 6


The alleged driver of the pickup truck stopped last month by police officers who
were videotaped while beating suspected illegal immigrants in the vehicle was
charged today with smuggling Mexicans into the United States.

U.S. Attorney Nora Manella announced that Fidel Delgado-Pimental had been
charged with two counts of illegally transporting undocumented immigrants.

He was arrested Friday in Winchester, Calif., driving a pickup carrying 18
suspected illegal immigrants. He was also charged in connection with the highly
publicized incident April 1, when he allegedly led police on an 80-mile chase on
freeways from near the Mexican border.

When his vehicle was stopped in the Los Angeles suburb of El Monte in the April
incident, Delgado-Pimental allegedly jumped from the vehicle and escaped along
with several suspected immigrants.

But one man and one woman who stayed with the vehicle were captured on videotape
by a TV news helicopter as they were beaten with batons by Riverside County
Sheriff's Department officers.

LOAD-DATE: May 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              70 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 07, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Officials Face Deportation for Child-Smuggling

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 340 words


Two Nicaraguan women, both members of their country's legislature, are awaiting
deportation after pleading guilty in Miami last week to smuggling illegal
immigrants into the United States.

The case has aroused indignation in the State Department over the abuse of
diplomatic courtesies, which are commonly invoked in visa requests by foreign
dignitaries and their families.

The women, alternate legislators of the leftist Sandinista party, have spent
more than three months in jail since they were arrested in late August on
charges of smuggling two children into Miami to join their illegal immigrant
parents. All four were traveling on diplomatic passports.

The arrests illustrated "how high involvement in alien smuggling can rise in a
Central American country, which is a reason we should be paying a lot of
attention to it," said John Maisto, the U.S. ambassador to Nicaragua.

The organizer of the scam, Sylvia E. Fox-Lewis, 39, had charged the Nicaraguan
parents $ 6,600 to bring in their 8-year-old daughter and 6-year-old son on
diplomatic passports with false names, the State Department's Bureau of
Diplomatic Security said in a criminal complaint.

Her accomplice, Bertha Rosa Flores, 37, was to be paid $ 2,000 for posing as the
children's mother, the complaint said.

Fox-Lewis used a diplomatic note to obtain U.S. visas for the children, a
technique she had employed successfully in several similar smuggling ventures
over the past few years, a federal investigator said.

In a plea agreement, federal prosecutors dropped charges of visa and passport
fraud against the two women. They were then sentenced to time served for
smuggling the children and agreed not to contest deportation.

The children were allowed to stay with their parents, but the family faces a
legal battle to avoid being deported as well. Meanwhile, an informant in the
case has told investigators that two of his brothers in Managua have been
summarily fired from their government jobs in apparent retaliation for the
arrests.

LOAD-DATE: December 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              71 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 26, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigrant Trafficking Dealt Blow; Arrested Costa Rican Allegedly Smuggled
Thousands Into U.S.

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 983 words


Authorities in Latin America, acting on information provided by the United
States, have broken up a major smuggling operation that used a sophisticated
network and extensive bribery to funnel thousands of Asians and Latin Americans
to the United States through Central America, U.S. officials said.

The arrest this month of Gloria Canales, a 40-year-old Costa Rican woman
originally from Peru, is regarded by administration officials as a victory in
the fight against international crime and a sign that trafficking in illegal
immigrants is causing increased concern among Latin American governments.

The case also illustrates how the smuggling of people into the United States has
grown from relatively small-scale forays across the U.S.-Mexican border by
guides known as "coyotes" into multimillion-dollar businesses spanning numerous
countries.

Among those smuggled by Canales's organization have been thousands of Chinese
and Indians who first made their way to Latin America, U.S. officials said. They
said Canales is believed to have smuggled at least 10,000 people a year,
charging up to $ 6,000 a head for the Indians and Chinese. Most of those
smuggled came from Latin American countries, the officials said.

The ring allegedly headed by Canales was part of a global maze of
alien-trafficking networks that have sought to penetrate the United States by
land, sea and air. According to U.S. intelligence reports, Central America has
become a major conduit for this smuggling in recent years because of its
proximity to the United States, corruption in its governments and its lack of
laws against the practice.

An interagency working group on alien trafficking estimates that in addition to
the Latin Americans who are smuggled through Central America, "some 100,000
aliens from outside the region" pass through one or more Central American
countries annually on their way to the United States. In the past year, the
working group reported, "the immigration directors in Panama, Belize and
Guatemala were fired for accepting bribes from alien smugglers."

Canales, who first came to the attention of Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) investigators a year and a half ago, was arrested earlier this
month in Ecuador and deported on Dec. 12 to Honduras via Miami. She is now
awaiting trial in Honduras on charges of smuggling, bribery, falsification of
documents and homicide. She faces up to 30 years in prison if convicted.

According to U.S. officials familiar with the case, Canales's organization has
been blamed for the deaths of at least 10 people during the sometimes hazardous
journey through Central America to the U.S.-Mexican border. Among the victims
were three Indians who reportedly drowned in the Gulf of Fonseca between
Honduras and El Salvador last summer, officials said.

Honduras, which U.S. investigators say was formerly used by Canales as a
smuggling way station, also has been wracked by bribery and corruption scandals
related to the smuggling. Two senior immigration officials and a former foreign
minister have been arrested on charges of involvement in the trafficking, and
the government of President Carlos Reina appears determined to crack down.

Honduras is the only Central American country in which smuggling of humans is a
crime. For that reason, U.S. officials helped persuade Ecuador to arrest Canales
and deport her to Honduras.

"This whole effort is a direct outgrowth of President Clinton's war on
transnational criminals," said Peter Romero, U.S. ambassador to Ecuador. He said
the administration is urging other countries in the region to adopt similar laws
against the smuggling of humans.

The arrest of Canales exposed a web of corruption stretching across the entire
region, U.S. officials said. In a raid last weekend on a mansion she owns in
Costa Rica, the sources said, Costa Rican authorities found documents and
computer records implicating senior officials of various governments, including
military and immigration officers.

"I'm sure there will be some heads rolling," an informed U.S. official said. He
said the records included the names of contacts in the United States, although
it was not yet known whether any U.S. officials were on Canales's payroll.

Copies of the seized records have been turned over to the CIA, which sent
experts from its forensic documents laboratory to Costa Rica to participate in
the investigation of Canales's operation, the official said.

Based on the search of Canales's home, he said, Costa Rican authorities now
believe she also may have been involved in smuggling diamonds and drugs.

Her people-smuggling network included "coyotes," airline officials and hotel
owners from Peru to Mexico, as well as contacts in India and China,
investigators said. The Indians and Chinese often would fly in to the Ecuadoran
capital, Quito, or the industrial center and port city of Guayaquil, where
Canales would put them up in hotels before sending them north, the sources said.

Sometimes, however, the accommodations were not up to the standards that the
smuggled people had been led to expect. In an ironic incident last summer,
Romero said, four Chinese showed up at the U.S. Embassy in Quito to complain
about their treatment, saying they had paid good money to Canales to be taken to
the United States but were being lodged in a lousy hotel with bad food.

At one point after the INS began looking into her activities, the agency learned
that Canales had sent a henchman to the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa, to check
out the possibility of assassinating the regional INS agent stationed there,
U.S. officials said.

Now Canales herself is reportedly facing death threats because of fears by
officials she bribed that she might expose them, a U.S. source said. He said
Canales is being protected by more than a dozen guards as she awaits trial in
Honduras.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              72 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 12, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

INS Mustering Forces on Southwestern Border

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 880 words


The United States, anticipating a surge of illegal immigration from Mexico, is
beefing up the southwestern border with personnel and equipment as part of a new
"battle plan" involving support from local police, National Guard units and the
military, officials said yesterday.

The reinforced border control program, which is to begin Tuesday and last up to
90 days, will deploy 300 additional Border Patrol agents and other Immigration
and Naturalization Service (INS) officers to key areas along the border in
California and Arizona, officials said. The main targets are the stretches of
border south of San Diego and Tucson, which currently account for two-thirds of
all apprehensions of illegal aliens by the Border Patrol.

The effort, which is expected to cost the INS $ 2.6 million a month, is intended
to deal with an expected surge of illegal immigration early this year because of
economic conditions in Mexico and the traditional "high season" for border
crossings that lasts from mid-January to about April.

Administration officials said it also reflects concern that unless the Clinton
administration confronts the wave of aliens with tough deterrent measures,
illegal immigration could give President Clinton's opponents political
ammunition during this election year.

"We're extending the rule of law to the border after years of neglect," said
Rahm Emanuel, a presidential assistant. Since illegal immigration first surfaced
as a potent political issue in California in 1994, the Clinton administration
repeatedly has argued that its predecessors should be blamed for current
weaknesses in border controls and other enforcement measures.

While the INS has informed the Mexican government of its plans and has taken
pains to avoid giving the impression of militarizing the border, the tightened
enforcement risks alarming Mexicans and increasing the economic pressure that
illegal immigration into the United States traditionally has served to relieve.

During 1995, the Mexican economy shrank by 6 percent and lost more than 1
million jobs as it sank into its deepest recession in 60 years. The value of the
peso dropped nearly 60 percent, the annual inflation rate exceeded 50 percent,
tens of billions of dollars in capital fled the country, and Mexicans complained
of a rise in violent crime.

As a result of all this, illegal border crossings rose substantially last year.
Across the entire 2,000-mile border, apprehensions in December 1995 were up 92
percent from a year earlier, INS officials said. In the San Diego sector alone,
Border Patrol agents apprehended 31,000 illegal aliens last month, a 121 percent
increase from December 1994.

The new border control program is aimed at knitting together special operations
in the San Diego and Tucson sectors, called "Gatekeeper" and "Safeguard," into a
"single coherent regional strategy" that also encompasses efforts to combat drug
smuggling across the border, said Alan Bersin, the attorney general's border
control coordinator based in San Diego.

"We have a battle plan to secure Imperial Beach, move to Chula Vista, lock that
down and shut the back door to California by securing Arizona," Emanuel said.

A major element of the program will be the deployment of 200 additional Border
Patrol agents from around the country, as well as 60 INS special investigators
assigned to fight alien smuggling and 40 more inspectors to check documents at
legal ports of entry, said Robert L. Bach, the INS executive associate
commissioner for policy and planning.

The effort also will include dozens of high-powered portable lights "to take the
cover of darkness away from smugglers," four-wheel-drive vehicles, rented buses
to haul illegal aliens, night-vision scopes and more than 700 motion sensors to
detect groups of illegal border crossers, particularly in remote areas, Bach
said.

Backing up the Border Patrol will be up to 350 members of Marine and Army units
deployed under the military's Joint Task Force 6, which has been helping to
battle drug trafficking since 1988, officials said. While prohibited by law from
performing immigration enforcement tasks, these troops are to assist in
operating the night scopes, motion sensors and communications gear, the
officials said.

In addition, National Guard units from California and Arizona, which can play a
more direct role in law enforcement than the military, will help provide
security, carry out secondary inspections and perform other support functions.

In what INS officials described as a major new element in the program, around
135 sheriff's deputies and local police are to be brought into a "partnership"
with the Border Patrol to further beef up the enforcement effort. The cost of
their participation, currently estimated at about $ 5 million, is to be covered
by the U.S. attorney general's contingency fund.

One target of the deputies and police will be vigilante groups that have arisen
in some communities to confront, sometimes violently, the tide of illegal
immigrants, officials said.

Also linked to the program will be new checkpoints on roads leading away from
the border and the deployment of plainclothes investigators at airports in
California and Arizona to look for alien-smuggling activities.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              73 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 05, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Influx of Immigrants Meets Beefed-Up Resistance at U.S. Border; Flow North Via
Nogales Becomes Restive Backup

John Ward Anderson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1033 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Mexico


It took Osmon Wuebner, a 22-year-old farmhand from the southern state of
Chiapas, about a week to travel across Mexico to this small, industrial city on
the Arizona border, where he expected to sneak easily into the United States.

But like thousands of other would-be illegal immigrants who arrived here in the
last two weeks, Wuebner soon discovered that the notoriously porous "Tortilla
Curtain" separating the two countries had been sewn shut by a new U.S. program
to crack down on illegal aliens.

After dashing across the line, Wuebner was nabbed by U.S. Border Patrol agents
and sent back here to Nogales, where he joined a backlog of migrants -- by some
estimates, as many as 20,000 people in the first week of the crackdown --
desperately searching for a way to enter the United States. The Border Patrol
said it was apprehending about 500 people a day trying to cross illegally
through the Nogales corridor -- up from about 300 per day last year.

The migrants, who arrived with little food or money, crammed into the hotels,
abandoned buildings and public parks of this nondescript border town, creating a
mini-crime wave and concerns about public health as night temperatures dipped
below freezing, according to social workers, doctors, journalists and local
businessmen. Wuebner huddled despondently under a blanket at a local shelter
that caters to hard-luck migrants with no money and no local friends. "I thought
I had made it," he said.

"They are all looking for a better life because there is no way to live here in
Mexico," said the Rev. Enrique Sinovi, who operates the shelter, Casa San Juan
Bosco, with donations from members of his Catholic congregation. "Now they are
all waiting to cross, but they can't, so they are living in old abandoned
houses, and there are a lot of health problems, and violence is on the rise."

Many of the migrants -- initially pushed here by tighter border controls in
California -- have gone home or moved farther southeast down the border, looking
for an opening. Many have been pushed to the small crossing at Douglas, Ariz.,
where more than 1,000 undocumented aliens were caught in one day trying to sneak
into the United States.

"They are the poorest of Mexicans, and they try to cross for maybe five days,
and then they have to return home," said Cesar Ibarra, a Nogales street vendor.
"There are many more assaults than normal. For Mexicans here, it is very
dangerous."

"The children were sick, and they didn't have anything to eat, and there was a
lot of stealing," said Olga Torres Ortiz, a desk clerk at the Orizaba Hotel, a
10-room dive one block from the border where as many as seven people cram into a
room. "The migrants, the children, the women, suffer much."

Just across the border from Nogales, Mexico and its 250, 000 people is Nogales,
Ariz., with a population of 20,000. There, the new crackdown is having the exact
opposite effect on crime, local law enforcement officials have said, reducing
the rate of car thefts, burglaries and other property offenses. Officials have
said the tougher border controls will also disrupt drug smuggling routes.

However, officials said, there has been an unintended side effect; with the
collapse of the peso and fewer Mexicans making daily, surreptitious shopping
excursions across the border, numerous shops in Nogales, Ariz., have gone out of
business, and unemployment there has jumped to 25 percent.

Mexican politicians, church officials and human rights activists, especially in
Mexico City, have complained bitterly about what they see as the increased
"militarization" of the 2,000-mile border.

They have charged that the border crackdown has more to do with election-year
politics than immigration, saying that President Clinton needs to be seen
"getting tough" on Mexico because of Republican criticism of his support for the
North American Free Trade Agreement and a $ 48 billion loan package he stitched
together to support the Mexican economy after a cataclysmic devaluation of the
peso last year.

"The flow [of illegal immigrants] back and forth is so well established that
whatever happens is just a marginal readjustment up or down," said Douglas
Massey, a professor of sociology and expert on Mexican immigration at the
University of Pennsylvania. "Ninety percent of this is politicking, and it has
been ever since California went into a recession and launched the hysteria about
Mexico and immigrants."

Massey calculates that about 3 million people enter the country illegally each
year but that most -- about 2.8 million -- are temporary workers who return to
their home country.

While many illegal immigrants have families in the United States, the main draw,
no matter what the economic climate is in Mexico, is a better standard of
living. According to the 1990 U.S. census, the average income of a Mexican-born
person living in the United States is about $ 8,480, compared to $ 4,325 here.
Many experts say one of the chief magnets is the willingness of U.S. employers
to hire undocumented immigrants, though often at cheap, exploitative salaries.

At the shelter for migrants here, Wuebner, the Chiapas farmhand, and most of the
other 18 residents said they were desperate for better jobs and seemed perplexed
about their next move.

"I'm going to try to work here for a month and then cross the border or go
home," said Rojelio Moreno Ventura, 25, who said he had not heard about the
border crackdown when he left his home in the southern coastal state of
Guerrero. Now, he was stuck in Nogales, afraid to push on but with no money to
travel home.

Isabel Carvajal, 32, and two friends said they had been in Nogales for 15 days,
waiting for an opportunity to cross the border and travel to Florida. Now, she
said, they are out of money.

"We have no food to eat, we have no work, and we're very afraid because they're
very watchful on the border now," she said. Nonetheless, they had decided not to
return home to Veracruz, on the Gulf of Mexico, because "there's no work in
Veracruz, and when there is, you only make 12 pesos [about $ 1.60] per day. So
we're going to wait until it's calmer, but we're going to cross."


LOAD-DATE: February 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp, Traffic in Nogales, Ariz., runs along a fence marking the
Mexican border, which was being crossed with apparent ease last year. At right,
a woman from Oaxaca and her baby, caught by Border Patrol, await processing.
Migrants follow the border away from a crossing point in Nogales, Ariz. Once
over the hill, they scaled the fence.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              74 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 23, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Hope, Luck Ran Out on Journey North; For Immigrant, Hardships of Road Ended in
Crash of Crowded Truck

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 867 words


Genaro Cux-Garcia recalls walking without food or water, surviving an assault by
bandits in a mountain pass in southern Mexico, paying bribes to police and
losing count of the days before he ever crossed the broad swath of desert at the
U.S. border in Arizona.

Ahead lay an agonizing 2,300-mile, 48-hour journey, during which he was crowded
with three dozen other illegal immigrants into the dark and fetid cargo box of a
rented truck. That was to be the last leg of Cux-Garcia's odyssey, which he
thought would take him to "Virginia" -- a place he had never heard of; it ended
when the truck crashed into a tollbooth at Maryland's Chesapeake Bay Bridge on
Feb. 7.

But when Cux-Garcia arrived in Chandler, Ariz., under cover of night, he already
had endured much. Thinking back yesterday, he told an interviewer at the Howard
County jail that it must have been 30 days since he had left behind his ranchito
in rural Guatemala.

"I suffered much," Cux-Garcia said in the interview, granted after immigration
officials began deportation proceedings against him. "Thirst. Hunger.
Exhaustion. Cold. I was going to earn a little and send it to my family.

"I haven't been able to send them a cent. It's possible they don't even have
food."

Cux-Garcia said he is worried that his wife and two daughters might fear that he
did not survive the journey. He also may lose his home, he said. He signed over
the deed to his tiny plot of land, the size of two of the cells at the jail
where he is being held, to secure a loan of about $ 2,000 for the expenses of
the trip, he said. Leaving for El Norte -- the North -- he told his wife, Maria,
and two daughters, 3-year-old Marta and 5-year-old Eva, he would send money soon
to pay for corn and beans.

Cux-Garcia, speaking in halting Spanish because his first language is an Indian
dialect, said he set out by bus and by foot, spending the nights in orange
groves or on floors offered by strangers, traversing desert, mountains and
plains with little to eat or drink. He said he made few plans, started his
journey with faith that God would guide him and looked only a few hours ahead.
The only comforts he recalls are bathing in a river and eating a sweet, ripe
orange.

Armed bandits stole the half of his money that he had not hidden in a shoe.
Strangers at every turn asked for payment in exchange for telling him how to get
a few hours closer to El Norte -- $ 5 here, $ 15 there. He said he often became
confused about the exchange rate and is unsure how much he paid. One driver
abandoned him at the side of a highway, telling him he should be careful of
thieves and police, Cux-Garcia said. More than once, he decided to turn back,
but he continued.

Cux-Garcia crossed the border at Nogales, Mexico, hiking through the desert and
taking a taxi to Chandler, Ariz., with other illegal immigrants. It was there,
with less than $ 10 to his name, that he boarded a rented Ryder truck. He said
some new acquaintances told him he could travel to Virginia for $ 300, and the
truck driver agreed to allow him to pay for his passage after he had found work.

It was dark, and Cux-Garcia said there were at least three or four trucks, maybe
more, bound for different parts of the United States. Men, women and children
from Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala crowded around in a downtown area of the
city. He had never before heard of Virginia, but he thought he might be able to
find construction work there.

Cux-Garcia squeezed into the back of the Ryder truck with 36 others. They had no
food, no water, no light and no bathroom facilities on the journey. Urine and
feces were stored in plastic bags.

The driver stopped a few hours short of the Bay Bridge at a gasoline station and
passed four gallons of water and some sodas back through a small door behind the
driver's seat.

Then it began to rain, Cux-Garcia recalled, and the Ryder truck's roof leaked.
He and the others became soaked, and they shivered from the cold. He was jolted
awake by the crash at the tollbooth and opened his eyes to find other passengers
on top of him. They began to scream and shout, he said, until the driver told
them to stay quiet and not leave the truck because it had no insurance. They
followed orders until police opened the rear of the truck to the sight and
stench of caged human cargo. That was 16 days ago.

Cux-Garcia said he does not know what will happen now. Immigration officials
said they plan to deport him, but Cux-Garcia said he hopes there is some way for
him to stay in this country and work.

He has been praying daily, he said, that God forgive him his sins and help him.
He was baptized a member of an Adventist church in Guatemala about 18 months ago
and wonders why this happened.

"Various people were in the truck," he said. "Every person has a different heart
-- some good, some bad. I don't know who is responsible. Only God does."

Cux-Garcia is the first of those who were in the truck to face formal
deportation proceedings. Immigration officials said their investigation is
continuing and criminal charges may be filed against people who arranged the
journey and those who may have planned to employ the passengers.


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Genaro Cux-Garcia traveled 32 days from rural
Guatemala; his journey ended in a truck crash and detention. He fears his wife
and two children are without food. "I haven't been able to send them a cent."
Genaro Cux-Garcia faces deportation for his illegal journey to Maryland, during
which he traveled 32 days.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              75 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 27, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

AD WATCH; Evaluating the Political Message

Howard Kurtz

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12; AD WATCH

LENGTH: 505 words


This is another in a series of examinations of the accuracy of political
advertising.

Candidate: Patrick J. Buchanan

Market: Arizona

Producer: Townsend Group

Time: 30 seconds

Audio: Each year millions of illegal immigrants pour across our southern border
into the United States. Most come without job skills. Crime explodes. And who
pays the cost of their health care, housing, welfare? You do, thanks to one
unelected federal judge. I'll term-limit these federal judges. Declare a
time-out on new immigration. Secure America's borders. And insist on one
language, English, for all Americans.

Analysis: With its night-vision shots of scurrying figures, hole-ridden fences
and the arrest of a young Mexican in a T-shirt, this ad has an urgent,
disturbing feel. Buchanan's assertion of "millions" of illegal immigrants each
year is way off; federal authorities estimate the annual figure at 300,000. He
is right that illegal immigrants are eligible for welfare and other benefits,
but the ruling by "one unelected federal judge" applies only to the battle over
California's Proposition 187. (The Supreme Court in 1982 barred the states from
denying public education to children of illegal immigrants.) Buchanan slides
seamlessly from attacking illegal immigrants to cutting off legal immigration by
proposing a temporary ban ("time out") on all immigration, sidestepping
arguments that legal immigrants have helped the U.S. economy. He hits another
hot button by calling for an English-only law that is likely to be popular in
border states such as Arizona.

Candidate: Lamar Alexander

Markets: South Carolina, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Maine, Vermont

Producer: Murphy Pintak Gautier

Time: 30 seconds

Audio: For president, compare. Governor Lamar Alexander kept Tennessee taxes the
fifth lowest in America with no income tax. Bob Dole voted to raise taxes by $
320 billion. Alexander supports term limits. Bob Dole opposes term limits.
Alexander has fresh conservative ideas. After 35 years in Washington, Bob Dole
is out of ideas. It's time for new leadership. It's time to move on. For
president, Lamar Alexander.

Analysis: Alexander's once-positive TV ads are turning more negative, and this
one contains a clear distortion: Dole does not oppose term limits. While the
senator was quoted in 1992 as saying "I've never been for term limits," he voted
last fall for a nonbinding resolution on term limits (and delayed a binding vote
at the request of term limits supporters, who faced defeat). Alexander's only
evidence is meager: Dole refused to sign an advocacy group's pledge to campaign
for term limits. Dole has voted to raise taxes by $ 320 billion since 1982, but
the ad doesn't mention that he also supported major tax cuts. Alexander's
invocation of Tennessee's low tax rate is partly defensive, responding to
charges in an earlier Dole ad that Alexander raised taxes and doubled state
spending. The "after 35 years" and "time to move on" lines are not-so-subtle
digs at Dole's age.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              76 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 06, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Gov. Wilson Sues U.S. For Illegal Alien Costs

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) yesterday sued to force the Clinton
administration to take custody of 20,000 illegal alien felons or reimburse the
state for the cost of incarcerating them.

The lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia a month
after California corrections officials unsuccessfully attempted to transfer a
25-year-old illegal Mexican immigrant, who had been convicted of felony drug
charges, to federal custody at two Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention centers in Southern California.

Yesterday's action was the latest in a series of legal maneuvers by Wilson over
the last three years aimed at forcing the federal government to relieve
California of what state officials claim are more than $ 400 million in annual
costs of imprisoning illegal aliens who, before committing their crimes, were
able to enter the state because of the federal government's inability to secure
the border.

The issue is a contentious one in an election year. Wilson is national campaign
co-chairman for the presidential bid of Senate Majority Leader Robert J. Dole
(R-Kan.).

Two years ago, Wilson filed a similar lawsuit in a federal court in San
Francisco, which is still pending. An INS spokesman said the agency has no
statutory authority to assume custody of a criminal alien until he is no longer
under state sentence, and only then for the purposes of deportation.

LOAD-DATE: March 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              77 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 20, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Talk of Tight Border Bemusing Mexicans; Generations of Migrants Recall Past U.S.
Vows

John Ward Anderson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: AMECA, Mexico


When workers returned from the United States to spend the Christmas season with
their families in this small city, they were greeted by a huge banner draped
from the top floor of the town hall. "Welcome Ameca immigrants," it read. "This
is your home."

Many might have needed the reminder. Experts estimate that more than a third of
the working-age adults in Ameca's population of 45,000 spend up to nine months a
year in Atlanta, Los Angeles, Salt Lake City, Chicago, New York and other U.S.
cities that attract cheap Mexican laborers -- both legal and illegal.

As an undocumented immigrant, Victor Ramos, 23, has seen more of the United
States than some Americans. In 1991, he worked with cattle in Idaho. In 1992,
'93 and '94, he said, he spent seven months each as a field hand in Fresno,
Calif., and sent home $ 450 to $ 600 per month. He remained in Ameca last year
to help his wife with their third child, but now he needs to return to the
United States to support his growing family.

"I want to go to Salt Lake City this time," he said, estimating that he can earn
$ 5 per hour in construction, versus the $ 10-per-day job he has in Ameca. "In
the U.S., people don't want to work for the same salary I make. When I was in
Fresno, there were 50 people working in the fields, and only two had papers."

Ramos, like other workers in Ameca, 50 miles west of Guadalajara, said he was
aware of new U.S. efforts to tighten the 2,000-mile border. But the decades-long
tradition of sending Amecans north for a bigger paycheck, he and others said,
outweighed the fear of being caught trying to enter the United States illegally.

"This new program is not going to work," said Ascencion Gomez, 40, who has left
his family in Ameca to work in California, Nevada, Washington or Oregon for six
to nine months in almost all of the last 25 years. "In this world, everyone has
the right to go where they want."

"Definitely there are more people leaving this year -- with and without papers
-- because of the economic situation," said Ramon Ahumada Meza, Ameca's mayor.
"There's not much industry here, so the money people send back is the most
important source of income for the town." It not only pays for food and
clothing, he said, but it has shielded Ameca from the worst effects of Mexico's
15-month recession, which was sparked by a botched December 1994 peso
devaluation.

The owner of a local money exchange, who declined to give his name, said his 50
daily customers change about $ 3,500 per day in remittances from townspeople who
work in the United States. His business this year is virtually unchanged from
previous years, he said, although Ameca now has six money exchange stores, up
from two just four years ago.

Anecdotal evidence suggesting that Amecans are rushing to the border is
balanced, however, by other accounts suggesting just the opposite -- that the
new U.S. crackdown is discouraging people from making the hazardous trek north.

"We're having fewer customers this year, and we think it's because of the
problems at the border," said Jose Luis Aguilar Navaron, a travel agent who said
his business is down 30 percent because fewer would-be migrants are flying to
border towns, from which they sneak into the United States. For instance, he
said, in December 1994, he sold 300 one-way tickets from Ameca to Tijuana -- a
popular illegal crossing point -- compared to 230 last December.

"There are so many restrictions that they can't cross, and I think it's going to
get worse," he said, disputing the common view here that the new border controls
are a temporary, election-year gimmick.

Jose Luis Rendon, 24, has a different reason for not making the trip. When he
traveled to Los Angeles in 1991, he bought forged work papers for $ 250. But
now, with demand up, similar fake permits and papers would cost $ 400, and he
cannot afford it, he said. Other potential immigrants said the cost of hiring
coyotes -- people-smugglers who guide groups of up to 50 across the border --
also has escalated to as much as $ 500 per person.

Adan Tiznado, 17, said that when he first sneaked into the United States two
years ago to work for $ 4.50 per hour as a grape and orange picker in Fresno, he
paid a coyote $ 250. Now he figures he will pay $ 400, but it's better than
continuing in a bread store for $ 6 a day.

"The first time I went, it was very hard and expensive, and now there are even
more police," he said. "But I'm sick of it here."

Doris M. Meissner, the head of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said in an interview in Mexico City last week that the increased cost of hiring
professional smugglers is an indication of the crackdown's success.

"The crucial thing to say about the border is that it's harder to cross than
it's ever been in recent history," she said, adding that, unlike previous
efforts to tighten the border, this program would be permanent.

"It takes a comprehensive, multi-year effort, and that's what we've put into
place," she said.

For many Amecans, the price and risk of crossing are worth it, considering that
they typically make about $ 7.50 per hour in the United States, compared to
about $ 30 a week here, according to Enrique Martinez of Guadalajara University.
Many work in the sugar cane fields and processing plants that dot the rugged
landscape around Ameca.

Guadalupe Toro, 20, said that everything about his life in the north was better,
but especially the pay: $ 200 per week as an undocumented roofer in Santa Ana,
Calif., versus 240 pesos ($ 32) for a 6-day work week in Ameca. His mother,
Maria Eugenia Soto Quirarte, who worked illegally in the United States 27 years
ago, said, "There's no work -- nothing" in their town. But she won't allow a
17-year-old son to make the crossing because he's too young, she said.

Researcher Martinez, who grew up in Ameca, said that about 35 percent of the
working-age population migrates to jobs in the United States, about two-thirds
are married men, and half are under age 20. He said 55 percent of the migrants
are legal, and 45 percent sneak across the border without documents. About
three-quarters head to California, many to Lake Tahoe, where they work in the
casinos.

Amecans typically spend seven to nine months a year in the United States, and
like most Mexicans who work there, do not put down roots, Martinez said. In
fact, 81 percent stay in the United States less than a year, subscribing to the
view, he said, that "the north is for working, not living."


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, john ward anderson; Map, dave cook, Rosalba and Victor Ramos
maintain their growing family in Ameca with his earnings from jobs in western
U.S. states.  Guadalupe Toro, 20, helps support his mother, Maria Soto Quirarte,
by working illegally in California. Years ago, she also migrated north to work.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              78 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 21, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

House Backs State Option to Bar Illegal Immigrant Children From Public School

William Branigin; John E. Yang, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 605 words


The House voted yesterday to give states the option of denying free public
education to the children of illegal immigrants.

The vote, on the second day of debate on a controversial immigration bill, came
after House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) made a rare floor speech urging
members to support the measure, an amendment sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly
(R-Calif.). The amendment passed 257 to 163. A vote on the overall bill is
expected this week.

The provision, which critics denounced as unconstitutional, appears certain to
revive a controversy over the legal and moral basis for refusing education,
health and social welfare services to illegal immigrants.

In 1994, Californians overwhelmingly approved a ballot initiative, Proposition
187, to do just that, but it was immediately tied up in court.

Last November, a federal judge in California declared key parts of the measure
unconstitutional on grounds that the authority to regulate immigration belongs
exclusively to the federal government.

Moreover, in 1982 the U.S. Supreme Court struck down a Texas law that would have
stopped illegal alien children from attending public schools.

While the likelihood that new legal challenges may limit the immediate practical
effect of yesterday's vote, the amendment's approval represented a significant
political development because it marked the first time that a key component of
Proposition 187 has been accepted at the congressional level: Illegal aliens can
be discouraged from coming to the United States by keeping their children out of
public schools.

The amendment says that the right to a free public education "promotes
violations of the immigration laws" and "creates a significant burden on states'
economies."

Therefore, it adds, "states should not be obligated" to provide education to
illegal aliens and can check immigration and otherdocuments to determine whether
a child is in the country legally.

Gallegly said the measure would not apply to the U.S.-born children of illegal
aliens.

In promoting the amendment, he argued that allowing illegal immigrant children
to attend public schools has encouraged illegal immigration, with "devastating"
effects for the U.S. education system.

"Just because someone has busted through the door, that does not entitle them to
the contents of the home," he said. "Illegal immigrants belong back in their
country of origin, and we should do everything we can to encourage them to
embrace that simple idea."

Backing those arguments in his floor speech, Gingrich said, "Offering free,
tax-paid goods to illegals has increased the number of illegals." He added,
"This used to be the land of opportunity; now it's the land of welfare."

Gingrich said the nation should be sending the message, "Come to America for
opportunity. Do not come to America to live off the law-abiding, American
taxpayer."

Rep. John Bryant (D-Tex.), a co-sponsor of the immigration bill who is running
for his party's Senate nomination, argued that emergency medical treatment and
childrens' education traditionally have been exempted from sanctions. Calling
the Gallegly amendment "extreme" and "absolutely illegal," he said its adoption
"would be a tragedy." He asked, "Why would we want a population of children in
this country to not be in school?"

In a subsequent floor speech, Bryant sharply criticized Gingrich for helping to
pass what he described as a "deal-breaker" amendment that would cause President
Clinton to veto a bill containing it. He called Gingrich's intervention "very
partisan" and "not befitting the office of speaker of the House."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              79 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 22, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

INS Takes Crackdown on Federal Contractors to Fort Meade

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 578 words


Federal agents arrested four workers yesterday at a military construction site
in Anne Arundel County, enforcing tough new rules that could bar contractors
from future government work for hiring illegal immigrants.

In the first such action in the Washington area, Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents took the workers into custody at Fort Meade, where INS officials
said they apparently were employed by subcontractors on a $ 24 million
residential building project.

President Clinton last month issued an executive order empowering federal
agencies to bar from government contracts companies that have "knowingly" hired
illegal immigrants. In the past, enforcement actions against employers have been
restricted largely to civil fines.

Yesterday's arrests at Fort Meade occurred almost simultaneously with the
arrests of 24 allegedly illegal immigrants at a second housing construction
site, just outside the fort.

There, dozens of workers fled on foot when INS agents arrived. Some were chased
and caught, and others escaped into the woods, said Ben Ferro, director of the
Maryland district of the INS. "About half got away," he said.

The arrests outside Fort Meade were not related to those at the fort, INS
officials said, but were carried out at the same time because the sites are near
each other. Officials said contract debarment provisions do not apply to
employers at the second site because no federal contract is involved.

The 28 immigrants in custody -- described as Mexican, Guatemalan, Honduran and
El Salvadoran nationals -- were charged with living and working illegally in the
United States. Most were being held last night at the Howard County Detention
Center, pending deportation and other proceedings. All were males, and their
ages ranged from 17 to 41.

The Clinton executive order, issued Feb. 13, directs INS to compile lists of
contractors and subcontractors that appear to have knowingly used illegal
immigrants on federal projects. The evidence is reviewed by the Justice
Department for legal sufficiency and then forwarded to the contracting agency,
which can order contractors debarred from federal work for at least one year.

INS agents have since carried out arrests at Camp Lejeune, N.C., a Navy
installation in Norfolk, a federal office building in Atlanta and other
locations, INS spokesman Paul Risley said.

Ferro said the illegal immigrants arrested yesterday worked in a number of
skilled and semi-skilled jobs, making as much as $ 13 an hour doing plumbing,
roofing and foundation replacement work.

At the construction site at Fort Meade, INS agents had hoped to arrest as many
as 40 people but arrested only four. Ben Mell, senior project manager for
Harkins Builders, the general contractor on the job, said that INS agents and
military investigators set up a station in a construction trailer and that all
100 to 150 employees on the site were required to go through to verify their
employment.

As the workers came through, INS agents pulled the four men suspected of being
illegal immigrants out of line "and put handcuffs on them," Mell said.

He said the four men were employed by two subcontractors and not by Harkins. He
identified the subcontractors as CMC Concrete Construction Inc., of Manassas,
and Brothers Construction Co., of Lorton.

A CMC spokeswoman said none of the four men worked for CMC. Brothers
Construction officials did not return telephone calls last night.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              80 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 30, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Set Fire At California Naval Brig

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 224 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Illegal immigrants at a privately run jail at Miramar Naval Air Station set fire
to mattresses and sheets yesterday, spreading panic that left more than two
dozen prisoners injured and two cell blocks severely damaged.

About 10 prisoners who were disgruntled over the loss of canteen privileges at
the newly opened jail started the fires. As smoke filled the cell blocks, other
prisoners tried to escape, according to U.S. Attorney Alan Bersin.

Bersin said he would not term the incident a riot because the guards never lost
control nor did prisoners escape the controlled areas. The incident was put down
within 45 minutes by police and firefighters.

The 28 injured prisoners, suffering smoke inhalation and minor cuts, were taken
to civilian hospitals. None of the 210 military prisoners, housed separately,
was involved.

As a precaution, the 134 federal prisoners who were not injured were returned to
the Metropolitan Correctional Center in downtown San Diego. All but a handful
are illegal immigrants suspected or convicted of felonies, authorities said.

The use of a military brig to hold illegal immigrants was a novel approach
championed by Bersin and Attorney General Janet Reno. With military downsizing,
there is excess capacity at the Miramar brig, which was expanded to house up to
380 nonmilitary prisoners.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              81 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 03, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

California Deputies Taped in Beating; FBI to Probe Incident Involving Suspected
Illegal Aliens That Recalls King Case

Kathryn Wexler, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 2


In an incident reminiscent of the Rodney King police brutality case, two
sheriff's deputies in Riverside County were caught on videotape Monday by a
local television news crew beating two suspected illegal Mexican immigrants,
part of a group crammed into a battered pickup truck that led authorities on a
70-mile high-speed highway chase.

The FBI said it will investigate the incident. The two deputies were placed on
paid leave as immigrant rights groups, the American Civil Liberties Union and
the Mexican government protested the beatings, which were broadcast repeatedly
today on local television news programs.

The videotape shows the deputies using batons to strike a man and a woman on the
shoulders and back, as they scramble out of a pickup truck that reportedly
evaded an Immigration and Naturalization checkpoint near Temecula on Interstate
15, about 60 miles from the Mexican border.

One deputy held his baton with two hands to club the man -- apparently the
pickup's driver -- several times on the back and shoulders, even as he fell to
the ground. When the woman emerged from the passenger side of the truck, the
same deputy hit her with his baton and then pulled her to the ground by her
hair. The suspects did not appear in the video to be resisting or attempting to
get away.

The other 18 people traveling in the back of the truck fled up a nearby
embankment but eventually were apprehended by the deputies and turned over to
the INS.

Senior Deputy Lori Marquette, a spokeswoman for the Riverside County Sheriff's
Department, said the man and woman had been taken to a local hospital for
treatment. Riverside County is southeast of downtown Los Angeles, though the
beatings occurred in Los Angeles County.

The sheriff's department is not releasing names of the two officers involved,
but one was a 20-year police veteran and the other had been on the force five
years, according to Marquette. "We are all embarrassed by this," Marquette said.
During high-speed chases, "the adrenalin is a lot higher than normal. How a
person reacts is different from person to person," she said.

Bobbi Murray, an official with the Coalition for Humane Immigrants' Rights of
Los Angeles, said, "We were really sickened when we saw it. But we're not
inordinately surprised because we've been concerned for a long time that this
inflamed election year rhetoric of bashing immigrants and singling them out as
an enemy creates an atmosphere that gives license to this sort of stuff."

Ann Bradley, a spokeswoman for the ACLU in Los Angeles, said the beatings were
not isolated incidents. California Highway Patrol statistics from 1992 show that
for three Southern California counties, including Los Angeles, 7 percent of
suspects involved in chases are injured after they come to a stop, Bradley said.

The most famous past incident occurred in 1991 when Los Angeles city police
badly and repeatedly beat motorist King after he lead them on a high-speed chase
through the city's suburbs. The incident was caught on videotape by a bystander.
When the four officers involved were acquitted on state criminal charges in
1992, massive riots erupted in South Central Los Angeles. Two police later were
found guilty of federal civil rights violations.

The King beating lasted about 1 1/2 minutes. The man and woman in Monday's
clubbing were hit for about 15 seconds.

"We cannot excuse officers because the situation is volatile and fraught with
emotion. If they see it as a moment to explode, you have a powder keg for all
involved," Bradley said. "We need to change the way these high-speed pursuits
are conducted."


LOAD-DATE: April 03, 1996April 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, kcal-tv via reuter, A Riverside County sheriff's deputy is
caught on videotape beating a suspected illegal immigrant after a high-speed
highway chase Monday.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              82 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 04, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Again Raids Arundel Site

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 222 words


Fifteen suspected illegal immigrants were arrested yesterday at the same Anne
Arundel County construction site where a similar group was found two weeks
before, federal officials said.

The workers were being paid $ 12 an hour to install drywall and frame town
houses being built at the Piney Orchard complex in Odenton, said Benedict Ferro,
a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They reportedly came
from El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico and Peru.

Two weeks ago, federal agents arrested 24 suspected illegal immigrants working
at the same site, Ferro said. Agents returned to the site yesterday for a
follow-up search after receiving a tip.

"One of the things that concerned us having been at the site two weeks ago is
that we went back and found a large number of people again," Ferro said. "It
shows us how big the problem is and how effective or ineffective we are."

The suspected illegal immigrants were working for a subcontractor hired by the
development's contractor, McDevitt, Street and Bobis, of Bethesda, according to
the INS. McDevitt wasn't involved in the employment of the workers.

The subcontractor won't be identified until an investigation is completed, Ferro
said. If the subcontractor is found to have violated the law, it could be fined
$ 2,000 for every illegal worker.

LOAD-DATE: April 04, 1996April 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              83 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 04, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Deputies Used Excessive Force After California Chase, Sheriff Says

William Claiborne; Kathryn Wexler, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1248 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 3


Deputies who beat two illegal immigrants after a televised chase Monday used
excessive force, Sheriff Larry Smith said today after watching a videotape of
the incident.

"We have to uphold the highest standards of conduct in this department," Smith
told reporters today. "Sadly, I didn't see these standards on the tape. It was
clearly an excessive use of force."

The beating has become a rallying cause for Latino rights groups and has focused
attention on what some people believe is an anti-immigrant political climate
here.

Smith rejected the suggestion that race was involved. "We are not a racist
department," Smith said. "This is an issue of two deputies."

While Hispanics often are divided over the question of illegal immigration, the
beatings have galvanized the Latino community because it is viewed not as an
immigration issue but as an Hispanic issue of fundamental human rights,
immigrant rights advocates said. They also said it was a predictable outgrowth
of a wave of nativism fueled by increasingly shrill political rhetoric aimed at
immigrants -- legal and undocumented -- during a presidential election year.

"Look, this is about unresisting, helpless people being brutally beaten,
regardless of what they are doing. People in the community are absolutely
outraged because they are all very much aware that this is not an isolated
incident but part of a trend," said Cecilia Munoza, deputy vice president of the
National Council of La Raza.

Senior Deputy Lori Marquette, a spokeswoman for the Riverside County Sheriff's
Department, said Andrian Flores Martinez, 26, who was at first believed to have
been the driver of the pickup truck and was struck by the deputies with batons,
was treated for bruises and a possible elbow fracture. Smith said Martinez was
not the driver, and authorities believe the driver has escaped.

Martinez and Leticia Gonzalez-Gonzalez, 32, who was also clubbed by deputies
when their pickup truck came to a halt beside a freeway in Los Angeles County,
were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Marquette said.
Gonzalez also was bruised, authorities said.

Deputies Tracy Watson and Kurtis Franklin were suspended with pay.

Munoza said Gov. Pete Wilson (R) had "made an art form of cheap political
rhetoric" during the campaign for California's Proposition 187, which was aimed
at denying social and health benefits to undocumented immigrants. The measure
has not been enforced because lawsuits have it tied up in court.

Emulated by candidates in the Republican presidential primary, Wilson's rhetoric
has led to bills in Congress that would promote the use of military and local
law enforcement agencies in immigration control and make "more of this type of
brutality" inevitable, Munoza said.

The incident also renewed a public debate about the use of excessive force by
police while arresting unarmed suspects, particularly after high-speed pursuits
and even when the officers involved know they are being videotaped by television
news crews.

At almost any given time in Los Angeles County, especially during peak traffic
hours, as many as 20 helicopters operated by highly competitive television
stations and equipped with long-range cameras cruise over the county's freeways
monitoring police radios and looking not only for traffic jams to report but
also high-speed pursuits that add dramatic visual impact to nightly news
broadcasts. It is not uncommon for the camera operators to videotape arrests at
the end of the chases and broadcast scenes of what appears to be an excessive
use of force against suspects who seem to be offering little or no resistance.

Monday's incident, police officials said, reflected a convergence of volatile
emotions that frequently come into play at the end of such high-speed chases:
fear triggered by the extreme risks police officers confront as they swerve
through traffic at dangerous speeds, anger over a blatant defiance of the law
and temporary disorientation and stress as multiple suspects begin to flee in
different directions.

In the Riverside chase, the driver of the overcrowded pickup truck tried to ram
two passing cars as he careered through traffic for an hour at speeds of up to
100 mph while his passengers threw beer cans at the pursuing deputies. At one
point, the truck's camper shell flew off, further endangering the sheriff's
deputies.

Marquette suggested that an adrenaline rush triggered by the two deputies'
stress during the chase may have affected their behavior. "The adrenaline is a
lot higher than normal. How an officer reacts is different from person to
person," Marquette said. "Maybe they did not hear the [news] helicopters above
or were focusing on apprehending the people in the truck because there were so
many of them."

Although some police departments have ordered their officers to break off
high-speed pursuits unless they are chasing felons, Riverside deputies normally
pursue suspected felons or drunk drivers. Marquette said the department is
reviewing Monday's chase in an effort to determine if that policy was followed.

In the wake of a rash of recent high-speed pursuits that resulted in fatal
crashes, the California State Assembly is considering a bill making it a felony
to flee in a vehicle from an officer. The measure would also increase sentences
for drivers who injure or kill someone while fleeing from police.

The Mexican Embassy in Washington said it sent a diplomatic note to the State
Department to express Mexico's "indignation" over the incident and demand an
investigation by the Justice Department. It said Mexico "firmly condemned this
flagrant violation of its citizens' human rights," adding that the "blatant
abuse of authority" evident in the case showed an urgent need to "eradicate
attitudes of discrimination which lead to acts of institutional violence. . . .
"

Human rights advocates point out, however, that migrants who illegally cross
Mexico's southern border with Guatemala on their way north to the United States
from Central America routinely receive far worse treatment at the hands of
Mexican police.

Jose Roberto Portillo, a 36-year-old Honduran interviewed in Tijuana in January,
said he was detained, beaten and robbed four times by Mexican police on his way
north. He arrived in Tijuana with little more than the shirt on his back. The
trip took him eight months because he had to stop to work periodically to
finance his onward travel after being robbed.

The Mexican Federal Judicial Police are widely considered the worst human rights
violators, according to migrants and rights groups.

"The chances for Central Americans to be beaten up or subject to extortion by
Mexican state agents are quite high," said Jose Miguel Vivanco, executive
director of Human Rights Watch/Americas. Although the Mexican government is
aware of the problem and has promised to address it, he said, "we are not
convinced at all that effective steps have been taken during the administration
of President [Ernesto] Zedillo to stop abuses of this kind and the human rights
violations in general that occur on a daily basis in Mexico."

On Mexico's southern border, "there are more human rights violations in one day
than there are in a year in the United States," the Rev. Ademar Barilli, a
Brazilian priest who works with migrants there, told the Chicago Tribune in
February.

Staff writer William Branigin in Washington contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: April 04, 1996April 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, University of California-Irvine student Juan Casarez
protests at Riverside sheriff's headquarters.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              84 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 09, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Mexico Says U.S. Abuses Its Illegals

Molly Moore, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 8


"Stop the Brutality!" screamed the front-page editorial in one of Mexico City's
leading dailies.

In one of their most vociferous outbursts of U.S.-bashing in recent months,
Mexicans are expressing outrage at back-to-back incidents across the border in
California. In the first, sheriff's deputies beat Mexican immigrants -- and were
caught on videotape. And in a second episode Saturday, seven illegal immigrants
died in an automobile crash during a chase by U.S. Border Patrol agents.

"The violation of justice and of human rights is rooted in xenophobia and
racism," the newspaper La Jornada charged in an editorial this weekend.

For many Mexicans, U.S.-bashing is much the same sport that Mexico-bashing is
for presidential candidate Pat Buchanan. But in an election year when some of
the Republican political rhetoric has been aimed at the United States' southern
neighbor, Mexicans have become even more sensitive and outspoken about perceived
slights from across the border.

"This aggression is a natural consequence of the direction that political
opinion has taken in the United States against foreigners, and Mexicans in
particular," charged Jose Angel Conchello, chairman of the Mexican Senate's
foreign relations committee.

Nothing in recent years has stirred more bitterness on the part of Mexicans than
the repeated videotape playbacks of Riverside, Calif., sheriff's deputies
beating three illegal Mexican immigrants after a chase last Monday. Mexicans had
much the same reaction to the film, taken from a helicopter by a television
crew, as African Americans had to the tape showing Los Angeles police officers
beating Rodney King in 1991.

When a pickup truck carrying 25 Mexican immigrants crashed Saturday in the same
California county while trying to evade U.S. Border Patrol officers, killing
seven and injuring 18, Mexicans became even angrier at what they claimed is a
trend of increasing brutality against Mexicans in the United States.

The Foreign Ministry issued a statement demanding a "review of the methods and
procedures for applying migration laws in the United States."

Ironically, Mexico has long been accused by human rights organizations of
brutality by its own police against illegal immigrants from Central and South
America who are caught trying to enter Mexico from the south or cross the
country en route to the United States.

Human rights groups have documented cases of beatings, pistol whippings and
other physical abuses by Mexican border agents and federal police against
immigrants.

Although U.S. authorities -- including White House press secretary Michael
McCurry -- have denounced the beatings by the Riverside deputies, the U.S.
Border Patrol has defended its agents, saying they were merely following the
pickup truck carrying the illegal immigrants, not chasing them at high speed.
The pickup reportedly rolled over when its driver pulled off a highway and tried
to cross a gully to escape the Border Patrol agents.

Mexican authorities, always sensitive to migration issues, have been
particularly critical of the United States this year for President Clinton's
program to tighten security at the border to stem the flow of illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1996April 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              85 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 10, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Guilty Plea in Illegal Immigrants Case

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D05; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 786 words


A Guatemalan man pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court in Baltimore to
transporting 41 illegal immigrants into the United States on a chilly
cross-country journey that ended Feb. 7 when their rented truck collided with a
car near the Chesapeake Bay Bridge.

Officers from the Maryland Transportation Authority Police and the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service said the immigrants they found were
thinly clad, hungry and crowded in the leaky truck.

Israel Perez-Herrera, 35, of Tacana San Marcos Province, started the two-day
trip in Arizona, sharing the driving with Hermelindo Velasquez-Rivera, 18, of
Hidalgo, Mexico, and Luis Alberto Hernandez-Herrera, 22, of San de los
Guadalajara, Mexico, according to a statement of facts presented to U.S.
District Judge Andre M. Davis. Hernandez-Herrera and Velasquez-Rivera also have
pleaded guilty to the same charge.

Perez-Herrera rented the truck for $ 1,018, and the other men recruited the
passengers with a promise to drive them for a fee of $ 300 to $ 500 each to the
Eastern Shore of Maryland to find work, according to the statement.

The three defendants each face a maximum penalty of five years in jail without
parole and a fine of $ 250,000, according to the U.S. attorney's office.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1996April 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              86 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 11, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Latino Activists Here Protest California Beating

Marcia Davis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 419 words


Latino activists in Washington gathered last night to try to galvanize anger
over the beating of two illegal immigrants by police in Riverside, Calif., into
political action.

About 100 people gathered outside the White House to protest the April 1 beating
of a Mexican man and woman believed to have entered the United States illegally.

Videotape of two deputy sheriffs clubbing the two as they tried to flee a pickup
truck has recalled images of the beating of motorist Rodney G. King by Los
Angeles police officers.  Protest organizers said they want swift action in the
case, which began when officers chased a truck filled with people.

"We are here because we are hungry for justice," said one of the vigil
organizers, Pedro Aviles, of the Latino Civil Rights Task Force. He spoke as the
protesters huddled together under a chilling drizzle. Some held slim white
candles; others gripped signs declaring "No Human Being is Illegal" and "Ms.
Reno, We Demand Justice in Riverside," addressing Attorney General Janet Reno.

The protest, Aviles said, also was meant to energize local Latinos for a
national voter-registration drive.

Latino Vote '96, he said, will officially start in the District on May 5, the
fifth anniversary of the disturbances in the Mount Pleasant area of Northwest
Washington. The 1991 disturbances in the heavily Latino neighborhood were
sparked by the shooting of a man by a D.C. police officer during an arrest.

Saul Solorzano, executive director of the Central American Research Center, said
the voter registration campaign is significant for immigrant issues. "It is one
of the fastest ways to get our community's concerns to be heard," he said.

Speaker after speaker called the California beating racist and an example of the
type of police brutality that occurs in minority communities but, until
videotaped evidence was available, seemed unnoted by the rest of the country.
Ronald E. Hampton, of the National Black Police Association, told the crowd that
blacks and Latinos have a common interest in battling such brutality. "It's time
for us to stop being victims," said Hampton, who worked for 23 years as a D.C.
police officer.

The American Civil Liberties Union, the Archdiocese of Washington and the Latin
American Youth Center were among other organizations represented.

"It's unfortunate that we have to depend on the luck of a video camera for this
to have this brought to stark reality," said Mary Jane DeFrank, head of the
local ACLU.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996April 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              87 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 12, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Immigration Amendment Opposed; Coalition Lobbies to Keep Children of Illegal
Aliens in School

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 706 words


A coalition of police organizations, mayors, educators and civic groups is
marshaling forces against congressional efforts to let states deny free public
education to illegal immigrant children as a means of discouraging the influx of
illegal aliens.

With a bill on illegal immigration scheduled for debate on the Senate floor next
week, the lobbying blitz seeks to head off the introduction of an amendment
similar to one that passed the House decisively last month after a rare floor
speech in its support by Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.). The amendment, sponsored
by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), would give states the option of keeping
illegal aliens out of public schools, but would not apply to U.S.-born children
of illegal immigrants.

Immigration advocates say about 600,000 illegal alien children are believed to
be in public schools across the country, but other estimates put the number much
higher. Gallegly, citing state figures, says 500,000 such students are in
California alone.

His amendment to a House bill on illegal immigration caught pro-immigration
groups off guard. This time, however, they are taking no chances. Although it is
unclear whether a similar amendment will even be offered in the Senate,
immigration advocates have organized a letter-writing and lobbying campaign to
urge Senate Majority Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan.) and other senators to oppose
any such provision.

"Putting hundreds of thousands of additional children on some of the toughest
streets in our country translates into a windfall of potential new victims for
the predators who work those streets," Gilbert G. Gallegos, president of the
Fraternal Order of Police, said in a letter to Dole.

The group, the country's largest police union with 274,000 members, presented
the letter yesterday at a news conference organized by the National Immigration
Forum, which backs immigrant rights and opposes cuts in legal immigration.
Spokesmen for the International Union of Police Associations and the National
Association of Police Organizations read similar letters, arguing that turning
illegal immigrant children out of public schools would "overwhelm" the nation's
police officers and impose a large "public safety cost" on taxpayers.

"Education of children is clearly not the force driving illegal immigration,"
said Norman B. Rice, the mayor of Seattle and president of the U.S. Conference
of Mayors, in an April 10 "Dear Senator" letter. "This is a bad amendment, a
mean amendment and a dumb amendment."

Rahm Emanuel, a White House adviser on immigration policy, said President
Clinton "strongly opposes" the provision. "Right when we're starting to make
headway in fighting crime, you don't need to be throwing kids out on the street
and creating a new farm system for gangs and drug dealers to recruit from,"
Emanuel said.

Ana Sol Gutierrez, president of the Montgomery County School Board and a
representative of the National School Boards Association, said the provision
would impose an "unfunded mandate" and "enormous administrative burden" on all
of the 25,000 U.S. school districts represented by the association, because
officials would have to verify the status of every student.

"We will not stand in the schoolhouse door and bar these children," said Michael
D. Casserly, head of the Council of Great City Schools.

"If somebody is in the country illegally, how can we justify rewarding them?"
Gallegly countered. "Today the largest unfunded mandate in the history of this
country is requiring states to educate [illegal aliens] and pay for it."

He said the cost of educating illegal alien children has reached $ 2 billion a
year in California, doubling in the last six years. Citing crowded classrooms
and a profusion of different languages, he asserted "a direct correlation"
between the rise in illegal immigration in his state and students' declining
test scores.

Along with jobs and welfare benefits, Gallegly said, free education is one of
the "magnets" that draw illegal immigrants to the United States. He said his
amendment would not saddle schools with a new bureaucratic burden, since schools
already require birth certificates and other documents when enrolling new
students.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996April 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              88 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 17, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Dole Halts Immigration Bill to Lose Democratic Riders

Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 712 words


Senate Majority Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan.) yesterday abruptly halted work on
legislation to curb illegal immigration after Democrats insisted on using the
bill as a launching pad for votes on protecting Social Security and raising the
minimum wage.

The politically charged struggle underscored the extent to which the two
parties' campaign strategies are likely to dominate, complicate and probably
frustrate the pre-election legislative agenda.

Accusing Democrats of holding the immigration bill hostage for action on their
pet political projects, Dole turned to anti-terrorism legislation and said he
would return to the immigration measure if some kind of mutually acceptable
procedure for its consideration could be worked out with Democrats.

But Republicans appeared determined to stop Democrats from decorating GOP bills
with amendments on unrelated subjects, and Democrats appeared equally resolute
in their insistence the Senate vote on Social Security and raising the minimum
wage.

"Illegal immigration -- wherever you go -- illegal immigration is a big, big
issue," said Dole, the presumptive GOP presidential nominee. "If we are going to
be frustrated by efforts on the other side to hold the bill hostage, it is up to
them. . . . Then they can explain that to the voters in November."

Asked by reporters if he would return to the immigration bill, Dole said: "If
they want to hold it hostage to every little thing, probably not."

Democrats countered it was Dole who was holding the immigration bill hostage
because, as Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) put it, "the Republican Party is
not prepared to address the minimum wage . . . an untenable, irresponsible
position."

Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) said Democrats were prepared to pass
the immigration bill within hours if Republicans would agree to the votes they
wanted, noting that Republicans often resorted to forcing votes on extraneous
matters when they were in the minority. "So don't let anyone be misled. We're
not holding this bill hostage. We didn't pull it down," Daschle said. "Welcome
to the U.S. Senate," he added sarcastically.

At issue were two Democratic proposals:

Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) was seeking a vote on a non-binding resolution
urging that Social Security trust funds be put off limits to budget-cutting if
the Senate passes a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget. The
amendment, which was defeated last year, has been scheduled by Dole for a second
vote in the next few weeks. Dorgan said he was offering the Social Security
proposal because it cannot be made a part of the amendment.

Kennedy and other Democrats are pushing for a vote on legislation to increase
the minimum wage from $ 4.25 to $ 5.15 in annual increments of 45 cents over two
years. They say they have no alternative but to attach it to other legislation
because Dole will not schedule a separate vote on raising the minimum wage,
which Clinton supports.

The dispute flared when Dorgan attempted to speak on his proposal but was
blocked by Republicans, culminating in an angry dispute that ended only when
Dole shut down the Senate an hour ahead of the normal schedule for its weekly
party luncheons.

When the Senate returned, Dole sought agreement to shut out any amendments not
directly related to the immigration bill but was blocked by Daschle. Daschle
then offered to allow each party two non-relevant amendments, but Dole balked,
taunting Daschle with a suggestion that Republicans might offer regulatory
reform -- which Democrats have blocked with a filibuster.

While yesterday's fight was strictly partisan, Republicans were also faced with
divisions within their ranks. Some senators suggested that intra-party
differences played a part in the decision to put off action, including whether
to include constraints on legal immigration and whether to let states deny free
public schooling to children who are not legal residents.

In the House, Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo.) also pushed for a vote
on raising the minimum wage. Tony Blankley, spokesman for Speaker Newt Gingrich
(R-Ga.), said, "It's bad policy, but it may come up."

Staff writers Guy Gugliotta and William Branigin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996April 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              89 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 27, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

At Least Two Killed In Border Patrol Encounter

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: ALPINE, Calif.


A van packed with nearly two dozen people crashed yesterday after the Border
Patrol tried to pull it over. At least two people were killed and 19 injured,
authorities said.

California Highway Patrol spokesman Art Athans said a Border Patrol vehicle
pulled up to the overloaded van and motioned for the driver to pull over as it
traveled on Interstate 8 near an immigration checkpoint. Instead, the driver,
who was going within the 70 mph speed limit, braked and swerved into the Border
Patrol vehicle, Athans said. It was unclear whether the driver did so on purpose
or by accident.

The van ran off the road, flipping over at least four times and practically
disintegrating. The Border Patrol vehicle was slightly damaged but its occupants
were unhurt.

Earlier this month, eight illegal immigrants were killed and 17 injured when an
overloaded pickup truck crashed near another immigration checkpoint outside
Temecula in Riverside County. The checkpoints are set up a few miles north of
the Mexican border to screen traffic on a random basis.

As for the victims of yesterday's crash, "the first impression is that they
appear to be undocumented migrants, but that has not been confirmed at this
point," said Phil Konstantin, another highway patrol spokesman. "At this point,
we're more concerned about injuries than immigration status."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              90 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 06, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Focus on Illegal Aliens

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 426 words


CONGRESS HAS ducked, for the time being, the difficult question of how many
immigrants should be admitted to the country each year, and which groups should
have preferences for these coveted slots. These matters may be too ticklish for
an election year. But politicians can't lose by clamping down on illegal
immigrants, who have no lobby and few sympathizers. That's what the Senate did
last week.

The measure is far from revolutionary. Essentially it beefs up federal efforts
designed to make it more difficult for undocumented aliens to enter and work.
There will be more border guards, more investigators and more Labor Department
inspectors. Thousands of new beds will be made available in detention centers to
hold aliens pending adjudication of status or deportation. An effort will be
made to stem the counterfeiting of documents; sentences for crimes involving
fraudulent documents and smuggling will be increased. A 14-mile triple fence
will be constructed on the border near San Diego where the traffic in illegal
immigrants is heaviest. Whether all this will substantially reduce the flow is
yet to be seen. But none of these steps represents a new approach, and none
should be controversial.

Objections have been raised about two provisions in both House and Senate bills.
The first would expand and make mandatory pilot programs already underway to
test systems by which employers can determine work eligibility of job
applicants. We do not share the fear that such programs present major civil
liberties problems. Americans already have to produce Social Security cards to
work. They are used to showing driver's licenses and other forms of photo IDs.
And a simple 800-number verification system of the kind used to check credit
card validity would be efficient for employers and effective in enforcing the
law against those working in this country without valid immigration papers.

The second provision would make real the understanding that those who sponsor
immigrants have a responsibility to keep them from becoming public charges. This
would be done by combining the sponsor's and the immigrant's income in
determining the latter's eligibility for certain welfare benefits. There is no
injustice in that, only the enforcement of an obligation freely undertaken.
Nothing in the Senate version of the bill should create any problems for the
White House or for anyone who believes, as we do, that these laws must be
effective if the better more open features of the country's immigration policies
are to be sustained.

LOAD-DATE: May 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              91 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 22, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Risky Passage to America's Back Door; Thousands of Illegal Migrants Attempt Boat
Trip to Puerto Rico

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1492 words

DATELINE: IN THE MONA PASSAGE


Amid the chatter of radio traffic between the Coast Guard cutter Vigorous and a
helicopter it had launched on patrol came snatches of rapid, urgent Spanish from
somewhere in this treacherous strait.

Then, the static that was garbling the elusive broadcast cleared long enough to
yield the voice of a woman with a desperate plea. "Estamos en peligro" ("We are
in danger"), she said before fading out again.

So began a dramatic search and rescue operation that ultimately saved the lives
of 19 Cuban "boat people," including two children, who were trying to enter
Puerto Rico illegally by crossing the Mona Passage from the Dominican Republic.

Crammed aboard a 24-foot cabin cruiser that was disabled and slowly sinking in
the turbulent, shark-infested waters, the Cubans were weak and dehydrated after
two days without food or drink.

Like thousands of Dominicans and other illegal migrants from around the world,
they were making the risky crossing in hopes of using Puerto Rico as a
springboard to reach the United States. But in saving their lives, the Coast
Guard also dashed their dreams.

While most U.S. resources in the fight against illegal immigration have been
focused on the southwestern border with Mexico, the Coast Guard and Border
Patrol in Puerto Rico have been struggling to cope with an escalating flow of
illegal migrants and drugs through America's "back door."

As a U.S. commonwealth whose people are American citizens, Puerto Rico has
become a major way station for illegal immigrants. Once on the island, they can
try to pass as Puerto Ricans or visitors from the mainland and fly to the United
States without having to show a passport or pass a regular immigration or
customs inspection.

Most of the boat people who try to reach Puerto Rico are natives of the
Dominican Republic, 90 miles to the west across the Mona Passage. But those
apprehended by the Coast Guard or Border Patrol include a smattering of other
nationalities: Chinese, Cuban, Haitian, even Macedonian, a dozen of whom were
caught last month.

Up to 20,000 migrants attempt the crossing every year, said Capt. Thomas
Bernard, the regional Coast Guard commander in Puerto Rico. Dominicans typically
pay $ 300 to $ 500 each to be smuggled across the passage in small boats known
as yolas, but Chinese are usually charged 10 times more, he said.

"They take unbelievable risks," said Lt. Cmdr. Matthew Blizard, the Coast
Guard's regional law enforcement chief. "We see boats, in 8-foot seas, that are
only 30 or 40 feet long with 100 people in them and no navigation equipment."

Often, however, the yolas are difficult to detect. They ride low in the water
and thus can frequently elude the radars of the Coast Guard cutters that patrol
the Mona Passage. They commonly sail in darkness and go slowly during daylight
to avoid leaving a telltale wake. Smugglers often paint their yolas seawater
blue and cloak them with tarps when they see an approaching surveillance plane.
They also have been known to cover their human cargo and outboard engines with
wet blankets to defeat heat-detecting infrared devices.

With only 19 agents to cover 500 miles of Puerto Rican and Virgin Islands
coastline, the Border Patrol is hard pressed to catch illegal migrants once they
reach shore. More than 6,600 illegal aliens were reported apprehended by the
Border Patrol and the Coast Guard while being smuggled to Puerto Rico last year,
up 43 percent from 1994. So far this fiscal year, 4,800 have been caught. But
the Border Patrol estimates that two-thirds of the illegal migrants who reach
Puerto Rico elude capture.

Two days on the Vigorous, a 210-foot medium endurance cutter based at Cape May,
N.J., showed how difficult it can be to spot yolas in the choppy channel, whose
turbulence is caused by a clash of Atlantic and Caribbean currents. Despite
intelligence reports that migrant-laden yolas had departed the Dominican
Republic, the Vigorous encountered only innocent fishing vessels, yachts, and
pilot whales after arriving in the passage for patrol duty in early May.

All that changed Wednesday, May 15, after a Coast Guard helicopter took off from
the cutter's flight deck. Initially, the sketchy distress call, first heard by a
reporter on the helicopter, was greeted with skepticism. The flight commander,
Lt. Alan W. Carver, 35, of Des Moines, cautioned that it could be a "diversion"
to lure the chopper away from a yola.

But then the Vigorous began picking up transmissions describing an increasingly
dire situation aboard the stricken vessel. The boat, the Valentina, was adrift
west of Mona Island and taking on water. Several of the 19 Cubans on board were
severely dehydrated. But as the French-built HH65A Dolphin helicopter scoured
the vast blue expanse below, there was still no sign of the Valentina.

Finally, a white cabin cruiser with a black top came into view. As the
helicopter approached, the Cubans began waving their arms and a red T-shirt.
Their condition was worsening, they radioed the Vigorous. One of the women was
unconscious.

Now the Coast Guard faced a series of crucial decisions. Should the helicopter
try to hoist one or two of the most seriously ill people aboard and risk
capsizing the boat if others also rushed to join them? Would the boat stay
afloat long enough for the Vigorous to reach the scene?

The helicopter was ordered to keep circling the boat so that the cutter could
find it. That presented another problem: Fuel was running low. Rummaging in the
rear of the chopper, aviation machinist Mike Arnold, 34, of Jacksonville, Fla.,
found an emergency bag with some small packets of drinking water and lowered it
to the Cubans. Then pilot Charlie Simpson, 33, of Dublin, Va., flew the bright
orange helicopter back to the cutter.

When the Vigorous reached the Valentina an hour later, Cmdr. Eddie V. Mack, the
cutter's captain, declared the badly listing boat unseaworthy and sent launches
to rescue its passengers.

As they were brought aboard the cutter, several of the Cubans were close to
collapse from hunger, thirst, seasickness and exposure to the scorching sun. A
few wept with apparent relief as they were taken to the cutter's fantail, given
water and examined by a Coast Guard corpsman.

Recovering from their ordeal, the Cubans said they had left their homeland at
different times and by different means, some clandestinely by boat three years
ago and others legally by airliner within the last several months. They came
together in the Dominican Republic, pooled their resources to buy a boat at the
southern port of La Romana and hatched a plan to cross the Mona Passage to
Puerto Rico, then fly to the United States to join relatives in Miami and New
York.

Gabriel Velasquez Riberon, 33, said he was on active duty in the Cuban army when
he fled in January 1994 by boat en route to Florida with 37 compatriots. The
boat ran out of fuel, but an American fishing vessel took them to the Dominican
Republic, Velasquez said. Since then, he was been "wandering without a
passport," doing odd jobs and occasionally receiving money from an uncle in
Miami.

Roberto Martinez, 51, said he was sent four years ago by the Cuban government to
work as a mechanical engineer at a company in the Dominican Republic. When he
recently quit his job and refused to return to Cuba, he said, Cuban officials
called him a "traitor" and began threatening him.

"There are lots of agents of Fidel Castro in the Dominican Republic," Martinez
said.

David Pupo Peralta, 32, a former welder in Cuba, said he was jailed for 18
months after trying to leave the island in 1991.

He said he managed to flee by boat in February 1993 with his wife, two children,
a sister-in-law and a niece, first landing on Grand Cayman Island and later
traveling to the Dominican Republic in hopes of getting U.S. visas.

His wife, Maribel Rivas Escobar, 26, suffered severe dehydration on the two-day
trip aboard the Valentina and lay barely conscious on the cutter's deck as a
corpsman treated her while her worried children looked on.

Pupo's niece, Lisette de los Rios, 19, said the family lived from hand to mouth
in the Dominican Republic, unable to get regular work because they were residing
there illegally.

"This is my fourth time to try to get to the U.S., and finally I made it," she
said.

Then, as she looked at the Coast Guard crew members gathered on the fantail, a
note of doubt crept into her voice. "We're okay here, aren't we?" she asked.

She added, "I don't want to go back to the Dominican Republic now. I'd rather
die than go back. If I have to go back to the Dominican Republic, just leave me
on the boat I came on."

In the end, neither that nor sailing on to Puerto Rico was an option. About an
hour after the Cubans were rescued, the Valentina sank. And on Saturday, the
Coast Guard handed the 19 over to Dominican immigration authorities who took
them into custody.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1996May 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, william branigin; Map, larry fogel, Dehydrated and hungry,
Cubans trying to cross strait in a failing cabin cruiser were rescued by the
Coast Guard.  Aboard the Coast Guard cutter Vigorous a corpsman treats Maribel
Rivas Escobar, one of 19 Cubans trying to reach Puerto Rico across the Mona
Passage. With her are husband David Pupo Peralta and their daughter, 7, and son,
10.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              92 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 23, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

2 Jailed in Illegal Immigrant Case

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 154 words


Two men whose rental truck carrying 37 illegal immigrants crashed at a
Chesapeake Bay Bridge tollbooth in February have been sentenced to four months
in federal prison.

U.S. District Judge Andre David also ordered Tuesday that Luis
Hernandez-Herrera, of Guatemala, and Hermelindo Velasquez Rivera, of Mexico, be
deported after they have served their sentences.

Both had pleaded guilty in the case. A third man, Israel Perez-Herrera, of
Guatemala, is scheduled to be sentenced tomorrow. He also has pleaded guilty.

According to immigration officials, the three men took turns driving a rental
truck loaded with 33 men and four children from Arizona to the Eastern Shore,
where the immigrants were promised work. The men and children were from Mexico
and Guatemala.

The trip ended Feb. 7 at the Bay Bridge when the truck crashed into a passenger
car at the tollbooth and federal agents arrested the men.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1996May 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              93 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 03, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Frustrated Immigrant Awaits Fate After Illegal Crossing

Anna Borgman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D05; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 273 words


Genaro Cux-Garcia, a Guatemalan man who was riding in the back of a rental truck
packed with illegal immigrants that crashed at the Chesapeake Bay Bridge in
February, now spends his days in the home of a Prince George's County family.
His verdict on life in the United States: "boring."

Representatives of the Adventist Church posted bond for five of the truck's
passengers, including Cux-Garcia, whose story of a harrowing, 30-day journey to
the United States appeared in The Washington Post.

Cux-Garcia, interviewed last week at his temporary home, has filed for asylum.
He said he misses his family and is most frustrated because his undetermined
status bars him from working and making money to send home. He checks in monthly
with immigration officials but does not know when there might be a ruling in his
case.

The Mayan Indian spends his days at the house, getting up about 6 a.m., bathing,
heating tortillas for breakfast and sweeping and mopping the house for the
family. Sometimes he watches television. "The reality is, there isn't anything
else to do," he said.

Cux-Garcia said he has visited Washington once with church members and remembers
seeing "big houses, parks and many people."

Three men who were riding in the front of the truck pleaded guilty to smuggling
and were sentenced to six months in prison. Officials said the investigation of
the smuggling operation is continuing.

Most of the remaining 36 passengers have been deported after long stays in area
detention centers, said Benedict Ferro, district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Baltimore.

-- Anna Borgman

LOAD-DATE: June 03, 1996June 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              94 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 07, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Giuliani Calls On GOP Leaders to Reject Tough Anti-Immigration Measures

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 594 words


New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican maverick representing what he
likes to call "the capital of the world," called on Sen. Robert J. Dole (R-Kan.)
and other Republican leaders yesterday to refrain from "political pandering" and
reject tough anti-immigrant measures in legislation pending before Congress.

Giuliani urged Dole, the likely Republican presidential nominee, to demonstrate
that he is "a leader and a statesman" and not "cave in to public opinion polls"
showing that a large majority of Americans favor reduced levels of immigration.
Passage of an immigration bill with provisions that are currently in the House
and Senate versions would be a "terrible, terrible mistake," he said.

Giuliani's remarks, in a speech at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace here, echoed comments by former president George Bush Monday and appeared
to reflect sharp divisions among Republicans over efforts to crack down on
illegal immigration.

Bush, speaking at a convention of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers
in Reno, Nev., criticized Ross Perot, Republican presidential contender Patrick
J. Buchanan, "big labor" and unidentified House Democratic leaders who he said
"selfishly exploit the immigration issue," the Associated Press reported.

"We have to control our borders," Bush was quoted as saying. "We have to do a
better job to insure our laws are being followed. But you don't have to do it
with a bitterness that takes a little 7-year-old kid out of school . . . and
shoves him back across a bridge dividing our country."

Bush referred to perhaps the most controversial aspect of the pending
legislation: a provision in the House bill that would give states the option of
denying free public education to illegal immigrant children. Bush's son, Texas
Gov. George W. Bush (R), has rejected the use of any such measure in his state.
The Clinton administration has warned that a bill containing the provision would
face a likely presidential veto.

According to congressional staffers, Republicans in the House and Senate are
trying to iron out differences within their party behind the scenes before
holding a conference committee to reconcile the two versions of the bill. Both
bills are aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration through such measures as
beefing up the Border Patrol, increasing penalties for alien smuggling and
streamlining deportation procedures.

Provisions to reduce legal immigration levels were rejected in both houses. But
pro-immigration groups charge that measures requiring the sponsors of immigrants
to earn significantly more than the poverty level would effectively reduce legal
immigration anyway. The Senate bill would require a sponsor's income to be at
least 125 percent of the poverty level, while the House bill would make it 200
percent.

Noting that 40 percent of U.S. citizens do not earn 200 percent of the poverty
level, the American Immigration Lawyers Association said that adopting such a
requirement would be "a covert means to slash family immigration."

In his speech yesterday, Giuliani said immigration was a source of continuous
"renewal" and "the single most valuable thing that has happened to New York
City." He asserted that even the city's illegal immigrants, who number up to
400,000, make a positive contribution for the most part and that it would be
wrong to enact legislation that might make many of them pull their children out
of public schools. He said 60,000 to 80,000 illegal immigrant children attend
his city's public schools.

LOAD-DATE: June 07, 1996June 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              95 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 07, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Feeding Wildfire Epidemic in California

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 6


Illegal immigrants who hike through the rugged forested mountains of eastern San
Diego County after making it across the border are causing a dramatic surge in
wildfires because of fires they light when camping out in the area, state and
county officials said today.

In some cases, the illegal immigrants, hoping to use the isolation of the
mountains to work their way north, are at serious risk of being hurt or killed
by wildfires they helped start.

The number of wildfires in the region since January is already four times last
year's total, a frightening jump that has prompted the San Diego County Board of
Supervisors to declare a state of emergency and ask President Clinton to deploy
U.S. troops near the border to prevent the immigrants from entering the forests.

"It's a disaster waiting to happen," said Diane Jacob, a member of the Board of
Supervisors representing eastern San Diego County. "I don't think it's a matter
of if we have a major human catastrophe. It's a case of when, if something isn't
done immediately."

Ken Miller, regional fire chief for the California Forestry Department, said 212
wildfires have broken out in the border area around Otay Mountain this year, at
a cost of $ 3 million in firefighting efforts. Last year, 64 fires were reported
in the same area, and in 1994 there were only 24.

This year's increase coincides with a crackdown by the U.S. Border Patrol on a
flat border region closer to the Pacific Coast, which has forced human cargo
smugglers to turn to the mountainous area further east in their efforts to reach
Los Angeles and inland cities. The surge in fires also has been caused by
near-drought conditions that have dried ground cover to highly inflammable
tinder, Miller said.

Miller said that up to 2,600 illegal immigrants cross the California border each
day, and that increasing numbers of them are heading to the rugged mountains to
avoid Border Patrol checkpoints on northbound highways along the Pacific coast.

The immigrants normally live in the wilderness one to four days, usually
sleeping during the day and hiking at night. They often build their campfires
amid vegetation that grows to 12 feet high and then leave them unattended when
they move on, Miller said.

The fire chief said he had been told by Border Patrol agents that sometimes the
immigrants intentionally start wildfires to create a diversion when they think
they have been detected.

Traveling in groups of up to 120 people, the immigrants are led by paid guides,
called "coyotes," into the wilderness and often are unaware that wildfires are
raging near the smuggling trails, Miller said.

"If someone who is unfamiliar with the steep topography of that area crosses a
firebreak into a dangerous zone, there's no way they could get out without being
seriously burned or killed," he said. "They'll be in a position where we can't
do anything to help them because we don't have the resources to get our people
in there."

Karen Terrill, a spokeswoman for the Forestry Department in Sacramento, said:
"They [immigrants] have no idea that fires run faster uphill than on level
ground or on a downward slope. It's virtually impossible to outrun a wildfire
uphill. This has the potential of becoming a firefighter's nightmare."

Miller said that on any given night, there are 300 to 400 illegal immigrants in
the mountains and canyons along the border, many of them near the fires that
burn almost daily this time of year. He said he has a video showing a large
group of immigrants hiking with no apparent concern near a wildfire with flames
up to 16 feet high. "What they didn't know is they could have been surrounded in
a moment and never gotten out," he said.

Jacob said the supervisors are writing letters to Clinton, Gov. Pete Wilson (R)
and Attorney General Janet Reno warning of the potential for a catastrophe.
Besides asking for U.S. and National Guard troops to patrol the area, she said
the supervisors also want relief from federal environmental regulations that
have prevented forestry officials from building roads through federal lands, so
firefighters can reach fires before they spread and also rescue trapped
immigrants.

"The irony is that hundreds of illegal immigrants are literally trashing this
federally protected wilderness, but our firefighters can't even access it to
rescue them because of the environmental restrictions," Jacob said.


LOAD-DATE: June 07, 1996June 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              96 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 11, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigration Rider Touches Nerve

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE; IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 263 words


Nearly half the members of the Senate yesterday urged congressional negotiators
to oppose an immigration bill provision allowing states to expel illegal
immigrant children from school.

The 47 senators, nearly all Democrats, said that inclusion of the provision
could jeopardize enactment of major legislation dealing with illegal
immigration. In a letter to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch
(R-Utah), the senators called the provision ill-advised and said it would do
nothing to reduce illegal immigration.

Separately, Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) said in letters to
Majority Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan.) and his deputy and likely successor,
Sen. Trent Lott (R-Miss.), that the opposition of the senators and the
administration made clear the Senate would not pass a bill with the school
provision. The votes of 60 of the 100 senators are needed to cut off a
filibuster.

Both the House and Senate have passed bills to clamp down on illegal immigration
but only the House version would permit expulsion of illegal immigrant children
from school. The two bills have to be reconciled by a House-Senate conference
committee.

"Aliens do not come to this country illegally to educate their children in U.S.
public schools," the 47 senators, led by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), said
in the letter to Hatch.

"Giving authority to states to expel children from public schools will not deter
illegal immigration, but it will lead to a range of other problems if these
innocent children are out of school and on the streets."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996June 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              97 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 11, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Clinton Talks Border Line In California

John F. Harris, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, June 10


President Clinton decided that it must be local issues that his audience wanted
to hear about, and so it was local issues they got.

Illegal immigration at the nearby border with Mexico, fires at a nearby national
forest, even sand erosion on local beaches -- his administration is at work on
all these problems, Clinton assured a crowd of San Diego residents.

Appearing at a local police station, Clinton put special emphasis on stopping
illegal border crossings, for years a flash point of California politics, and an
issue that Republicans have said they hope to use against Clinton and Democrats
in this fall's election. His administration, he said, has poured additional
resources into fighting illegal immigration in a way that is having measurable
if incomplete results.

The Clinton administration has added 1,264 immigration agents to the federal
force, and hired 579 federal prosecutors in border communities, according to a
Justice Department review released today, proclaiming that "progress is clear
and successes are many" in the fight against illegal immigration.

The report mentions that serious crime is down 30 percent in San Diego and also
down in other border cities -- 14 percent in El Paso, 20 percent in Brownsville,
Tex.

It also highlights efforts such as "Operation Gatekeeper," which was begun in
1994 when the administration was receiving particular criticism from California
Gov. Pete Wilson (R) about its immigration program. The Justice Department
deployed more immigration agents and advanced detection equipment such as
underground sensors and infrared "nightscopes" along a 14-mile stretch of the
border near San Diego that historically has accounted for 40 percent of
apprehensions of people attempting to cross the U.S.-Mexico border.

The report doesn't make claims about total border arrests or estimate trends on
the numbers of people successfully crossing the border.

But Clinton said the report "makes clear that we have begun to turn communities
under siege into communities where law and order and safety and security are
once again the order of the day."

While immigration is a high-profile national issue, Clinton also devoted much of
his attention to low-profile issues that matter here. His words seemed to
reflect a belief that, even in an era when many people say they want smaller
government -- and Clinton has proclaimed that "the era of big government is
over" -- old-fashioned promises of federal boodle have an enduring appeal.

Clinton mentioned, for instance, that he has kept an eye out for San Diego in
the Pentagon budget. "Because we are building two new ships for our national
defense, the San Diego shipyards are busy, securing another 4,000 jobs until the
year 2000," he said.

And Clinton's local focus didn't stop there. "Because we've started work on a
new sewage treatment plant and we're proposing to step up our sand reclamation
efforts . . . we're ensuring that the San Diego beaches will be enjoyed by
children and their children for generations to come."

This evening Clinton was scheduled to head just north to Los Angeles, where he
was to attend a $ 5,000-per-person fund-raiser for the Democratic National
Committee at the home of retired movie mogul Lew Wasserman. Expected to attend
were such entertainment industry luminaries as Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman, Jay
Leno, Johnny Carson, Neil Simon, Barbra Streisand, Kim Bassinger and Geena
Davis.

After the fund-raiser, Clinton was to head to the Smashbox night club for a
party with young Democratic contributors known as the "Saxophone Club."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996June 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              98 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 13, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrants Die in Van Accidents

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: SPRING VALLEY, Calif.


Two vans packed with alleged illegal immigrants crashed in separate accidents in
Southern California and Utah, killing four people and injuring 27.

Three men died in Blanding, Utah, on a remote stretch of highway about 10 miles
north of the Arizona border. The driver apparently dozed off and oversteered
when he awoke, causing the van to roll over and eject all 18 passengers, police
said. All 15 survivors were injured, some seriously.

The driver acknowledged the passengers were illegal aliens from Mexico heading
to Chicago to find work, police said.

In the second accident, a van packed with more than 20 alleged illegal
immigrants skidded off a highway east of San Diego and slammed into a gas
station, killing one man and injuring a dozen others.

About 20 minutes earlier, U.S. Border Patrol agents had tried to stop the van
for a routine inspection. But the van sped away, ran a stop sign and later
missed a turn, skidding off the road into the gas station.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996June 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              99 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 18, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Statutory Rape Charges Dropped Against Illegal Alien

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 17


Charges against an illegal Mexican immigrant jailed in January for allegedly
having sex with an underage girl were dismissed today because it turned out the
two were legally married.

State District Judge Jim Barr dropped the charges against Pedro Sotelo, 22, on
recommendation of prosecutors.

Sotelo was arrested Jan. 25 on charges of aggravated sexual assault to a child
after he and Adela Quintana, who was pregnant, were found hiding in a Houston
apartment. The two had been the object of an international search because
authorities thought Quintana was 10 years old and on the verge of giving birth,
which they said would be dangerous at her age. Once in custody, officials found
that Quintana was 14 and a couple of months from bearing the child fathered by
Sotelo.

The two insisted from the beginning that they were married, but Sotelo was
jailed anyway and has remained there, unable to make bail.

Houston lawyer Nancy Revelette, who was hired by Sotelo's family, found that
under Texas law, Sotelo and Quintana were legally married because they presented
themselves as husband and wife and no one had complained about the relationship.

"Because of the marriage, in the eyes of the law she was an adult and was able
to consent to having sexual relations with her husband," Revelette told
reporters after Barr signed the dismissal order.

Sotelo remained in jail today but was to be handed over to the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service. Both he and Quintana are in the United States
illegally, but officials said it was not yet certain if they would be deported
because their son, born on U.S. soil, is a citizen.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              100 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 21, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

INS Officials Allegedly Deceived Congress on Illegal Aliens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 723 words


Senior officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service transferred or
released dozens of illegal aliens from detention in Miami last year as part of
an elaborate attempt to deceive a congressional task force looking into illegal
immigration, a Justice Department investigation has found.

After an 11-month inquiry, the department's inspector general concluded that
"certain INS senior managers" at the agency's eastern regional and Miami
district headquarters deliberately misled Congress, their own INS superiors and
Justice Department investigators in an "egregious" and "very disturbing" pattern
of conduct designed to paint a rosy picture of an otherwise chaotic situation,
according to a report issued yesterday.

A summary of a 200-page report by the inspector general's office called for
"systemic reform within INS" and recommended the punishment of top officials at
the eastern regional INS headquarters in South Burlington, Vt., and the Miami
district office.

The summary did not identify the officials. Sources familiar with the full
report said 10 to 15 INS officials were implicated.

In response to the report, INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner relieved four
senior field managers of their supervisory duties pending a decision by the
Justice Department on "appropriate disciplinary action," she said in a
statement.

Among the four are Carol D. Chasse, the INS eastern regional director, and
Walter D. Cadman, the district director in Miami, an INS official said.

The summary of the inspector general's report said that in preparation for a
June 10, 1995, fact-finding visit to Miami by seven members of the Congressional
Task Force on Immigration Reform, INS officials transferred or released more
than 100 of the 407 illegal aliens detained at the Krome Service Processing
Center to convey an impression of order in a facility that was normally
understaffed and overcrowded.

Of 58 aliens who were released into the community -- most of them Cubans and
Haitians -- 35 had not been medically cleared and at least nine were criminals
who had been charged with such offenses as cocaine trafficking and burglary, the
report said.

The officials also ordered the temporary transfer of 45 detainees to other jails
at a cost of more than $ 10,000, the investigation found.

The day before the visit, an additional 36 aliens were bused from Krome to Key
West, where most stayed for 10 days before leaving the United States
voluntarily, the report said.

While this transfer was unusual, the investigators concluded it was "unrelated"
to the task force visit, the summary said.

The INS management nearly doubled the staff at Miami International Airport
during the task force's visit, in part to create a false appearance of
efficiency and eliminate the usual long lines of passengers awaiting inspection,
the investigators found.

INS airport personnel were instructed to empty detention cells at the airport,
ensure that no children were placed there as was often the case and falsely tell
the members of Congress that the cells were used only to hold criminal aliens,
the report said. As a result, six aliens who had entered the United States with
fraudulent documents and would normally have been detained were allowed to
remain in a seating area "without any restraints" during the delegation's visit,
the report said.

The managers also took steps to prevent officials of an INS employees' union
from meeting with the legislators, even threatening them with arrest if they
attempted to join a briefing, the report said.

"They wanted us to believe that illegal immigration is not a serious problem in
Miami and that they had a well-oiled machine," said Rep. Elton Gallegly
(R-Calif.), chairman of the task force. He called the deliberate misleading of
the fact-finders puzzling and "unconscionable" and said he welcomed the
"thoroughness and candor" of the investigation, which involved interviews with
more than 450 witnesses and recovery of thousands of electronic mail messages.

The implicated INS managers deliberately "slowed and obstructed" the
investigation, at times deleting "incriminating" e-mail from computer files, the
report said.

The probe grew out of a letter to Gallegly signed by nearly 50 INS employees in
Miami informing him that the delegation had been deceived.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              101 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 05, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Mexicans Hit by Deputies Wanted Jobs, Relatives Say; Economic Crisis Left
Millions Unemployed

David Luhnow, Reuter

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 4


Two illegal immigrants whose videotaped beating by California sheriff's deputies
sparked outrage this week left Mexico two weeks ago seeking work in the United
States to support their hungry families, relatives said.

The father of Alicia Sotero Vazquez, one of two Mexicans shown being beaten by
two sheriff's deputies in Riverside, Calif., Monday, said his daughter left
Mexico because she could not find a job to support her two children, ages 11 and
9. Sotero gave the name Leticia Gonzalez when she was arrested because she was
afraid, she told a Spanish-language television station in Los Angeles.

"She couldn't find work, and for three months I couldn't either. We didn't have
money for food," Benjamin Sotero told Mexico's Televisa network today.

In the videotape, taken by a news helicopter and broadcast on Mexican television
dozens of times in the past two days, the officers are seen clubbing Sotero and
Enrique Funes Flores several times as they lay on the ground. The Riverside
County Sheriff's Department also had given a different name for Funes Flores,
but there was no immediate explanation for the discrepancy.

Mexicans have expressed outrage at the beating, and newspapers carried
front-page stories describing how 19 illegal immigrants in a truck were chased
at high speed by police before the beatings and eventually were arrested.

[In Los Angeles, a lawyer for Funes Flores said he had notified Riverside County
of his intention to sue it for $ 10 million, and a lawyer for Sotero said one
would probably be filed on her behalf as well, Washington Post special
correspondent Kathryn Wexler reported. A spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service said the 19 immigrants detained by the sheriff's
deputies had been released into the custody of the Mexican consulate because
they could be witnesses in any court case stemming from the incident.]

Relatives of both beating victims, explaining why they had left Mexico to join
hundreds of other Mexicans who illegally cross the border to the United States
daily, said life in Mexico was simply too tough.

Funes Flores' mother, Rose Flores, told Televisa, "We were short of money after
my husband died. I told him not to go, but he said, 'Mother, I'm going to help
you. I'll send you money.' "

Nearly 2 million Mexicans have been thrown out of work since a peso devaluation
put the economy into a tailspin.

Some Mexicans said they were surprised to learn that police in the United
States, which is usually viewed here as the model of respect for human rights,
could be so much like their own police, who often use brutal methods.

"It was a shock. I thought there the police were supposed to be more upright,"
said Manuel Cardenas, a taco vendor in the capital.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1996April 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              102 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 30, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Latinos Express Concerns;
Duncan Suggested Barring Services From Illegals

Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MARYLAND WEEKLY (MONTGOMERY); PAGE M1

LENGTH: 741 words


Montgomery County executive candidate Douglas Duncan sparked concern among local
Latino activists this month by publicly stating that the county should withhold
some government services from illegal immigrants.

The flap, which prompted several of Duncan's supporters to demand an
explanation, underscores the rising stature of immigration issues in Montgomery
County politics.

The 1990 census found that nearly 62,000, or 8.2 percent, of the county's
residents were Asian Americans, and nearly 56,000, or 7.4 percent, were
Hispanic. The county's public school population is more than 40 percent
non-white.

In local newspaper columns and letters, some Montgomery residents have said the
county should withhold most government services from illegal immigrants. Some
ethnic organizations call that "immigrant bashing."

In a June 15 interview with The Washington Post, Duncan said some non-emergency
services should be withheld from illegal immigrants. Duncan, a former mayor of
Rockville, also said the county should work with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) to encourage Montgomery employers to obey
prohibitions against hiring undocumented workers.

Several Latino leaders, including some members of Duncan's "Hispanic advisory
group," met with him last week to discuss their concerns that the comments
seemed to reinforce negative stereotypes.

"I suggested that he have a clarification on that," said Henry Quintero, past
president of the Hispanic Alliance of Montgomery and a member of Duncan's
advisory group. "There is a lot of disenchantment in the advisory committee."

Duncan is one of three Democrats running in the Sept. 13 primary for the seat
being vacated by Neal Potter (D). Three Republicans are running in their primary
the same day.

In an interview this week, Duncan said part of the Latino community's concern
grows from a mistaken impression that he opposes the teaching of illegal
immigrants in Montgomery public schools. In the June 15 interview, Duncan said
all children in Montgomery should attend school, regardless of their legal
status.

Another issue discussed by his campaign supporters involves the county-funded
Hispanic Day Labor Project in Silver Spring, which tries to coordinate efforts
between employers seeking temporary workers and Latino men seeking jobs. County
officials say most, but not all, of the men seeking jobs have legal work status.

In the June 15 interview, Duncan replied "yes" when a Post editor asked whether
the project should be reserved "only for the people who are properly
documented." When asked what should be done for illegal immigrants, Duncan
replied:

"That's something that's got to be worked out with the federal government, with
INS. My suggestion in that one is to go to the employers rather than
concentrating on, you know, 'Let's raid this employment site.' Let's look at the
employers and have INS go to them. And if the employers are being much more
careful about legal versus illegal, then you've stopped the problem of the
employment site, because there's nothing there for the illegal immigrants."

He said if illegal immigrants have "emergency needs -- medical help, food,
whatever, police -- you respond. You don't check for green cards. I mean, that's
nonsense."

Grace Rivera-Oven, vice president of the Montgomery Hispanic Alliance, said the
county should not be involved in monitoring work sites for undocumented workers.

"That's why we have INS, that's their job," said Rivera-Oven, who attended last
week's meeting with Duncan.

Duncan said he believes the meeting improved his relations with Latino
supporters, although he was undecided on whether to issue a formal clarification
of his earlier remarks. "We were talking about sending a letter to members of
the advisory committee," he said.

Another Democratic candidate for executive, former Montgomery planning board
chairman Gus Bauman, differed with Duncan by saying the county should play no
role in seeing that employers hire only documented workers.

"That's a federal responsibility," Bauman said.

Democratic candidate Bruce T. Adams, an at-large County Council member, said he
believes the county does, and should, "ask for documentation if we're talking
about job referrals" at the day labor project. As for health services, including
non-emergency care such as immunizations, Adams said: "It's not our business to
be asking or enforcing" legal status questions.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              103 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 3, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Can We Reheat the Melting Pot?;
Yes, if Only the Immigration Extremists, Left and Right, Would Let Us

Joel Kotkin

SECTION: OUTLOOK; PAGE C2

LENGTH: 1970 words


Roughly two-thirds of all Americans think too many immigrants are coming into
the country. To firm believers, such as myself, in the contributions of
newcomers to the vitality of our society that's a disturbing indicator. But the
lesson we should take from it is not that Americans have become narrow-minded
nativists, but that U.S. immigration policy needs adjustment.

Whatever the true economic costs or benefits of immigration, the political
benefits of seizing upon the immigration furor has already boosted the sagging
prospects of at least two prominent governors, Florida's Lawton Chiles, a
Democrat, and California's Pete Wilson, a Republican. Yet even the most
well-meaning politicians are increasingly pressed by extremists on both sides of
the debate: immigrant advocates who resist any reform of the current system, and
nativist lobbies that capitalize on frustrations about illegal entrants to press
for drastic reductions in legal immigration.

When a liberal politician such as California's Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein
finds herself attacked by Latino spokesmen for advocating such modest measures
as a $ 1 border crossing fee -- despite the fact that polls show most Latino
residents support tougher border controls -- it's pretty obvious that the debate
over immigration has become polarized and unproductive.

Almost lost in this controversy is the traditional mission of American
immigration: the gradual transformation of newcomers into productive citizens.
That process, unique to the American experience, has made ours, in the words of
sociologist Nathan Glazer, "the permanently unfinished country." And it is a
process that most recent immigrants eagerly embrace.

It is not surprising if anti-immigration groups seek to downplay the continuing
success of citizen-building. More destructive perhaps is that they have found
effective, if unwitting, allies among the most vocal immigration advocates.
Instead of stressing the importance of newcomers to America's own evolution, the
most extreme of these treat legal status as a mere technicality, blurring the
distinction between prospective citizens and temporary sojourners.

Most extreme are calls for extending to illegal aliens the right to vote -- the
very essence of citizenship. To proponents -- such as former Los Angeles mayoral
candidate and former ambassador to Mexico Julian Nava and L.A. school board head
Leticia Quezada -- enfranchising noncitizens is a simple extension of basic
civil rights. Quezada explained her position to Insight Magazine this way: "At
one time only white males could vote. My position is that it's time we cross
that line in terms of citizenship."

Some advocates even oppose the deportation of illegal entrants arrested for
felonies, as occurred in Los Angeles after the 1992 riots. Author Luis
Rodriguez, for example, writing in the Los Angeles Times, chastised authorities
for deporting "undocumented" vatos locos, or gangbangers, to El Salvador as if
Angelenos are somehow obligated to host permanently foreign criminals who helped
ransack their city.

Although most Asian and Latino politicians shy away from such positions, many
embrace other aspects of the immigrant-rights agenda, such as bilingualism, that
often do not reflect the views even of their own constituents. This year, for
example, under pressure from bilingual advocates, students in both Burbank,
Calif., and Denver were transferred from English-language to Spanish-only
programs in some cases over the objections of parents. According to a 1990 San
Francisco Chronicle poll, a solid majority of Bay Area Chinese, Filipinos and
Latinos even favor adopting English as the state's official language, a position
almost uniformly denounced by ethnic academic, media and political elites.

English language preference applies not just to settled immigrant populations
but to most newcomers. More than two-thirds of immigrant children in San Diego
and over four-fifths of those in South Florida, according to a recent Johns
Hopkins University study, prefer English to their familial language and more
than 90 percent possess "very high" knowledge of English. At Orange County's
Westminster High School, even the "Vietnamese Club " conducts its meetings in
English.

In fact, most immigrant children want nothing so much as to succeed in American
capitalist society. The Johns Hopkins study of immigrant youths found
three-quarters hope to attain a college degree or higher, with most looking to
ascend to professional positions.

These aspirations differ markedly from the assessments of both the pro-immigrant
academic left and their opponents among the nativists. Both sides, for example,
share a perspective that many if not most new immigrants need major government
help to improve their status. Where the two sides disagree is in whether society
should cough up the necessary cash or send the newcomers packing across the
border.

In reality, however, most Asians and Latinos, like earlier waves of immigrants,
are gradually working their way into the mainstream. Although poverty remains
widespread, in California these two groups have advanced more rapidly into both
higher income and educational brackets than the overall population over the past
two decades. As in the past, performance improves with length of stay and by
generation. Latinos, moreover, boast the highest rates of male labor force
participation and among the lowest rates of dependence on Aid to Families with
Dependent Children of any ethnic group in the state. Welfare rates among
immigrants are slightly above the norm, in fact, only because of the high number
of largely non-Hispanic refugees on AFDC.

During the past two decades, many key California industries have grown dependent
both on immigrant labor and entrepreneurial vigor. In Los Angeles County alone
the number of Latino- and Asian-owned businesses, mostly founded by or serving
immigrants, has more than tripled in the past decade.

Again, such realities tend to be ignored by both sides in the debate. Although
overall Asians outperform the national mean in both income and education, for
example, UCLA's Paul Ong, focusing on large pockets of poverty among Indochinese
refugees, who account for over four-fifths of Asians on welfare, recommends
expanded civil rights protection for Asians with "poor communications skills"
and expanded multicultural sensitivity training in the private sector.

Ong's widely reported study, however, also provided grist for conservative
politicians like Gov. Wilson, who has pointed to distressed communities of
Cambodian refugees to justify linking chronic welfare abuse to immigration. Thus
Ong's "group rights" agenda for Asians simply exacerbates nativist fears.

A closer look at the Indochinese community indicates that even the refugees'
condition is far from hopeless. Whittier College sociologist Steven Gold, who
has studied Orange County's Indochinese communities, says welfare dependency
tends to fall with time, from a rate of nearly 90 percent initially to below 30
percent in the first three years.

Nor is the image of destitution born out by the thriving economies of such
immigrant enclaves as Orange County's Little Saigon. Despite high retail space
vacancies in Southern California, the area's landmark shopping complex, the
Asian Gardens Mall, boasts a waiting list of 58 applicants. Ong may have missed
this because he focuses on census data that does not capture much of
California's "underground economy," now estimated by Wells Fargo Bank at nearly
$ 140 billion.

"Vietnamese are always hiding something," observes veteran Thuy Le, an editor at
Nguoi Viet, the nation's largest Vietnamese language daily. "The psychology from
back home was that we are always being invaded by someone and so you never
reveal what you are doing."

Of course, the existence of such a large "underground" economy poses many
problems, not the least for tax collectors and health and safety inspectors. But
this may largely prove only a first generation problem: Few expect their progeny
to stay in the extra-legal economy. In fact, among the 77 nationalities studied
in the recent Hopkins report, children of Cambodian and Laotian parents,
including preliterate Hmong, boasted higher grade-point averages and studied
longer than the average student.

Such patterns suggest that citizenship-based immigration still works. Like Jews
in the early part of the century -- four-fifths of whom were classified as
"feebleminded" in one contemporary academic study -- Indochinese immigrants have
few prospects of returning "home" to their countries of origin. They are, in a
sense, condemned to succeed in their adopted land.

Typically less successful are immigrants who come here with one eye fixed on
return to their native countries. Viewing themselves more as sojourners than
future Americans, these groups have been generally slower to perfect their grasp
of English, adjust to industrial cultural patterns or pursue citizenship. Even
after two decades here, according to a California Research Bureau study, barely
one-quarter of all Latino immigrants have become citizens compared with nearly
three-quarters of Asians. Rather than encouraging ambivalent attitudes about
citizenship by promoting cultural separatism, political leaders would better
serve the newcomers by promoting English language training as the critical
element for upward mobility and by pushing for measures that would streamline
citizenship procedures.

At the same time, those who wish to maintain a sizable level of immigration must
also address directly the legitimate economic concerns now boosting the nativist
agenda. Reasonable measures could include cracking down on the more extreme
abuses of local health and other services -- such as Mexican women shuttling
across the border to have their babies in San Diego at U.S. taxpayer expense. It
may also mean redressing some of the clear enforcement failures of the 1986
Simpson-Mazzoli Act, including perhaps the introduction of a national
tamper-proof identity card as a prerequisite for employment.

Finally, concerns about long-term economic effects could be addressed by
shifting our priorities away from politically expedient quotas, particularly for
family reunion, which now account for well over two-thirds of all immigrants.
For one thing, the emphasis on family union often favors immigration of
economically inactive elderly persons, as evidenced by a five-fold increase in
elderly noncitizen welfare recipients over the past decade. One possible
solution now being proposed by the Clinton administration as part of its welfare
reform plan: Permit family reunion of elderly persons but only if the sponsoring
family accepts extended financial responsibility for their care.

During the Cold War, we were indeed obliged to take in refugees who were from
countries -- notably Cuba and in Indochina -- where they faced persecution from
our Communist enemies. Today, such ideological considerations are far less
compelling and refugee policies should be balanced with a greater concern for
long-term national interests. Ultimately, however, the debate about immigration
is too important to the future of the nation to be focused purely on short-run
economic or political factors. Immigration continues to be a critical element
shaping and improving American communities. But to survive into the next
century, it must be recast in terms of a set of values centered on the
importance of citizenship, belief in the Constitution and the renewability of
the American dream.

Joel Kotkin is a Los Angeles-based senior fellow at the Center for the New West
and the Progressive Policy Institute. He is author of "Tribes: How Race,
Religion and Identity Determine Success in the New Global Economy" (Random
House).

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              104 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 13, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Arrests 2 Latinos As Va. Gang Members;
Pair Among Half-Dozen Sought in Crackdown

Peter Y. Hong, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D2

LENGTH: 511 words


U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents began a crackdown on alleged
gang activity among Latino immigrants with the arrest of two men in Arlington.

The men were identified as Omar Elvin Barrona-Mejia, 19, of the 3800 block of
Old Dominion Boulevard, Alexandria, and Roberto Aguirre-Rodriguez, 23, of the
2700 block of South Veitch Street, Arlington. They were arrested by INS agents
about 7 p.m. Wednesday near 27th and Adams streets in the Arna Valley section of
Arlington, INS officials said.

The two men are among a group of illegal immigrants believed to be members of a
gang known as "La Mara Loco Intocables," which means "the crazy untouchables" in
Spanish, according to the INS.

The arrests were the first in an INS operation intended to break up Latino gangs
in Northern Virginia and the District, dubbed "Operation Switchblade," which
began in November 1993. INS agents had gone to the neighborhood looking for a
half-dozen suspected gang members who are in the country illegally, and they
plan to make more arrests soon, said James D. Goldman, assistant district
director of investigations for the INS.

"They appear to be involved in a potpourri of thefts, larcenies and beatings,"
Goldman said of the gang, which operates in the Arlandria section of Alexandria
and in the Arna Valley neighborhood in South Arlington.


Barrona-Mejia, who is from Honduras, faced a deportation order even before his
arrest. Aguirre-Rodriguez, a Mexican who has been convicted of larceny twice in
Arlington, according to Goldman, faces deportation proceedings.

The INS identified the men with the help of Arlington police, Goldman said.

Operation Switchblade is being handled by a six-agent task force, Goldman said.

The operation was started after Arlington police and residents informed the INS
of gang activity, according to Goldman.

"Complaints from the community these Hispanic gangs to our attention. We will
not tolerate the community being harassed by gangs," said William J. Carroll,
director of the INS Washington District Office.

John Liss, who heads the Tenants' Support Committee in Arlandria, said he's
concerned that immigrants not involved in crime might suffer from the INS
action.

"It's one thing to arrest people engaging in criminal activity, but we don't
need others in the community being harassed," Liss said.

"I have no comment on this. I didn't call them [the INS]. They came in on their
own, and they have a job to do," said Ted Hicks, president of the Arna Valley
Civic Association.

Liss and other residents said La Mara is made up of about two dozen youths, most
of them Salvadoran high school students from Arlandria.

The gang members wear blue handkerchiefs on their heads, authorities said.

At a town meeting in June, several Arna Valley residents said members of the
group were responsible for spray-painting graffiti in the neighborhood,
loitering and breaking into cars.

"They're basically alienated young folks who get together to do mischievous
deeds and sometimes criminal activity," Liss said.


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, LARRY FOGEL

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              105 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 23, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

A Shiny New Method to Secure the Border;
U.S. Uses Bright Lights, Big Fence to Stem Illegal Influx at San Diego

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1114 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Deep and dark, Smugglers Canyon long ago earned its name as a place for those
who seek to enter the United States unseen. But now the Clinton administration
has literally turned on the lights in an attempt to transform this 14-mile
stretch of the border with Mexico.

When the sun drops into the Pacific, light panels atop long wooden poles begin
to hum and brighten. They shine south to the head of the canyon where drug
runners and illegal immigrants have gathered nightly for decades. Instead of
sheltering darkness there is an artificial day bright enough to read by.

Just getting into the canyon from Mexico requires scaling a 10-foot fence, and
U.S. Border Patrol agents, who a few years ago had no easy means to reach the
canyon, now drive up newly bulldozed roads to watch, wait and then move into
action.

Most of the effort so far has been aimed at dissuading Mexicans from crossing
here illegally. But now, as the Clinton administration prepares another
offensive against the illicit traffic, its greatest challenge lies on the U.S.
side of the border.

With California politicians led by Republican Gov. Pete Wilson heaping blame on
Washington for failing to control illegal immigration, Attorney General Janet
Reno announced last Saturday that fresh resources would be poured into the San
Diego border under a program called "Operation Gatekeeper." Starting Oct. 1, the
administration will flood the area with hundreds of additional Border Patrol
agents, a fleet of vehicles, new computer and communications networks, a new
fingerprinting system and still more lights. All of this adds to an effort begun
by the Border Patrol in 1990 and significantly accelerated by the administration
over the past year.

The increased enforcement -- combined with California's prolonged recession, its
earthquakes, fires and riots, along with Mexico's improved economy -- already
appears to have reduced illegal immigration through here. Apprehensions in the
San Diego sector are down 20 percent over the past two years, and officials now
hope they can cut more deeply into the flow.

"This is the big one," said Gus De La Vina, chief of the Border Patrol's San
Diego sector. "We are going all out to the stop the bleeding at the busiest,
most difficult part of the border, and time will tell how much we can
accomplish."

Given the level of anxiety that illegal immigration has stirred in California,
the success or failure of the operation likely will affect President Clinton's
political fortunes in the nation's most populous state. Mounting a credible
border enforcement program here is all the more difficult because expectations
have been raised by experiences elsewhere.

On Sept. 19, 1993, about 400 Border Patrol agents massed on the levees of the
Rio Grande at El Paso, Tex. In what came to be known as "Operation Hold the
Line," the agents formed a highly visible, unbroken, 24-hour blockade, and
illegal traffic across the river dropped dramatically.

From the start the author of the plan, the El Paso Border Patrol chief,
Silvestre Reyes, said it was uniquely suited to that situation. There were two
cities, El Paso in Texas and Juarez in Mexico, adjacent to each other but
separated by a clear physical barrier, the Rio Grande. Most of the illegal
traffic involved "commuters" -- people who crossed the river by day to shop,
work, panhandle or commit crimes in El Paso but rarely penetrated more than a
few miles into the United States.

Reyes and other Border Patrol officials argued that the same strategy would not
work in the rugged canyons and mesas around San Diego, where most of the traffic
is at night and involves long-distance travelers on their way to Los Angeles or
other U.S. cities.

Nonetheless, the "deterrence" strategy embodied in the El Paso operation soon
became the new gospel of border control as politicians in Washington, D.C., and
California argued for applying the same approach everywhere. Wilson has even run
campaign television advertisements demanding that Clinton do for San Diego what
he did for El Paso.

"I wish this was El Paso, but we have different problems here and we have been
working on a strategy to solve them for several years," said De La Vina, the San
Diego border chief. "Now we are finally getting the manpower to see if it will
work."

By 1990 a disturbing and dangerous trend had developed on the San Diego border,
unlike anything ever seen at El Paso. Because there was no physical barrier like
the river or even an intact fence demarking the border, crowds of several
hundred people would gather at the most popular crossing points and would then
rush into the United States, overwhelming any effort to apprehend them.

Sometimes border agents found themselves pinned down by rock throwers, and
sometimes they answered back with tear gas or bullets. A high visibility
strategy of the El Paso variety was considered in San Diego but rejected because
Border Patrol officials believed it would have produced even bigger and more
dangerous concentrations of people.

"In El Paso most of the aliens just go back to homes in Juarez if they encounter
a Border Patrol agent, but here people are much more determined because they are
far from home and have no where to go but north," De La Vina said. "If we just
stop them from crossing, the next day there will be twice as many of them there
and it will be twice as dangerous. To control the violence we needed to break up
the crowds and to break up the crowds we built the fence," said De La Vina.

A 10-foot high steel curtain made of surplus runway mats now covers most of the
14 miles between the the ocean and the desert. Lights and roads have been added,
mostly in the past two years, and of late the border has been peaceful here,
although it remains busy.

"We changed, so they changed," De La Vina said, noting that illegal immigrants
now try to cross in small groups and at many different points. His strategy is
to create a large, highly mobile force of agents that will greatly increase the
likelihood of immigrants being caught. In July 1993 the administration approved
a manpower buildup that by next year will expand the San Diego border force by
60 percent to nearly 1,600 agents.

"Our goal is deterrence through apprehension," De La Vina said. "We are
reprogramming the way aliens think so that instead of looking to San Diego as
the easiest place to cross, they'll think of lights and fences and Border Patrol
agents everywhere they look."

De La Vina readily acknowledges there is no way to know how long such a change
in mentality will take to set in and whether it will happen soon enough to
satisfy the impatient California electorate.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, 'OPERATION GATEKEEPER', TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              106 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 6, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Clinton Assails California Proposal To Cut Illegal Immigrant Services;
Democratic Strategist Says Controversial Measure May Spur Turnout

Ruth Marcus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A29; VOTE '94: THE NATION

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Nov. 5


President Clinton campaigned here today for two embattled California Democrats,
Sen. Dianne Feinstein and gubernatorial candidate Kathleen Brown, unleashing a
sharp attack on the controversial ballot measure that would deny public services
to illegal immigrants.

Clinton told a rally here that his administration was working to find other ways
to deal with the tide of illegal immigration that has swamped this state and
strained its budget. "The crowd before us" didn't do anything about the problem,
Clinton said.

But he described Proposition 187, which would cut off benefits such as
education, non-emergency health services and welfare to illegal immigrants and
their children, as a dangerous and misguided solution.

"187 says let's be real mad and take it out on the kids," he said. "187 says
every teacher has got to be a police officer, go check all these kids. If you
find a kid who's in an undocumented family, put him out on the street. We say,
we've got enough kids already on the street."

Clinton had earlier made clear his opposition to the measure, telling a news
conference last month that he was troubled by its approach and considered it
unconstitutional. Other administration officials, including Attorney General
Janet Reno, have spoken out against Proposition 187.

But it was not until Clinton arrived in California late Friday for a two-day
campaign swing that he directly urged citizens to vote against the measure.

Clinton linked the immigration measure and the national Republican "Contract
With America," saying both were motivated by the same negative approach: "Be mad
now; worry about the details later."

Although the immigration measure once appeared to be assured of passage, recent
polls have shown the state closely divided. The immigration issue has become
even more incendiary with the recent admission by Feinstein's Republican
challenger, Rep. Michael Huffington, that he had hired an illegal immigrant and
his countercharge that Feinstein had, too. Feinstein's maid, however, was in the
country legally but on a restricted work permit, and at the time, it was not
illegal to employ an illegal immigrant. Huffington's nanny was hired after doing
so became a federal offense.

Huffington and Gov. Pete Wilson (R) have endorsed Proposition 187, while
Feinstein and Brown oppose it.

Democratic Party adviser Tony Coelho said Clinton had decided to take on
Proposition 187 in part to spur Democratic voters to get to the polls to vote
against it -- and boost the chances of Democratic candidates in the process. "As
that proposition closes, it is also helping out the Democratic Party. The more
people who get out and vote on that proposition, the better it is for us,"
Coelho said. "It's a big turnout issue."

Clinton's weekly radio address this morning had a sharply partisan tone as he
recapped the achievements of his administration and reiterated his warning that
the Republican "Contract With America" would require sharp cuts in Social
Security or other benefit programs in order to pay for the promised combination
of a balanced budget and increased defense spending.

"This is not the time for America to turn away from the future, to turn back to
the easy promises of the past," Clinton said.

In the Republican response, Senate Minority Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan.)
accused the president and his fellow Democrats of trying to foist big government
on the American people. Dole portrayed the GOP as the true party of change.

"In a state of near panic, President Clinton and Vice President Gore are
resorting to scare tactics. They're falsely accusing Republicans of secret plans
to cut Social Security and Medicare benefits as well as student loans and farm
programs," Dole said. He said it was Democrats under Clinton's leadership who
had already cut such programs.

"Between now and Tuesday, beware of last-minute political hysteria from the
administration's top guns," Dole said. "Help Republicans pull the plug on
President Clinton's big government, big taxing, big spending machine."

Before the Oakland rally, Clinton ventured into the heart of Republican
California, speaking to the National Association of Realtors in Anaheim, in
conservative Orange County. Clinton told the gathering he was developing a new
housing strategy to boost home ownership.


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PRESIDENT CLINTON AND CALIFORNIA GUBERNATORIAL CANDIDATE
KATHLEEN BROWN POINT TO THE AUDIENCE DURING OAKLAND RALLY. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              107 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 19, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Ready to Fight 'Tooth and Nail';
Area's Latinos Fear Effects Of Calif.'s Proposition 187

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1354 words


In Takoma Park, Henry Quintero, a retired Foreign Service officer and advocate
for Latino rights, received an anonymous phone call last week threatening to
send him and his kind "to the gas chambers and the firing squads."

In Arlington, Latino members of the Rev. Jose Eugenio Hoyos's church began
collecting blankets and food for an expected wave of relatives fleeing
California.

In the District, Yvonne Martinez Vega, who runs a social and legal services
agency for Latinos, said her office received a number of calls from worried
parents asking if they should keep their children home from school.

The impact of Proposition 187, the referendum measure that swept to victory in
California last week on a wave of anti-immigrant sentiment, already is being
felt among Latino communities in the greater Washington area, raising fears of
increased hostility, discrimination and economic burdens on Latino families.

Local Latino leaders take some comfort in the fact that a federal judge in Los
Angeles has temporarily blocked enforcement of the new law, which bans
educational, social and non-emergency medical services for illegal immigrants.
They also say attitudes toward undocumented residents in this region are more
tolerant than in California, where their numbers are higher and the economy
weaker.

"After Prop. 187 passed, I thought, 'My God, we'll be next.' But I also have
some wishful thinking that the D.C. area is different than California and won't
react the same way," said Martinez Vega, who directs the Ayuda agency in
Adams-Morgan. "They may try to come here, but this community is no longer
passive and silent. They will fight it tooth and nail."

But immigrant advocates fear that the electoral success of Proposition 187 may
give renewed impetus to legislative proposals in Maryland and Virginia with
similar goals, all of which so far either have run into legislative hurdles or
failed to be implemented.

"People in my congregation are confused and afraid. Some of them think the same
thing may start here and they may lose their jobs. We have to reassure them but
also prepare them for whatever happens," said Hoyos, who ministers to nearly
2,000 Latino immigrants at St. Anthony's Catholic Church.

In Maryland, a bill to make English the official state language passed both
houses of the legislature early this year, but it was vetoed by Gov. William
Donald Schaefer after Latino and civil rights groups organized last-minute
protests. Now, proponents say they are likely to reintroduce the measure and
expect to find even more support.

"I think 1995 will be the year. Our message is getting clearer and clearer,"
said Mauro Mujica, chairman of US English, a national lobbying group that
promotes the use of English in schools and government agencies. Mujica said his
group's aim is to help immigrants by improving their English skills, but
opponents have called such measures xenophobic and punitive.

In Virginia, Gov. George Allen and several legislators have sought to prevent
undocumented immigrants from receiving certain education and health benefits. A
more sweeping bill, championed early this year by state Sen. Warren E. Barry
(R-Fairfax), asked the state to identify all undocumented immigrants, calculate
the cost of public services they had obtained and report the immigrants to
federal authorities "for deportation or for debt collection." That bill is held
up in a legislative committee.

In an interview this week, Barry expressed bewilderment over criticism that he
is anti-immigrant, saying he seeks only to prevent state funds from being spent
on illegal residents. He said that last year $ 24 million was spent to educate
undocumented children in Fairfax County and an additional $ 4 million was spent
on emergency medical services to undocumented residents statewide.

"I'm not sure we should go as far as to initiate a Proposition 187 in Virginia,
but we have shortfalls in revenue, and we cannot continue to fund a tidal wave
of people in this country," he said. "You can't blame people in poor countries
from wanting to come here, but we also have to protect this society as we know
it."

It is unclear how many undocumented immigrants live in the region, but the
federal Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated that in 1992 there were
about 14,000 in the District, 27,000 in Maryland and 37,000 in Virginia, with
the great majority clustered in the D.C. suburbs. Immigrant advocates say the
number could be higher.

Some legislators in both states said they are bracing for a surge of
anti-immigrant proposals, but they said their concern is tempered by the legal
challenges already being raised to Proposition 187. Citing questions about due
process, the judge in Los Angeles also temporarily blocked the law's requirement
that social service agencies report suspected illegal residents.

"I'm sure something similar or worse [than Barry's bill] will be resurrected,
but I'm equally sure we'll respond immediately through the courts should it
pass. The Constitution is on our side," said Virginia Del. L. Karen Darner
(D-Arlington). She noted that school officials in Virginia had strongly opposed
cutting off benefits to children or using them to ferret out undocumented
parents.

In the District, Mayor-elect Marion Barry has courted support from Latinos and
other immigrant groups, and he has vowed to protect the rights of undocumented
residents. But immigrant advocates fear that Congress could now seek to cut off
funds for city services to the undocumented.

Since the passage of Proposition 187, the D.C.-based Latino Civil Rights Task
Force has spearheaded an effort to counter the rise of anti-immigrant sentiment.
Yesterday, about 200 protesters picketed a speech at the Heritage Foundation on
Capitol Hill by California Gov. Pete Wilson (R), a champion of Proposition 187.
They carried signs saying "Deport Wilson" and "No to the Politics of Hate."

"This is a country of immigrants. We all want to earn an honest living. The
policies in California are inhumane and racist," said a Salvadoran marcher,
Julio Cesar Alonzo, 58, who took the day off from his job as a gardener.

Activists are especially eager to debunk the popular myth that undocumented
immigrants take more from the system in public benefits than they give back.

"There is so much misinformation being spread around. We need to keep
publicizing the positive statistics," said Quintero, who is deputy director of
the task force chapter in Montgomery County. In a recent newspaper column, he
pointed out that Latino immigrants have high rates of intact families and
enrollment in English classes and low levels of homelessness and welfare use.

A more immediate concern is that the temporary amnesty that protects tens of
thousands of Central Americans in this area will not be renewed when it expires
in December, instantly ending their legal right to be in the United States. The
amnesty has been extended twice, but with the sharp rightward tilt in national
politics, the Clinton administration will face new pressure not to renew it.

"I have my heart in my hands, wondering what I will do if they ever deport me.
They say there is peace in my country now, but it's not true," said Paula
Velasco, a 45-year-old Salvadoran widow in Arlington who provides day care for
Latino children. She came here illegally during the civil war in El Salvador and
was allowed to remain under the amnesty program.

A nephew of Velasco's is in far worse straits. Three months ago, he fled El
Salvador after his teenage son was gunned down by armed men in a truck. He
crossed the border into California on foot one week before Proposition 187
passed, speaking no English and unaware of the surge of hostility toward illegal
immigrants. Now, he is virtually in hiding in the area.

"I mostly sit here, walking in circles," he said in an interview this week. "I
want to work, but I can't go out. People told me something bad was happening in
California, but I didn't understand it. I would like to go home, but there are
so many horrible things happening there. What would you do?"



LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PAULA VELASCO, A SALVADORAN, FEARS SHE COULD LOSE AMNESTY
PROTECTION AND BE DEPORTED. JOHN MCDONNELL

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              108 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 9, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Straight Talk About Immigration;
Should the government be rewarding line-jumpers?

William Raspberry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A29

LENGTH: 799 words


America, as Jim Sleeper of the New York Daily News once noted, is one of the few
places on the globe where a charge of racial or ethnic bigotry is a serious
indictment.

Even when Americans are being unfair to one group or another, they are at pains
to protest that their objective is inclusion, not exclusion -- that they believe
in America as a welcoming place for all who share its ideals.

This wish not to be seen as bigoted has helped to change perceptions, laws and
attitudes. It has also kept at least one important issue almost off the table:
immigration.

We have been worried about the deleterious effects of uncontrolled immigration
for a long time, yet been fearful of speaking plainly about it lest we be viewed
as bigots. We have seen the social costs of immigration (overcrowding and
depressed wages, to name two). At least one poll found that some two-thirds of
Hispanics -- the category usually evoked by the phrase "immigration problem" --
believe we're admitting too many immigrants.

Why is straight talk on the subject so difficult?

One explanation may lie in the reaction to California's recent passage of
Proposition 187 -- a decision by the voters there that they will no longer pay
for the health, education and welfare of illegal aliens.

A fair number of liberals have attacked the vote as "immigrant bashing," and at
least two conservatives -- Jack Kemp and Bill Bennett -- called it "an ugly
antipathy toward all immigrants."

As William B. Dickinson of the Biocentric Institute put it: "Those who favor
open borders have long tried -- with considerable success -- to blur the
distinction between legal and illegal immigrants. America's tradition as an
immigrant nation, its congenital sympathy for underdogs and its less-principled
desire for an endless supply of cheap labor make it easy to excuse poor people
who slip across our borders in the dead of night. Those of us who support an
orderly immigration policy based on law find ourselves demonized as bigots,
racists or nativists."

Even that quintessential liberal Barbara Jordan came in for her share of knocks
when the commission she headed called for an end to public aid for illegal
immigrants aside from immunizations and emergency food and health care.

It's easy enough to see what drove the Californians. The presence of the
illegals in California (and Texas and in dozens of highly impacted places in
America) is the result of the failure of the federal government to keep them
out. This same government, through the federal courts, has ruled that the state
has the duty to provide services (including health, education and welfare) for
people whose very presence here is a violation of the law. But the states get no
help from Washington in paying for these services, and the feds, though recently
better at enforcing the borders, seem unable to deport the illegals they arrest
here.

But passing Proposition 187 isn't the end of the matter. In the first place,
unless the Supreme Court overturns its earlier ruling, California state law will
not relieve Californians of the burden of educating the children of illegals (or
undocumented workers, as the gentler, less accurate phrase has it). More
important, it's not clear, upon sober reflection, that California has an
interest in keeping large numbers of its residents poor and hungry and ignorant.

(The counter argument is the one used by anti-welfare advocates: Harsh treatment
of present illegals will seem inhumane, but generosity will only increase their
numbers.)

Dickinson, like Mortimer Zuckerman of U.S. News and World Report, argues that
it's time to revamp American immigration law across the board -- including those
bedeviling questions of which country's immigrants should be favored, what
skills should be required of those admitted and how many immigrants are too
many.

Certainly, it seems reasonable to rethink the 1990 liberalization of the rules
that allows immigrants to send home for members of their families, very broadly
defined -- and to reconsider as well the notion (unique to the United States?)
that anyone born here is automatically a U.S. citizen.

But for now, I'd be happy to hear serious and candid discussion of the one
problem that everybody acknowledges is a problem: illegal immigration.

As Zuckerman noted, these are the people who "have, by definition, broken the
law, and they are guilty of an ethical breach as well: They have jumped the line
of people patiently waiting for years for their visas."

Does it really make sense for the federal government to reward these violators
of law and decency with mandated services for themselves and their children,
paid for by money-short states with no choice in the matter?

Can't we put aside our charges of bigotry and at least talk about it?

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              109 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 16, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

For the Record

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 293 words


From remarks by Deputy Immigration and Naturalization Service Director Chris
Sale at a U.S. Information Agency Foreign Press Center briefing in Washington
yesterday:

We are operating on . . . three basic premises, the first premise being that the
best protection of our legal immigration processes and policies is one that
builds public confidence in a system for the immigration into the United States
that works. The second is that . . . the best strategy to build that public
confidence and our best protection against illegal immigration is an enforcement
program that works.

Until it is understood that if you attempt to enter illegally, you will be
stopped; until it is understood that if you are here illegally, you will be
found and processed for removal; until it is understood that if you have
exhausted your opportunity for consideration under the law, you will be removed,
we will not achieve the fundamental objective of public confidence in the
immigration system, which we hope will then guarantee our commitment to legal
immigration. Nor will we in fact deter entry by demonstrating that illegal entry
or illegal remaining is in fact not an achievable opportunity.

Finally, we are operating on a premise that there is indeed a shared
responsibility between the federal government, whose principle objective is to
run this immigration system, and local governments, who bear the cost of illegal
immigration.  And consequently, the administration has proposed to share the
cost of illegal immigration through revenue sharing at the federal level. . . .
The budget proposes investments of $ 1.2 billion in the immigration system.
Half of those investments are in fact to reimburse states for their costs of
illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              110 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 08, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Drafts Plan for Influx of Illegal Immigrants; Pentagon, Justice Department
Discuss Holding Camps for Larger Flow From Mexico

Pierre Thomas; Bradley Graham, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 694 words


Federal officials have begun developing contingency plans to create military-run
holding camps for illegal immigrants crossing into the United States from Mexico
if in the future a sudden and substantial increase in the human flow overwhelms
the Border Patrol and other civilian agencies.

Although Justice Department and Pentagon officials maintain that they have no
reasons to anticipate such an emergency, the plans -- if ever fully developed,
approved and executed -- would mark a significant departure from the way illegal
immigrants entering by land have been handled.

Currently, immigrants entering the country illegally are processed quickly to
establish their identity and are then returned to the other side of the border.
The emergency plans under consideration are likely to be patterned after the
actions taken last summer to stem the flow of boat people from Haiti and Cuba
and entail the possibility of interning land crossers in holding camps in the
United States. The goal of such a plan, as with the migrants at sea, would be to
deter others from attempting illegal entry.

The deliberations arose after some government officials became concerned that
existing plans for immigration emergencies focused too heavily on scenarios
involving illegal immigrants attempting to enter the country en masse by sea.
The discussions about how to update the so-called Operation Distant Shore
immigration crisis plan so that they include the southern border as well as the
Caribbean are preliminary and purely a precautionary measure, said Justice
Department spokesman Carl Stern. He emphasized that U.S. officials have not
concluded that Mexico's recent political and economic crisis will result in the
kind of surge in illegal immigration that would spark implementation of
emergency plans.

"The whole idea is to have a plan that applies broadly," Stern said.

The Pentagon, while confirming that it is participating with Justice in updating
contingency plans, also sought to underscore yesterday that it considered the
likelihood of ever confronting a mass migration across the nation's southern
border as highly remote.

"The department has long participated with the Department of Justice in
contingency planning for the humanitarian care of migrants," the Pentagon said
in a statement. "These plans are continuously updated. Should the Justice
Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service require our
assistance, we would provide it as we have in the past.

"Any planning in this regard," the statement went on, "would be to deal with
housing large numbers of immigrants who may cross our borders -- an event we
view as unlikely."

An Army officer familiar with the planning portrayed it as simply smart staff
work rather than a reflection of any policy shift in the handling of overland
migrants from Mexico or other Latin American countries.

"This is prudent military planning to handle a mission already placed on the
military, which is to handle mass immigration when the numbers overwhelm civil
authorities," the officer said.

No decision has been made to alter the current plan. Stern compared the
planning, first reported yesterday by the Journal of Commerce, to that of
preparing "for a hurricane and earthquake." The idea is to simply determine what
resources and military personnel might be needed.

Stern emphasized that to his knowledge neither President Clinton nor the
National Security Council had directed the department to develop a plan. He also
maintained that the plan is not specifically designed to deal with an
immigration crisis involving Mexico, which has seen decline in the value of the
peso and a weakened economy. Emergencies on the southern border might also
involve political upheaval in Central America, for example.

Immigration crisis management took center stage last summer as the Clinton
administration struggled to cope with sudden increases in refugees first from
Haiti and then from Cuba. In an effort to dissuade the boat people and rafters
the administration instituted new policies that put them in detention on U.S.
military bases in Panama and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              111 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 20, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Breaks Alien Document Ring; 'Sting' Nets Alleged Los Angeles 'Godfather' of
Illegal Immigration

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 775 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 19


Capping a two-year investigation featuring an elaborate "sting" operation that
resulted in the arrest of nine Mexican nationals, including the "godfather" of
illegal immigration here, federal authorities said today they broke up a
multimillion-dollar, counterfeit document ring that operated in at least six
states.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) said the Los Angeles-based
ring netted more than $ 1 million a month by counterfeiting so-called green
cards, Social Security cards and drivers' licenses and selling them to illegal
immigrants nationwide for between $ 120 and $ 180 each. The documents allowed
the buyers to obtain employment and social services.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said that because an estimated one-fourth to
one-third of immigration document fraud originates in Los Angeles, the raids
conducted this week put a "sizable dent" in the trafficking of fake papers that
allow undocumented aliens to find work in the United States.

Meissner, in a telephone interview, said the arrests reflect a shifting focus in
the Clinton administration from policing international borders against illegal
crossings to more enforcement of illegal employment and curtailment of
fraudulent documents. "You can't do it all on the border, unless you bolster it
with enforcement in the interior," Meissner said.

Neil Jacobs, INS chief of investigations in Dallas, where five of the suspects
were arrested during "Operation Bait Box," said that the ring operated mostly
out of supermarket parking lots, 16 hours a day, seven days a week. He said an
undocumented alien could drive in, hand over passport-size photographs and
return an hour later to obtain a package of documents.

Jacobs said that after purchasing fakes, two undercover INS agents infiltrated
the ring and told operatives they had contacts in the INS who could provide
official documents for a price. After selling 20 legitimate documents to the
operatives, who tested them by crossing into Mexico and back again, the INS
agents eventually were introduced to the ringleader, whom Jacobs described as
the "godfather" of undocumented aliens in the Southwest. The alleged leader,
Alfonso Castorena-Ibarra, 53, was arrested here Wednesday and charged with mail
fraud, wire fraud and possession of counterfeit immigration documents, Paul E.
Coggins, U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Texas, said. Eight others
were arrested in Texas and California on the same charges, and eight suspects
were charged but are still at large, Coggins said.

The arrests underscored not only the scope of the problem of fraudulent
documentation, but the dilemma that confronts the INS as it attempts to control
the employment of illegal aliens and police 8,000 miles of border against
crossings by undocumented immigrants.

Despite an illegal immigrant population nationwide of an estimated 4 million,
only about 300 of the INS's 1,800 investigators are assigned to enforcing a 1986
federal law prohibiting employment of undocumented or improperly documented
aliens. The U.S. Border Patrol has 5,000 agents. Under the 1986 law, employers
are required to ask job applicants for documents showing they are authorized to
work, but are not required to verify the documents' authenticity.

Meissner said the administration's immigration strategy for next year will focus
on more vigorous employer enforcement, calling for 400 additional INS
investigators and 200 more Labor Department investigators.

In congressional appropriations hearings held so far, she said, she had detected
"much more sympathy for this strategy than before."

Congress is considering a proposal by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) that would
mandate harder-to-duplicate identity documents and a computerized verification
system designed to make it more difficult for illegals to use fake documents.
Critics say employers who knowingly violate the law will not be affected.

In addition, the INS is operating pilot programs in California, Texas and
several other states utilizing a telephone verification system that Meissner
said soon will be expanded to 200 employees. The pilot projects are based on
recommendations by the Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by former
representative Barbara Jordan of Texas.

Meissner said the administration also is proposing a bill that would reduce from
29 to six the kinds of documents that could be accepted by employers as
verification of legal residency status.

They would be passports, green cards, Social Security cards, drivers' licenses
or other state-issued documents, INS residency documents and certain tribal
documents.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              112 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 26, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Mr. Giuliani's Useful Warning

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 519 words


NO AMERICAN city has been more proudly hospitable to immigrants from foreign
lands than New York. So it is appropriate that the city's Republican mayor,
Rudolph Giuliani, should issue a timely warning to his country and his party
over the dangers of rising anti-im migrant feeling. Mr. Giuliani, interviewed by
the New York Times, laid out two lines of dissent from what appears to be a
prevailing mood. At a philosophical level, he spoke of how wrong it is for a
nation of immigrants to respond with fear to the latest immigrant waves. At a
practical level, he suggested that moves underway in Congress to cut off federal
benefits from immigrants may only increase the burden on states and cities that
deal with the day-to-day problems of immigrants and citizens alike. Washington
can walk away from such problems; cities and neighbors cannot.

Unfashionably, Mr. Giuliani insisted on the benefits that immigrants bring to
the United States. He said they are "creating opportunities," even while much
anti-immigrant feeling is rationalized on the inaccurate perception that
immigrants "are taking away jobs from other people." In fact, much sentiment
against new arrivals "is just undifferentiated fear of foreigners, of people who
appear to have different values or different ways of doing things."

He was also sharply critical of proposals being pushed by his fellow Republicans
in Congress, modeled in many cases after California's Proposition 187. These
would cut off federal aid to immigrants and force localities to turn over
information to the federal authorities on the children of illegal immigrants who
attend public schools or use public hospitals. Such requirements, he said, could
drive children away from school and people in need of medical help away from
hospitals, endangering public health. Mr. Giuliani was also critical of measures
directed against immigrants in his party's welfare proposals. "This is an
absolute shifting of responsibility to city and state governments that can do
nothing about the immigrant problem," he said. "And I think it's the worst kind
of federal scapegoating."

Citizens living in states with large populations of illegal immigrants have
legitimate gripes against the federal government. They end up bearing
substantial costs for the failure of federal immigration policies. And it is
reasonable for the country to engage in regular debates -- as it has throughout
its history -- over what the proper levels of immigration should be at a given
period in light of economic conditions.

But Mr. Giuliani and others in his party who have spoken along similar lines,
such as Texas Gov. George W. Bush, do a service in pointing out that raw
anti-immigrant feeling is both wrong and a poor guide to public policy. Many of
the federal measures putatively aimed at immigrants, legal and illegal, would
not only worsen their lives but add to the burdens of citizens who live in
states with the largest numbers of immigrants. Leaders such as Mr. Giuliani and
Mr. Bush speak from both the heart and the head. Washington would do well to pay
attention to them.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              113 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 12, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Too Many Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 151 words


Roger Hernandez should get real ["All-American Anti-Immigration," op-ed, Sept.
27]. This country has been accepting immigrants on an unprecedented scale for
more than 20 years. We now receive nearly a million immigrants per year, not
including illegals. To say that foreign-born Americans make up only 8 percent of
the population now vs. 15 percent in the 1920s is a ploy to mislead the
uninformed. The population is larger now, which accounts for the percentage
difference.

We must stop illegal immigration, and we must restrict legal immigration. The
time has come. To do so is not shameful or un-American. We do not need any more
people from outside our borders. Immigration to this country is a privilege, not
a right. It's a privilege that has been thoroughly abused since the Family
Reunification Act was enacted in 1968. It is time to change all that.

DOUGLAS CURRY

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              114 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 15, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

No Welcome for Foreigners; Italians Across Political Spectrum Seek Curbs on
Immigration

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 1432 words

DATELINE: FLORENCE


A new wave of anti-immigration fever is sweeping Italy, and while its cause is
familiar -- perceived lawlessness among the aliens -- the reaction it has
provoked is not.

The political response this time has included not only the customary calls by
right-wing conservatives for tough action, but an outcry from across the entire
political spectrum, including self-styled progressives.

Debate has broken out in a number of cities over whether to expel foreigners who
commit crimes, whether to group all illegal aliens in camps and whether to
toughen border vigilance or even ban immigration outright. Even in Florence, a
city that takes pride in its cosmopolitan atmosphere, a fierce political dispute
has arisen over construction of camps for a relative handful of East European
transients.

Such calls to curb immigration and control immigrants have long occupied
right-wing political agendas, not only in Italy but in Germany, France and to
some extent the United States -- all places where strains have grown between
citizens and newcomers. In Italy, established leftist parties long ago dismissed
concerns about the influx of foreigners as racist. That is now changing.

"When one talks about immigration, there is a risk of touching an exposed nerve
on the left," wrote Miriam Mafai, an old-line leftist intellectual and
columnist, in a newspaper column last month. "The problem is difficult, but it's
not a good idea to put it aside."

The change in attitude is due somewhat to the prospects of national elections,
perhaps next year, and concern that the right wing might pick up traditional
left-wing voters because of the immigration issue. "It's time to choose, however
painful that might be, between Italian citizens and immigrants. If the left does
not understand this choice, it risks handing the working classes over to the
right," said Giorgio La Malfa, a center-left politician.

More broadly, Italy appears shocked by the numbers of foreigners crossing its
borders and uncomfortable with the changing face of the country and the
appearance of many Africans, Arabs, Slavs and Central Asians on its streets. The
country may be particularly ill-prepared for such an influx. Until about 20
years ago, Italy was a relatively poor country and a source of emigrants seeking
a better life abroad, usually in the Americas or in neighboring countries,
particularly Germany. Rarely did Italy receive the poor and desperate from other
lands.

Italy is now wealthy; its economy is the fifth largest in the world. Lax border
controls and law enforcement, once regarded simply as a part of Italy's
celebrated easygoing nature, are now under fire as not befitting the times. For
several years, Italian law has made provision for expelling alien criminals. But
it has been applied only rarely.

The country sits astride an immigration crossroads. The north touches the heart
of prosperous Western Europe, but the far south is separated from Africa only by
a narrow passage of the Mediterranean. To the east, Italy borders on Slovenia, a
through road to the other former Yugoslav republics, where war has set off a
huge wave of migration. Impoverished Albania is a puddle-jump across the
Adriatic Sea.

The Interior Ministry says that Italy, which has 58 million people, hosts about
780,000 registered aliens, most of whom clean houses, pick crops, clean streets
and perform other menial tasks. Immigration officials estimate the number of
illegal aliens at about 800,000, doing about the same work, but underground.
Caritas, the Roman Catholic relief agency, puts the figure much lower, at
300,000.

North Africa, particularly Tunisia and Morocco, provides the largest share of
immigration to Italy, about 10 percent. Eastern Europe, including Bosnia,
Poland, Romania and Albania, provides large numbers; from sub-Saharan Africa
come Somalis, Cameroonians and Eritreans; from Asia, Filipinos, Sri Lankans and
some Chinese.

Cities that pride themselves on social order have lashed out the loudest against
immigrants, and crimes linked to aliens have brought tensions to the surface. In
late summer, a series of rapes in Turin, along with chronic crime and drug
dealing in the city's San Salvario district set off anti-immigrant
demonstrations. Police recently intercepted gangs of Italian youths who were
said to have been on their way to beat up immigrants. Turin's mayor, Valentino
Castellani, while defending the arrests, also said that the youths "express a
real unease to which the central government ought to respond."

In Milan, petty crime and drug dealing in immigrant quarters of the city have
caused an uproar. Bologna and Rome have been scandalized by an influx of
Nigerian prostitutes. Rome police allege that when they try to nab Nigerian
prostitutes, the women smear themselves with feces so the police will not touch
them, and they run away.

Citizens of Florence, where soaring art and architecture project an image of
civic perfection, have been upset by growing, petty criminality and drug
traffic. Police headed off a group or youths last week as they prepared to
firebomb homes of Chinese immigrants.

When Mayor Mario Primicerio suggested recently that a few hundred Gypsies from
Albania, Macedonia and the Serbian province of Kosovo be sheltered in two new
camps to supplement older, established camp grounds for immigrants, the outcry
was immediate and furious, particularly in San Salvi, one of the neighborhoods
chosen for a new camp.

San Salvi is typical of Florence's middle-class neighborhoods. There are neat
rows of low-rise apartments, beige and yellow with green shutters. Garbage
collection is regular, traffic lights are respected, quiet appreciated. "These
immigrants come in all day begging and stealing, and now city hall wants to put
them to live in this neighborhood," complained Lanfranco Foschi, proprietor of a
toy store. "They should put them in front of the municipal palace and the Uffizi
Gallery if they want to find a place for them."

Across town at the Poderaccio transient camp, which adjoins a marsh of the Arno
River, migrant Macedonians and Kosovars expressed dismay at the changing climate
in Florence. The camp is 10 years old, although longevity has hardly translated
into comfort. Badly drained sewers, flies, improvised wood and tin shacks
contrast starkly with the neat rows of apartments in the nearby working-class
neighborhood of Isolotto. Poderaccio residents bad-mouth each other: Macedonians
say the Kosovars are criminals, the Kosovars blame the Macedonians.

"Italians are beginning to hate us," said Amet Remzi, a Macedonian who is
licensed to do janitorial work in the city. "We're not animals, but we want to
work. If we don't have work, we either beg or steal."

That kind of comment infuriates Florentines, whose history of civility and
self-governance dates back centuries. Rightist politicians have tapped the
public disgust and called for expulsion of even petty criminals, and for
opposition to any new camps.

"More camps just mean more attraction for Gypsies," said Achille Totora, a city
councilman from the far-right National Alliance party. "In Italy, work is not
guaranteed for Italians. How can we guarantee it for foreigners? There must be a
will to stop immigration."

He was speaking over coffee in the city's main square, which is dominated by the
Palazzo della Signoria -- seat of self-governance in Florence since the 14th
century.

"Europe's history is of the Roman Empire and Christianity. Just look at
Florence," Totora continued. "There is a specificity to our culture that cannot
contain people from other cultures. In any event, if the foreigners work, they
can live in housing like any Italian. If they don't, they should move on."

Totora's party is collecting signatures to force a referendum on blocking
construction of new camps and forcing a crackdown on criminals. The success in
gathering signatures has awakened insecurity in the ruling coalition on the city
council made up of the Democratic Party of the Left, which was formerly the
Communist Party, Catholic liberals and centrists.

"For the first time, we are facing a big problem of race and culture different
from our own. I don't think we are ready," said Daniele Fortini, provincial
secretary for the Democratic Party of the Left, now Italy's largest left-wing
group.

"Something has changed within the left," Fortini continued. "Now we feel the
necessity of responding to the populace on law-and-order issues. Our duty is to
find the proper balance, and not turn legality into repression."


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, brad wye, ITALY'S IMMIGRANTS Number of immigrants by
region: Lombardy (includes Milan) 175,000 Latinum (includes Rome) 160,000
Emilio-Romagna 58,000 Veneto 58,000 Sicily 51,000 Tuscany 48,000 Piedmont 45,000
Campania (includes Naples) *40,000 Other areas 145,000 Total 780,000 Total
illegals 800,000 *Estimated to have a large number of illegal immigrants Origin
of immigrants: North Africa, Former Yugoslavia, Other Eastern European nations,
Sri Lanka, Philippines, Sub-Saharan Africa Occupations of legal and most illegal
immigrants: 60% house cleaning 17% street vending 15% agricultural workers

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              115 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 25, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Bogus Papers Cutting Holes In U.S. Borders

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2035 words


Something funny was going on in Chittigong.

Hundreds of American women, most of them welfare recipients from Brooklyn and
the Bronx, suddenly seemed to be finding romance while vacationing in
Bangladesh's main port city.

Alas, it wasn't love, but money, that led them into whirlwind marriages with
Bangladeshi men eager to seek their fortunes in the United States.

The "grooms," mostly from humble origins in Chittigong or nearby Sandwip Island,
would pay up to $ 35,000 each to a criminal ring based in New York that would
arrange the sham nuptials and file petitions for the men to receive immigrant
visas as spouses of U.S. citizens. The "brides" would get up to $ 2,000 each and
a free trip to Bangladesh out of the deal.

In what one State Department report called a "grotesque effort" to establish the
marriages' conjugal bona fides, the applications typically would contain a
snapshot of the happy couple, usually in an advanced state of undress, embracing
on a hotel bed during their "honeymoon."

The "Brooklyn brides scam," as investigators dubbed it, is just one example of
the thousands of f rauds that are employed every day to beat the U.S.
immigration system.

It is a system that U.S. officials say is under daily attack from con artists
around the globe. While most travel to this country is legitimate, visa fraud
has become a growing problem for U.S. diplomatic missions, immigration
inspectors and local governments.

"It's a never ending battle," said Mary A. Ryan, assistant secretary of state
for consular affairs. "Fraud is a problem almost everywhere for us."

Many illegal immigrants obtain legitimate visas through fraudulent means. Others
come in with bogus documents, or no documents. And thousands get to the United
States on temporary visas for students or tourists and then stay on after the
visas expire.

"It's easy to think of illegal immigration as poor souls coming across the
border," Ryan said. "But every day planes land in this country with people who
have fraudulent documents or people who have destroyed their documents en route.
That's what we have to combat."

U.S. authorities estimate that as many as 5 million illegal immigrants reside in
the United States on a long-term basis and that this population increases at a
net rate of 300,000 to 400,000 a year. Using incomplete and disputed data, U.S.
officials figure that anywhere from a third to half of this population came in
through legal ports of entry while the rest slipped across the border.

Among the great many people who enter the country illegally to find work or to
live with relatives, officials say, are some dangerous characters. "Every
transnational criminal organization relies on fraudulent documents," said
Jonathon Winer, deputy assistant secretary of state for international narcotics
and law enforcement affairs. "Getting a visa is a critical element to be able to
carry out crime across borders."

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) inspectors intercepted 170,000
fraudulent documents in 1993 at ports of entry alone, according to officials at
the INS Forensic Document Laboratory, an immigration crime lab that claims to
have the world's biggest collection of travel documents. The take routinely
includes counterfeit passports, fake visas, passports with the photo or visa
page substituted, false alien registration cards and legitimate documents used
by impostors.

The visa scams range from clumsy charades at U.S. consular offices to
sophisticated ploys that prove difficult to stop. No one knows how much fraud
goes undetected.

"Look-alike" frauds, in which the impostor closely resembles the person pictured
in a legal document, have proliferated in recent years as new immigrant
communities have burgeoned. Alien smuggling gangs buy or steal documents from
the expanding pool of new U.S. citizens or permanent residents, then reuse the
documents to smuggle people into the country.

Faced with alien smugglers and illegal immigrants who exploit every visa
category and loophole they can find, State Department officials say many
consular offices have been swamped with more fraudulent applications than they
can adequately investigate. Even obvious fraud attempts tax the offices' time
and resources, they said, and the squeeze appears likely to intensify as the
State Department braces for budget cuts of up to 30 percent.

The INS, an arm of the Justice Department, has seen its budget grow quickly in
the past two years, but the lion's share of the new money has gone to increased
enforcement along the U.S.-Mexico border. Substantial investments also have gone
into new technology to keep better track of legal immigrants and visitors that
should eventually help the agency fight fraud. Immigration bills under
consideration in Congress include measures aimed at expediting deportations and
countering illegal immigrants' use of fraudulent documents for U.S. employment.
However, Congress has rejected INS requests for $ 22.5 million in fiscal 1996
for 106 new agents to support its counterfraud program and 98 new positions to
fight alien smuggling.

The first line of defense, however, remains the consular posts overseas that
issue most visas. "Our posts are frequently overwhelmed with fraud," said Ryan
of the State Department's consular section. "We don't have enough resources, we
don't have enough personnel to deal with this problem properly."

In some South Asian countries, U.S. consular officials estimate that 90 percent
of the documents submitted to support visa applications are fake.

Russian mafia organizations have become adept at setting up phony companies and
exploiting U.S. "L" visas for "intracompany transferees," investigators say.

In southern China, a recent survey by the U.S. Consulate in Guangzhou found that
80 percent of the companies listed in "L" visa applications did not exist.
Thousands of Chinese also have taken advantage of U.S. political asylum laws to
settle in America, even if they flew in with false documents or handed them off
to smugglers on the plane.

In the "Brooklyn brides" case, investigators estimate that the ring had been
operating since the early 1990s and that others like it had arranged fraudulent
marriages since the early 1980s. All told, officials say, at least 1,000
Bangladeshi men had entered the United States through the scams. The
investigators say the grooms' extended families would pool their resources,
often mortgaging property, to pay the ring's fees in hopes of eventually
emigrating themselves. Many later did so once the grooms became eligible to
sponsor them.

In a similar case in Virginia, a Vietnamese-born immigration lawyer in Falls
Church pleaded guilty in June to arranging more than 30 sham marriages, most of
them between low-income area residents and citizens of the West African state of
Sierra Leone, so that the Africans could obtain legal permanent resident status
here. The lawyer, My-Linh Duong Soland, 54, charged the immigrants $ 5,000 each
for the marriages and paid their U.S. partners several hundred dollars apiece,
court documents said.

As the pattern of the "Brooklyn brides" marriages began to arouse suspicion in
the early 1990s, the U.S. Embassy in Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital, asked the
INS to revoke the immediate-relative petitions "on numerous occasions," a State
Department report said. But the INS, lacking proof of fraud, instead revalidated
them, and the embassy "had no choice but to issue" the visas, it said. Once the
INS approves an immigrant petition, it is reluctant to revoke it for fear of
being sued, consular officials explained.

Solid evidence of the fraud finally emerged in December 1993 when one of the
"brides" was caught at Miami airport trying to smuggle in cocaine from Guyana.
Under questioning by federal agents, the woman revealed details of the marriage
scam and agreed to become an informer.

A six-month investigation disclosed that the ring was run by several Bangladeshi
ship jumpers, who had become legal permanent U.S. residents, and at least one
former "groom."

Last August, federal agents in New York arrested two of the Bangladeshis and an
American immigration lawyer in the case. Although the U.S. Embassy in Dhaka had
already begun rejecting visas for "grooms" by that time, it has continued to
receive several applications a month, and diplomatic cables on the subject have
taken on a sarcastic tone.

"Lovelorn males from Sandwip continue to apply for [immigrant visas] to join
their loved ones in Brooklyn," one Oct. 17 cable reported. "The lovebirds meet
in the tourist Mecca of Chittagong, fall in love, marry, honeymoon . . . and
tearfully part ways, all in the course of less than a week." Furthermore, the
cable complained, the honeymoon snapshots "have become boringly repetitive."

"We're aware of the reports it's still going on," a U.S. investigator said. "It
doesn't shock us." He said the embassy was probably seeing the results of
"various offshoots" of the main scam.

As one of the poorest and most densely populated countries in the world,
Bangladesh provides U.S. consular officials with a daily diet of visa fraud
attempts. Many are fairly transparent. One application included a business
letter from someone named "Mike" in Indiana that ended with the plea, "Begging
your honour to issue the necessary visa, please do the needful and thereby
oblige."

In a more elaborate scheme, a Bangladeshi emigre recently attempted to obtain
visas for a 31-member "basketball team" to compete against U.S. college teams in
the Northwest. Although the applicant presented a legitimate invitation from a
Seattle-based organization, several other aspects of the case "stretched
credulity," the U.S. Embassy in Dhaka reported.

For one thing, of the 24 players listed, only six were over 5 feet 7 inches tall
-- "rather short even by Bangladeshi standards," the embassy noted in a cable --
and none was over 5 foot 10. Seven "coaches and managers" on the roster were all
between 25 and 30 years old. The Bangladeshi organizer, who described himself as
a banker and basketball fan with a residence in New York, was unable to tell a
consular officer the height of the basketball rim, the location of the free
throw lane or the name of a single college or professional team in the New York
area.

Investigations by the INS and the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic
Security occasionally reveal corruption in U.S. embassies abroad, usually
committed by locally hired employees.

In a recent case on the Caribbean island of Barbados, a local U.S. Embassy
employee admitted selling more than 100 visas to a Syrian broker for $ 2,000
each.

For elaborate preparation and sheer chutzpah, it is probably hard to top a man
from mainland China who gave his name as Zhang Xin when he presented a
Venezuelan passport and requested a visitor's visa at the U.S. consulate in
Istanbul in September. The passport was listed in an intelligence report as one
of several thousand missing blank Venezuelan passports that were believed to
have been sold by corrupt officials.

Zhang also presented what a State Department cable described as "an impressive
array of documents," including a valid Turkish residence permit, a letter from
medical supplies company in which he was a partner, company tax and registration
documents and a bank book showing a balance of nearly $ 60,000.

"Appearing poised and confident, and speaking in both English and Turkish, Mr.
Zhang explained that he obtained his Venezuelan passport by marrying a
Venezuelan citizen several years ago," the cable reported. But Zhang said he
could not speak Spanish because he had divorced his wife after only two years of
marriage in Venezuela.

The consular officer nevertheless pressed him on this point, asking him to
search his memory for a single word of Spanish.

"After thinking long and hard," the cable said, "Mr. Zhang finally came up with
'ciao.' "

And that, essentially, was what the embassy and the Turkish government said to
Zhang. After learning that his "legal" status in Turkey was entirely based on
his false Venezuelan citizenship, Turkish authorities ordered him deported.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, keith jenkins, Counterfeit and altered entry documents
confiscated by the immigration service.  A technician compares sample "green
card" with one in INS's forensic document lab's database in Northern Virginia.
A passport from Sierra Leone as it appears in natural light before being tested
for validity in the forensic lab.  Under the laboratory's ultraviolet light, the
same passport reveals identifying marks hidden in the ink.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              116 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 30, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

A TOON WITH A LATIN BEAT;
Carmelo Is a Hispanic Everyman. To Many Illegal Immigrants Here His Life Hits
Home.

Patrick Symmes, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 1607 words


Jaime Martin-Escobal has barely touched his plate of frijoles and pla'tanos
fritos in an Adams-Morgan restaurant when the waiter gingerly approaches with a
question. Could Martin help him get a job at that other restaurant down Columbia
Road, El Caribeno?

Martin breaks the news gently: There is no such place as El Caribeno.

It's a dilemma that Martin, the author of a new cartoon book, "The Adventures of
Carmelo," faces increasingly often. With each edition of his monthly
Spanish-language novella, or illustrated novel, Martin is advancing the story of
a pair of illegal immigrants who are struggling to survive in Adams-Morgan. From
the Ethiopian restaurants on 18th Street to the inner workings of a restaurant
"just like this one," Martin says, waving a hand across the dining room of the
actually existing La Perla, the fictional world of "Carmelo" closely matches the
experiences of many in Washington's Hispanic community. The comic book and
reality seem to merge at times: Local waiters assume that El Caribeno is just
down the street somewhere; young men at bus stops interrogate Martin about the
national origins of Carmelo, certain that the naive young immigrant is from
their own countries of El Salvador, Guatemala or Mexico.

In fact, Carmelo is an everyman. "He could be from Argentina, he could be from
Paraguay, he could be from Colombia, he could be from Mexico," says Martin, who
was born in Chile. "I wanted him to be a Hispanic, an amorphous type of guy."

Now in its fourth edition, the comic book is distributed free in hundreds of
businesses in Hispanic neighborhoods throughout the area; the circulation of
"Carmelo," which survives on advertising revenue, is already at 19,000 each
month. The story it tells is that of a generic mojado, or illegal immigrant (the
pejorative term, widely used by immigrants themselves, is translated by Martin
as "wetback"). Carmelo lives and works in Adams-Morgan, where he endures
setbacks at the hands of immigration agents and gradually triumphs at finding
work and even love in the unfamiliar city.

In the first episode, called "La Pasada" ("The Passage"), the nervous and
unlucky Carmelo and his more experienced friend Torcuato sneak into the United
States, hunted by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents and chased by
smugglers who rob them. Episode 2, "La Llegada" ("The Arrival"), has the duo
landing barefoot and broke in Washington, where they tour the Mall and make
their first hapless efforts to understand English. In Episode 3, "La Capital,"
they find work at El Caribeno. The pair are delighted to see so many Latino
businesses thriving in Adams-Morgan, and meet Paco, an eccentric Spanish
bartender, and Margarita, a beautiful law student. But they also draw the
attention of two enemies, a corpulent and cruel INS agent named Inspector Gordon
and his bookish sidekick, Sam. Gordon's greedy appetite for Latin food draws him
to one area restaurant after another, and by the fourth episode -- "La Columbia
Road" -- Carmelo discovers that, as the subtitle of the issue warns, "The Work
of a Waiter Offers Many Surprises."

Throughout this story, Washington is depicted from the mojado's perspective --
as a dangerous city crammed with pistol-packing immigration cops, intemperate
Americans who shout in English at the clueless Carmelo and or speak in a
mongrelized Spanish dialect, and strange customs, such as sniffing the cork from
a bottle of wine.

Although Martin says he "stays away from politics," the shadow of America's
ongoing debate about immigration emerges in every issue of the novella --
especially since the passage of Proposition 187 in California, which would deny
most public services to illegal immigrants. Martin, who came to America in 1964,
calls the law "ridiculous" and says even legal immigrants such as himself
identify with the mojados, because all are part of a single emerging culture and
community within the United States.

"I met 50 Carmelos," Martin says. "He represents so many of us in our situation.
It's the situation of a mojado, of the guy who arrived here yesterday. This
anti-immigrant current is flowing through the country, and he's scared. His wife
is sick, he wants to send his kids to school, and he doesn't know what to do.
I'm as much a part of it as Carmelo who arrived four issues ago."

Martin is no Carmelo, however much he identifies with the mojado experience.
Born and raised in Santiago, Chile, he landed in the United States 30 years ago,
when immigration was less of a volatile issue. An application for legal
residency was waiting for him when he arrived, he says, and Martin received a
"green card" in the mail shortly after settling in Adams-Morgan.

"They don't do that anymore," he deadpans.

Now 51, Martin has left the barrio for the Maryland suburbs. He is a documentary
filmmaker with his own production company, Docuvision, and more than 35 films to
his credit, among them a six-part series of half-hour television documentaries
on the Third World that was first shown on PBS in 1988. It was Martin's film
work that generated the ideas for "The Adventures of Carmelo."

"This whole idea is a script," he explains. "Carmelo is really a film and TV
series that I wrote four or five years ago." Martin wrote a score of episodes
for a series about a fictional illegal immigrant named Carmelo, in hopes that it
would be the first bilingual television show in America. When he failed to sell
the idea, he converted the same plot line to a comic book format and made the
story specific to Washington. The "magazines," as Martin prefers to call them,
include other material such as an illustrated history of Columbus and a column
called "El Correo de las Brujas," a Chilean expression that translates roughly
as "Heard on the Grapevine," where Martin writes about such substantive topics
as local politics and AIDS in the Hispanic community.

"It is a good way to attract the mass of people because it is a cartoon," Martin
says, "but then to slip in a little serious stuff. You could write a tremendous
dissertation on what we should do in this community, but no one would read it,
because they couldn't understand it. With this," he says, tapping a copy of
"Carmelo," "we can reach them."

Carmelo's story "will have a greater readership because it is done through
cartoons," agrees Pedro Aviles, executive director of the Adams-Morgan-based
Latino Civil Rights Task Force. Aviles points out that such cartoon books are
common in those Latin American countries where literacy is low; in El Salvador,
he says, they are called paquines, and are used not only for entertainment but
also for disseminating practical information such as how to use contraceptives.

In Mexico, where such illustrated novellas are the biggest-selling form of
literature, up to a third of the stories concern immigrants to the United States
and their many travails under unjust employers and a merciless, all-powerful
INS. "Carmelo" is not the first such novella to cross the border; the Justice
for Janitors campaign in Los Angeles produced an elaborate photo-novella about
union activists in that city, and the Washington-based social service agency
Carecen has used similar cartoon books to educate immigrants about their rights.

Martin hopes that advertising revenue from the series will help finance a pilot
for a TV show about Carmelo, but for now, he thinks the story will help create a
"common denominator" for local Latinos. The immigrant story, he says, is
universal, regardless of how the individual readers may have arrived in
Washington; all Latin Americans in this country "become Hispanic," gaining a new
identity outside their individual nationalities.

Martin describes his five children, all born in the U.S., as "Americans with
Hispanic roots." And the whole family is descended from Spanish settlers in
South America; the family history is thus one of immigration upon immigration, a
mirror of the American experience as a whole.

"What am I?" Martin asks rhetorically. "I have become Hispanic. That is a
transformation in my identity. You integrate and assimilate the culture of the
country with your own."

Carmelo himself will soon experience that transformation. In the next episode,
due out Dec. 15, the young immigrant will land a job with a wealthy American
family living in Georgetown and earn a measure of legal protection. Gradually,
he will transform himself into a "real" Washingtonian and American.

But as Martin points out, no cultural transition is so complete that the various
roots are entirely eliminated.

"Carmelo will come back always to here," Martin says, pointing at the real-life
Columbia Road.

For now, the spirit of Carmelo remains in Adams-Morgan. The waiter who
approached Martin about a job at "El Caribeno" is Eduardo Alay from Honduras. He
gives the "Carmelo" books to his children to read, and is surprised to learn
that the restaurant doesn't exist.

"The whole world thinks Carmelo works there," Alay insists.

Asked if he can relate to the story of the confused but eager young immigrant,
Alay initially protests -- "I don't know much about Carmelo -- I'm not from El
Salvador," he says -- but then finds something of his own past in the story.

"He represents the mojado," Alay says of Carmelo, "the person who came here with
no papers, who had to cross the border." After a brief pause, Alay says quietly,
"I came here that way."

Like Carmelo, Alay got a job in a restaurant, and he now has working papers, he
says. But the rough trail of the mojado is one he will never forget.

"I had hard times," he says, "so, yes, I can understand it."



NAME: JAIME MARTIN-ESCOBAL

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JAIME MARTIN-ESCOBAL AND HIS CHARACTER CARMELO. "I MET FIFTY
CARMELOS," MARTIN SAYS. "HE REPRESENTS SO MANY OF US IN OUR SITUATION. IT'S THE
SITUATION OF A MOJADO, FRANK JOHNSTON; ILLUSTRATION; PHOTO

TYPE: BIOGRAPHY

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              117 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 11, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

In Hong Kong, Search Goes On For Vietnamese; 'Boat People' Rioted, Fled
Detention Center

Keith B. Richburg, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, May 10


Police continued a massive manhunt tonight for about 150 Vietnamese "boat
people" who escaped from a rural detention center after a predawn riot that left
buildings and cars ablaze, a dozen police and prison guards injured and the
colony's tough refugee repatriation policy in confusion.

Some 2,000 police, using riot equipment and tear gas, regained control of most
of the Whitehead detention camp, and helicopters dropping water extinguished the
raging fires after more than 10 hours. But about 400 Vietnamese tonight remained
barricaded in a small section of the prison, hurling homemade spears at police
from rooftops.

The escapees, including women and children, were reported to have looted homes
in the rural fishing village of To Tau, in Hong Kong's New Territories area near
the Chinese border. Some are believed to have stolen speedboats and sampans to
flee to other parts of the colony. Police threw up roadblocks and were stopping
vehicles and boarding buses searching for the Vietnamese. Residents in the area
were warned to keep their doors locked.

Police superintendent Charles Mitchell told the Associated Press that prospects
of recapturing the escapees were "very good." "They stand out like sore thumbs.
They only intend to do damage, not to fight us."

There have been periodic outbursts of violence at the camps, and several escape
attempts, but police and government officials said this daylong rampage was by
far the worst. The violence erupted as Hong Kong is trying to speed up its
forced repatriation of the remaining 18,000 boat people here -- whom it calls
economic migrants, not legitimate refugees -- before the colony reverts to
Chinese sovereignty on July 1, 1997.

Officials were quick to say that today's violence would not affect the
controversial forced repatriations, which must be accelerated if the colony is
to meet China's demand that all the refugee camps be cleared by the 1997
transition.

"This incident has not lessened our resolve," said Anson Chan, the colony's
highest-ranking civil servant, who is the acting chief executive until Gov.
Chris Patten returns from a trip to the United States.

"We remain as determined as ever to repatriate all Vietnamese migrants to
Vietnam as soon as possible," she said.

Security Secretary Peter Lai also told reporters that the riot would not slow
down the program.

But the repatriations were likely to be slowed now because the Vietnamese burned
down the Whitehead camp's main administrative building, which housed all refugee
records and identity documents.

The repatriation policy has been criticized by some refugee advocates, who see
it as inhumane, and by some members of the U.S. Congress who feel that the
refugees should be given another chance to be interviewed for possible
resettlement in the West. Some of the refugees claim to have worked for the
American-backed Saigon government during the Vietnam War.

The Clinton administration has endorsed a plan for Vietnamese to be interviewed
and screened again, but only if they first return to Vietnam.

The rampage began in the predawn darkness, on a day when about 1,000 boat people
were due to be transferred to a holding center to await their forced
repatriation to Vietnam.

Police said the riot was a "well-planned operation," involving about 3,000
Vietnamese out of a total of 8,600 at Whitehead. They set fire to buildings and
cars and took at least 15 prison guards hostage, while others used makeshift
tools to cut through a wire mesh fence and escape.

More than 200 Vietnamese initially escaped, but about 70 were captured by
nightfall. The guards were later released, one with a stab wound in the leg.
Officials said 43 policemen, guards and Vietnamese were injured in the melee.
The riot left 26 buildings gutted or damaged, and 53 cars and buses destroyed by
the fires.

An official of the New China News Agency, which acts as the de facto voice of
mainland China in the colony, blamed the British policy of accepting the
migrants for the continuing tensions. He repeated Beijing's warning that all the
Vietnamese boat people must be out of Hong Kong before Britain hands the
territory back to China.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, garrige ho/reuter, Hundreds of Vietnamese sit on the roof of the
Whitehead detention center during a riot over forced repatriation.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              118 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 24, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Arrests Break Up Chinese Gang That Preyed on Illegal Aliens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 628 words


In a series of raids in six states, federal agents have broken up what they said
was a powerful Chinese gang that terrorized New York's Chinatown and engaged in
murder, extortion, kidnapping and alien smuggling.

The raids Thursday and yesterday in New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Delaware,
Colorado and Pennsylvania capped a year-long investigation of the Fukienese
Flying Dragons gang, which authorities described as a violent criminal
enterprise made up mostly of young men from the Chinese province of Fujian, also
known as Fukien.

Sixty-four alleged gang leaders and members were charged with a range of violent
crimes in eight federal indictments that were unsealed in Manhattan federal
court yesterday. At least 35 have been arrested and others are being sought,
officials said.

"This violent gang was responsible for hundreds of kidnappings, robberies, acts
of extortion, and smuggling hundreds of illegal aliens into the United States,"
Attorney General Janet Reno said. She said the Justice Department is committed
to "ending the illegal and exploitive trade in human beings."

U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White of the Southern District of New York said the gang,
"a large and violent spinoff" from the traditional Flying Dragons organization,
has been "the dominant force in Chinatown since 1990" and is the only remaining
large-scale criminal enterprise currently operating there.

With the latest government actions against the gang and other expected arrests,
White said, "we believe we will break the back of the Fukienese Flying Dragons
and that we are finally on the verge of freeing Chinatown from the . . .
violence and lawlessness that have plagued it for decades."

The main indictment, in which 41 defendants are charged with racketeering and
other criminal activity, covers two murders, one attempted murder, four
robberies, five extortions of businesses and eight kidnappings in which more
than 100 Chinese were held.

The Fukienese Flying Dragons was composed mostly of Chinese men in their mid- to
late twenties who had entered the United States illegally and, in some cases,
claimed political asylum in order to remain in the country, Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) officials said. The gang preyed mostly on fellow
Chinese illegal aliens, sometimes kidnapping them for ransom after having
smuggled them into the country, the indictments charged.

Authorities identified two of the gang's top leaders as Wong Ke and Cheng Ren.
Also arrested was Wang Xiang, who was picked up by the FBI in Norfolk, Va., on
charges of involvement in alien smuggling and kidnapping.

After a boatload of about 200 Chinese illegal aliens arrived off the coast of
New Jersey in 1993, the indictments charged, the gang took more than 100 of them
hostage, held them in apartments in Chinatown and Brooklyn and forced them at
gunpoint to call their families back in China to raise ransoms, usually
amounting to $ 30,000 each.

The gang also allegedly organized an earlier boatload that was intercepted off
the coast of Hawaii in 1992. After the aliens were detained by the INS, the gang
posted bail for many of them, then held them hostage at various locations in New
York City, federal prosecutors say.

Two of the defendants are charged with involvement in a brutal kidnapping in
which they beat and repeatedly raped a Chinese woman until her relatives came up
with more than $ 38,000 in ransom.

In other indictments, gang members with aliases such as "Big Head" and "Runny
Nose" are accused of taking part in robberies and hostage-takings at factories
and apartments, where victims were bound, gagged and held at gunpoint.

Some of the defendants face life in prison without parole if convicted, the U.S.
attorney's office said.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              119 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 13, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigration Bill Divides Administration, Businesses; White House Favors Curbs on
Foreign Workers

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 716 words


As a national debate over immigration intensifies, the Clinton administration is
taking on the American business community in an effort to preserve protections
for American workers in legislation currently before Congress.

"Our nation's immigration policy has reached a crossroads," Labor Secretary
Robert B. Reich said yesterday. "We have to decide whether we want to help
American workers, or protect unfair employers."

The comments, in a joint news conference with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.),
signaled a concerted attempt to keep provisions restricting employment-based
immigration in a controversial bill being debated in the Senate Judiciary
Committee. The bill's sponsor, Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), announced last
week that he would drop the provisions under intense pressure from business
leaders, who had joined an unusual coalition of liberal, conservative,
religious, ethnic and civil rights groups in opposition to the bill.

The proposed legislation aims to crack down on illegal aliens and pare legal
immigration from its current level of about 775,000 a year. It would reduce the
annual influx of legal immigrants, including those admitted for employment and
family reunification, by 24 percent for the first five years and up to 43
percent after that. A similar bill scheduled for debate in the House next week
calls for somewhat lower reductions.

Simpson's move to delete all provisions of concern to the business community --
including a 36 percent reduction in the availability of employment-based
immigrant visas and restrictions on the hiring of temporary foreign workers --
was intended to head off a bid to split the bill so that it would deal only with
illegal immigration. Simpson charges that this would kill the bill's sections on
legal immigration, including his proposals to sharply reduce family immigration.

Simpson's chief critic in the Judiciary Committee, freshman Sen. Spencer Abraham
(R-Mich.), says he intends to try to split the bill when debate resumes today.
Simpson has said he will counter by invoking "personal privilege" to delay such
a vote.

Expressing support for the bill's "worker protection provisions," Reich said
reforms are especially needed in a program that allows admission of as many as
65,000 skilled foreign workers for up to six years under "H1B" visas. Too often,
he said, the program has been "abused" by employers to bring in workers whose
chief qualification is not that they have unique skills, but that they work
cheaper than Americans.

He called for changes in the law, which he said permits companies to fire their
U.S. employees and replace them with "temporary" H1B workers.

"We're not advocating a ban on employment-based immigration," Reich said. "We're
not bashing immigrants or employers. We're not advocating a 'Fortress America.'
What we are talking about here is giving American workers a fair chance to get
good jobs."

"At stake are hundreds of thousands of good jobs that should be available to
Americans," Kennedy said. He said he would offer amendments to prohibit
employers from replacing qualified U.S. workers with foreigners, require firms
to "recruit U.S. workers first," reduce the stay of temporary foreign workers
from six to three years and make employers contribute to a training fund for
American workers.

Business leaders insist the current system of employment-based immigration
brings in the world's "best and brightest" and helps America keep its
technological edge in an increasingly competitive global market.

But the Labor Department yesterday produced figures showing that 74 percent of
H1B workers earn less than $ 50,000 a year and that 73 percent are physical
therapists or computer programmers. These are not the "cream-of-the-crop,
rare-to-find engineers" that business leaders often invoke in defending the
program, Reich said.

"It's like a guest-worker program for white-collar workers," said Rahm Emanuel,
a presidential aide on immigration policy.

Saying her story was "not unique," former computer programmer Julie Cairns-Rubin
told the news conference she was fired last year by SeaLand Corp. in New Jersey
after 18 years on the job and was required to train her foreign replacement.
"Pure greed is what's driving this practice," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              120 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 14, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration Laws for Foreign Workers Are a 'Sham,' Audit Finds

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 717 words


U.S. programs that allow entry to tens of thousands of permanent and temporary
foreign workers fail to protect Americans' jobs or wages and are riddled with
abuses that in many cases have made their original intent a "sham," according to
an audit by the Labor Department's inspector general.

The audit, a draft summary of which was obtained by The Washington Post, found
that employers routinely flout requirements to search for American candidates
for job openings and to pay the prevailing wage to the foreigners they hire. The
inspector general's office, an "independent agency" within the Labor Department,
decides autonomously which programs to audit, a department spokesman said.

"The inspector general's report confirms what we've been saying for years," said
Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich. In particular, a program that allows annual
admissions of up to 65,000 foreign workers with "unique" skills under temporary
H1B visas "doesn't work," he said.

Employers strongly defend the H1B program and a category of employment-based
permanent immigration that makes available up to 140,000 immigrant visas for
foreign workers and their families.

Businesses and immigration advocates say the programs help supply U.S. high-tech
firms and other businesses with the world's "best and the brightest" in an
increasingly competitive global economy and that U.S. workers are protected by
existing rules. Among them are Labor Department requirements that employers
search for qualified Americans before sponsoring foreign workers as permanent
immigrants and pay "prevailing wages" to foreign temporary workers.

The inspector general's report said, however, "the foreign labor programs we
audited do not protect U.S. workers' jobs or wages from foreign labor because
neither program meets its legislative intent."

The program for certifying permanent employment-based immigrants instead allows
foreigners already in the United States to obtain permanent resident status "and
then shop their services in competition with equally or more qualified U.S.
workers without regard to prevailing wage."

The H1B program, it said, largely "serves as a probationary try-out employment
program for illegal aliens, foreign students and foreign visitors to determine
if they will be sponsored for permanent status."

Of 24,150 foreigners for whom employers in 12 states applied for immigrant
status during fiscal 1993, the audit found, 98.7 percent were already in the
United States and 74.1 percent were working for the employer when the
application was filed. Of those already employed, 16.4 percent were working
illegally, it found.

Market tests for qualified Americans are "perfunctory at best and a sham at
worst," the report said.

Advertisements or postings for those 24,150 jobs as required by the Labor
Department resulted in 165,000 applicants, but in more than 99 percent of the
cases, no American was hired, the audit found. This was because the employers
were simply posting the jobs to meet the requirement, a department spokesman
said.

The audit, begun in April 1995, also showed that few of the employers surveyed
could prove that they paid their H1B workers the prevailing wage. The auditors
reported that nearly 75 percent of H1B visa holders worked for employers "who
did not adequately document" their wages, that nearly 13 percent "were paid
below the advertised prevailing wage and that 10 percent were either illegally
treated as independent contractors to avoid payroll and administrative costs or
contracted out to other employers.

To preserve the current system, employers have spearheaded a campaign to strip
provisions on legal immigration from bills in Congress to reform immigration
laws.

Fewer than 80,000 employment-based immigrant visas were issued last year, and
usage of H1B "nonimmigrant" visas has ranged from 54,000 to 62,000 a year, with
around 400,000 such visa-holders estimated to be in the country at any time.

Advocates of current immigration levels steadfastly deny that foreign workers
are taking away jobs and undercutting wage levels.

One recent study by the Employment Policy Foundation said it found "no evidence
that H1B workers have a negative impact on wages and employment opportunities"
in the information technology industry.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996April 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              121 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 21, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

White-Collar Visas: Importing Needed Skills or Cheap Labor?

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1922 words


A large New York insurance company lays off 250 computer programmers in three
states and replaces them with lower-wage temporary workers from India. A
Michigan firm sends underpaid physical therapists from Poland to work at health
care facilities in Texas. A company in California advertises that it can supply
employers with "technical workers" from the Philippines at low pay.

Even the White House resorts to cheap technical help, using a company that
imports most of its workers from India to upgrade the president's
correspondence-tracking computer system.

As Congress considers major changes in immigration law, the Department of Labor
and a number of professional associations and private citizens are citing cases
such as these in urging an overhaul of a little-known immigration program
designed to meet shortages of highly skilled workers in certain "specialty
occupations." The debate highlights much broader dilemmas that the nation faces
as it tries to decide how many foreigners to admit and what qualifications to
demand of them.

Each year, tens of thousands of such workers from around the world are brought
into the United States under the H-1B visa program, which admits computer
programmers, engineers, scientists, health care workers and fashion models under
"nonimmigrant" status.

Businesses say they need the program to obtain quick, temporary professional
help that cannot be found in the U.S. work force. They say the visa category
enables them to hire people with "unique" skills -- the "best and brightest"
that the world has to offer -- and to compete in an increasingly tough global
market.

Advocates of this and other employment-based visa programs cite numerous cases
in which foreign professionals with special expertise have made valuable
contributions to American science and technology and have helped create jobs in
the American economy. But the Labor Department says the H-1B program also has
been widely exploited to bring in thousands of foreign professionals and
technicians whose chief attraction is that they are willing to work for much
lower salaries than their U.S. counterparts. Many are imported by
job-contracting firms known as "body shops," which recruit the foreign
professionals and hire them out to major U.S. companies at a profit.

In many cases, "employment-based immigration is used not to obtain unique
skills, but cheap, compliant labor," said Lawrence Richards, a former IBM
computer programmer who formed the Software Professionals' Political Action
Committee last year after colleagues were laid off and replaced by lower-paid
programmers from India.

Richards and other critics of the H-1B visa program described the imported
professionals as "techno-braceros," the high-tech equivalent of migrant farm
workers.

They charged that the program is driving down wages in certain sectors,
displacing American workers and bringing in foreigners who often are effectively
"indentured" to their employers. In the long run, they predicted, it will
accelerate the flight of high-tech jobs overseas, discourage American students
from studying for those occupations and produce the very shortages it was
designed to alleviate.

In addition, some immigrants have used the program to set up lucrative
job-contracting concerns that discriminate against Americans in hiring,
sometimes even as they receive federal assistance for minority-owned businesses.

To remedy what he says is a situation "fraught with abuse," Labor Secretary
Robert B. Reich is seeking major reforms under immigration legislation now being
debated in both chambers of Congress.

"We have seen numerous instances in which American businesses have brought in
foreign skilled workers after having laid off skilled American workers, simply
because they can get the foreign workers more cheaply," Reich said in an
interview. The program "has become a major means of circumventing the costs of
paying skilled American workers or the costs of training them," he added.

"There is abuse of the current nonimmigrant system, but it is by no means
overwhelming," argued Austin T. Fragomen, an immigration lawyer who represents
major U.S. corporations. "To the extent there is abuse, [it] occurs among small,
relatively unknown companies" and should be "controlled through more effective
enforcement," he said in written Senate testimony last month.

"It is minimally widespread," said Charles A. Billingsley, of the Information
Technology Association of America, a pro-immigration group. "Are U.S. workers
being put out of work by foreign workers? Probably. But the occurrence is
minuscule." In any case, he said, H-1B visa holders account for only "a fraction
of the U.S. work force."

Such arguments are not much comfort to John Morris, who owns a computer
consulting firm in Houston. He said he lost his largest customer, a major oil
company, when he refused to supply it with cheap foreign programmers.

"Greed is the reason they're doing this," Morris said. "Anybody who says it
ain't greed is smoking rope."

He said he also has turned down a Chinese company's offer to provide programmers
for placement at $ 500 a month in jobs that usually would pay $ 5,000 a month.

"The Chinese are desperate to get in here," Morris said. "This is economic
warfare."

In 1990, Congress passed an immigration act that raised a cap on permanent
employment-based immigration from 54,000 to 140,000 a year in response to fears
of an imminent shortage of scientists, engineers and other highly skilled
professionals. A separate provision created the H-1B visa category, which lets
in as many as 65,000 professionals a year for stays of up to six years. These
workers are supposed to be paid "prevailing wages" and not used to break
strikes.

The H-1B provision requires no test of the U.S. labor market for the
availability of qualified American workers, and it does not bar businesses from
replacing U.S. workers with "temporary" nonimmigrants.

In practice, critics say, "prevailing wages" have been defined too broadly to
prevent many job contractors from significantly undercutting the salaries
usually paid to Americans. Moreover, the anticipated shortages did not
materialize, in part because defense industry cuts after the end of the Cold War
added to the ranks of an estimated 2.3 million Americans who have been laid off
so far this decade.

In Senate testimony last month, Reich called on Congress to prohibit employers
from hiring nonimmigrant workers in place of Americans who were laid off. He
said companies should be required to show they had tried to "recruit and retain
U.S. workers" in the occupations for which nonimmigrants were sought. He also
recommended that the permitted stay of these workers be reduced to three years.

"Hiring foreign over domestic workers should be the rare exception, not the
rule," Reich said.

The labor secretary noted that although nonimmigrant workers are admitted on a
"temporary" basis, many stay for years, sometimes illegally. More than half of
foreigners granted permanent resident status in fiscal 1994 originally came in
as nonimmigrant students or "temporary" workers, Reich said.

In response to "abuse" of the nonimmigrant programs, over the past three years
the Labor Department has charged 33 employers with wage violations involving
more than 400 workers in physical therapy and computer-related occupations.

In one case, the department found that an Indian-owned firm in Michigan called
Syntel Inc. had "willfully underpaid" its Indian computer programmers, who came
to the United States under H-1B visas and made up more than 80 percent of the
company's work force.

In November last year, American International Group, a large Manhattan-based
insurer, laid off 250 American programmers in New York, New Jersey and New
Hampshire and transferred the work to Syntel. Syntel assigned some of the work
to about 200 Indians it had brought in, reportedly at about half the Americans'
salaries, and gave the rest to much lower-paid employees at its home office in
Bombay. During their last weeks of employment, the laid-off U.S. workers were
even required to train their replacements, Reich said.

"It was clear that Syntel did not bring in any special skills that we did not
have," said Linda Kilcrease, one of the full-time programmers who lost their
jobs.

Another Michigan company, Rehab One, was found by the Labor Department to have
underpaid physical therapists it brought in from Poland. The workers, who came
in with H-1B visas, were assigned to U.S. health care facilities, primarily in
Texas, and were paid as little as $ 500 a month, the department found.

In New Jersey, a major shipping company, Sea-Land Services, laid off 325
computer programmers this year and replaced them with Filipinos supplied by
Manila-based Software Ventures International. The Americans, who were paid about
$ 50,000 a year on average, also had to train the lower-paid Filipinos, most of
whom eventually returned to Manila to carry out the work even more cheaply
there.

"I was outraged," said Jessie Lindsay, one of the former Sea-Land programmers.
"These were highly paid technical jobs leaving the country. . . . What's the
point of getting an education and technical training if companies can get away
with hiring at slave wages?"

Mastech Corp., of Oakdale, Pa., a company owned by two Indian immigrants that
has won millions of dollars in consulting contracts with the federal government,
has brought in about 900 of its 1,300 workers from India under the H-1B program.
From 1991 until Sept. 30, one of its contracts, obtained under a set-aside
program for minority-owned businesses, involved "computer system integration,
installation, maintenance and operational support for the White House
correspondence system," the presidential press office said.

"We have been lumped in with some other companies that allegedly underpay their
foreign workers," a Mastech executive said. "We are not a low-paying company."

One of the latest controversies over the H-1B program erupted last month after
it was reported that the National Association of Securities Dealers had laid off
30 contract computer programmers and hired an Indian firm, Tata Consultancy
Services, to do the work. The government- chartered association, based in
Rockville, Md., owns, operates and regulates the Nasdaq Stock Market. Tata,
which has a regional office in Silver Spring, is part of a huge Indian
conglomerate that company officials say produces everything from tea to computer
software.

An NASD spokesman, Marc Beauchamp, said Tata would employ about 40 people on the
project, half of them working here on H-1B visas and half at Tata's home office
in Bombay. He denied that any full-time NASD employees were fired and said that
"fewer than 20 outside contractors could possibly be affected" by the move.

The Indians essentially would be maintaining "outmoded technology" so that
regular NASD programmers could "focus on new technologies" and perform "more
challenging work," Beauchamp said. "We found it made no business sense to hire
programmers that we would have to pay more than, or as much as, the people we
have on staff," he said.

Neither NASD nor Tata would disclose details of the contract. However, Tata
insisted that it follows all U.S. regulations and wage requirements.

"We are not a body shop," said A. Sruthi Sagar, the firm's personnel manager.
"We are not in the business of providing cheap labor to the United States."


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post; Photo, bob padgett for The
Washington Post, FOREIGNERS FOR HIRE THE H-1b VISA PROGRAM Half of all job
openings certified for "specialty occupation" visas are for therapists, mostly
physical therapists.The program's most common occupations: Therapists 134,722
Computer-related 64,423 University/college faculty 7,919 Physicians/surgeons
5,330 Accountants/auditors 4,873 Fashion models 3,319 Tonga Siac Jr., left, and
Victor Mandingin are computer programmer replacements supplied to Sea-Land after
it laid off 325 programmers this year.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              122 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 29, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Gates Assails Bid to Curb Immigration; Microsoft Head Says Legislation Too Harsh

Mike Mills, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 712 words


Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates yesterday strongly criticized a proposal in
Congress that would restrict the ability of U.S. businesses to hire foreign
citizens in this country.

But later in the day, the Senate sponsor said he would change his legislation to
address concerns posed in recent weeks by Microsoft and other companies.

In a wide-ranging interview with Washington Post reporters and editors, Gates
called legislation by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) to overhaul immigration laws
"an absolute disaster." Simpson plans to put the bill to a vote today in the
Judiciary Committee. "If you want to prevent companies like ours from doing work
in the United States, this is a masterpiece," Gates said.

Gates had a busy day in Washington yesterday, making addresses at Georgetown
University and the National Press Club. Later he attended a book party given in
his honor by Katharine Graham, chairman of the executive committee of The
Washington Post Co. His book on the future of information technology, "The Road
Ahead," has just gone on sale.

At Georgetown, Gates unveiled a new Microsoft initiative aimed at helping
educators use information technology. Starting next spring, Microsoft will make
available to U.S. schools software they could use to reach the Internet or to
set up in-house bulletin boards for use by teachers, parents and students.

Gates also said the proceeds from his book would go to educational technology in
22 communities.

Gates's comments on the immigration bill were part of a broader effort by
high-technology companies opposing the legislation, which would reduce the
annual number of permanent immigration slots for foreign workers with needed
skills, and their families, from 140,000 to 90,000. The bill also would impose
fees on employers that bring in foreign workers.

U.S. high-tech companies hire many foreign citizens, who are often graduates of
prestigious universities in the United States.

Gates said the proposed new quotas are too low, and singled out a provision in
the Simpson legislation that would require foreign students to work overseas for
several years before becoming eligible for work visas in the United States.

In a telephone interview yesterday, Simpson said pressure from business groups
in recent weeks persuaded him to drop the requirement that students first work
overseas, as well as most of the fee requirements.

"All the things that Bill Gates was concerned about are no longer there,"
Simpson said. "After two weeks of watching the reaction of the business
community . . . I knew pretty well where we were headed."

Microsoft senior corporate attorney Ira Rubinstein said, "we welcome the changes
that have been identified. But it remains to be seen whether they go far enough
to address businesses' concerns."

On other legislation vital to his industry, a rewrite of the nation's
telecommunications laws, Gates urged quick passage. But he said Microsoft has no
"strong opinions" on lingering details holding up passage of the bill, which
aims to deregulate and encourage competition in the telephone and cable
television industries.

Gates also dismissed what he called "wild promises" by telephone and cable
companies that they would upgrade their networks quickly to deliver
high-capacity television and computer connections within a few years. While he
said such investments are at least 10 to 15 years away, as an interim step those
companies should establish higher-capacity data connections over existing copper
telephone wires and cable TV lines.

Microsoft stock has been erratic in recent months, as investors have expressed
concerns about oversupply and slowing sales in the software industry and
analysts expressed doubts about Microsoft's role in the rapidly expanding
Internet. The stock sold at $ 102.75 on Oct. 30, but dropped 16 percent to $ 86
on Nov. 20. Yesterday it closed at $ 91.50.

In contrast, the stock for Netscape Communications Corp., a leading maker of
Internet browsing software, yesterday jumped 18 percent to $ 131 after Goldman
Sachs & Co. put it on its "recommended" list.

Gates said he was unconcerned. If Microsoft stock tumbles further, he quipped,
he would "go deeply into debt and . . . buy back lots of the company."


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo, juana arias, BILL GATES Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates at
Georgetown University yesterday.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              123 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 04, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Md. Power Plant Fined

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 224 words


Baltimore Gas & Electric Co.'s Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant has been fined
$ 50,000 for giving security clearance to an illegal alien employee who lied on
his job application to hide an arrest.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which issued the fine Tuesday, said officials
of the power plant at Lusby on the Chesapeake Bay knew for at least six months
that the employee had been arrested under an alias but continued to allow him
unescorted access to the plant.

The employee, whose name was withheld by the NRC and the power plant, was fired
in October 1994 after federal immigration authorities informed plant officials
he was an illegal immigrant. He had been granted security clearance in February
1993; he installed insulation at the plant.

Baltimore Gas & Electric will not contest the fine and has taken "corrective
actions to prevent this from reoccurring," Robert E. Denton, the company's
senior vice president, said in statement issued yesterday.

The company acknowledged that plant supervisors knew the employee lied on his
pre-employment screening forms to hide an arrest.

Company spokesman Karl Neddenien said he did not know what the employee had been
arrested for and "to the best of our knowledge, he was not convicted."

The NRC said the employee had been convicted but declined to provide details.

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              124 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 09, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Former Sweatshop Workers Get $1 Million in Back Wages

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 155 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Scores of Thai and Hispanic garment workers who toiled in sweatshops for as
little as $ 2 an hour split up $ 1.1 million in back wages yesterday.

State labor officials handed out checks ranging from $ 64 to more than $ 37,000
to 109 workers who had stitched clothing that wound up in such stores as
Mervyn's, Macy's and Neiman Marcus.

Last August, authorities raided a sweatshop in suburban El Monte and discovered
more than 70 Thai illegal immigrants living behind barbed wire and working up to
22 hours a day. Some said they had been held for years. Prosecutors claimed Thai
nationals had run the sweatshop since 1989, recruiting impoverished fellow Thais
and supplying them with phony passports.

Last month, seven people pleaded guilty in federal court to conspiracy,
harboring illegal immigrants and holding the workers in involuntary servitude.
They face up to seven years in prison at sentencing next month.

LOAD-DATE: March 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              125 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 14, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrants' Due

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 243 words


In the Feb. 27 "Ad Watch," Howard Kurtz's examination of the accuracy of Pat
Buchanan's Arizona television advertisement itself contains an inaccuracy. Mr.
Kurtz writes that Mr. Buchanan "is right that illegal immigrants are eligible
for welfare and other benefits."

According to the Congressional Research Service, federal law specifically bars
illegal immigrants from receiving benefits from the programs most people
consider "welfare": Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental
Security Income (SSI) and food stamps. They are also ineligible for Medicaid
(except for emergency conditions), legal services, job training, unemployment
compensation and post-secondary student financial aid.

Furthermore, Mr. Kurtz's explanation of the Supreme Court's 1982 ruling on
illegal immigrants' access to public education is a little muddled. He states
that the ruling barred states from denying public education to "children of
illegal immigrants."

Actually, the issue was not whether the children of illegal immigrants are
eligible for public education. U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants are U.S.
citizens and are therefore entitled to the same government benefits and services
as all other citizens. The Supreme Court ruling was aimed at children who are
themselves illegal immigrants -- that is, children who were born outside the
United States and are currently in this country illegally.

REBECCA L. CLARK

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              126 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 29, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

No Schools for Illegals?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 403 words


A WAVE OF hostility to undocumented workers crested on the House floor last
week, when legislators voted to allow states to close public school doors to
children who are not in this country legally. The vote was a strong 257 to 163.
This hostility does not come out of thin air. The amendment's supporters cite
figures that give rise to concern. California representatives, for example,
claim the state has 355,000 such children in elementary and secondary schools,
which costs its taxpayers $ 1.7 billion a year. But the solution they have
concocted is not the right one.

For one thing, the Supreme Court has held that such a restriction is an
unconstitutional denial of equal protection to the children. In a 1982 case from
Texas, the court struck down a similar attempt by a state to regulate school
admission. This put an end, at least temporarily, to attempts by smaller
jurisdictions -- including Prince George's County -- to enforce similar
policies. So the House has acted in defiance of the court, hoping that the
14-year-old, 5 to 4 decision will be overturned by the present court or modified
to allow federal legislation.

But even if the court changes its mind on constitutionality -- which is unlikely
-- keeping these children out of school is bad policy. It's not that, as some
legislators say, these kids will join gangs and turn to crime if they aren't
supervised in school. This is a very unfair assessment of these youngsters. It
stirs up fears and stereotypes by arguing in effect that these dangerous
children had better be given what they want or they'll beat up the others.

Members of Congress should be wary of the instinct to punish children because
their parents have broken the law to bring them here. They should think twice
about the wisdom of creating a class of people -- many of whom, it has to be
conceded, will probably be spending the rest of their lives here -- who are
uneducated and have not had the prime socializing experience of going to school.

The larger bill of which this ill-advised provision is now a part seeks to
control illegal immigration in a variety of ways that promise to be more
effective. The schools amendment may sink the entire proposal. In its place,
legislators should provide realistic, targeted help to those school districts
that bear a special burden because the federal government has not yet succeeded
in controlling the borders.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              127 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 07, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Seven Suspected Illegal Aliens Die in California Truck Crash; 18 Hurt as Stolen
Vehicle Rolls Into Ditch

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 365 words


A stolen truck loaded with suspected illegal immigrants overturned and crashed
on a Southern California road yesterday, killing seven passengers and injuring
18, officials said.

The pickup truck was being followed by U.S. Border Patrol agents when the driver
suddenly accelerated and lost control near the town of Temecula, about 60 miles
north of the U.S.-Mexico border.

Ron Henley, a spokesman for the Border Patrol said the truck was traveling on a
well-known route used by smugglers to bypass the agency's border checkpoint.

"The agents began to follow the truck and the vehicle accelerated to an extreme
rate of speed, leaving the agents behind," Henley said.

When the agents came over the next hill, they saw the truck upside down in the
ditch, with bodies "thrown all over the place."

Henley said the vehicle, a stolen 1989 GMC pickup truck, had Hawaiian license
plates.

Officials stressed the border patrol agents were not pursuing the truck at the
time of the accident.

"They were just following behind the vehicle, no lights or sirens on," Julie
Page, a spokeswoman with the California Highway Patrol said. "The pickup truck
accelerated and for some unknown reason the truck lost control, went off the
road and overturned in a ditch."

In recent years, a series of deadly crashes, prompted the Border Patrol to adopt
stricter rules of pursuit.

Page said the truck was reported stolen in February in San Diego County. All of
the occupants were men.

The injured passengers were taken to local hospitals and their conditions were
not immediately known. Henley said he did not know if the driver of the vehicle
was among the fatalities.

The crash was the second major incident in Southern California in less than a
week involving suspected illegal immigrants.

A police pursuit last Monday of a pickup truck filled with more than 20 Mexicans
ended with two of the people being beaten by Riverside County sheriff's deputies
-- an incident that was captured on videotape by a news helicopter hovering
overhead.

The two deputies have been suspended from duty while federal and local
authorities investigate possible criminal charges against them.


LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1996April 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, Emergency crews remove passenger from scene of crash where
seven died and 18 were injured in a truck being followed by Border Patrol
officers.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              128 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 23, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

'Airport Posse' Takes San Diego Border Control Into Its Own Hands

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1183 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, May 22


They cruise San Diego's busy Lindbergh airport, wearing T-shirts boldly
emblazoned "U.S. CITIZEN PATROL" and eyeing passengers they suspect of being
undocumented aliens.

This newly formed vigilante group calling itself the "Airport Posse" is out here
nearly every day and judging by the uncomfortable glances of some Hispanic
passengers -- whose citizenship and immigration status was impossible to tell --
they are clearly making some people nervous.

Members of this self-styled border control committee were quick to claim that
they never verbally intimidate anyone. Indeed, during a morning spent with
several posse members, they seemed less interested in confronting anyone than in
creating an atmosphere that illegal aliens would find threatening. And that
effort is based heavily on the posse T-shirt that, with its huge yellow block
letters and special logo, bears a striking resemblance to U.S. Border Patrol
uniforms.

"It gets their attention," said Win Housley, a self-employed swimming pool
maintenance worker and posse volunteer, as he walked through a waiting area with
a trace of an official swagger. "But to say that we're harassing Mexicans is a
blatant lie."

Perhaps. But the San Diego Port District today asked a Superior Court judge to
rule otherwise and issue a restraining order prohibiting the Airport Posse from
patrolling for suspected illegal immigrants hoping to fly from Southern
California to cities elsewhere in the United States. The district also asked
that counter-demonstrators from local Hispanic groups be enjoined from shadowing
the posse members in the terminals. Judge William Hallatt issued a temporary
restraining order against both parties until Friday, at which time he said he
will hear arguments for a permanent injunction.

Port District spokesman Dan Wilkins said the posse and the counter-demonstrators
have created "a climate potentially disruptive to airport operations."

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Rudy Murillo said his agency
maintained a "neutral position" in the controversy, partly because the airport
has never been a favored transit point for illegal immigrants and partly because
the posse members "have as much free speech right as the fellow with the
tambourine."

"We're talking about a handful of [illegal] people a day, and our plainclothes
special agents have them well covered. Frankly, I think the posse would have
eventually lost interest and drifted away anyway," Murillo said. The posse has
been in operation for the last several weeks, inspired by callers to a
conservative radio talk show who claimed that suspicious-looking people were
using the airport to evade Border Patrol highway checkpoints north of San Diego
on their way to Los Angeles and other cities.

Its presence has fanned an increasingly incendiary debate over illegal
immigration in Southern California, and particularly San Diego, a politically
conservative city where many sense the closeness of the Mexican border and where
anti-immigrant sentiment runs high.

The debate on the talk show hosted by former San Diego mayor Roger Hedgecock led
to a flood of volunteers who said they were willing to hang around the airport
day and night looking for suspected illegal immigrants.

In response, a coalition of immigrant rights groups urged Attorney General Janet
Reno to investigate the posse members for civil rights violations and
impersonation of federal officers. In the meantime, several Hispanic groups made
plans to assign "monitors" to shadow the posse members and document incidents of
harassment.

"They are civilians posing as immigration officers. Anyone who happens to look
Hispanic, even American citizens, is at risk of being stopped, questioned and
harassed. It's outrageous," Luis Natividad, chairman of the San Diego-based
Latino Unity Coalition, said Tuesday.

The controversy over the San Diego border control activists -- critics call them
nativists -- follows another incident of great concern in the Hispanic
community: the televised beating of two undocumented aliens last month by
Riverside County sheriff's deputies after a high-speed freeway pursuit.

A poll of both legal and illegal Latino immigrants, released Tuesday by the
Spanish-language La Opinion newspaper and Spanish-language KVEA-TV, showed that
80 percent of the respondents felt they were treated with racism or contempt by
Anglos or whites. Moreover, 69 percent of those polled said anti-immigration
sentiment had substantially increased since the 1994 adoption of Proposition
187, which -- until blocked by the courts -- threatened to cut off welfare and
education benefits for illegal immigrants. Support for Proposition 187 was
particularly strong in San Diego County.

The Airport Posse, which claims to have 300 volunteers but which has managed to
only sporadically deploy several at a time in one terminal most days, is led by
Muriel Watson, widow of a Border Patrol agent and longtime leader of immigration
protests. In 1989, Watson began a "Light Up the Border" campaign in which
protesters gathered at the border 15 miles south of here and turned on their
cars' headlights to dramatize the nightly influx of illegal crossings. She said
she is planning a series of anti-immigration protests here to coincide with the
Republican National Convention, which will meet in San Diego Aug. 12-15.

Watson insists -- disingenuously, her critics contend -- that the Airport
Posse's goal is merely to promote effective airport security by pushing airline
ticket agents to follow federal regulations requiring all passengers to show
photo identification before boarding flights. "We're like a Neighborhood Watch,
and our neighborhood happens to be the airport," she says.

However, in interviews, Watson and her volunteers were open about their broader
goal. "They say in Washington that they've reached the 'desired level of
control' on the border. What kind of smoke and mirrors is this? They need to
wake up and realize that people are pouring across the border illegally, and it
has to be stopped," Watson said.

Housley likened border control to a "domestic Vietnam War," saying that a lack
of political determination has caused a flood of illegal immigrants. "In
Vietnam, we had the manpower and firepower to win but not the will. In the war
against illegal immigration, we have the manpower and firepower, but not the
will. We're supplying the will," Housley said.

Housley said that illegal immigrants are easy to spot at the airport because
they often wait out of sight for the last boarding call, when there are fewer
airline staff members around, and then are often unable to produce photo
identification. Other tip-offs, he said, are "out-of-style clothing," the use of
Spanish and "nervous appearance."

"Our job is to make sure they produce photo identification. If they don't, they
can't board," Housley said.

When asked if she had seen any illegal immigrants in her three weeks of
patrolling, Watson paused before replying, "In the West Terminal we saw one
being apprehended" by INS agents.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1996May 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, robert burroughs for The Washington Post, At San Diego
International Airport, volunteers in the Airport Posse, left, Win Housley and
Muriel Watson confer while patrolling for suspected illegal immigrants. Above,
Ramon Munoz, a San Diego State University student opposed to the immigration
vigilantes, wears a T-shirt depicting Border Patrol abuses as he speaks with
reporters from local news organizations.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              129 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 29, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Bonilla Employed Illegal Immigrant;
British Nanny Worked 7 Years For Republican Congressman

Kenneth J. Cooper, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 361 words


Rep. Henry Bonilla (R-Tex.), who has voted against benefits for immigrants,
employed an illegal immigrant as a nanny for seven years, Justice Department
records show.

The records indicate that a British woman who entered the United States as a
tourist in 1986 worked as a live-in babysitter for Bonilla and his wife, Deborah
Knapp Bonilla, in Philadelphia and San Antonio until early 1993.

The undocumented worker told immigration officials that the Bonillas usually
paid her in cash. She said the family let her go shortly after the freshman
congressman was sworn in because of the problems encountered by Zoe E. Baird,
whose nomination as attorney general was dropped after it was disclosed she had
hired illegal immigrants.

The Bonillas' former nanny, Paula V. Vousden, said in a June 1993 affidavit that
the couple did not pay Social Security or taxes on her wages. Bonilla, she said,
informed her in February 1993 that he would pay all back taxes owed.

An article in yesterday's Houston Post made Bonilla the second Republican
congressional candidate to have his employment of an illegal immigrant disclosed
this week. The Los Angeles Times first reported Thursday that freshman Rep.
Michael Huffington (R-Calif.), a Senate candidate, employed for nearly five
years a Mexican nanny who was in this country illegally.

The Bonillas said in a statement that they had "complied with every rule and
regulation" and that Vousden was granted permanent resident status earlier this
year.

Justice Department records indicated an investigation into her employment was
launched last year. The Bonillas cited a letter in April from a department
official indicating "we have closed our file on this matter."

The department apparently did not prosecute because of the timing of Vousden's
entry in June 1986. A five-year statute of limitations on one possible charge
had expired by the time the investigation began. A November 1986 law made it
illegal to hire an illegal immigrant but exempted those already in the United
States.

Bonilla has voted against emergency food and shelter for illegal immigrants and
unemployment benefits for permanent residents.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              130 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 5, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

California Teenagers Rise Up;
Latino Marches Add Unpredictable Element as Proposition 187 Vote Nears

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A7

LENGTH: 964 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4


Carrying Mexican flags and shouting defiance of a state ballot initiative to
fight illegal immigration, streams of Latino teenagers have poured out of high
schools and into the streets across Southern California virtually every day this
week.

"We want everyone to know that Mexicans have the same rights as anyone else here
and that they'll never be able to throw us out," said Erica Zaragoza, 14, who
marched Thursday alongside several hundred classmates from Montebello High
School here.

Criticizing the students for carrying Mexican flags on their marches, Alan C.
Nelson. coauthor of the controversial initiative, Proposition 187, said "people
can draw their own conclusions, but I would say that's un-American."

The protests have added an unpredictable element to the final days of a campaign
season that has seen illegal immigration emerge as the central issue of
California politics.

About 10,000 students from 32 schools took to the streets Wednesday and
Thursday, according to police. Although virtually all the marches have been
peaceful, images of Latino teenagers throwing rocks at cars and shopping center
windows in nearby Compton Wednesday afternoon have dominated local television
coverage the past two days. Police arrested 11 people in that incident.

Opponents of the proposition had smelled success in recent polls showing a rapid
loss of support for the measure, but they now express concern the demonstrations
could provoke a backlash among white and African American voters. And Latino and
black leaders fear the proposition has aroused passions that will mar ethnic
relations in California for years regardless of what happens Election Day.

"We understand the students' frustrations, but we think these demonstrations
distract the voters and don't do anything to educate them about the issues,"
said Scott Macdonald, spokesman for Taxpayers Against 187, a coalition of
medical, education and law enforcement groups.

The proposition would expand existing laws that bar illegal immigrants from
receiving public services and would require public officials to turn in anyone
they suspect of being in the country illegally. Its most sweeping aspect would
challenge a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court decision requiring public schools to educate
children regardless of their immigration status.

To combat the emotional appeal of the proposition as a quick fix, Macdonald
said, opponents have emphasized the dangers of denying education and health care
to people likely to remain in the state, as well as other practical issues.

But California's most prominent Latino leaders and organizations have
deliberately kept a low profile to avoid making the opposition campaign seem
like a pro-Hispanic effort, top strategists said. Instead, the state's sizable
Latino establishment threw its efforts into a quiet but substantial voter
registration effort.

This strategy began to come undone Oct. 16 when grass-roots Latino groups in Los
Angeles organized a protest march that drew to downtown 70,000 marchers waving
Mexican and Salvadoran flags. The first high school marches began shortly
afterward and have grown in momentum almost daily.

The young Latinos taking to the streets express a potent mixture of anxiety and
pride that is not easily contained. Much of their anger is directed at Gov. Pete
Wilson (R), who has made support of the proposition a cornerstone of his
reelection campaign.

"We are doing this because Mexicans have to stand up for themselves and let
people know they can't step on us," said Leonardo Hernandez, 16, who was among
the Montebello High School marchers yesterday. "Maybe if they see us, people
will realize that this is what will happen if the proposition passes because
then we will all be in the streets instead of school."

Concerned about the negative impact of the marches, opponents of the proposition
and several major Latino organizations launched a drive this week to persuade
the students to stay off the streets.

"We are trying to channel these energies into constructive efforts in the
schools and in the neighborhoods." said Arturo Vargas, vice president of the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund. On-campus debates and
get-out-the-vote drives have been organized in many schools.

Regardless of the election's outcome, the proposition already has had a profound
effect on younger Latinos. "These kids are our MTV generation and this campaign
has been their political awakening," Vargas said.

With several polls showing Hispanic voters overwhelmingly opposed to the
proposition, Harry Pachon, president of The Tomas Rivera Center, a policy
studies institute, said, "This is the most polarizing election for Latinos in 40
years and it could prove to be a watershed."

In recent elections statewide Republican candidates have captured as much as
one-third of the Latino vote. But Pachon said that trend might be halted or
reversed because Republicans have almost uniformly supported the proposition and
Democrats are about as solid in opposing it.

Over the next decade 1 million Latinos are expected to become voters here,
Pachon said, as a generation of young people comes of age and legal immigrants
become eligible for citizenship.

Many of California's most prominent black leaders also have opposed the
proposition on it merits and out of concern for the ethnic polarization it could
provoke.

The Rev. Cecil Murray, pastor of the First AME Church here, said, "Illegal
immigration is universally regarded as a problem, and blacks see a problem in
the labor market and in the strain on public services. But blacks are people of
conscience and they can say that this is not the answer. It is already dividing
people. It is mean-spirited and if enacted it would set neighbor against
neighbor."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              131 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 10, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Two California Judges Block Anti-Immigrant Measure at the Start

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A39

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 9


California's angry battle over illegal immigration moved into the courts today
as two judges temporarily blocked implementation of a controversial,
anti-immigrant ballot initiative that voters had overwhelmingly approved
Tuesday.

Proposition 187, which passed by a vote of 59 percent to 41 percent, would deny
illegal immigrants access to virtually all public services including education.
It would be the most wide-ranging measure against illegal immigration undertaken
in the United States in recent years.

Gov. Pete Wilson (R), who made support for the proposition a cornerstone of his
successful reelection campaign, today ordered the state government to begin
enforcing it. As a first step, he ordered that illegal immigrants be immediately
denied access to a state program providing prenatal care to pregnant women.

As expected, however, ethnic organizations, civil rights groups and local
government agencies immediately filed a barrage of lawsuits challenging the
measure. The opponents hope the lawsuits will eventually lead to a U.S. Supreme
Court ruling that the proposition is unconstitutional.

In response, U.S. District Judge Matthew Byrne Jr. here barred statewide
enforcement of the proposition for a week, pending a hearing on a request for a
temporary restraining order. A state judge in San Francisco ruled that officials
cannot expel illegal immigrants from state schools until the legal controversy
is resolved.

Wilson asked his fellow Republicans, who will control the next Congress, to
enact federal legislation similar to the proposition rather than wait for the
courts to decide the matter. "Now the burden is on the federal government to
heed the will of the people of California," Wilson told a news conference this
morning.

In anticipation of protests from the Latino community, police forces across
California put extra patrols on the street. By early evening, there were reports
of scattered demonstrations and marches.

"What we are telling our community is that there are peaceful and legal means to
challenge what has happened here in California," said Antonia Hernandez,
president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund (MALDEF).

Along with the American Civil Liberties Union, the Asian Pacific American Legal
Center and numerous other groups, MALDEF filed suit in U.S. District Court
seeking an immediate order blocking implementation of the proposition. The Los
Angeles Unified School District also filed its own suit, and several other court
actions were taken all across California.

Most of the legal challenges to Proposition 187 focus on its provision barring
illegal immigrants from attending public schools. The lawsuits contend that the
measure is similar to a Texas law ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme
Court in 1982.

In that decision, Plyler v. Doe, the court ruled that it was a violation of the
equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment to single out illegal immigrants
as a distinct class of people who would be denied services offered to all
others.

Moreover, the court found that the Texas law imposed a "discriminatory burden"
on school children who had no control over the fact that their parents brought
them to the United States illegally and who could not choose for themselves to
return to their home countries.

Wilson said that the state would fight appeals of the lawsuits all the way to
the Supreme Court, adding, "We are also convinced that the Supreme Court will
come to a different conclusion than it did in 1982."

The lawsuits also claim that the proposition violates the constitutional right
to due process by ordering public officials to deny services to persons
"reasonably suspect" of being illegal immigrants without giving them any kind of
a hearing.

Opponents of the proposition, including President Clinton, have argued that this
measure would turn educators and health care providers into immigration officers
and that it had a great potential for producing discrimination against people
who look or sound foreign.

In an executive order today, Wilson stated that the term "reasonably suspect"
can only be interpreted as a person failing to provide adequate documentation
showing that he or she is a U.S. citizen or legal immigrant. Wilson's order
charged state officials to enforce the new law "in a manner that avoids
discrimination on the basis of national origins."

Numerous school and hospital officials have already said they will refuse to ask
for the documentation, and Wilson had harsh words for them today. "If they don't
do it, they ought to be fired. This is the law the people have passed, and we
will not tolerate scofflaws," he said.

A Los Angeles Times exit poll Tuesday showed that the proposition sharply
divided the electorate along racial and ethnic lines. It was approved among
whites by a broad margin, while Latinos rejected it by more than 3 to 1, and
Asian Americans and blacks were split.

Reflecting on the bitter divisiveness of the campaign on the proposition,
Cardinal Roger Mahony, Roman Catholic archbishop of Los Angeles, issued a
statement today saying that the vote "added another sad chapter to the history
of California."

Supporters of the initiative argued throughout the campaign that it was unlikely
that it would have any immediate effects because they anticipated, even
welcomed, legal challenges, and the exit poll showed that a great majority of
the voters felt the same way.

Few voters said the proposition would actually stop illegal immigrants from
using state services. But many felt that the proposition "sends a message that
needs to be sent," and that it will force the federal government to face the
issue.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CAMILA NIEVES, 15, PROTESTS PROPOSITION 187 AT STATE BUILDING IN
SAN FRANCISCO. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              132 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 10, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Salinas, Other Mexicans Protest California Anti-Immigrant Vote

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A49

LENGTH: 840 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 9


Mexicans reacted angrily to Tuesday's overwhelming vote by Californians
approving Proposition 187, saying the measure to deny public services to illegal
immigrants smacks of racism and intolerance.

"We're not a bunch of delinquents. We pay our bills like anyone else," said
Agustin Garcia, a bicycle taco vendor. "The Mexicans are going to go to the
United States whether Americans like it or not. We're smart people. We know how
to get past any barrier you put up against us."

Relations between the United States and Mexico, riding a crest since the Jan. 1
implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement, seemed almost certain
to be affected by the vote. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, the chief
architect of NAFTA, lashed out at the referendum results late Tuesday, saying,
"The voices of intolerance have returned."

A presidential statement today suggested the vote was aimed not at immigrants in
general but rather specifically at "restricting the access to public health,
education and social security services to Mexican migrants in the state of
California."

"What will happen to the children [denied schooling]? Will they return to
Mexico, wash windshields in California, sell newspapers on the streets or beg?"
Salinas said.

In Mexico City's fashionable Zona Rosa shopping and restaurant district Tuesday,
about 30 masked young men stormed through a McDonald's restaurant, kicking out
plate-glass windows, overturning cash registers, tossing hamburgers on the floor
and spray-painting walls with messages such as "McDeath" and "No to 187" in a
20-minute rampage.

Another incident of anti-Yankee vandalism was reported at a McDonald's in the
central city of Guadalajara. Hundreds of protesters also converged Tuesday
outside the U.S. Embassy here and shouted anti-U.S. slogans, while others burned
an American flag in the Zocalo central plaza.

U.S. Ambassador Jim Jones joined in the criticism, calling the vote a mistake
marring smooth relations that took a huge leap forward with NAFTA.

"In the passion of some political campaigns, history shows that mistakes can be
made in a democratic system," Jones said. "I believe that this is one such
instance and that it will be corrected through the judicial system."

There were no reports of major disturbances today, although police reportedly
tightened security around the embassy and Zona Rosa.

An editorial cartoon in the daily newspaper Reforma mocked the vote by depicting
the Statue of Liberty with the face of Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler giving a
straight-armed "Heil Hitler" salute.

In the daily La Jornada, columnist Arnoldo Kraus questioned whether Republican
California Gov. Pete Wilson, the chief promoter of Proposition 187, who won
reelection Tuesday, was initiating a campaign of "ethnic cleansing" similar to
that conducted by ethnic Serbs in former Yugoslav republics.

Even before the vote, Mexicans were calling for a boycott of companies that
supported Wilson's campaign, with one flier urging Mexicans to "Say no to Mickey
Mouse." California exports $ 7 billion worth of goods to Mexico annually, and
Mexico is the top source of tourism for the state.

"All of the talk was that this vote was meant to send a strong message to
Washington, but what about the very mean-spirited sort of message it sends
across the border?" said Elsa R. Saxod, executive director of the San
Diego-based United States-Mexico Border Progress Foundation.

"The problems with the economy of California are being caused by a lot of
different factors, but the proposition is pointing a finger at the border and
Mexico ... as if this is going to make the problems go away," she added. "I'm
very disturbed by what's happened."

Saxod said the vote also could have a chilling effect on the scheduled summit of
U.S. and Latin American leaders in Miami in early December. President-elect
Ernesto Zedillo, who takes office Dec. 1 and is expected to represent Mexico at
the summit, "almost certainly would have to speak up against it -- for domestic
consumption if not for anything else," she said.

On the streets of the capital, even Mexicans who were unfamiliar with the
California vote said they were nevertheless aware that migration issues were
being challenged.

"I do not know of this proposition, but we all have a right to look for a better
life," said construction worker Alfredo Ramirez. "We don't go to the United
States because we want to. We go because we have to, so we can help our families
here."

Ramirez said he attempted legal entry into the United States earlier this year
hoping to find work in Texas because he believed that NAFTA would mean the
opening of borders between the two countries.

"They wouldn't let me in, so I came home. If I can't go legally, I don't want to
go at all. I don't want anyone calling me a wetback," he said. "I don't
understand why we have this trade treaty when the United States doesn't want to
help us. How are we supposed to advance?"

Special correspondent Sallie Hughes contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, A NEWSPAPER VENDOR IN MEXICO CITY SELLS THE REFORMA NEWSPAPER,
WITH THE HEADLINE "PROPOSITION 187 APPROVED.", AP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              133 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 19, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Wilson Sees Help On Immigration;
Governor Says GOP Leaders Back Tough Federal Action

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 900 words


California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) said yesterday he had received assurances from
the incoming Republican leaders of Congress that they favor tough measures
against illegal immigrants, including possibly a federal version of the
controversial California ballot initiative prohibiting illegal immigrants from
receiving public services.

In a major address to the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank, and
other public appearances here Wilson demanded that his fellow Republicans pay
heed to the voters of California, who approved Proposition 187 last week by a 3
to 2 ratio.

"The people who voted for 187 voted for a simple proposition," he said. "It was
that the state taxpayers not be stuck with the costs of providing services to
illegal immigrants."

Following private conversations with both incoming Senate majority leader Robert
J. Dole (R-Kan.) and House speaker-to-be Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.), Wilson expressed
confidence that they had heard the message. "I think that both are very clearly
of the mind that it [illegal immigration] is a federal responsibility," Wilson
said.

Although he acknowledged that he had not received "an ironclad guarantee from
either one," Wilson said in a meeting with reporters and editors of The
Washington Post yesterday that the two Republican leaders had agreed "that it
was the responsibility of the federal government to either pay for the costs or
relieve the states of the burden, and I would guess in a time when they are
trying to reduce the deficit it would be more popular with a number of members
of Congress to do the latter."

Neither Gingrich nor Dole has publicly addressed the possibility of a federal
version of Proposition 187. Following his meeting with Wilson, Gingrich said,
"It is a federal duty to protect the border; it is a federal duty to deport
those who are here illegally; and it is a federal duty to bear any costs that
are required for those that are here."

Gingrich, who has spoken favorably of a proposal by a group of House Republicans
to more than double the size of the Border Patrol, added, "the best approach is
to take those steps necessary to seal off the border and end the flow of illegal
immigrants. The best approach is not to have the problem and we should take some
very dramatic, very decisive steps."

Dole said last Sunday on the CBS news show "Face the Nation" that by
overwhelmingly approving Proposition 187 California had sent Washington a
message. "If we're not willing to protect our borders, or able, at the federal
level, we shouldn't ask the states of Texas, Florida, California and others to
pick up all the expense for whatever it is -- education, hospitalization,
welfare. So I think it's an appropriate thing to do to send us a message."

During his successful come-from-behind election campaign, Wilson argued that
while it was essential for the federal government to control the borders, that
would not be enough. During his visit to Washington yesterday, he insisted again
that illegal immigration constitutes an unfunded federal mandate costing
California taxpayers more than $ 3 billion a year, and he demanded that the new
Republican leadership address these costs.

Six states, including California, Florida and Texas, have filed lawsuits
demanding that the federal government reimburse them for costs associated with
illegal immigrants.

Despite its passage last week, Proposition 187, which would take broad action to
prevent illegal immigrants from receiving public schooling, medical care and
other public services, will provide no immediate relief. Since election day,
both state and federal judges have temporarily blocked its implementation in
response to lawsuits brought by opponents.

They have argued that the proposition expressly contradicts a 1982 U.S. Supreme
Court decision that guarantees all children a public education regardless of
their immigration status. But yesterday, Wilson described congressional action
on the issue of services to illegal immigrants as a "distinct possibility" that
"may make unnecessary the delay that is involved in following the appellate path
to the Supreme Court."

A federal law along the lines of Proposition 187 might have a better chance of
surviving legal challenges than the state measure because immigration generally
is viewed as clearly a federal issue, according to some legal experts. However,
many of the immigration advocates who are contesting Proposition 187 in the
courts said that a federal law would also be subject to a long legal battle.

"There is no rational basis for denying an education to any child, so a federal
law barring education would be as unconstitutional as Proposition 187," said
Robert Rubin, an attorney for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law,
which has joined in one of the suits against the ballot initiative.

But even if a federal or a state effort successfully eliminated any government
responsibility to provide illegal immigrants with public services, Wilson
acknowledged, officials still would face the problem of how to determine who is
a citizen or legal resident and who is not.

Congress, Wilson said, has a "responsibility to create a system of verification,
whatever it is, so that not only employers but also those required to dispense
public services will know who is in fact eligible. But first the law needs to be
changed with respect to eligibility."



LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PICKETS PROTESTING PROPOSITION 187'S DENIAL OF SERVICES TO
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS MARCH AT HERITAGE FOUNDATION, WHERE CALIFORNIA GOV. PETE
WILSON (R) SPOKE. JUANA ARIAS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              134 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 28, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

House Panel Backs U.S. Reimbursement for Jailing Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 669 words


The House Judiciary Committee yesterday voted to require federal reimbursement
of state and local costs to incarcerate illegal immigrants who commit serious
crimes in the United States.

California, Florida and other financially strained border states have demanded
such federal compensation, and Rep. Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.) said California
Gov. Pete Wilson (R) asked him to propose making reimbursements for prison costs
mandatory beginning with the new fiscal year Oct. 1.

Over the objections of Judiciary Chairman Henry J. Hyde (R-Ill.) and several
conservative Republicans, the amendment was attached to a Republican anti-crime
bill that would make it easier for the government to deport some criminal
immigrants. The committee did not take final action on the deportation bill, and
federal budget pressures make the ultimate fate of mandatory reimbursements
uncertain in the House and Senate.

Seven Republicans -- five from California and Florida -- joined most Democratic
committee members in supporting Berman's amendment, which was approved 20 to 14.

"There is no reason California should carry the whole burden," Rep. Carlos J.
Moorhead (R-Calif.) said.

Last year, an Urban Institute study indicated the costs were $ 471 million a
year for the seven states with the largest illegal immigrant populations. During
the last fiscal year, the government paid $ 130 million to partially reimburse
such costs.

Some Republicans argued the costs are too much for the nation's taxpayers to
bear. "It's not a problem that belongs to Ohioans. This is truly a budget
buster," Rep. Martin R. Hoke (R-Ohio) said.

But freshman Rep. Michael Patrick Flanagan (R-Ill.) endorsed the reimbursements
based on the "good Republican principles" in pending legislation to curb
unfunded federal mandates on state and local governments.

"If this goes through," Flanagan said, "we'll probably be doing more to . . .
stop illegal immigration than anything else because now we're making ourselves
pay for it."

The deportation bill is among six narrow bills that the House Judiciary
Committee has culled from anti-crime legislation in the Republican "Contract
With America."

Rep. Bill McCollum (R-Fla.) said the Republican majority would offer the
single-issue bills instead of omnibus legislation in order to avoid a broad
floor fight on crime issues. When then-Judiciary Chairman Jack Brooks (D-Tex.)
took the same approach to writing anti-crime legislation in 1993, then-Minority
Whip Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) dismissed the single-issue bills as "pygmy bills."

McCollum said that House action on a GOP campaign promise to increase prison
sentences for crimes involving guns and to prosecute them in federal courts
would come in May, after Republicans' self-imposed deadline of 100 days for
floor votes. Votes on a proposed repeal of a new ban on some military-style
assault weapons also would come then under a plan Gingrich disclosed during a
Wednesday meeting with GOP lawmakers and gun lobbyists, he said.

On a voice vote, the committee approved a bill requiring federal judges to order
criminal offenders to pay restitution to their victims. Another bill to broaden
the rights of police to gather evidence without a warrant was endorsed, 19 to
14, on a vote that closely followed party lines.

A debate about a Democratic amendment to narrow that search and seizure bill
prompted freshman Rep. Sonny Bono (R-Calif.) to rail at the word games of
politicians, especially lawyers on the committee.

"You do know words and you do know how to dissect a word and you do know law,
but you don't know what's out on the street," said Bono, former mayor of Palm
Springs, Calif.

Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.) responded by saying that "some people get
tired of police misconduct," citing the Rodney G. King case and police policy in
some eastern states of stopping African American motorists such as himself to
conduct drug searches.

Staff writer Roberto Suro contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              135 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 28, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Peso Crisis Spurs Migrants' Quest for Dollars

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1337 words


As Congress debates a $ 40 billion loan guarantee for Mexico, would-be illegal
migrants are packing into this border city with plans to head northward as soon
as possible, regardless of whether the package is approved.

A 40 percent currency devaluation that has made a shambles of the Mexican
economy over the last month has provided a major new impetus for Mexicans to
migrate north in hopes of hoarding as many dollars as they can. Migrants say
they will not be stopped by a loan package from Washington, a crackdown by the
U.S. Border Patrol or the anti-migrant backlash from California's passage of
Proposition 187 last November.

"There's nothing to lose and everything to gain," said Hector Camacho, 28, who
arrived here Monday from the Pacific coastal state of Sinaloa with plans of
sneaking into Los Angeles to find work. "The only thing you lose by trying to
cross is time, and that's only if you get caught. But you lose money every day
you stay here."

President Ernesto Zedillo has been caught between opposing forces as his
government negotiates concessions in hopes of winning U.S. approval of the
rescue package. High on Congress's list is an arrangement for Mexico to patrol
its own side of the border and prevent illegal migrants from crossing. But at
home, Zedillo faces intense political fallout if he agrees to any such measure,
mainly because Mexicans regard migration -- legal or otherwise -- as a right
guaranteed by the constitution.

"Under Mexican law, the police cannot stop anyone from trying to cross the
border," a senior official in Mexico City said.

On any given day in Tijuana, hundreds of migrants line up behind a 10-foot-tall
metal fence constructed by the Border Patrol, awaiting the most advantageous
moment to jump over and run to the nearest hiding place on the U.S. side.
Mexican police patrol almost as constantly as do Border Patrol agents. But much
to the consternation of Border Patrol officials, the Mexican authorities never
intervene to halt illegal crossings.

Just as then-President Carlos Salinas de Gortari argued in 1993 that the most
effective method of stemming migration was to pass the North American Free Trade
Agreement, Zedillo has joined President Clinton in arguing now that approval of
the $ 40 billion in loan guarantees offers the best chance of halting massive
migration.

Remittances from the estimated 10 million to 14 million Mexicans in the United
States are second only to oil exports as a source of hard currency for Mexico,
noted Raul Ramirez, deputy director of Casa del Migrante, a Tijuana shelter for
migrants in transit. The attraction of heading north is stronger than ever, he
added, because a dollar sent back home today exchanges for well over 5 Mexican
pesos; before the Dec. 20 devaluation, a dollar equaled only 3.45 pesos.

"It is absurd to think that these people will decide whether to stay or leave
depending on what happens to the [aid] package," Ramirez explained. "Most of
them are illiterate. They don't read the newspapers and probably have no idea
what is being negotiated. All they think is, 'Go where the money and jobs are.'
"

Scores of migrants gather each day outside Ramirez's shelter to eat a final meal
before beginning the arduous trek north. An informal survey by Casa del Migrante
of its temporary residents suggested a dramatic rise over the last month in
migrants heading northward. But the survey also showed a steep increase in
migrants returning after having been intercepted by the Border Patrol.

"The situation is much worse than before. The migrants are getting squeezed from
both sides," said the Rev. Gianni Fonzolato, a Roman Catholic priest who runs
the shelter. "The United States government is closing down the border; the
Californians are saying, 'We don't want you here,' and the peso is so devalued
that nobody can survive on their wages here. What can they do?"

Ramirez said most migrants use smugglers, who charge anywhere from $ 150 to $
500 for assistance as footpath guides or as chauffeurs of trucks that carry as
many as 40 migrants at a time. Often, smugglers rob their clients, force them to
serve as drug runners or collect their fees and then tell the Border Patrol in
exchange for a $ 150 informants' fee, said Border Patrol agent Kenneth Stitt.
Those who cannot afford to pay smugglers make the trek alone.

Because of a four-month-old, $ 34 million Border Patrol program dubbed Operation
Gatekeeper, migrants are changing their tactics and routes in hope of evading
newly installed infrared scopes, seismic sensors and a vast array of other
equipment to thwart passage.

In an incident Wednesday night, a couple with a 19-month-old boy sought to evade
the Border Patrol by hiding in a rain-flooded culvert south of San Diego. The
current was so strong it swept the boy from his mother's arms, and he drowned.

"It would be wonderful if they [Mexican authorities] were involved in
interception, but they choose not to be. But this isn't proper even if you just
look at the issue from the safety standpoint of their own people. Twenty-six
people drowned in flood waters in 1993 because the Mexican police refused to
respond," said William Pink, chief of the Border Patrol's Imperial Beach,
Calif., sector. It is the busiest single patrol zone, with 4,489 apprehensions
of illegal aliens last month.

In all, the 14-mile section of border separating Tijuana and San Yisidro,
Calif., just south of San Diego, accounts for more than 40 percent of all
migrant traffic entering the United States, with the Border Patrol registering
14,011 apprehensions in December. And that was a slow month, according to Border
Patrol spokeswoman Ann Summers.

"We do expect the numbers to start climbing again. Whether it's from the
devaluation or from the seasonal return of migrants for the January [planting]
season in California, I can't say. . . . But we'll be ready for them when they
come," she said. Although the Border Patrol says apprehensions are down by more
than 30 percent from the December-January period of a year ago -- suggesting
that Operation Gatekeeper is having a deterrent effect -- other groups say the
numbers of migrants are increasing dramatically because of the devaluation.

"It's already happening. We're getting reports of mounting droves of people
coming across the border," said Barbara Coe, president of the California
Coalition for Immigration Reform, the organization that spearheaded the
statewide campaign leading to November's approval of Proposition 187, which
limits state benefits to illegal aliens.

"It's always been within Mexico's powers to police its own borders and stop
those people before they enter the United States. But until the Mexican
government starts showing a willingness to cooperate, we shouldn't be giving
them a dime," she said. "If they pass that aid package in Washington . . . we're
going to I.D. the representatives who voted for it and target them [for defeat]
in 1996."

"Our economic problems should not be the problem of the United States," said
Edith Acosta Bello, a housemaid from southern Veracruz state who broke her ankle
during a crossing attempt earlier this month. The experience of being at the
mercy of smugglers and then being chased by Border Patrol agents so frightened
her, she said, that she will never try it again.

"It's our right to travel anywhere we want -- but with documentation and with
honor. You do it correctly or you don't do it at all," Acosta added.

Asked whether a vote by Congress to approve the $ 40 billion loan package would
influence his decision to migrate, construction worker Jose Manuel Tirado
laughed. "Are you kidding? That money isn't for us. It's for bankers and
politicians. For every million dollars they spend for programs to create
employment, another million will go into someone's pocket."

@CAPTION: U.S. Border Patrol agent A. Martinez handcuffed suspected illegal
immigrants detained Thursday in Tijuana River near San Ysidro, Calif.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: DENIS POROY/AP

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              136 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 21, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Coast Guard Intercepts Asians

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 117 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The Coast Guard has intercepted a vessel off the coast of Mexico carrying about
150 illegal immigrants, officials said.

A Coast Guard spokeswoman said officers from three cutters boarded the vessel
Tuesday about 90 miles southwest of Ensenada, Mexico. She identified the
passengers as Asian, but could not say which country they came from.

It was the second interception in a month of a ship off the Mexican coast
carrying illegal immigrants. In March, a vessel carrying 106 Chinese nationals
was stopped by the Coast Guard off the southern tip of Baja California, Mexico.
It was finally boarded by the Mexican Navy Monday and escorted to San Carlos,
near the tip of the Baja peninsula.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              137 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 31, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Pete Wilson Under Siege

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg.  A22

LENGTH: 435 words


LISTEN TO California Gov. Pete Wilson's announcement of his quest for the
Republican presidential nomination: "As we approach a new century, the values
that guided us for 200 years are under siege, and so is America," he declared.
Good Lord, and we thought we were lucky the Soviet Union had been routed. Who
has us under siege now? It's the "nearly 4 million illegal immigrants," and, Mr.
Wilson tells us, "Washington actually rewards these lawbreakers by forcing
states to give them benefits paid for by the taxpayers." He added: "That's like
giving free room service to someone who breaks into a hotel."

Mr. Wilson made these comments standing in front of the Statue of Liberty. He
insisted he had nothing against immigrants, since his own maternal grandmother
immigrated from Ireland "the right way" in the late 19th century. Mr. Wilson did
not mention that there were then virtually no laws against immigration to
violate, or that Irish immigrants ran into a lot of prejudice from Americans who
thought the country was "under siege" from foreigners.

As for the rest of Mr. Wilson's program, it is a collection of fashionable hot
buttons: opposition to welfare, toughness on crime and an end to affirmative
action.

Mr. Wilson, both intelligent and shrewd, presents an unusual profile. His
history is as an utterly unideological politician. He was an able mayor of San
Diego, a "pragmatist," as they said back then. He has always had an eye for the
next big issue, and there is no discernible philosophical pattern in how he
decided what that issue might be. As The Post's Paul Taylor pointed out, he was
an environmentalist before Earth Day and a supporter of campaign finance reform
before Watergate.

After he first took office as governor in 1991, he spoke thoughtfully about a
concept of "preventative government" that would try to identify problems early
and prevent them from becoming crises. He sounded more than a bit like a certain
Democratic presidential candidate from Arkansas who was starting to win plaudits
around the same time. But he fell way behind in the polls in his battle for
reelection in 1994 and knew that "preventative government" would be too wonky to
save him. That's when he discovered that illegal immigrants had us under siege.

Of course illegal immigration is a real issue and a real problem. The other
issues on his agenda are all worth debating, too. The hard part for Mr. Wilson
will lie in convincing voters that his commitment to these issues is rooted in
more than political convenience, and in offering them more than incendiary and
divisive words.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              138 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 01, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

For the Record

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg.  A22; FOR THE RECORD

LENGTH: 284 words


From an interview yesterday with publisher Malcolm Steve Forbes Jr. on ABC's
"Good Morning America":

Nancy Sneiderman: Malcolm Steve Forbes Jr. is considering joining the race [for
the Republican presidential nomination]. . . .  Let me run through a list and
see where Steve Forbes stands.

Mr. Forbes: Go ahead. I just want to make the point I'm pro-growth and
pro-opportunity.

Q: Okay.  With that said, Prop 187?

A: . . . I disagreed with most Republicans. I opposed it. . . . We must fight
illegal immigration, but . . . I want kids in the schools, not on the streets. .
. .

Q: All right.  Obviously, you want to allow immigrants to continue to come to
this country and find other ways to keep the illegal immigrants away.

A: I think you can do it by better border patrols, by reforming the [Immigration
and Naturalization Service].

Q: All right.  Affirmative action?

A: I think Americans should be judged on the basis of ability and character, not
as a member of a group.

Q: Abortion rights?

A: I would oppose abortions in late pregnancies, I would oppose abortions for
the purposes of sex selection, I would oppose mandated government funding and I
would support parental consent. I would hope abortions disappear. If we make
these reforms, we can get a change of heart and a change of attitude.  That's
the only way we can reduce abortions, and that's what I'm going to work for.

Q: Balanced budget amendment?

A: I support a balanced budget.  The way that amendment is written is almost
guaranteed to increase our taxes.  I think there's a right way to do it and a
wrong way to do it.  Politicians for 30 years have done it the wrong way,
clearly.

LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              139 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 02, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Wilson's Shifting Symbols; Detractors Brand Candidate as Opportunist

Paul Taylor, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A01

LENGTH: 1326 words


When he formed a presidential exploratory committee earlier this year,
California Gov. Pete Wilson staged the event at the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association in Los Angeles, a sort of national shrine to the modern anti-tax
movement.

Never mind that in 1978, when Jarvis pushed through the California
tax-limitation ballot initiative known as Proposition 13, Wilson opposed it.

This week Wilson formally declared for president at another expropriated site.
He gave his announcement speech for the Republican nomination in New York City
against the backdrop of the Statue of Liberty, the symbol of openheartedness
toward immigrants.

Never mind that last year Wilson won reelection to a second term in California
by tapping a vein of resentment against foreigners, through his support of a
ballot initiative that called for cutting off education and medical care for
illegal immigrants.

In his campaign for president Wilson also has been denouncing affirmative action
programs. He says they violate one of his four bedrock principles of governance
-- that society must reward individual merit.

Never mind that for a quarter of a century in public life, until the eve of his
presidential bid, Wilson signed or voted for more than two dozen affirmative
action measures -- also, he assured Californians at the time, on principle.

To his detractors, Wilson is a brazen media-age opportunist, a candidate willing
to purge himself of his past in the never-ending quest for the "hot button"
issue he can feed to the electorate -- "whose memory, he knows, isn't any longer
than the last 30-second television commercial," said Larry Remer, a Democratic
political consultant from San Diego.

To his supporters, Wilson is a pragmatic leader with his ear tuned to the
anxieties of suburbia; a thick-skinned, tough-minded executive unafraid to
jettison ideas that haven't proved popular or workable.

"Most Americans thought affirmative action was a good thing in the 1960s but no
longer feel that way," said Wilson's campaign manager, George Gorton. "Pete
Wilson is no different from them."

Gorton added that it was "gutsy" for the governor to come out against the
"politically correct" positions on both affirmative action and illegal
immigration. Both challenges to the status quo, he said, grew out of policy
reviews Wilson conducted in the governor's office, not out of campaign polling.
The fact that Wilson went public with his new positions on the eve of political
campaigns was something that "happened by accident," Gorton said -- an assertion
that has Wilson opponents rolling their eyes in skepticism.

On one point, admirers and critics find common ground. They say Wilson has
prospered politically in California -- winning 10 of the 11 elections he's waged
in the past three decades -- by playing hot issues against a cool personality.
The resulting alchemy brings more credibility to the former and more pizzazz to
the latter.

"There's nothing especially brilliant about it," said Democratic consultant Bill
Carrick, who worked for Dianne Feinstein, now a U.S. senator from California, in
her losing 1990 gubernatorial race against Wilson. "He uses issues to replace
charisma. He knows he has to heat up the issues because he comes across so damn
cold and mechanical."

"He is a steady, stable figure, and when he tugs at people's heartstrings, he
can do it with the credibility and authority of a leader," said Joel Fox,
president of the Jarvis Taxpayers Association. "I don't think somebody should be
labeled a flip-flopper because he's willing to put some new thought into an
issue."

Fox has endorsed Wilson's presidential bid. He said that though Wilson opposed
Proposition 13 in 1978, he cut property taxes as mayor of San Diego during the
1970s and has fought since 1978 to keep the state legislature from watering down
Proposition 13.

While Fox took issue with a $ 7 billion state tax increase Wilson signed in
1991, he applauded the spending cuts the governor pushed through that year to
close a record $ 14 billion state budget deficit. "He's shown he is prepared to
make hard decisions," Fox said.

That's another point on which supporters and detractors broadly agree: Wilson
governs more responsibly than he campaigns. "In a sense, he's a lot like George
Bush -- you do whatever you have to do to win an election. Then you conduct
yourself in office with a sense of noblesse oblige," said Remer.

Indeed, Wilson seemed to go out of his way to invite comparisons to Bush's "win
ugly" 1988 presidential campaign when he spoke this week in Boston. He was
introduced by Massachusetts state Rep. Donna F. Cuomo (R) -- whose younger
brother, Joey, was murdered in 1974 by an assailant named Willie Horton. In
1988, Bush seized on Horton's subsequent furlough from a life prison sentence to
paint his opponent, Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, as soft on crime.

But Remer also said there is an analogy to be drawn between Wilson and the first
political candidate he worked for, former president Richard M. Nixon. "He's
Nixon without the jowls," said Remer. "Not in the sense of having a dark side.
But in the sense of figuring out you can make political hay out of beating up on
society's weak and defenseless."

Wilson was running 23 points behind in his reelection campaign for governor in
the spring of 1994 when he began promoting a then-obscure ballot initiative
against illegal immigration, Proposition 187.

Even though Wilson had enthusiastically supported programs to bring temporary
"guest workers" from Mexico to work California's agricultural fields, and even
though he eventually voted to make legal roughly 1 million such workers who had
stayed in California illegally, aides say that during the early 1990s budget
crunch he concluded that the state could no longer afford illegal immigration.
"This was a decision that grew out of budget realities," said Gorton.

Political opponents say it grew out of polling and focus groups. Wilson's
campaign heavily test-marketed a visually arresting television ad targeting
illegal immigrants -- "They Keep Coming" -- in mid-1994 before putting it on the
air statewide. It proved devastatingly effective. A new version of the ad, which
opens with the same haunting aerial view of illegal immigrants racing through a
border crossing from Mexico, is being aired as part of Wilson's presidential
campaign.

On the subject of affirmative action, Wilson aides say he changed his position
when one of his appointees to the University of California Board of Regents,
Ward Connerly, spelled out to the governor late last year how affirmative action
had become discrimination against whites.

"The governor said, 'Jeez, I didn't realize it was this bad,' " said Connerly,
describing a long telephone conversation they had last Thanksgiving Day. Said
one Democratic operative: "That's like saying, 'Jeez, there's gambling, right
here at Rick's.' Wilson knows it's more complicated than that."

This summer, as President Clinton was reaffirming his support for affirmative
action, Wilson pushed the California regents to drop race and ethnicity as
factors in university hiring and admissions. Subsequently, he has sued his state
to eliminate other affirmative action policies he once supported.

During his reelection campaign for governor last year, Wilson bumped into some
flak for his shift on illegal immigration. But his position on the issue proved
more persuasive than his opponents' complaints about opportunism.

Running for president of the country, surprisingly, is a more intimate exercise
than running for governor of California. Voters pay closer attention to a
candidate's character, over a longer time, in more kinds of forums.

This week as he officially hits the presidential trail, Wilson already is taking
heavy criticism for stealing symbols that aren't his own. It remains to be seen
whether, this time, the attacks will bite.


LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post, WILSON'S TV CAMPAIGN The ad begins
with people dashing over the border into the United States.  Title: "First"
Producer: Sipple: Strategic Communications Inc.  The VOICE-OVER says: "The first
leader in America to have the courage to stand up against illegal immigration.
The nation's first governor to sign both a three-strikes law for career
criminals and one strike for rapists and child molesters.  The first to outlaw
affirmative action quotas in state hiring and end preferences for college
admission.  And the only governor in America to cut spending so much that his
state budget was actually less after four years.  The power of ideas and the
courage to make them happen. Pete Wilson for president."

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              140 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 30, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

At U.S. Entry Points, a Debate Over Efficiency and Security

Anthony Faiola, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1736 words


Federal inspectors, pressured by U.S. tourism companies to reduce the long
delays and mammoth lines that plague the nation's border points, are reinventing
the way international travelers enter the United States.

At U.S. gateway cites from New York to Miami to Otay Mesa, Calif., border
agencies are changing procedures and relying on new technology to get tourists
through checkpoints more quickly by reducing the number of travelers they must
interview and inspect.

Such measures are being tried even as airports have beefed up other forms of
security, such as checking photo identification, in the wake of the Oct. 1
conviction of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman and his followers for plotting terrorism
attacks in New York.

Federal border agencies and tourism executives argue that the inspection
measures pose no threat to national security or immigration efforts, and could
even enhance enforcement while significantly reducing the time it takes to enter
the country.

Tourism executives, meanwhile, say the measures are necessary to boost the
number of international visitors to the United States at a time when the number
of foreign tourists, who are more free-spending than their domestic
counterparts, is declining.

But security experts and lawmakers worried about terrorism and illegal
immigration are calling the efforts misguided at best and potentially dangerous,
particularly at a time when the threat of border breaches loom large in the
national psyche.

"It's such a stupid idea that it's hard to accept it's even happening," said
Neil Livingston, a Washington-based expert on terrorism and security. "I'm
sorry, but I have a hard time believing that we should be streamlining our
border entry system at a time when there's never been a greater need for
security -- especially since it's essentially sacrificing our security layers
just to pacify the tourism industry."

Some prominent lawmakers worry that any reduction in physical inspections of
visitors could compromise security at U.S. borders.

"We are in a day and age when we need to be very prudent in all these areas,
immigration, security," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), an outspoken
critic on some inspection reductions proposed by federal agencies in July to the
Vice President's National Performance Review.

"In all my years either as mayor or senator, I have never once heard a complaint
about the time it takes to go through the security lines [at the U.S. border].
People understand their importance . . . some find out very quickly how to
defraud any system," she said.

For years U.S. airlines have argued fiercely that slow-moving federal inspection
lines have hampered their connection systems at gateway airports. In Miami, for
example, American Airlines officials said heavy traffic and slow lines caused up
to 50 percent of their passengers to miss connecting flights on busy travel days
this summer. Other tourism leaders and lobbying groups have argued that the
inconvenience of the inspection system is one of the largest deterrents to
repeat visits by foreign travelers, who collectively spent $ 77.9 billion in the
United States in 1994.  This year, while some popular border points such as
Miami and New York continue to see record numbers of international tourists, the
United States as a whole is projected to have a 4 percent drop in foreign
visitors, its third decline in as many years. Many factors have contributed to
the losses, including recessions in foreign countries, such as Japan, that
typically send large number of visitors to the United States and an
international perception of violence in major U.S. cities. Yet tourism experts
argue that border hassles contributed to the loss.

"It's not something that anybody can document and say, 'Oh, we're losing 10
[percent] or 15 percent of our business because of the difficulty in clearing
the border,' " said Aubray King, executive director of Travel and Tourism
Government Affairs Council, an industry lobbying group. "There's a common
consensus that the problem is big enough that we're turning off visitors from
coming to the United States."

Tourism leaders argue further that the solution to the problem is broader than
faster checkpoints at U.S. borders. During the White House Conference on Travel
and Tourism, which begins today here, private tourism executives and federal
administrators are expected to call for an overhaul of the national visa system.
They will propose that lawmakers approve legislation expediting the process to
obtain visas, and increase the length of stay permitted for visitors of
countries that send large number of tourists to the United States, including
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Korea, Taiwan and Venezuela.

"We have an arrogant attitude when it comes to foreign tourists in this
country," said Greg Farmer, U.S. undersecretary of Travel and Tourism. "We don't
understand the economic importance of their dollars to our economy. If we did,
certainly we wouldn't make it so difficult for them to get here."

U.S. border policy has been evolving for years, as U.S. airlines and other
tourism company have complained about waits and government itself has looked
inward to find ways to cut its own bureaucracy. The U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) and the U.S. Customs Service, the two main
processing agencies at American borders, have searched for more efficient
clearance methods.

"It's been an ugly, awful situation . . . complaints about [the relationship
between] Customs and INS have dated back to Teddy Roosevelt," said Elaine
Kamarck, senior policy adviser to Vice President Gore. "There are horror stories
of two sets of drug-sniffing dogs going through the same baggage, inspectors at
the agencies not coordinating their work breaks. At one point, we were ready to
propose just one border agency. But then everybody screamed bloody murder . . .
One thing is clear. We need to bring them into the 21st century and get rid of
the bureaucratic glut."

To that end, several inspections experiments have been launched nationwide.

Perhaps the most ambitious is the Customs-INS "re-invention" lab at Miami
International Airport.

The border agencies in Miami began making major changes in late June after
record numbers of international passengers poured into the airport,
overburdening inspectors. On the heaviest days, weary passengers waited in line
more than three hours for processing -- fights broke out in lines, and about 25
percent of passengers were missing their connecting flights. Today, however,
many passengers are whisking through in 30 minutes or less.

Lynn Gordon, director of South Florida's U.S. Custom's branch, walked the
winding halls of Miami International Airport recently and talked about the
changes. "We've moved passengers along quicker, yet we can still go home and
sleep well at night," she said. "We have not compromised enforcement. We have
actually improved it by being more selective of who we flag" for searches.

Today all U.S.-bound passengers landing in Miami still must be processed through
immigrations, though large foreign tour groups are lumped together for briefer
interviews. Foreigners only changing planes for international flights also are
grouped separately in a flight lounge to await flights, avoiding federal
inspections.

Once U.S.-bound foreigners proceed to customs, the vast majority no longer have
to go through a second round of interviews with inspectors that often took up to
three minutes per passenger. Instead, they simply hand in a declaration form and
depart in seconds.

The changes are able to be made in part because federal inspectors work together
to weed out potential threats before they land at the airport. Inspectors
automatically receive passenger lists from arriving flights before they leave
foreign soil These names then are cross-checked against international and
domestic criminal records to flag suspected troublemakers.

Airlines, however, are under no obligation to provide the information -- and to
date, only 65 percent of the arriving passengers are electronically screened
before they land.

Customs officials also have added more drug-sniffing dogs and plain-clothes
inspectors who mingle with arriving passengers and look for trouble signs. Since
the changes went into place, enforcement successes have been mixed. For example,
while inspectors seized more cocaine in July -- 255 pounds, compared with 49.28
pounds in July 1994 -- they seized less marijuana -- 187 pounds in July 1995,
compared with 463 pounds in July 1994, according to customs officials.

Among further changes being contemplated at the Miami airport: Doing away with
some of the informational forms foreign travelers are asked to fill out. "What
good is a piece of paper listing the address where [an international visitor] is
going to stay while he's here?" Gordon said. "Let's face it, if he's a bad guy,
he's going to lie anyway."

Other tests are ongoing in cities across the country. In the New York area,
federal officials have conducted a two-year test with an electronic hand
scanner, used with a "smart card" that carries the contours of a traveler's
handprint, to process passengers quickly through immigration lines at Kennedy
International and Newark International airports. The more than 50,000
participants in the program are pre-screened and background-checked by federal
officials.

But the experiment has been plagued with problems. A Justice Department audit of
the INSPass files showed that it contained major factual errors on enrolled
participants. Out of 150 passengers sampled, the INSPass database had incorrect
information on 75 passengers. The errors included the incorrect sex, incorrect
country of residence, and an incorrect or missing passport numbers.

Even proponents of change are not ready to put their full faith in technology as
the answer to the problem. Kamarck, Gore's senior adviser, isn't yet a true
believer of an experiment in Otay Mesa, Calif., where federal inspectors are
testing a commuter lane on the Mexican border that allows pre-screened drivers
to take their vehicles over the border without interviews.

"We need to take a wait-and-see position on that one, I think it's much easier
to [fool inspectors] in a car than in person," Kamarck said. "Obviously, we want
change, but we want to be careful too."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              141 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 5, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. to Ease Strict Chinese Asylum Policy

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 359 words


President Clinton has decided to modify a restrictive asylum policy on Chinese
immigrants who claim they are fleeing coercive family planning practices to
allow some individuals to remain here on humanitarian grounds, U.S. officials
said yesterday.

The new policy will be presented in Capitol Hill briefings today, the officials
said, and it is expected to open a new debate between antiabortion legislators
who seek more open policies and those whose main concern is the fight against
immigrant smuggling.

About 1,000 Chinese are in detention around the United States because they were
caught trying to enter the country illegally on smuggling ships or by other
means. Many have sought asylum on the grounds that China has an abusive family
planning policy that includes forced abortions or sterilizations.

Administration officials said the new directive seeks to clarify their status
and set policy for the future.

It will remain difficult to win asylum on the grounds that China's policies are
cruel. Only those demonstrating that they specifically could be persecuted will
be allowed to stay here.

But the officials said Clinton wanted to create a mechanism by which some of
immigrants would be allowed to remain in the United States instead of being
forced to return to China when they are denied asylum.

Under the new policy, directors of Immigration and Naturalization Service
district offices will be given leeway to grant stays of deportation on
humanitarian grounds.

The Bush administration had a more lenient policy of granting asylum to Chinese
who simply claimed they feared persecution for their views on birth control.

Clinton's decision takes on a special importance because for the past year the
administration has been waging a battle of perception with Chinese immigrant
smugglers.

Some officials within the administration have argued that the new policy sends a
welcoming signal.

Acknowledging that a vigorous internal debate has been waged for several weeks,
an official speaking in support of the policy change said, "we want to provide
some relief, but we don't want to send a signal that the door is open."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              142 of 351 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 1995 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

FOR THE RECORD

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 318 words


From "Genes, Brains and Bunk," by Bernard A. Weisberger, in the April issue of
American Heritage:

{lcub}In 1907{rcub}, amid a growing debate on immigration restriction, President
Theodore Roosevelt recommended to Congress . . . a commission that would turn
the clear light of social science on the matter and provide an unbiased
information base for future laws. . . . The commission decided to concentrate
its attention on the "new" immigration that had begun in 1883, when the major
sources had shifted to southern and eastern Europe.

Its members {lcub}the commission said{rcub} "avoided agricultural pursuits"

and "congregated . . . in sections apart from native Americans." It was, "as a
class . . . far less intelligent than the old {lcub}immigrants{rcub}" and
"actuated . . . by different ideals," thereby creating "a widespread feeling of
apprehension" about its effect on "the economic and social welfare of the
country." . . .

{lcub}This opened{rcub} the door for immigration quotas that would pinch down to
a trickle the inflow of "undesirable" eastern and southern Europeans.

These were enacted in 1921 and 1924 and stayed in force until 1968.

Astonishingly, the commission {lcub}published{rcub} a finding that undercut its
underlying presumptions of inherent racial tendencies that worked against
assimilation. A study of the physical measurements of some New York Italian and
Jewish immigrants and their children, undertaken by the distinguished
anthropologist Franz Boas, showed that within a generation even such supposedly
immutable characteristics as the shape of the head began to change. . . .

{lcub}That is{rcub} reassuring to the millions and millions of us who are
descended from that 1883 to 1924 migration. . . . Somehow our grandparents and
great-grandparents who made it here, instead of being denied opportunities on
the basis of so-called research, were given a fair chance.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              143 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 19, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

When Judges Fail

Judy Mann

SECTION: METRO; Pg. E03; JUDY MANN

LENGTH: 825 words


Fauziya Kasinga is a 19-year-old native of Togo who fled to avoid a forced
polygamous marriage and the female genital mutilation that she knew she would
have to undergo as a condition of marriage. She sought political asylum in the
United States, but an immigration judge turned her down, and she has now spent
more than a year in American detention facilities.

Hers is one of a handful of cases in which women from parts of Africa where
mutilation is widely practiced have sought asylum on the grounds that they face
persecution. Judges' rulings have been mixed.

Kasinga's case was heard by Donald V. Ferlise, an immigration judge in
Philadelphia, who provided an extravagant display of ignorance about tribal
customs in certain African countries where women are nothing more than chattel.
Picking his way through her story, he dismissed her as not being credible and
concluded, "It just doesn't make sense." To us, perhaps it does not, but if
nothing else, this case is another piece of potent evidence that judges
reviewing these cases need to be far better informed about the powerlessness and
plight of women who are subjected to this harmful, often deadly, procedure.

Kasinga's story, drawn from court papers, is an unusual one because it begins
with the fact that her father was prosperous and progressive. A member of the
Tchamba-Kunsuntu tribe, he married outside his tribe to a woman who had not been
mutilated, and he did not allow his daughters to be. He provided them much more
education than is the norm. Kasinga's four sisters all were in monogamous
marriages when their father died and Kasinga came under the control of her
father's sister, a widowed aunt.

Merrick Posnansky, emeritus professor of history and anthropology at the
University of California-Los Angeles, filed a deposition on the Tchamba-Kunsuntu
tribal customs that now is part of an appeal of Kasinga's prepared by Prof.
Karen Musalo of the International Human Rights Clinic at American University's
school of law. An expert on Togo, Posnansky stated that in this particular
tribal group, "the father's family always has control when the father dies. When
this happens, the wife is typically banished from the family home and often
loses authority over and responsibility for her children."

Court records filed in her immigration case detail Kasinga's plight this way:

After her father's death, Kasinga returned from school in Ghana to her family
home, where she found her aunt living and her mother gone. Her aunt had arranged
for her a marriage with a 45-year-old former politician who already had three
wives. Under tribal custom, his fourth wife would serve as a maid to the first
three and their children.

Kasinga refused to go along with the plan, but on Oct. 17, 1994, separate
marriage ceremonies were performed. Although she refused to sign the
certificate, she is lawfully married.

She was to be kept in a former storage room for several days until the
circumciser mutilated her. But with $ 3,000 from her mother and the aid of a
sister, she fled Togo for Ghana and caught the first plane out of there -- which
was going to Germany. Her husband enlisted police to find her.

In Germany, she wandered the airport until a young German woman befriended her
and allowed her to stay in her apartment in exchange for cooking and cleaning.
Two months later, Kasinga met a young Nigerian man who advised her to seek
asylum in the United States, where she had relatives, and launched her on her
way by selling her his sister's passport for $ 600. Kasinga arrived at the
Newark airport on Dec. 17, 1994, and promptly requested asylum. She was placed
in custody and initially held at the Esmore facility in Elizabeth, N.J., but
after riots there, she was transferred to the Lehigh County Prison in Allentown,
Pa. On Aug. 25, Ferlise denied her asylum.  Musalo, in the appeal, is arguing
that Kasinga's legal counsel for her initial hearing was well below standards
and that the judge "relied upon non-existent inconsistencies, and made incorrect
assumptions about cultural norms in Togo."

It is a strong brief, with Kasinga's account about what would have happened to
her in Togo backed up at every turn by Posnansky's research.

"People aren't aware of the attitudes and the ignorance some of these judges
display in making decisions about people's lives," Musalo says. "It's an
appalling decision, but it is not unusual. There are some very good judges, but
side by side there are some that are incredibly irresponsible in how they deal
with these life-and-death matters."

A request for humanitarian release for Kasinga was denied on Nov. 15. She turned
19 on Jan. 1, having spent six months among criminals in a jail. At the very
least, she should be released while her appeal is being considered. This is a
plucky young woman who has shown a lot of courage. She's the kind of person we
should want to protect, not further persecute.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              144 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 09, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Our Well-Trained Judges

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 341 words


We wanted to express our consternation with a Jan. 19 column by Judy Mann,
titled "When Judges Fail" [Metro], about the background and training of our
immigration judges.

Our immigration judges must decide who is and who is not statutorily eligible
under the immigration laws of the United States to enter and stay here. With
that oath is the knowledge that their decisions affect people's lives in
profound and compelling ways. They are not the imperious and unfeeling despots
Ms. Mann would like the public to believe.

In any asylum case, the alien bears the evidentiary burdens of proof and
persuasion in applications for withholding of deportation or asylum. It is
important to note that not just any fear of persecution will suffice to sustain
the alien's burden. This persecution or fear of persecution must be "on account
of " the individual's race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular
social group or political opinion. This requires a showing by credible, direct
and specific evidence that would support a reasonable fear that the alien faces
persecution on account of one of the grounds listed above.

With respect to the background and training of our immigration judges: Each has
a combination of litigation, immigration and judicial experience -- many with
experience in all three areas. Also, many have a combination of private,
government and academic experience. Indeed, some are recognized practitioners
and experts in immigration law from the private sector.

To augment that experience, the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge has placed
much emphasis on their continued training. To that end, each of our judges has
received numerous hours in asylum and gender-based asylum training. In fact, all
new immigration judges receive this training, and it is updated for all of our
judges at their annual Immigration Judges Conference.

ANTHONY C. MOSCATO

Director

MICHAEL J. CREPPY

Chief Immigration Judge

Executive Office for Immigration Review

U.S. Department of Justice

Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: February 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              145 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 11, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Honoring Immigrants Who Excel; Group Puts Spotlight On Those Here Legally

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 944 words


They are all accomplished: a general, a law school dean, a businessman, a
doctor, a cancer researcher, two community activists, a politician and a high
school senior who aced the college boards. And they have something else in
common: They are all legal immigrants to the United States.

For both reasons, these nine people were honored this week by the American
Immigration Lawyers Association to highlight the positive aspects of immigration
at a time when Congress is considering strong measures to limit it.

"We felt it was time to start recognizing immigrants for their contributions,"
said Laura Foote Reiff, vice president of the association's District chapter.
"It's ironic that in a nation of immigrants, we have to take time out to honor
extraordinary new Americans whose patriotism, hard work and dedication to our
shared values have made our country more prosperous and unique."

A bill that would slash by almost 19 percent the number of foreigners allowed to
immigrate to the United States is expected to come up for a House floor vote
next month. A similar bill is pending in the Senate.

At the same time, organizers and some honorees said they hoped the awards would
educate people about immigration. Many Americans tend to confuse legal
immigrants with people who enter the United States illegally, "those who . . .
cross the border, climb over the fences," Reiff said.

That confusion is frustrating for legal immigrants such as Pedro Aviles, 37, one
of the honorees. Born in El Salvador, Aviles came to this country as a teenager
to join his mother, who was working in the United States legally. Aviles is
executive director of the Latino Civil Rights Task Force, an advocacy group that
grew out of disturbances in the heavily Latino neighborhood of Mount Pleasant in
May 1991.

"I feel sometimes that these are the toughest times that immigrants are facing,"
he told the audience of about 150 gathered at the Georgetown University Law
Center for the awards ceremony.

More than ever, he is conscious of his accent and skin color. That, in turn,
affects his behavior, he said. A few months ago, he asked his girlfriend, a
non-Hispanic white, to hold an item of clothing that he was taking back to a
local department store for an exchange. Because the store had never removed the
plastic anti-theft device, Aviles was worried about what might happen if the
device set off security alarms.

"Just because I look different, because I am an immigrant, I think to myself
that I may be more subject to being frisked or something," he said in an
interview.

Most of the nine honorees are permanent, legal residents of the United States;
the rest are U.S. citizens. With the exception of Aviles, whose mother sponsored
him to come to the United States, the rest came as students, refugees fleeing
persecution or on work permits.

Claudio Grossman, 48, is dean of American University's Washington College of
Law. A native of Chile, he arrived in Washington in 1982 to conduct research on
human rights at the university. Since then, he has been affiliated with the
institution, first as a professor, then as an administrator. He also is the
first vice president of the seven-member Inter-American Commission on Human
Rights.

"What I value from this society is that you can develop yourself to the full of
your potential," Grossman said. "We were given the opportunity and possibility
to be main actors, and . . . it makes us feel we are part of this society."

The most prominent of the honorees, Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Rep. Tom Lantos (D-Calif.), were not able to attend.
Shalikashvili was in Bosnia; Lantos was in California.

Shalikashvili, 59, is the first foreign-born soldier -- and the first draftee --
to become chairman of the Joint Chiefs. He was born in Warsaw, where his father
had fled from Georgia, then part of the Soviet Union. As a teenage refugee
during World War II, Shalikashvili arrived with his family in Peoria, Ill., and
learned English from John Wayne movies.

Lantos, 68, serving his eighth term in the House, was born in Budapest. As a
teenager, he was a member of the anti-Nazi underground. He came to the United
States in 1947 to complete his undergraduate and graduate degrees. In the House,
he has been an outspoken advocate for human rights.

The other honorees were:

Shukdeo Sankar, 32, a native of Guyana, a staff physician at Washington's
Whitman-Walker Clinic since November 1994. He graduated from medical school in
Jamaica when he was 22 and came to the United States for a residency in internal
medicine at Howard University Hospital. He is the only physician providing care
for indigent patients with the AIDS virus at the clinic's Max Robinson Center in
Anacostia.

Ronnie Mervis, 52, born in South Africa, vice president of Mervis Diamond Corp.
His parents immigrated to South Africa in the 1930s from Lithuania, and Mervis,
who started out as a lawyer, came to the United States in 1980 to work for a
watch company. He runs the business with a younger brother, Zed.

Hermela Kebede, 47, a native of Ethiopia, is executive director of the Ethiopian
Community Center, an organization that provides services to Washington area
Ethiopians.

Liju Fan, 38, of Taiwan, an internationally recognized scientist in cancer
research. He is a research assistant professor at the University of Maryland at
Baltimore.

Daniel Kokotov, 17, came to the United States from Moscow five years ago and is
a senior at the Beth Tfiloh High School in Baltimore. He scored a perfect 1600
on his Scholastic Assessment Tests, the college entrance exam.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              146 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 24, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Seeks Deportation Of 40 Found in Truck

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 653 words


Immigration officials have launched deportation proceedings against 40 people
arrested after the rental truck in which they were riding crashed Feb. 7 at a
Chesapeake Bay Bridge tollbooth.

It was unclear what the decision will mean for the truck's passengers, who
traveled across the United States in a crowded, pitch-black cargo box without
food, water or bathroom facilities, possibly on their way to work sites on the
Delmarva Peninsula.

Officials from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and the U.S.
attorney's office have been tight-lipped about the truck's suspected destination
and whether they would file charges against those who arranged the trip from
Chandler, Ariz. Steve Fickett, INS deputy district director, said only that the
incident "fits the profile of a typical smuggling case."

U.S. Attorney Lynne A. Battaglia, Maryland's top federal prosecutor, said she
expected to file criminal charges in the case. She would not say when her office
would complete its investigation.

Previously, immigration officials told reporters that they hoped to allow the
passengers to leave the United States voluntarily as soon as possible, without
deportation proceedings. Alfonso Quinones, minister-counselor at the Guatemalan
Embassy, said his government issued provisional passports last week to the
Guatemalans being held so that they could return to their homeland.

But Fickett said yesterday that immigration officials had served all 40 of the
immigrants with "orders to show cause" why they should not be deported. To try
to avoid deportation, each of them may post bond, ranging from $ 7,500 to $
20,000, and face a hearing before an immigration judge, Fickett said. He said he
could not comment on why the action was taken.

Latino advocates were unsure how to interpret the INS action. Henry Quintero,
director of the Latino Civil Rights Task Force of Maryland, said he feared that
immigration officials might be trying to punish the truck's passengers, who
emerged disoriented and dazed after the 48-hour journey. At the same time,
hearings would provide the passengers with an opportunity to make their case to
a judge with the help of legal counsel and to be released on bond.

Some local families have said they are willing to open their homes to the
immigrants if they are released on bond, Quintero said. Officials at the Howard
County Detention Center said they were deluged with phone calls from people who
wanted to help Genaro Cux-Garcia, a Guatemalan man who gave newspaper interviews
Thursday, as well as other passengers from the truck.

Quintero said local Latino activists and lawyers formed a pro-immigrant lobbying
group after the Bay Bridge crash and a recent sweep of employers in Bethesda and
Rockville in which 83 immigrants were arrested.

Quintero questioned whether the people operating the rental truck were part of
an organized smuggling ring or simply minor players in the haphazard and
flourishing trade that facilitates the movement of people into the United States
illegally.

Maria Reyes, a legal advocate at Casa de Maryland in Langley Park, said one of
the truck's passengers called her yesterday seeking assistance because he was
being asked to pay a $ 20,000 bond.

"It does sound excessive," Reyes said. She said the truck's passengers probably
have few options to avoid deportation unless they qualify for political asylum
or have family members in the United States who can sponsor them for legal
residency.

Cux-Garcia, in an interview Thursday, said he arrived in Chandler after a 30-day
journey by bus and by foot through Mexico and into southern Arizona that
included an attack by masked bandits in southern Mexico. He said he was then
ushered into a truck by newly made acquaintances. He was told that he was on his
way to "Virginia," a place he had never heard of before, and that he might find
construction work there.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              147 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 01, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Keeping Freedom's Door Open; Immigrants Protest Proposed Crackdown on Asylum

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 885 words


When Svetlana Tepavcevic, 25, fled Sarajevo in 1994 after months of shelling,
she was a nervous wreck. At first she did little but sleep, attend counseling
sessions and worry about her parents, both in the hospital at home. Only after
three months in the United States did she feel strong enough to begin applying
for political asylum.

When Pedro Munoz, 28, walked across Mexico last year and crossed the U.S. border
to escape military death threats in Guatemala, he spoke no English and had no
legal papers. It took him three months to assemble enough documents to prove
that he had a "well-founded fear of persecution" at home.

When Rosamond Davis, 30, escaped from Liberia in 1993, her back was still raw
from beatings by rebel soldiers. She arrived penniless and did not discover for
several months that free legal assistance was available to apply for asylum.

The first lawyer Davis had consulted "told me I had to pay $ 100 for each visit,
and I had no money," she said. "So for a long time I did nothing at all."

All three immigrants spent yesterday in the Capitol lobbying against proposals
to reduce all kinds of immigration. They said they could not have obtained
asylum under time limits being proposed by Republicans in the House and Senate.
If the measures pass, refugees would have to apply for asylum within 30 days of
their arrival. If caught at a border or airport, they would have to make their
claim on the spot.

"It's terribly unfair," said Tepavcevic, who lives in Los Angeles. "When
refugees get here, they feel lost and depressed. They don't know how the system
works, they don't have documents, most don't speak English. The asylum process
is very arduous. To expect people to complete it in 30 days is just impossible."

Munoz, now a child-care worker in Mount Pleasant, said: "When I arrived, I had
no idea such a thing as asylum existed. Once I found out, I had to get people to
send testimony and letters and news articles from Guatemala, and I was still
scared to go for the interview. I never could have been ready in one month."

To obtain asylum, an immigrant must prove that he or she is likely to be
persecuted if sent home. Federal immigration officials say that in the past,
many immigrants applied for asylum even if they had virtually no chance of
winning, largely because applicants were given work permits. That led to a
backlog of 400,000 cases by 1994, but officials have accelerated the review
process since then and now deny work permits to applicants for the first six
months.

The proposed asylum crackdown is part of a broad legislative effort to tighten
immigration in all forms -- from illegal border-crossings to the arrival of
relatives of immigrant U.S. citizens. Yesterday, as the Senate Judiciary
Committee began debating one of the proposals, immigrant groups gathered to
counter the attack.

"Immigrant-bashing has got to come to an end," Rep. Patsy T. Mink (D-Hawaii)
said to cheers from Asian American immigrants gathered in a Capitol Hill hotel.
"We should be savoring the contributions all of us have made."

Each group focused on its own major concern. For Asian Americans, the overriding
issue was family reunification. The proposed measures, one sponsored by Sen.
Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) and one by Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), would reduce
by at least 30 percent the number of immigrants allowed to enter this country as
relatives of American citizens, and they would ban most siblings and adult
children from immigrating.

For Li Fu Zhen, 58, an immigrant from Canton, China, such a ban would mean that
her 26-year-old daughter -- who forsook marriage and studied English in
expectation of legally joining her mother in California someday -- would lose
her chance to come to the United States.

"In China, our family was separated by work for many years," said the mother,
who spoke through an interpreter in Cantonese. "I thought once we were here, we
could finally be together."

Sponsors of the legislation say they are responding to public alarm over the
numbers of new immigrants. They say extended families abroad no longer can be
given the same privileges as closer relatives such as parents and young
children. The proposed bills still would allow more than 300,000 relatives of
U.S. citizens to enter each year.

For Latinos, a major issue is the current Immigration and Naturalization Service
crackdown on undocumented workers, including raids last month on restaurants in
Maryland. At noon yesterday, more than 100 Latinos gathered outside the Justice
Department, circling and chanting while dancers performed in traditional Latin
American Indian costumes.

"We see a general threat to workers and families, and we are here to respond,"
said Saul Solorzano, director of the Central American Refugee Center in Mount
Pleasant. "We don't just want to protest; we want to become a special interest
group and seek measures that will promote the rights of all immigrants."

But many of the legal immigrant groups made a point of distancing themselves
from those who enter the country illegally. Some Republicans, presenting the two
issues as intertwined, are demanding that Congress vote simultaneously on
proposals to reduce legal immigration and curb the benefits and rights of
undocumented immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: March 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, frank johnston , Svetlana Tepavcevic, left, from Bosnia,
Rosamond Davis, from Liberia, and Pedro Munoz, from Guatemala, are lobbying
against proposals to reduce immigration.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              148 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 07, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

From Feast to Famine?; Immigration Reforms Would Hurt Ethnic Eateries

Judith Weinraub, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1219 words


From the time he was a little boy in Italy, Roberto Donna hung out in the
kitchen of the country trattoria next to his mother's grocery. And at 18, when
he arrived in America, he had just graduated from a cooking school in Turin with
the highest grade ever earned.

Sixteen years later, from his Dupont Circle office, the superstar chef presides
over an empire that includes Galileo, I Matti, Pesce, Arucola and two Radicchio
restaurants. He employs 250 people, has been a permanent resident of the United
States for many years and is applying for citizenship.

But if opponents of the current immigration policy have their way, such a
success story would be impossible. Changes in the law, proposed in major
immigration reform bills in Congress, would turn away someone with Donna's
background and jeopardize many ethnic eateries as well -- from Greek tavernas to
Chinese dim-sum palaces to the citadels of European cuisine.

The House bill, which is already marked up, is expected to come to the floor
March 19 -- just a week before the California primary. The Senate bill will be
taken up by the Judiciary Committee this morning. Both are complicated, lengthy
documents that reflect a hot-button election-year issue and address legals and
illegals, family- and employer-sponsored immigration, backlogs, refugee
admissions and political asylum.

Many industries, from high-tech to manufacturing, would be affected by the
changes, and they have made their concerns known. The smaller world of
restaurant owners and associations -- particularly in Washington, where both are
plentiful -- has also begun voicing its opposition. In particular, they are
worried about proposals that would dramatically restrict the number of skilled
workers allowed into this country, including both the foreign-born chefs who
rule the kitchens and the staff members who clean up after them.

If American dining took place in a landscape of steakhouses and truck stops from
coast to coast, the bills wouldn't have restaurateurs quaking. But in the past
15 years, with choices ranging from Ethiopian to Thai, Argentine to Indonesian,
Milanese to Sichuan, ethnic restaurants have transformed the way Americans eat
out.

And it's foreign-born chefs who keep those culinary traditions alive.

Listen to Roberto Donna: "The first time you taste a peach, a pasta, a tomato
sauce, that's the taste that stays in your mouth," he says. "And if your mother
gave you the peach, it was the best one she had in the house. You remember it."

Donna acknowledges that American chefs can be masterly too -- up to a point.
Indeed, after his expanding business made it impossible for him to cook every
day at Galileo, he promoted other chefs, first two Italians who went on to their
own restaurants, and then Todd Gray, who is American.

But Gray works hand in hand with his Italian sous-chef, Cesare Lanfranconi. "I
do the menu concept," he says, "but Cesare knows the language, the application
of the idea, the execution of a dish. He knows whether it looks like it should
in Italy. . . . Without his help, it would be increasingly difficult to carry on
the legacy of an Italian in this restaurant."

Josu Zubikarai, the executive chef of Taberna del Alabardero on I Street NW,
also longs for chefs who know the taste of food cooked in the mother country.
"When you're away for too long, you go in the wrong direction," says Zubikarai,
who is Basque. "Here people are used to spicy food. But they don't do that in
Spain, and we want to keep things traditional. . . . And it's also important to
have people who are in touch with new ideas there."

Taken together, the House and Senate bills not only reduce the number of
immigrants allowed in annually but also propose stiff additional requirements.
The House version, which was introduced last summer by Lamar Smith (R-Tex.),
requires four years of experience in the skilled-worker category. And the Senate
version, introduced in November by Alan Simpson (R-Wyo.), while asking for only
three years of experience, adds a $ 10,000 filing fee to be paid to the Labor
Department for each employee brought in.

Smith, who says he eats at the American Cafe, says the requirement for four
years' experience makes good sense. "For two reasons," says Allen Kay, his
spokesman. "Lamar wants to give young people coming out of culinary school in
the U.S. the first crack at these types of jobs. And residency status is such an
extraordinary thing that the congressman feels it's not too much to ask that
employment immigrants have a little bit of experience.

"Besides," says Kay, "let's say you're a customer in the line of fire at a
Japanese steakhouse, with knives flying, your face inches away from razor-sharp
steel. Don't you want a chef with a little bit more experience?"

"What makes these bills particularly grating is that the Labor Department has
determined that there is a shortage of [American] specialty cooks in the
Washington, D.C., area," argues Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer who
represents the Gruppo Ristoratori Italiani, as well as Donna. "A $ 10,000 fee
for a process where the Labor Department has determined there is a shortage
becomes a fine for having an industry that for one reason or another Americans
are not interested in working in."

Even if some high-end establishments could continue to bring in new chefs, many
restaurants could not. "No one would pay $ 10,000," says Joseph V. Shao, founder
of the Metro Washington Chinese Restaurant Association. "The margin doesn't
allow that kind of fee if we want to stay in business."

The bills would also reduce the number of relatives of U.S. citizens eligible to
immigrate -- such as siblings and married children ages 21 and over. Think of
family-run Italian trattorias or mom-and-pop Asian takeouts.

"It's unfair and overly harsh to eliminate whole categories and restrict others
with qualifications so difficult that they're all but eliminated," says the
National Restaurant Association's Christina Howard. "We think our industry
provides lot of opportunity for people. So we're disappointed that Congress is
looking at this issue in the way that they are."

If the restaurant lobby is relatively restrained in its comments, foreign-born
chefs and restaurant owners are not:

"It's a farce," says Pedro Lujan, co-owner of Avignon Freres in Adams-Morgan and
Heller's Bakeries.

"[The changes] are just totally terrible," says Kazuhiro Okochi, executive chef
at Sushi-Ko on Wisconsin Avenue NW. "Cuisine is not only about business. It's
about culture, and Asian culture is growing in this country. If they pass these
laws, it will hurt that growth."

Fearing that they are faced either with raising their prices to pay the $ 10,000
fee for imported chefs, or closing down, restaurant owners are really worried
about their continued existence.

"The consumer will pay," says Charlie Chiang, owner of seven eponymous
restaurants in the area, who estimates that he has helped 15 to 20 chefs
immigrate to the United States in the past 10 years. "Either you raise your
prices or go out of business."

Besides, claims attorney Maggio, the increased restrictions on immigrants are
just plain un-American. "This nation was built on immigrants," he says. "Ask any
native American."


LOAD-DATE: March 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, claudio vasquez for The Washington Post, Many prominent area
chefs probably wouldn't have been able to immigrate to the United States under
proposed new laws -- among them, from left, Josu Zubikarai, Kazuhiro Okochi,
Roberto Donna, Larbi Dahrouch and Chih-Kong Tsai.  Chef Roberto Donna came to
the United States when he was 18.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              149 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 14, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Lucky Visas . . .

Mark Krikorian

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 729 words


Tuesday was the last day to play the lottery.

The Immigration Lottery, that is.

Since the passage of the 1965 Immigration Act, a few countries in Asia and Latin
America have dominated the immigrant flow. In 1986 Congress, addressing what it
perceived to be an inadequate number of European immigrants, authorized the
State Department to hand out "diversity visas" -- a kind of immigration
affirmative action, mainly for Europeans but now also for residents of certain
Asian and African countries that are considered to be "underrepresented" in the
immigration flow.

This year's applicants were vying for a jackpot of 55,000 visas. Last year, 6.5
million people, living overseas or here (some legally, some illegally), sent
their applications to the National Visa Center in Portsmouth, N.H. The federal
government's equivalent of the "prize patrol" notified lucky winners by mail.

The program has few defenders -- even immigrant advocacy groups had resigned
themselves to its elimination. Rep. John Bryant (D-Tex.), ranking Democrat on
the House immigration subcommittee, has called the lottery a "damn outrage." But
an attempt by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the subcommittee, to remove
it from the books was blocked when Rep. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) offered a
successful amendment to restore the program, though at a lower level. Apparently
Ireland's Ambassador Dermot Gallagher was instrumental in engineering this
congressional action, accompanied by representatives with large Irish American
constituencies (when first conceived, the lottery was designed as an amnesty for
Irish illegal aliens, and last year Irish were still the second-largest group of
beneficiaries, after Poles).

Whether the lottery survives will be decided over the next few months, as both
the House and the Senate take up their respective immigration bills.

But what's wrong with an immigration lottery? After all, many states now run
their own lotteries, as do private companies.

First, the diversity it is supposed to introduce into the immigrant flow is a
mirage: Lottery winners accounted for only about 5 percent of total legal
immigration last year. Even with the lottery operating, four countries --
Mexico, Communist China, the Philippines and the Dominican Republic -- accounted
for one-third of all legal immigrants in 1994.

Second, it is rife with fraud. The State Department's director of
fraud-prevention programs calls it a "visa giveaway." The program requires
documents to be presented regarding identity, education and work history. But
corruption is so widespread and documents so insecure in much of the world that
there is no way of determining whether an applicant's claims are true -- or even
whether a lottery winner arriving to pick up his visa is the actual applicant
and not an impostor.

Third, the lottery program is little more than a rerun of the national-origins
quotas that marked the racialist immigration policy of the 1920s. Far from
favoring countries that send few of their sons and daughters to America, the
lottery was born as an affirmative-action program for white immigrants. Even the
new version of the lottery, as resuscitated by Rep. Schumer, includes in its
list of eligible countries eight of the top 20 sources of immigrants between
1992 and 1994, while many "low admission"' countries, as they're called, are not
eligible. It's not clear how the countries included in the lottery even got on
the list, but it appears that ethnic politics played a major role, harking back
to the "more-people-who-look-like-me" immigration policy we had until 1965.

Finally, by offering much of the world's population the opportunity to take a
chance on a lottery visa, we may well be encouraging people to immigrate who
previously may have had no inclination to take such a step. When, as in the case
of most lotteries, the would-be immigrant ends up empty-handed, the seed of an
idea -- migration to America -- remains as a possible inducement to pursuing
that aspiration through illegal means.

In short, the immigration lottery is a sham: It doesn't perform as advertised,
it is a corrupt, racialist throwback, and it may exacerbate illegal immigration.
Its supporters in Congress should be asked to explain what national interest it
serves.

The writer is executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              150 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 14, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

...Hello? Big Brother?

Steve Chabot

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 707 words


Imagine a world in which no American citizen is permitted to work until a
massive federal government has given its permission -- permission that will be
granted, if at all, only after the person's name has been fed into a federal
computer system and a worker "verification" number has been issued and recorded.

Something out of Orwell or Huxley? Sadly, this scenario has been proposed as law
under the cover of a much broader "immigration reform bill" submitted to
Congress.

The goal of the scheme's backers is to prohibit any employee from holding his or
her job unless the federal government has signed off on the arrangement. To
obtain the government's consent, employers would call a federal "1-800"
telephone system. Government would check the employee's name and Social Security
number through a computer system linked to the Social Security database. If the
government rejected the submission -- because a number was wrongly recorded, or
a name misspelled, or a married name used when the computer contained only the
maiden name, or for any other reason -- the employee would have just 10 days in
which to straighten out the problem. Naturally, the burden would be on the
citizen to prove his or her right to work.

I call it "1-800-Big-Brother." It's an unprecedented assertion of federal
bureaucratic control, and it's wrong.

Now, we have to get better control over our borders. But the focus should be on
illegal immigrants and the people smuggling them in, not on law-abiding
Americans. Insidiously, the federal government is conscripting private employers
to act as federal law-enforcement agents. Congress moved down that path in 1986
by requiring employers to check worker documentation. Proponents promised that
turning employers into police would "terminate" the illegal immigration problem.
It hasn't. Now we're told that we need even more of the same medicine.

Even the proposal's strongest supporters seem to understand just how unpalatable
1-800-Big-Brother is to average Americans who have a tough enough time trying to
straighten out problems with the IRS or Social Security. So the approach is
incremental: The immigration bill pending in the House now calls for the program
to be launched through a "pilot project" covering five of our most populous
states.

To soften the blow a bit further, there now is some talk about introducing
1-800-Big-Brother through an initially "voluntary" system. Such a program would
not be voluntary for the citizens whose jobs would be put at risk, but
ironically it is offered as a "fix" to the problems already created by the
employers' document-review mandates. The document-review requirement would
remain, however, and an employer's failure to use the additional "voluntary"
system doubtless would be taken as evidence of bad faith.

Thus would the threat of a new mandatory system be joined with existing mandates
so as to coerce acceptance of a "voluntary" measure. Overburdened and threatened
with still more of the same, the employer is induced to proclaim: "I love Big
Brother."

But whatever strategic refinements may be proposed in order to begin the
project, proponents of the 1-800 system always have been frank about their
ultimate goal: a mandatory, nationwide computerized system covering each and
every U.S. citizen who seeks employment -- just as the bill initially proposed.

With tens of millions of Americans per year taking new jobs, an error rate of
just one percent would mean heartache for hundreds of thousands of citizens each
year. And a recent article in the Los Angeles Times quotes Social Security
officials as saying that the error rate would start at closer to 20 percent and
level off at about 5 percent. That's a huge number of American citizens who
would get caught up in the system every year.

I hope to fight 1-800-Big-Brother on the floor of the House, just as I did in
the Judiciary Committee. Fortunately, there is strong bipartisan consensus
against extending the power of the federal government in this way. From Jack
Kemp to John Conyers, from Americans for Tax Refrom to the American Civil
Liberties Union, people understand this new approach is wrong.

The writer is a Republican representative from Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              151 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 15, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Senate Panel Votes to Split Immigration Reform Bill

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 730 words


In a victory for the U.S. business community and its pro-immigration allies, a
Senate panel yesterday voted to split a controversial immigration reform bill in
a move that complicates congressional efforts to cut back on legal immigrants.

By a 12 to 6 vote, the Senate Judiciary Committee adopted an amendment sponsored
by Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) that divides the bill's provisions on legal
and illegal immigration into two separate pieces of legislation.

The action, taken over the objections of the bill's sponsor, Sen. Alan K.
Simpson (R-Wyo.), dealt a major blow to proposals aimed at reducing legal
immigration for employment and family reunification. While unlikely to survive
in the committee, the measures appear headed for a divisive debate among
Republicans on the Senate floor.

The vote to split the bill was applauded by business leaders and a coalition of
religious, ethnic and pro-immigration groups, but criticized by advocates of
lower immigration. Clinton administration officials expressed concern that the
end result could be to weaken protections for American workers.

"By splitting the measures into two bills, lawmakers can now vote to crack down
on illegal immigrants without restricting the highly-skilled, foreign workers
who help create more jobs for all Americans," said Paul Huard, a vice president
of the National Association of Manufacturers.

Simpson, who is retiring this year after 18 years in the Senate, insisted that
the vote was not a "setback" and that legal immigration, currently running at
about 775,000 a year, will be addressed "in some way" by the Senate. "The issue
will not go away," he said. "The president wants to deal with it, [Senate
Republican leader] Bob Dole wants to deal with it, everybody in America wants to
deal with it."

Abraham said his goal was never to "kill" reform of legal immigration, only to
divorce it from a crackdown on illegal aliens and consider it "in a cooler
environment." He said it was "important not to let a good illegal immigration
bill drag along a poor legal immigration bill." He has expressed opposition to
the Simpson bill's proposed cuts in employment-based immigration from 140,000
available visas a year to 90,000 and to reductions in family immigration by 24
percent in the first five years and up to 43 percent after that.

Simpson reiterated his intention to delete all provisions relating to employment
immigration, saying he was "tired of trying to accommodate" the business
community. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who voted to split Simpson's bill,
has said he nevertheless wants to keep measures he believes protect American
workers from an influx of foreigners under a program of temporary nonimmigrant
visas.

"We're going to continue to push for worker protections," said Labor Secretary
Robert B. Reich. "The president feels very strongly about this. He feels there
is absolutely no reason why employers should be allowed to fire American workers
and bring in foreign temps to replace them with lower wages and benefits."

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), the sponsor of a House immigration bill scheduled
for debate next week, criticized the split, saying that most Americans want an
overhaul of both legal and illegal immigration.

"Our current immigration laws are broken and must be fixed," Smith said. "Those
who are unwilling to address the crisis in legal immigration cannot be serious
about cutting illegal immigration."

Yesterday's vote represents "a setback for Senator Simpson and his allies, but
it is not a death knell," said attorney Rick Swartz, a prominent pro-immigration
advocate. "It significantly increases the chances -- but does not guarantee --
that legal immigration reform will be deferred until after the election."

Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies and a critic of
current immigration levels, expressed worry that the Senate would produce only
"a very watered-down minor bill." Citing polls that he said show public
"frustration with immigration," he added, "The more Congress tries to stick its
head in the sand, the stronger the backlash is going to be. There are just going
to be more Pat Buchanans in the next election cycle." Republican presidential
candidate Patrick J. Buchanan has called for tough measures against illegal
aliens and a "moratorium" on legal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              152 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 17, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Asylum in America: Does Fear of Female Mutilation Qualify?

Linda Burstyn

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 1699 words


A YEAR-and-a-half ago, back in her homeland of Togo, it would have been nearly
impossible for Fauzia Kasinga to imagine anything worse than the fate that
awaited her. She was just 17 years old, and about to be forced into a polygamous
marriage to a man more than twice her age. She was told she would have to serve
as maid to her new husband and his three older wives. And she was to be cruelly
and painfully circumcised.

But that was then. Today, after languishing for more than 14 months in American
prisons and detention centers, after being beaten, shackled and strip-searched,
after being told by one U.S. immigration judge that her story about female
circumcision seemed unbelievable, she is nearly ready to give up.

"I keep asking the Lord, what did I do to deserve this? I can't believe this is
happening," Kasinga told me from York County prison in Pennsylvania on a recent
afternoon. "If I get sent back, I'll be detained by police and my family will
pay a fine, or I'll be in prison for 10 years. And after that, I'll have to go
to my husband. After all this, they'll still force me to be circumcised."

How Kasinga's case is ultimately decided is important not only for her but for
other women who may seek asylum based on fears of female circumcision. An
immigration board's ruling on her case in April will be binding for all
immigration judges and will be the most significant legal decision ever made in
this country about female genital mutilation as it pertains to asylum.

Kasinga's calamitous attempt to escape her homeland began on Oct. 16, 1994, on
what was this young West African girl's wedding day. That morning, she sat in a
room in her family home, surrounded by her groom's wives, listening to them
explain what her new husband, Ibrahim Isaka, would expect of his new bride. She
was told that she must be neat, respectful and deferential, that she would be
required to clean and cook for both him and them, and that she must be
circumcised. Meanwhile, in a ceremony taking place across town, she was being
officially, legally married. Her acquiescence was not granted, but it was not
needed.

Although female circumcision, or female genital mutilation as it's referred to
in the human rights community, is practiced on nearly all the women of Kasinga's
tribe, she and her older sisters had escaped the harmful tradition because her
father, a wealthy businessman, was against the practice. He was able to protect
his daughters and permit them to have what few other women were allowed:
education, monogamy (for his older, now married, daughters) and freedom from
circumcision. But with the death of Kasinga's father came the end to her
protection. As is custom in that patriarchal society, after her father's death,
his sister moved into their family home, banished the mother and took over
complete control of the family.

Just a few months later, Kasinga's aunt forbade her from returning to high
school and arranged instead for the young girl to be circumcised and wed to
Isaka. Despite Kasinga's protests, she was forcibly wed and then placed in a
room -- in her family home -- where she was instructed to await the circumcision
she so feared and rejected.

"I have known many girls who have died from circumcision," Kasinga told me in a
voice barely above a whisper. "My mother's older sister died. I was afraid I
would lose my life, and I was afraid of the pain. My father said we should not
be circumcised."

There are several forms of female circumcision common in Africa and parts of
Asia and the Middle East. According to a brief filed in her case, the
circumcision Kasinga would face would begin with a prayer. She would then be
held down by four men while an elderly woman would cut off the young woman's
clitoris and scrape away her inner labia with a knife normally used for
hair-cutting. Kasinga's legs would then be bound to her hips and she would be
forced to lie in bed for 40 days while her wound healed. At no time would she be
given anything to ease the pain, and the only person she would be allowed to see
during that period would be the circumciser, who would visit her daily to check
the wound, help her urinate and feed her. According to custom, at the end of her
isolation, or "rebirth," Kasinga's new husband would come to see her and would
consummate the marriage.

Rather than submit to this, Kasinga escaped with the aid of her sister's car and
her mother's money. She fled on the first plane out of the country, first to
Germany and then, two months later, to New Jersey, hoping to claim asylum and to
reside with her cousin who lives with his wife and children in Arlington, Va.

Though shocking to many Americans, the debilitating procedure that Kasinga
barely escaped is practiced on an estimated 6,000 women and girls in the world
each day. The State Department and others have estimated that between 100 and
130 million women and girls alive today have been victims of this practice. The
custom has been condemned by the International Federation of Gynecology and
Obstetrics as well as the American Medical Association. The United Nations has
declared it to be a violation of women's human rights. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service has acted as well, issuing guidelines that require judges
and other immigration officials to be sensitive to women seeking asylum based on
this claim.

So why then is Fauzia Kasinga languishing, as you read this, in a Pennsylvania
prison?

According to the INS, it is their common practice, in asylum cases like
Kasinga's, to hold the asylum seeker in detention until the case is resolved,
unless the INS district director determines that it is in the public interest
for the seeker to be released. The general counsel of the INS actually
intervened in this case and recommended to the district director, Scott
Blackman, that Kasinga be released. Blackman refused.

Kasinga's attorneys at the International Human Rights Law Clinic at American
University are challenging Blackman's decision. In a petition just filed in
federal court, they argue that, because of their client's youth, the strength of
her case and her desire to be close to her family, she meets the criteria for
release from detention now. They also argue that Kasinga should be granted
permanent asylum in this country when her case goes up for appeal next month. If
Kasinga loses, she will be forcibly returned to Togo.

At her first hearing, the judge said he found Kasinga's story inconceivable,
nonsensical and irrational. The judge, Donald Ferlise, also questioned why
Kasinga did not simply enlist the aid of Togo police officers to avoid
circumcision, rather than flee the country, and wondered at both her claims of
the prevalence of such a practice in Togo and her ability to have avoided it
thus far. He said that he found it implausible that her mother would have been
banished from her own home and yet informed about the fate of her daughter.
Finally, he ordered that Kasinga be deported back to Togo, saying that because
of her "unbelievable" story, she was not credible and therefore hadn't proved
that she had any well-founded fear of persecution.

It is Judge Ferlise's reasoning that is inconceivable, nonsensical and
irrational. As Merrick Posnansky, a history and anthropology professor at UCLA,
points out in his supporting deposition, Togo police -- who have been searching
for Kasinga since her escape from her aunt's home -- would not protect her from
the circumcision. After all, why should they? Female genital mutilation is not
illegal in Togo. Powerful members of that society, like Kasinga's father, are
often able to skirt cultural norms, and though rare, Posnansky says, it's
perfectly conceivable that Kasinga's father was able to protect his daughters
from this custom. In addition, Posnansky noted, in patriarchal societies like
Togo, it's not uncommon for wives to be banished upon a husband's death, and yet
to be given news of the family.

"She's in a very fragile emotional state," says Kasinga's attorney, Karen
Musalo. "You can imagine, she's a young girl, on her own in a new country,
seeking protection and instead she's found tremendous brutality. She's literally
at her wit's end."

There are many who fear that if women like Kasinga are granted asylum, female
circumcision will become a new, special category within immigration law. They
say that the United States cannot be expected to help everyone, and must not in
cases like this, because they fear hordes of Third World women would be crashing
our gates, begging to be let in.

This claim is both wrong and beside the point. As Karen Musalo points out, "The
question is not should we make allowances for FGM, the question is, do we or
don't we have a commitment in our laws to protect people who flee persecution?
We're not asking for extra special consideration. We're asking for protection
under laws that are already there."

In addition, most of the thousands of females who are circumcised every day are
infants or children. Unfortunately, they have neither the knowledge, the ability
nor the wherewithal to escape their fate, let alone to make a trip to the United
States. Canada's experience is a case in point. Three years ago that country
began to recognize female circumcision as a legitimate claim for female asylum
seekers. Since then, only two women have been granted asylum based on this
categorization.

In the case of Fauzia Kasinga, there is no way to right what has already gone
wrong. There is no way to determine the extent of the damage that has been done
to her psyche and spirit, first by her own insensitive culture and then by ours.
Kasinga should be released from prison, and she and other women like her --
women who might become victims of what has been called the most harmful custom
routinely practiced on earth -- should be protected, not further brutalized, by
the United States. Our government cannot protect the millions of women who are
circumcised every year, but it can help this one woman. It can finally change
her fate.

Linda Burstyn is a freelance writer in Washington. She has written about female
circumcision for the Atlantic Monthly.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, frances jetter for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              153 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 21, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigration Reform on Track

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 232 words


James Glassman's op-ed column of March 12 ["Meet Our Jose"] fails to tell the
full story about immigration reform efforts in Congress.

The Immigration in the National Interest Act (H.R. 2202) actually increases the
number of employment-based visas available for highly skilled and highly
educated workers. It includes specific categories for business immigrants with
extraordinary ability, outstanding professors and researchers, multinational
executives and managers, college-educated professionals and skilled workers.

It also removes unduly strict regulatory requirements on the admission of
temporary, nonimmigrant workers with high skills ("H-1B non-immi grants), while
at the same time protecting American workers from abuses under the H-1B program.

Mr. Glassman also implies, contrary to the facts, that the immigration reform
efforts will end immigration to the United States. Far from it. Under H.R. 2202,
more than 700,000 immigrants will be admitted, on average, over each of the next
five years. This is a historically high and generous level.

Precisely because the United States is a nation of immigrants, we must have an
immigration system that works for the benefit of the American family, worker and
taxpay er -- and for American business. H.R. 2202 will put us back on track to
such a system.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              154 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 23, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Unusual Alliance Transformed Immigration Debate; Wide Variety of Interests
Opposed Congressional Effort to Limit Influx of Legal Aliens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1013 words


A battle in Congress over immigration reform has left participants groping
through a virtual fog of war to find the meaning of what they have done. But
this much seems clear: An effort to fundamentally change America's immigration
system lies mortally wounded in the cross-fire of election-year politics, and
the victors include one of the oddest alliances that Washington has seen in
recent years.

Three days of debate on the House floor resulted in passage Thursday of a bill
that cracks down on illegal aliens but leaves out provisions originally intended
to reduce legal immigration as well.

From the Christian Coalition and conservative Republicans to the Leadership
Conference for Civil Rights and liberal Democrats, the cast of characters
opposing cuts in legal immigration was as broad as the array of issues
encompassed in the overall reform effort. There were concerns about organized
crime, welfare, big government, family values, civil liberties, population
growth, economic competitiveness, the protection of American workers and freedom
from religious and political persecution.

Nevertheless, opponents in the fight agree that the debate has fundamentally
changed since Congress seized on the immigration issue a year ago, thanks
largely to the emergence of a potent, if ephemeral, coalition whose driving
force seems to be America's high-tech industries.

In a sense, the House immigration bill that passed overwhelmingly Thursday
signified a repudiation of the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform,
which last year recommended significant cuts in legal immigration. The
recommendations of the commission, under the leadership of Barbara Jordan,
provided the basis for the reform bills that took shape in the House and Senate
and that sought to deal comprehensively with both legal and illegal immigration.

Both have now been changed substantially. The Senate version was split this
month in the Judiciary Committee, which passed the sections cracking down on
illegal aliens and will now debate legal immigration separately. The House voted
Thursday to strip most provisions on legal immigration and passed a bill aimed
at cutting down the influx of illegal immigrants and making it harder for them
to get jobs and government benefits.

The Clinton administration supported the Jordan commission and says it still
wants to see legal immigration reform. But it swung its support at the last
minute behind an amendment to strip the House bill of its reductions in the
levels of family- and employment-based legal immigration, a move that the bill's
sponsors denounced as an election-year stab in the back.

"The irrefutable conclusion is that they did it simply because of the politics,"
said Rep. John Bryant (D-Tex.), a cosponsor of the House bill. "They believe
that by appearing to act boldly on illegal immigration, they satisfy that voter
desire, and by punting on legal immigration they will not make any ethnic or
business groups mad at them."

Now, Bryant said, "any significant legal immigration reform is dead," and that
means continued dramatic increases in America's foreign-born population, since
annual legal immigration is about three times higher than illegal immigration.

One of Bryant's chief concerns is the effect of immigration on population
growth. The Census Bureau estimates that the U.S. population, currently about
263 million, will reach at least 400 million by 2050 and may rise to 500 million
if current trends continue. The Census Bureau attributes one-third of U.S.
population growth to immigration, both legal and illegal, but some demographers
say the percentage is higher.

Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), the House bill's chief sponsor, holds out hope that
reform of legal immigration can be taken up "another day, perhaps another year."
Although polls show that more than 80 percent of Americans want lower
immigration, he said, "it's awfully easy for special interests to target
particular members of Congress."

On the other hand, asserts immigration advocate Frank Sharry, those "special
interests" represent a wide cross section of society. Thursday's vote was "a
bipartisan repudiation of deep cuts in legal immigration," he said. "It means
that if there is going to be legal immigration reform this year, it is going to
be on the terms of those who embrace legal immigration as a good thing."

His main criticism of the bill is that it was "ambushed" by an amendment,
promoted in a rare floor speech by House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.), that
gives states the option to deny free public education to illegal immigrant
children. It is a provision that White House press secretary Michael McCurry has
labeled "nutty" and that may trigger a veto if a bill containing it reaches
President Clinton's desk. And that, some cynics believe, may have been the
point.

"It's quite clear that once again Gingrich could not resist the red meat of
political opportunity and decided to politicize the bill for the fall
elections," said Bryant. The idea would be to allow Republicans to portray
themselves as tougher than Clinton on illegal immigration, especially in such
key states as California.

"I fear for the future of this debate and the future of politics," said Daniel
Stein, head of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which advocates
deep cuts in legal immigration.

The House bill, he charged, "is a shell of reform," in large part because
"Republicans were unwilling to provide the basic tools to enforce immigration
law." He cited the defeat of a mandatory verification system by which employers
could check the employment eligibility of job-seekers and the rejection of a
secure Social Security card. On the Senate side, he noted, legislators spurned
tougher sanctions on employers who hire illegal aliens and all but buried
efforts to reform employment-based immigration.

"Congress is more than willing to put the onus of illegal immigration on kids,
but it's not willing to put any of the onus on employers, who are the main
engines of illegal immigration," Stein said.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, REP. LAMAR SMITH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              155 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 06, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Louisa Wilson, Justice Official, Dies at Age 88

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 689 words


Louisa Wilson, 88, a past chairman of the Justice Department's Board of
Immigration Appeals, died April 3 at her home in Washington after a heart
attack.

She began her government career in 1940 with the Justice Department. She joined
the Board of Immigration Appeals in 1948, serving for a period as its chairman
before retiring in 1975.

Miss Wilson, a North Carolina native, was a graduate of Randolph-Macon Woman's
College in Lynchburg, Va. She came to the Washington area in 1934 and taught
secretarial school courses and graduated from George Washington University law
school in 1940 before joining the government.

She was a member of Mount Vernon Place United Methodist Church and the
Washington and Zonta clubs. She was a 1978 recipient of the founders award of
the Association of Immigration and Nationality Lawyers.

She leaves no immediate survivors.

CHRISTINE F. HILLENBRAND

Administrative Officer

Christine F. Hillenbrand, 90, who retired in 1969 as an administrative officer
with the Bureau of Safety and Service at the Department of Transportation, died
April 4 at the Sunrise of Arlington retirement home. She had Alzheimer's
disease.

Mrs. Hillenbrand was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. Her family settled in New York
when she was a child. She worked for businesses in New York before moving to the
Washington area in 1939 to be a secretary at the Interstate Commerce Commission.
She continued with the safety bureau when its functions were transferred to DOT.

Her husband of 67 years, William H. Hillenbrand, died in February. Survivors
include two sons, Bruce Hillenbrand of Annandale and Deane Hillenbrand of Marco
Island, Fla.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

MICHIE BARRY

Computer Programmer

Michie Barry, 63, a computer programmer from 1980 to 1994 with the central
computer operations of the Smithsonian Institution, died April 3 at Fairfax
Hospital. She had liver cancer.

Mrs. Barry, a resident of Alexandria, had lived in the Washington area for 16
years.

She was born in Darien, Manchuria, then controlled by Japan and now a part of
China. She came to the United States in 1959 and settled in San Francisco, where
she later graduated from San Francisco State University. She was a computer
assistant at the University of California at Berkeley's school of public health.

Mrs. Barry was a volunteer in the computer division of the Smithsonian and in
the library of the Freer Gallery.

Survivors include her husband of 37 years, Richard J. Barry of Alexandria.

MORRIS ANTHONY LINKINS SR.

Warehouse Foreman

Morris Anthony Linkins Sr., 71, a retired warehouse foreman for Safeway stores,
died of a pulmonary embolus April 3 at the VA Medical Center in Washington.

Mr. Linkins, who lived in Berwyn Heights, was born in Washington. He attended
the University of Maryland and received an associate degree at Prince George's
Community College.

During World War II, he served in the Navy. He was discharged on disability
after being injured in a bus accident.

He retired from Safeway in 1970 after 21 years of service.

Survivors include his wife, Katherine M. Linkins of Berwyn Heights; three
children, Michael Linkins Sr. of Laurel, Morris A. Linkins Jr. of Edgewater and
Linda Marie Bramhall of Adelphi; 15 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.

CAMILLE QUINN CARRERAS

Red Cross Worker

Camille Quinn Carreras, 92, a retired Red Cross employee, died of heart ailments
March 7 at the home of a daughter in Fairfax.

Mrs. Carreras was born in Washington. She began working for the Red Cross here
at age 14 as a file clerk. She subsequently served as a secretary to the
president. She retired in 1965 as an administrative assistant.

On retiring, she moved to Elkton, Md., where she lived until returning to the
Washington area in 1992.

Her first husband, Joseph James Quinn, died in 1944, and her second husband, Leo
M. Carreras, died in 1993. Survivors include two children from her first
marriage, Mary Therese Tessitore of Fairfax and Thomas Joseph Quinn of
Fredericksburg, Va.; five grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: April 06, 1996April 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              156 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 24, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Says Mutilation Claim May Be Basis for Asylum

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 720 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to argue in court next week
that female genital mutilation (FGM), an operation performed on millions of
women in Africa and Asia, can be grounds for political asylum in this country,
especially if the woman is forced to undergo the procedure against her will.

"FGM shocks the conscience because it amounts to an extreme bodily invasion, an
extreme that is compounded when it is imposed under crude and unsanitary
conditions," wrote David A. Martin, general counsel for the INS, in a legal
brief made public yesterday in the case of Fauziya Kasinga, 20, a woman from
Togo who fled to the United States in 1994.

Kasinga requested asylum, saying she feared being forced to undergo mutilation
to please her husband. Her claim was denied by an immigration judge in
Philadelphia last August, who said he did not believe her story. Under Clinton
administration policies that have increased the number of asylum applicants held
in detention while their claims are pending, she has been in prison virtually
since arriving in this country.

The woman's case has attracted wide attention to FGM, a practice that has been
condemned as political persecution by some immigration judges, but accepted as
tribal custom by others. The Board of Immigration Appeals will hear Kasinga's
case May 2 in Falls Church, and INS officials hope the board will establish
clear guidelines for all immigration judges.

"Running through all these cases has been the tension between wanting to protect
people who are most severely at risk of persecution, and wanting to sustain the
broad fabric of immigration control," Martin said in a telephone news conference
yesterday. "This is a whole new realm of asylum doctrine, and this case can give
clear guidance" on how to handle future FGM claims.

Lawyers for Kasinga said yesterday that they are pleased with the INS brief,
because it suggests that the agency is distancing itself from the Philadelphia
ruling. The INS is asking the appeals board to send her case back to the lower
court for a more thorough review.

In the meantime, Kasinga's supporters are seeking her release from a
Pennsylvania prison, especially now that immigration officials seem to be giving
her claim more credence. News reports have described Kasinga as being manacled,
strip-searched and kept in cells with common criminals.

"For me this highlights even more the question, why is this woman still
languishing in detention under horrendous conditions if the INS itself does not
defend the judge's decision?" said Karen Musalo, a lawyer for Kasinga associated
with the International Human Rights Clinic at American University's law school.

Martin declined to answer questions about Kasinga's prison conditions, saying
his agency is involved in litigation over the matter. But he said Congress has
ordered people detained if they are likely to be legally barred from the
country. "For better or worse, that is the doctrine we have to implement," he
said.

In its brief, the INS called FGM "deeply objectionable" to much of the world,
especially in its more extreme forms. A woman's genitals may be partly or
totally cut away, ostensibly to keep her chaste. But the agency said the
operation should be considered persecution only if the patient would suffer harm
if she resisted, and only if she has no recourse to protection from police or
another government agency.

Kasinga testified that she fled Togo at age 17 after her father died and she was
forced to marry a man twice her age. She said her aunt would force her to
undergo mutilation at the man's request, and that she made her way to Newark
through Europe, arriving with a false British passport.

The Philadelphia judge said he found her story inconsistent, and he denied her
asylum. But in its brief, the INS said that once new legal guidelines are
established and new evidence is presented, "it may well be possible" for her to
prove that she would face persecution if forced to return to Togo.

In previous FGM cases, an Arlington judge found last year that a woman from
Sierra Leone would indeed face persecution if returned home, but a judge in
Baltimore denied another Sierra Leone woman's asylum claim, saying she could
essentially choose whether or not to submit to tribal customs.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              157 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 25, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Woman Fearing Mutilation Freed

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A32; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 142 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service released from prison a 20-year-old
African woman who is seeking asylum in the United States based on fear of female
genital mutilation.

The INS freed Fauziya Kasinga, who had been held for two years, most recently in
a Pennsylvania prison, after she proposed new arrangements to ensure she remains
available for all future immigration proceedings. A Justice Department
spokeswoman said Kasinga would stay with a family in Northern Virginia.

Kasinga came to the United States from the west African country of Togo in 1994
and requested asylum, saying she feared being forced to undergo mutilation to
please her husband. The INS has proposed a new framework for asylum claims
similar to Kasinga's, stating that female genital mutilation may form the basis
for asylum under certain circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              158 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 26, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Moving the System, Saving the Girl

Judy Mann

SECTION: METRO; Pg. E03; JUDY MANN

LENGTH: 802 words


Fauziya Kasinga, the 20-year-old woman from Togo who fled her homeland to avoid
a forced polygamous marriage and genital mutilation, has been released by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service after more than 16 months of detention.
It's a victory for her, for the human rights of women and for the power of
public opinion.

Kasinga's cause was first taken up by Equality Now, the New York-based human
rights organization that fights female genital mutilation through letter-writing
campaigns. Surita Sandosham, a lawyer who is its executive director, said the
group became aware of Kasinga's situation during the United Nations conference
on women held in September in Beijing. Layli Miller Bashir, a law school student
at American University who had worked on Kasinga's case, told the group that an
INS judge based in Philadelphia had ruled on Aug. 25 against granting her asylum
and that she faced deportation back to Togo.

Bashir also called the case to the attention of Professor Karen Musalo of the
International Human Rights Clinic at American University's school of law. Musalo
took the case on and is handling her appeal, now scheduled for Thursday. A
request for humanitarian release for Kasinga was denied Nov. 15, and she was
held in the Lehigh County Prison in Allentown, Pa., where she was subjected to
strip searches and housed with criminals. Most recently, she was in prison in
York County, Pa.

Kasinga's plight was first made public in this column in January, where the
argument was made that the judge who initially heard her case showed an
appalling lack of knowledge about tribal customs -- he dismissed her as not
credible -- and that at the very least she should be released while her appeal
is being considered. Since then, other publications have written about her case,
and Equality Now has "been besieged by thousands of individuals who want to help
her," Sandosham said.

Kasinga's cause also was taken up early by Reps. Patricia Schroeder (D-Colo.)
and Cynthia McKinney (D-Ga.). On Feb. 7 they wrote a letter to Attorney General
Janet Reno, urging Kasinga's release and the granting of asylum on the grounds
that mutilation was a form of persecution and that her case met the guidelines
for asylum. Schroeder sent another letter to Reno and to the INS director April
16, saying the conditions of Kasinga's detention were simply compounding a
tragedy.

Last Friday, the INS was invited to brief the Congressional Caucus for Women on
Kasinga's situation. An aide to Schroeder said that members were concerned not
only about Kasinga's situation but also about the quality of the INS-contracted
facilities that house detained illegal immigrants and the kind of education INS
judges are receiving about female genital mutilation.

Equality Now wants to keep up the pressure on the INS to consider female genital
mutilation a form of persecution that merits granting political asylum. It has
installed a special number (1-800-253-9539) open to general supporters of the
effort. The INS appears ready to respond.

This week, the INS made public a legal brief it will use in Kasinga's hearing,
which argues that the fear of being forced to undergo female genital mutilation
-- the excision of the clitoris and often other parts of the genitalia with
knives or sharp rocks -- can be grounds for political asylum. Mutilation can
cause infections, difficulty in childbearing and sometimes death. David Martin,
general counsel for the INS, got it right in the brief when he said it "amounts
to an extreme bodily invasion, an extreme that is compounded when it is imposed
under crude and unsanitary conditions."

Kasinga's case is not going to open a floodgate of millions of women seeking
asylum, Sandosham said. Tribal pressure to undergo the procedure often is
intense, and it takes an extraordinary and courageous young woman such as
Kasinga to take a stand against it.

Kasinga was brought up by a prosperous and progressive father. He had married
outside his tribe to a woman who had not been mutilated, and he did not allow
his five daughters to be. Four of his daughters were in monogamous marriages
when he died. Upon his death, Kasinga came under the control of her father's
sister, a widowed aunt who has insisted on the procedure. Kasinga came to the
United States at age 17.

Her circumstances were unusual, but she and her supporters have forced the INS
to propose a framework for evaluating such cases, for protecting refugee women
and giving them a basis to seek asylum on the basis of gender-based claims. This
is a success story of women protecting women, of public pressure having an
impact and of a government agency responding -- late perhaps, but finally -- in
a humane and decent way.

Fauziya Kasinga has gotten her first taste of democracy.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              159 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 30, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Togolese Teen Criticizes Detainment; Female Circumcision Focus of Asylum Fight

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 876 words


Fauziya Kasinga's eyes were downcast and her voice was a whisper. But five days
after being released from prison, the slight young woman from Togo spoke
forceful words yesterday about her quest for political asylum, which has focused
national attention on the practice of female genital mutilation abroad and on
the treatment of foreigners seeking asylum here.

"I thought the United States was a place of justice. . . . Instead of receiving
protection I was punished by being put in jail. . . . They made us feel like we
are not human beings," Kasinga, 19, told journalists at the National Press Club
in her first public appearance ever. She spoke in perfect, though barely
audible, English.

In Togo, Kasinga said, other girls say they "feel happy and proud" to undergo
the tribal ritual, in which their genitals are partly or totally cut away. "But
I knew it is a terrible thing, a harmful thing that can kill you," she said. "I
would never allow myself to go through that procedure."

What Kasinga reportedly endured to escape circumcision has become the focus of
an aggressive legal campaign on behalf of her and other women who seek asylum in
the United States, claiming they fear being forcibly mutilated if returned home.
In many parts of Africa and Asia, female genital mutilation, known widely as
FGM, is believed to keep girls virginal and wives faithful.

On Thursday, the Board of Immigration Appeals will hear arguments in her case.
Lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) announced last week
that they will ask the board, which is the highest immigration court in the
land, to rule that genital mutilation can be a form of persecution in certain
cases, especially if force is involved.

Such a ruling would set a new precedent for the 179 immigration judges who hear
asylum cases around the country and who have issued widely diverse rulings on
the issue recently. Last year an immigration judge in Philadelphia denied
Kasinga asylum on the grounds that she lacked credibility and that even if she
were credible, the threat of genital mutilation did not constitute a form of
persecution.

An estimated 80 million women have been subjected to genital mutilation,
according to the INS. Most often the crude and dangerous practice is performed
on young girls around the time of puberty. Kasinga said she faced mutilation as
the result of an arranged marriage.

At her brief news conference yesterday, Kasinga described how her prominent
father had protected her from forced marriage and circumcision while he was
alive. After seeing his older female relatives suffer, she said, "he swore by
God he would never allow any of his daughters to go through this."

But after her father's death in 1994, Kasinga said, she fell under the power of
an aunt. She was withdrawn from school at 17 and forced to become the fourth
wife of a much older man. Two days shy of being circumcised, she escaped with
the help of her sister, flew to Europe and finally reached Newark Dec. 17, 1994,
with a false British passport. She was immediately detained and kept behind bars
until last week.

Yesterday, with the long ordeal behind her and arrangements made for her to live
with a Ba'hai family in Virginia, Kasinga said, "I feel like a human being
again."

The case will be heard as Congress is reaching the final stages of debate on
major immigration reform. Republicans have sought to place stricter limits on
the rights of asylum seekers, and the Senate this week will take up a proposal
by Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) to keep certain legal protections in place. INS
spokesman Carol Horman said the Clinton administration supports such revisions.

"The United States is locking up asylum seekers as if they were criminals, under
dehumanizing conditions. If Congress has its way, the situation will become far
worse," Karen Musalo, an attorney for Kasinga, told reporters yesterday.

Under proposed legislation, Musalo said, asylum seekers like Kasinga who arrive
without proper documents at U.S. airports, "traumatized and exhausted," would
have to prove in a one-hour hearing that they have a "credible" fear of being
persecuted. Otherwise, they would be shipped back home "to the very hands of
their persecutors."

Rather than face an immediate hearing and decision as envisioned in the pending
legislation, Kasinga was able to pursue her initial asylum claim in a process
that stretched out over 20 months, allowing her to gather evidence and legal
support.

Musalo and other lawyers for Kasinga alleged that the slender teenager had been
shackled, strip-searched, beaten, tear-gassed, denied sanitary napkins and
housed with murderers during the 16 months she spent in custody.

"The injustice and cruelty I witnessed by our immigration system shocked my
conscience and will haunt me forever," said Layli Bashir Miller, a law student
at American University who worked on Kasinga's case.

Much of the alleged mistreatment occurred at a privately operated detention
facility in Elizabeth, N.J., where detainees rioted last year to protest abuse
by the guards and poor living conditions. Following an investigation of the
abuse claims, the INS ended its contract with the company that operated the
prison.


LOAD-DATE: May 01, 1996April 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 1996

CORRECTION: A story Tuesday about a political asylum case involving a woman who
claims to be fleeing the threat of female genital mutilation misstated the name
of a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The spokeswoman
is Carol Florman.

GRAPHIC: Photo, bill o'leary, Fauziya Kasinga speaks at the National Press Club
here, where she described her escape from genital mutilation and quest for
political asylum.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              160 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 01, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

The Terrorism Law Revisited

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 457 words


THINK BACK about 10 days to the celebratory pictures of the president signing
the terrorism bill. That measure, deeply flawed by provisions restricting habeas
corpus, allowing the use of secret evidence at deportation proceedings and
providing for summary exclusion of asylum-seekers, was hailed as a vital bulwark
protecting Americans against international terrorists. In the rush to pass that
legislation by April 19, the first anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing,
scant attention was paid to Sen. Patrick Leahy, who pointed out some of these
flaws. But this week, when the Vermont Democrat seeks to use the pending
immigration bill to repeal one of them, the administration is on his side.

Every year, thousands of individuals arrive in this country seeking asylum from
persecution. Until recently, this process was subject to a lot of abuse.
Claimants were admitted, given a work permit and released with the understanding
that they would show up some time in the distant future (there were terrible
backlogs then) for a hearing. Most of them simply disappeared into the general
population and were never heard from again. But the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) instituted reforms early in 1994 -- streamlining
procedures, withholding work permits and keeping many claimants in custody until
their hearings -- which have reduced the problem substantially. The system now
in place works well, and both the Justice Department and the INS say there is no
need for change.

But in the rush "to combat terrorism" Congress passed, and the president signed,
new restrictions that create a presumption that anyone seeking asylum who enters
with false documents, or has traveled through other countries to get here, does
not have a valid claim. In these cases, the claimant would have to make his case
to an immigration officer on site, without any guarantee that he can be
represented by a lawyer or even have an interpreter. If he does not persuade
this official, he can be returned to his own country summarily without further
hearing before an immigration judge or review by the Board of Immigration
Appeals.

It is fair to suspect anyone who enters the country with a false passport, or
who has left a place of safety in Western Europe, for example, to ask for asylum
here. But suspicions need to be proved. It should surprise no one that
persecuted people might not be able to apply for passports in their own
countries, or might have to use a false name to get out. And a two-hour layover
in Germany or France on a long flight to freedom shouldn't disqualify an
applicant for asylum. Sen. Leahy's effort, which has the backing of the people
charged with enforcing the immigration laws, should be supported.

LOAD-DATE: May 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              161 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 05, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

The Wrong Number on Immigration

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C06; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 282 words


The April 21 Outlook article by Roy Beck ["The Wages of Immigration"] contained
a significant inaccura cy concerning my efforts to preserve our tradition of
legal immigration. Mr. Beck claimed that during markup of legal-immigration
legislation in the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Kennedy and I worked to
increase the number of legal immigrants admitted to this country each year. In
fact, however, the substitute amendment offered by Sen. Kennedy and myself, and
adopted by an 11 to 4 vote, would have the opposite effect.

The Kennedy-Abraham amendment would only affect immigration under the
"family-preference" and "diversity" categories. Specifically, the amendment
would cut in half the number of diversity visas available and would allocate
family preference visas according to a "spilldown" mechanism.

This new mechanism would ensure that spouses, minor children and parents receive
priority over adult sons and daughters and siblings of citizens in the
allocation of family-preference visas. The net effect of the amendment, apart
from making the structure of our immigration system more rational, would be to
reduce slightly the number of visas available each year under the
family-preference and diversity categories, from 535,000 to 527,000. This number
would be further reduced after 10 years, to 452,000 -- a 15 percent reduction
from current law.

It is true that in setting immigration policy we should be guided by principles
like family reunification, not numbers. But inaccurate claims about numbers can
only distort the debate about the principles that ought to guide our immigration
policy.

SPENCER ABRAHAM

U.S. Senator (R-Mich.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              162 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 28, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 37 words


A photo caption on Sunday incorrectly stated that a 4-year-old legal immigrant
could be deported if pending immigration legislation in Congress passes. The
deportation provisions would affect only future immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1996May 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              163 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 05, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Abused Immigrant Slain After Plea For Legal Services Help Is Denied; New Law
Limits Federal Program to Lawful Permanent Residents

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 4


A week before Mariella Batista, a Cuban immigrant, was shot to death by the
estranged father of her son, the federally funded Legal Services Corp. rejected
her frantic pleas for help in getting a protective court order against the man.

The reason: 12 days before the murder, Congress had adopted a law prohibiting
Legal Services from assisting anyone who is not a lawful permanent resident --
even if private funds, not government funds, are used in the case.

Batista, 28, who had fled Cuba on an inner-tube raft, was in the United States
on "protected parole" status and was less than a month away from an interview
with immigration authorities for lawful permanent resident status, which is
normally granted to Cuban refugees.

Immigrant rights activists said Batista had a long history of being beaten by
the man who eventually killed her and had repeatedly told Legal Services
officials that she feared for her life.

Now, Batista is dead, shot as she approached a family court building in
Riverside for a custody hearing. So, too, is the father of her son, who was
gunned down by sheriff's deputies moments later. The head of the local Legal
Services branch, who tried to help Batista find some other legal representation,
is reported to have been traumatized by the murder, and recriminations have
begun in Congress.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
said he will introduce an amendment Wednesday exempting battered women from the
Legal Services restrictions.

"Steps which should have been taken to protect Mariella from her abusive
[common-law] husband were not taken because Congress denied her the access to
the agencies that could have helped her," Kennedy said today.

According to law enforcement authorities, Batista went to the Riverside County
family law court building on May 7 with her 9-year-old son for a custody hearing
when Felipe Mirabal, 31, her estranged partner, approached and grabbed the boy
from her. Mirabal kissed the boy and then shot Batista as she tried to run away.
Mirabal shot Batista again after she fell on the lawn of the court building
before sheriff's deputies ran out and shot and killed him, authorities said.

Susan Drake, deputy director of the National Immigration Law Center here, said
that besides the victim's son, witnesses to the murder included Irene Morales,
executive director of the Inland County Legal Services Corp., who a week earlier
had told Batista that because of Congress's new restrictions, Legal Services
could not help her.

Despite the denial, Morales had tried to help Batista in other ways, taking her
into her home and driving her to the court building the morning of the murder,
immigrant activists said.

Morales has declined to respond to repeated telephone inquiries over the past
two weeks. Morales' administrative secretary, Shana Spears, said, "She will not
discuss this case, and everyone here is instructed not to discuss this case with
the media."

In 1992, Batista and Mirabal fled separately to the United States from Cuba,
where Mirabal had briefly been jailed following repeated instances of spousal
abuse, according to Minty Siuchung, staff attorney for Ayuda, a Washington-based
group for battered immigrants. Mirabal and the couple's son left Cuba first,
were picked up by the Coast Guard and settled in the Riverside area. Batista,
who also was rescued by the Coast Guard, initially settled in Mobile, Ala.,
where she worked as a housekeeper.

Siuchung said Batista moved to Riverside last year and lived with Mirabal and
their son while she worked as an aide at the California School for the Deaf. But
in February, she took her son and returned to Mobile, telling acquaintances at
the time that the abuse had resumed and that she feared for her life.

Mirabal responded by claiming paternity rights and seeking custody of the boy,
prompting Batista and the 9-year-old to return to Riverside last month for a
mediation hearing, Siuchung said. Batista turned to Legal Services, which
provides legal representation for the poor, at the recommendation of her Mobile
employer, who is an attorney, Siuchung said.

According to Drake, a week before the mediation hearing, Legal Services
officials called the Immigration Law Center to see if there was anything in
Batista's immigration records that would make her eligible for assistance from
Legal Services. The center is a national support organization that provides
assistance to Legal Services in immigration matters.

"We had to tell them that they couldn't serve her because of the new
restriction," Drake said. "All we could do is double-check the records and
inform them that they couldn't help her."

The restriction prohibiting Legal Services from using even private funds to
represent immigrants who are not lawful residents was contained in an amendment
to the 1996 budget bill that President Clinton signed April 26. The provision
was introduced by Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), a member of the House
Appropriations Committee, to bar any kind of legal assistance to illegal
immigrants by a federally funded agency. Rogers did not respond to requests for
comment.

Drake said the Legal Services staff advised Batista that she would have to find
a pro bono, or volunteer, attorney to help her in the case. She managed to find
one, according to Drake, but the attorney was too busy to meet with Batista
before the mediation hearing and showed up at courthouse at about the time of
the murder.

Advocates of immigrants' and battered women's rights said today that Batista's
murder is certain to be repeated with other poor immigrants.

"Tragically, it's also inevitable that what happened in Riverside will happen
again if immigrant women can't seek protective orders from the courts through
Legal Services," Siuchung said. "If they had access to civil protection orders,
they would at least have some chance."

LOAD-DATE: June 05, 1996June 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              164 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 14, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Woman Fleeing Tribal Rite Gains Asylum; Genital Mutilation Is Ruled Persecution

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 674 words


The nation's highest immigration court ruled yesterday that a 19-year-old West
African woman should be granted political asylum because she fears the bloody
but traditional practice of genital mutilation by members of her tribe.

The ruling marked the first time that a court with national jurisdiction
recognized the practice of female genital mutilation as a form of persecution,
and the decision will serve as a precedent for the 179 immigration judges who
hear asylum cases around the country.

In an 11 to 1 decision, the Board of Immigration Appeals found that Fauziya
Kasinga of Togo was a credible witness and that she met the standards of U.S.
law by showing that she had a well-founded fear of suffering genital mutilation.
Previous rulings by immigration judges were divided on the issue.

"The characteristic of having intact genitalia is one that is so fundamental to
the individual identity of a young woman that she should not be required to
change it," said the majority opinion written by appeals board Chairman Paul W.
Schmidt.

An estimated 80 million women have been subject to genital mutilation worldwide,
according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). The crude and
frequently dangerous practice is often performed on girls at the age of puberty.
The opinion cited evidence that genital mutilation has often been used to assure
male domination of women.

"We find that [female genital mutilation] can be a basis for asylum," Schmidt
said in the opinion.

Kasinga fled her homeland in 1994, days after she said she was forcibly married
to an older man and prepared for circumcision in accordance with tribal custom.
She arrived at Newark airport with a false passport and was immediately put in
prison while her asylum case progressed. After being denied asylum by an
immigration judge in Philadelphia, she pursued an appeal and was released from
detention in April two weeks before the appeals board heard her case.

The board found that Kasinga's account was "plausibly detailed and internally
consistent." Her attorneys had argued that the judge who initially ruled against
her was biased and uninformed about practices in Togo. In presenting its case
before the appeals board, the INS argued that there were serious inconsistencies
in Kasinga's story but the agency declined to make a firm determination on her
credibility.

"I am very happy for her. I feel all the injustices she suffered under our
system have been, if not redeemed, at least dealt with responsibly," said Layli
Bashir Miller, a law student at American University who helped Kasinga with her
asylum case.

In making its grant of asylum to Kasinga, the appeals board rejected arguments
by the INS that Kasinga's case ought to be sent back to the immigration judge
that originally heard it for reconsideration. The INS, which like the appeals
board is a part of the Justice Department, argued that forcible female genital
mutilation can be grounds for asylum, and asked the court only for a broad
framework that could be used to evaluate applications for asylum by people
claiming fear of female genital mutilation.

While the ruling broke new ground by recognizing genital mutilation as a form of
persecution, much of the appeal board's reasoning was framed around the specific
circumstances of Kasinga's case.

A key aspect of the ruling concluded that Kasinga was a member of a persecuted
social group by virtue of her membership in the Tchamba-Kunsuntu tribe of Togo
and by reason of her opposition to the practice of genital mutilation. Among
members of that tribe, as in many parts of Africa and Asia, the genitals of
young women are ritually cut away in the belief that it keeps them pure and
faithful.

In another key finding, the appeals board concluded that Kasinga faced the
danger of persecution throughout Togo, meaning that the police and other
government agencies offered no real protection to her from her husband and other
members of her tribe who wanted to subject her to genital mutilation.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996June 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              165 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 22, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Misuse of Asylum Law

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 413 words


The recent decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), a unit of the
U.S. Department of Justice, to grant asylum to a young woman from Togo because
she claimed fear of female circumcision, also known as female genital mutilation
(FGM), is contrary to asylum law.

To qualify for asylum, a person must establish a credible, well-founded fear of
persecution on the basis of race, religion, national origin, political belief or
membership in a social group; but in the case of Fauziya Kasinga, the young
woman from To go, many questions remain unanswered. Apparently, she traveled
from Togo to Ghana, where she could have claimed asylum but did not. From Ghana,
she traveled to Germany, where she spent some time, but again failed to seek
asylum, even though Togo is a former German colony. In Germany, she bought a
fraudulent British passport, and in so doing she aided and abetted a criminal
alien-smuggling operation. She then attempted to enter the United States
illegally, and when apprehended, claimed asylum on the grounds of her fear of
FGM.

Her travel route is the standard one for economic migrants entering the United
States illegally by any means available, who claim asylum only on apprehension.
If asylum is to continue to serve as the emergen cy measure originally intended
by the U.S. Congress and the United Nations, the U.S. government must stop
condoning its misuse.

The Clinton administration says it has hired 579 new federal prosecutors to
handle just such cases as illegal entry using fraudulent documents, yet the
young woman from Togo was never referred for criminal prosecution. One moment
the Clinton administration talks tough on immigration, and the next moment it
opens wider the asylum gates.

Although female circumcision may well be a centuries-old expression of male
domination, it is not a form of the government-sponsored persecution required
for asylum. In fact, if the young woman from Togo had claimed that her
government was denying her the rite, she would have had a stronger asylum case.
In addition, the BIA inconsistently ruled that the Togo government was
persecuting her tribe and, at the same time, would persecute her for not
complying with the rites of that tribe.

The United States is a nation of immigrants, but it is first a nation of laws.
To curb the current immigrant onslaught, the government must guard the asylum
gate and thwart all variations of illegal entry.

JAMES H. WALSH

Garrett Park

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              166 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 24, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

No Legal Services for the Undocumented

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 351 words


I was dismayed by the death of Mariella Batista, who fled Cuba for the United
States, then sought protection as a battered woman here but was denied
assistance because Congress has restricted the Legal Services Corp. from
representing undocumented immigrants ["Abused Immigrant Slain After Plea for
Legal Services Help Is Denied," news story, June 5]. She was murdered by her
abuser before her claim for lawful permanent residence could be heard, and it
would likely have been granted.

Unfortunately, the denial of legal representation to undocumented battered
immigrants is not the only example of misguided immigration measures that punish
women and children. Federal immigration legislation, now pending in conference
committee, contains provisions that may also result in horrors such as the death
of Mariella Batista. The Senate version excludes services for undocumented
children who are victims of abuse, doubly punishing the child for the actions of
the parent. Equally alarming is a requirement in the House version that hospital
emergency room staff verify patients' immigration status, potentially scaring
women and children away from seeking life-saving help. Finally, the summary
exclusion provision of the counterterrorism law stripped battered women of a
right recognized by the Violence Against Women Act of 1995 -- to suspend
deportation for certain women and children who can prove they were abused.

While there is no evidence that domestic violence is any more or less prevalent
in immigrant communities, a battering spouse can use immigration status as an
additional tool of abuse and control -- for example, withholding sponsorship for
citizenship or legal permanent residence, in both cases using deportation as a
threat.

Ultimately we must ask: Do measures that deny legal and medical protection to
women and children in need really serve the goal of immigration policy? Should
we punish people who live here or concentrate on insuring the integrity of the
border?

MARY ELLEN ROS

Director, Community Services

New York Association for New Americans

New York

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              167 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 28, 1996, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

The Reliable Source

Annie Groer; Ann Gerhart

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D03; THE RELIABLE SOURCE

LENGTH: 907 words


The Court on Cooke

If Marlene Ramallo Chalmers Cooke really wants to live the rest of her days in
sedate Middleburg with Jack Kent Cooke, the government might not stand in her
way much longer.

U.S. District Judge Charles R. Richey ruled yesterday that he is all but
convinced the government struck a deal with the Bolivian spitfire after her 1986
guilty plea in connection with a cocaine bust, reports The Post's Toni Locy.

She served 5 1/2 months in jail and was to be deported after her release when
she agreed to cooperate with Virginia prosecutors. They credit her with helping
to put away more than 30 drug dealers. The couple have been together, more or
less, since at least 1990.

In his 39-page ruling, Richey said, "Common sense supports the conclusion that
[Cooke], an adult of some sophistication, would not endanger her very life by
cooperating with the government in a multitude of cases . . . when it is
axiomatic that Latin America is the home of deadly drug distributing cartels."

The only obstacle: a lone holdout, an Immigration and Naturalization Service
attorney who is contradicting Cooke, prosecutors, a Drug Enforcement
Administration agent and her bosses at the INS. The lawyer contends that
authorities promised to hold off only temporarily in seeking Cooke's
deportation.

A hearing will be held next week, during which Richey and lawyers for both Cooke
and the government will question the attorney, whose name is being kept secret
due to unspecified alleged safety concerns.

Cooke's attorney, Robert S. Bennett, has accused the INS of having a vendetta
against her because an INS judge got mad when she saw Cooke on TV at a Redskins
game with then-Vice President Dan Quayle in 1989.

The Mosbachers, Cont'd.

The Mosbachers have reconciled. For now.

Former commerce secretary and Texas oilman Robert Mosbacher, who quietly filed
for divorce from the fiery Georgette only weeks ago, has just as quietly
withdrawn the petition in Houston.

Shortly after his original action in late May, Georgette bolted Washington for
Houston to try to save their 12-year marriage. They were spotted Monday night in
New York at a Bob Dole fund-raiser and reportedly plan to sail the Mediterranean
on Robert Mosbacher's yacht later this summer.

In the past month, the couple, each thrice wed, has undergone counseling to
figure out ways to adjust their marital metabolisms.

Robert, 69, who spends much of his time in Houston, wanted to "reconcile their
differences and live happily ever after. He just wants some peace and
happiness," said one Texas chum. Georgette, 49, a cosmetics entrepreneur and
author of "The Feminine Force," leads a far higher-profile life in Manhattan,
Southampton and, to a lesser extent, Houston.

And if she doesn't spend enough quality time with him, might he refile for
divorce? It's hard to say.

"I don't think Robert would want a marriage where a wife didn't have the same
values and priorities. But why would he [threaten divorce again] just to get her
to live in Houston?" the friend said.

NOW YOU KNOW. . .

David Lee "Just a Gigolo" Roth is back with Van Halen, the band that was
supposed to wither and die when he left 10 years ago. But Sammy Hagar, according
to a terse press release, "is no longer with the group" and the band is
"currently looking for a replacement." Hagar's publicist blamed the divorce on
"creative differences."

Roth has gone into the studio with Van Halen to record tracks for a
greatest-hits album.

Devout Buddhist and die-hard Beastie Boy Adam Yauch (a k a "Ad-Rock") was
spotted in the halls of the Longworth House Office Building on Wednesday,
lobbying on behalf of the Tibetan struggle against the Chinese government.

Rock shock . . . dozens of the estimated 15,000 rap fans at a concert in Harlem
were hurt in a stampede yesterday after five or six gunshots were fired during
Wu-Tang Clan's finale, the Associated Press reported. The concert, outside a New
York state office building, featured such acts as the Fugees, Biggie Smalls,
Total, Junior Mafia, KRS One and Doggie Fresh.

It was intended to promote peace and voter registration. Several dozen people
were injured, many of whom were taken to hospitals. The man whom police believe
fired the shots was picked up near the scene.

Bidding was fierce for the Absolut Vodka bottle drenched in baked beans, a
hideous objet d'art that honored Henri, perhaps the first Washington grande dame
known only by her first name.

The Dupont Circle gallery owner and art scene habitue died Feb. 18, and
Wednesday night many of her bibelots were sold off to benefit the Corcoran
School of Art.

Absolut was her favorite drink, baked beans her favorite food, so the bottle
sparked a price war that caused "hard feelings" between two collectors, said the
Corcoran's Jan Rothschild, but raised $ 400 of the total $ 5,000.

Taking in the Signature Theatre production of "Passion" last night was none
other than Stephen Sondheim, who wrote the music and lyrics that brought him a
1994 Tony. This production, which closes Sunday, is "Passion's" first major
regional staging.

The body of a woman found murdered along with singer Diana Ross's brother,
Arthur, was identified Wednesday as his wife, Patricia Ann Robinson, according
to wire reports. Police in the Detroit suburb of Oak Park said the victims died
of suffocation and were identified through fingerprints.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 1996

CORRECTION:

An item in yesterday's Reliable Source column misidentified the veteran
hip-hopper Doug E. Fresh.  In another item, Beastie Boy Adam Yauch was
identified with an incorrect nickname. His nickname is MCA. Also, the real name
of Ad-Rock is Adam Horovitz.

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap;phm;ph, The Cookes: Together at last?  The Mosbachers:
Together again?  Roth and the boys, together again? Beastie Boy Ad-Rock on
Capitol Hill.  Absolute legume.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              168 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 29, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Russian Pair in Custody, Accused of Embezzlement; INS Arrests Couple, Cooperates
With Moscow Authorities

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 615 words


The dashing Russian immigrant couple lived like prosperous jet-setters, renting
a co-op in the Watergate complex and driving his-and-hers BMWs. He had once been
a successful banker in Moscow, and she had movie-star looks, according to
federal immigration officials.

But two days ago, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, acting
in cooperation with visiting federal prosecutors from the Russian Federation,
knocked on the co-op door and arrested the pair, who were wanted for allegedly
embezzling $ 8 million from the Russian Exchange Bank in Moscow.

Alexandre Konanykhine, 30, and his wife, Elena Gratcheva, 34, are now in custody
in Virginia, charged with violating the conditions of their U.S. visas.
Immigration authorities will seek to have them deported, and Russian prosecutors
said they will be waiting at the airport in Moscow if they are sent back.

"This man is a prominent leech. Our banking industry was in its infancy, we had
no complicated regulations, and he was able to take advantage of a chaotic
situation," Alex Volevodz, the Russian prosecutor, said through an interpreter
at an interview yesterday in the local INS office in Arlington.

Volevodz said he and his colleagues had been tracking the couple across Europe
and the Caribbean since 1992, when Konanykhine, a director of the Russian
Exchange Bank and a pioneer in establishing private commercial banking and stock
trading in post-Soviet Russia, allegedly stole $ 8.1 million through "falsified
financial transactions" from his own bank and fled the country.

This spring Russian authorities traced the couple to Washington, where they
apparently had been living since entering the United States on temporary visas
in 1994, and asked for INS help in catching them. Volevodz and another
prosecutor arrived here two weeks ago and began working closely with INS
officials, who carried out the arrests Thursday morning.

"They seemed very glamorous, a couple of young jet-setters," said Russ Bergeron,
a spokesman for the INS, who participated in the arrests. "They were obviously
disturbed to be found, but they said very little. I think they felt they were
insulated here from the charges against them."

Russia has no extradition treaty with the United States, but INS agents said the
pair had used a fake Russian subsidiary corporation to obtain U.S. travel
documents and thus could be seized for violating U.S. immigration law. If they
are deported and tried in Moscow, Volevodz said, they could face up to 15 years
in prison and have all their property seized.

The cooperative arrangement between the INS and the Russian prosecutors was
highly unusual, as was the use of a technicality in U.S. immigration law to
seize someone wanted on criminal charges abroad. Minor visa violations by
well-to-do immigrants are not high government priorities and do not often come
to official attention.

Volevodz stressed repeatedly that without help from the INS, the fugitives would
never have been caught. He said there was evidence that Konanykhine planned to
carry out "other financial crimes" from his base in the United States.

The sober-faced Russian prosecutor, 37, who had never been to the United States
before this month, said he was somewhat amused that Konanykhine and his wife
chose the Watergate, the scene of another famous crime, as their residence.

"It is a humorous coincidence, but these people were known to like luxurious
surroundings," he said sternly. "I myself didn't like the Watergate. It has
exclusive shops but cramped quarters, like a museum with a nice entrance and
nothing inside." Volevodz said he was staying in a more modest hotel in the
capital.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              169 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 22, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Athlete May Be Deported For Falsifying HIV Status

Newsday

SECTION: SPORTS; PAGE C2

LENGTH: 278 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


In a symbolic but defiant challenge to the U.S. ban against people with HIV or
AIDS, a South African athlete said he lied about his HIV status to protest "the
stupidity" of the ban.

Shaun Mellors, 28, an HIV-positive swimmer from Cape Town, said he decided not
to apply for the special Immigration and Naturalization Service waiver for
athletes with HIV or AIDS for several reasons: The ban discriminates against
gays and lesbians and people with AIDS; it was not based on public health
policy; and he feared harassment by U.S. immigration officials.

But Mellors may face deportation "because he obtained his visa fraudulently,"
said Lisa Jacobs, an INS spokeswoman in Washington.

"At this time we don't know what action we're going to take," Jacobs said.

Visitors and immigrants with HIV or AIDS are not allowed entry into the United
States, but the 1987 law was lifted temporarily for Gay Games participants.

"There were questions [on the visa application] about one's HIV status, and I
thought, 'I shouldn't put myself through this,' " Mellors said.

"Then there was the possibility of more questions from the [U.S.] immigration.
And for what?" he said.

Instead, Mellors said he told U.S. Embassy officials that he tested negative for
HIV. And now that he is in New York, he disclosed the truth -- and his lie -- as
a protest.

Only a few dozen athletes, most from European countries, asked for and obtained
the HIV waiver.

"Unfortunately, what Shaun was forced to do is probably the reality of what a
lot of people do when they come into the U.S.," said Marlin Collingwood, a
spokesman for the Gay Games. "It is absolutely discriminatory."


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              170 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 30, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Florida, U.S. Repatriating Foreign Inmates

Anne Day, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 29, 1994


A group of 24 foreign criminals was released today from Florida prisons into
federal custody for deportation to their countries of origin, and officials said
the Justice Department is working with four other states to expand the program.

The prisoners, who had been serving time for nonviolent, drug-related crimes,
had their sentences commuted on condition they leave the United States and stay
away for the remainder of their original sentences.

"We will no longer pay to lock them up. The action today does not ensure their
freedom -- it frees us of them," Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles (D) said at a news
conference after the inmates were turned over to Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials for deportation to South and Central America, Mexico and the
Caribbean.

INS officials estimate that there are 2,700 foreigners incarcerated in Florida.
The governor said that keeping them in prison costs the state about $ 60 million
a year. Many are not eligible for the deportation program because they were
convicted of violent offenses, but officials say at least 500 could qualify. The
INS, in a statement, said it is working on launching similar programs in New
York, Texas, California and Illinois.

Today's deportations followed an agreement reached in April between the INS and
Florida in which the governor agreed to grant clemency to those nonviolent
criminals who agreed to leave the country.

"I'd like to get a lot more of them out," Chiles said in a telephone interview.
"Every one that leaves is a bed that the state won't have to pay for. Right now
there are about 1,200 who are eligible for deportation. If I can get 1,000 out,
that's two prisons I won't have to build."

Of those deported, 23 were convicted of drug-trafficking felonies and one of
illegal drug possession. INS spokesman Lemar Wooley said that the 24 were being
put on commercial flights from Miami International Airport to their home
countries.

"The prisoners are handcuffed until they get on the plane and after that, they
are on their own," Wooley said. The agreement does not stipulate that the
foreigners serve prison time in their own countries.

Some immigrants' rights advocates objected to the move, noting that the
deportees had been forced to waive their right to challenge their convictions in
court. "In order to cut a deal like this, these prisoners have forgone their
legal right," said Cheryl Little, a Miami immigration lawyer. "They have waived
their rights in many cases simply because they feel they have no other choice."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              171 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 25, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Saudi Aid to Iraqi A-Bomb Effort Alleged;
Asylum-Seeking Diplomat Says Riyadh Secretly Gave Baghdad Money and Technology

Steve Coll, John Mintz, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 981 words


A Saudi Arabian diplomat who is seeking political asylum in the United States
has claimed that Saudi Arabia directly supported Iraq's secret efforts to build
a nuclear bomb during the late 1980s, the diplomat's lawyer said yesterday in
response to a published report.

Mohammed Khilewi, who had worked on nuclear proliferation issues at the Saudi
mission to the United Nations, has alleged that between 1985 and 1990, Saudi
Arabia provided advanced technology and up to $ 5 billion for Iraq's nuclear
weapons program in exchange for access to Iraqi nuclear weapons technology,
according to a lengthy report published yesterday in Britain's Sunday Times
newspaper.

The newspaper quoted Khilewi as saying that in 1989 he attended a meeting
between teams of Saudi and Iraqi nuclear specialists to discuss details of
Iraq's nuclear weapons work. At the meeting, the Iraqis reportedly requested
that the Saudis transfer $ 200 million to them under the deal. The newspaper
said it had reviewed an official transcript of the meeting allegedly prepared by
Khilewi.

The Sunday Times also quoted Khilewi, 31, as saying that teams of Saudi
scientists secretly received training in nuclear technology in Iraq during the
1980s. The newspaper said the Saudis had established their own nuclear research
center at a military complex at Al Suleiyel -- near Al Kharj, 60 miles southeast
of Riyadh, the capital -- and that Khilewi had seen about 100 Muslim technicians
and three Westerners working at the alleged Saudi site.

Khilewi's American lawyer, Michael Wildes, acknowledged yesterday that his
client claims to have direct knowledge of alleged Saudi support for Iraq's
nuclear weapons program. But Wildes added that he did not attend the meetings
between his client and the Sunday Times last week and did not know specifically
what Khilewi said to the newspaper or what alleged Saudi documents he produced
to support his claims.

A Saudi Embassy representative in Washington said yesterday that no one was
available to comment.

In the past, the Saudis have adamantly denied involvement in any nuclear weapons
program. Asked during an interview on the ABC News program "20/20" last month if
Saudi Arabia were seeking a nuclear bomb, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the
country's ambassador to the United States, said that not only was Riyadh not
seeking its own weapon, but that it "will not support other people who will
create it. That is a very vital point in our national security policy."

The Saudis also have said Khilewi manufactures supposed Saudi government
documents. On "20/20," when shown one of Khilewi's alleged Saudi government
papers, Bandar said it was a forgery.

Khilewi could not be reached for comment yesterday. On "20/20," he declined to
comment when asked whether Saudi Arabia is developing nuclear weapons but said,
"This is up to you and to the audience to understand it as they wish."

Khilewi is in hiding because, he says, he fears being kidnapped by the Saudis.
Saudi representatives have said they have no intention of snatching Khilewi or
harming him.

Wildes said that the FBI warned him last week that it had credible reports of a
plot to kidnap Khilewi and return him to Saudi Arabia. Wildes also said the FBI
is investigating a number of Khilewi's claims, including one that a Saudi
intelligence official threatened his life if he persisted in publicizing his
disaffection with the Saudi royal family. The FBI has declined all comment on
Khilewi.

U.N. inspectors discovered after the 1991 Persian Gulf War that Iraq came
alarmingly close to constructing nuclear weapons prior to its invasion of Kuwait
in August 1990. The Iraqi effort depended on elaborately secretive scientific
work and smuggled nuclear technology originating in the West, mainly Europe, the
U.N. inspections found.

During the 1980s, Saudi Arabia sent billions of dollars to Iraq to help the
country wage war against their mutual enemy, Iran. Allegations have been raised
previously that some of this Saudi money found its way into Iraq's clandestine
nuclear program, but the Sunday Times account marks the first alleged eyewitness
claim that Saudi Arabia and Iraq knowingly and systematically collaborated on
nuclear weapons work during the 1980s.

U.S. officials have said they have seen no evidence that Saudi Arabia
deliberately funded Iraq's nuclear work during the 1980s. The State Department
yesterday declined to comment about Khilewi's allegations.

Saudi Arabia signed the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1988, pledging to
forswear nuclear weapons. But since then, Riyadh has declined to negotiate or
sign a comprehensive nuclear safeguards agreement with the International Atomic
Energy Agency, as is required by the treaty. Such a safeguards agreement would
obligate Saudi Arabia to declare its full nuclear inventory, if any, and accept
a nuclear audit and inspections by specialists of the U.N. agency.

The IAEA is disturbed by Saudi Arabia's persistent refusal to sign a safeguards
agreement, officials close to the agency said in interviews last month. But the
officials said they had no evidence to suggest that Saudi Arabia had undertaken
nuclear weapons work. Indeed, so far as the IAEA knows, Saudi Arabia has no
nuclear reactors or other nuclear enrichment equipment on its territory, these
officials said.

In interviews, Khilewi, who was a first secretary at the Saudis' U.N. mission
and specialized in non-proliferation issues, has listed a number of reasons for
turning against his government, including its suppression of political dissent.

Another reason, he said, is that he disagrees with Riyadh's decision to agree to
the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. He said he thinks that Saudi Arabia and
other Third World nations should not agree to swear off weapons that the great
powers have.

Coll reported from London and nMintz from Washington.



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PRINCE BANDAR BIN SULTAN

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              172 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 31, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Worker Verification System Is Favored;
Immigration Commission to Present Its Recommendation to Congress

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 855 words


The United States should create a nationwide information system that would allow
employers to verify a job applicant's authorization to work, according to
members of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, which soon will present
its recommendation to Congress.

The goal is to improve enforcement of the 1986 federal law prohibiting the
employment of illegal immigrants and thus deter them from entering the country.

The commission's plan seems certain to pose difficult political choices for
President Clinton, who appointed former representative Barbara Jordan (D-Tex.)
to head the panel amid promises that it would produce a blueprint for
legislation.

Jordan is scheduled to offer a preview of the recommendations in congressional
testimony next week, and the commission's full report to Congress is due at the
end of September. Even though the proposals are not official yet, they have
reignited arguments over whether thwarting illegal immigration justifies large
and intrusive programs such as a national identification card.

"We have been following the commission's deliberations closely, and we will
challenge any proposal involving an identification system that we consider
ineffective and potentially discriminatory -- just as we have in the past," said
Cecilia Munoz, immigration analyst for the National Council of La Raza, an
umbrella group of Latino organizations.

Under current law, job applicants must prove that they are either U.S. citizens
or legal immigrants authorized to work. But the proof can come from 29 different
documents ranging from a drivers license to a passport. Because employers are
not required to determine the authenticity of the documents, numerous studies
have pointed to widespread fraud through counterfeiting.

"A lot of the details are still to be worked out, but the commission is
definitely looking toward a system that reduces fraud by allowing employers to
verify whether a specific individual is in fact authorized to work " said Susan
Martin, executive director of the commission.

"Ideally, employers would be able to call into a computer and check a person's
eligibility for employment as easily as retailers verify a credit card now,"
said former representative Bruce A. Morrison (D-Conn.), a member of the
commission.

A major challenge, he said, is the lack of a reliable database for such a
system. Social Security Administration records come closest, but proof of
citizenship or legal immigration status was not always required to get a number.
Also, that system itself has been subject to considerable fraud.

"No question it will be a long process, maybe a decade long, to clean up the
records," Morrison said, "but at least we are talking about refining an existing
system that is supposed to identify people for purposes of employment and
benefits."

Even if a system can be devised to verify work authorization, there is still the
challenge of ensuring that a job applicant is actually the person he or she
claims to be. The commission has discussed proposals to create an identification
card that would be used specifically to gain employment, but members of the
panel say there is still considerable disagreement on the subject.

"Leaving civil liberties and all the other issues aside, the experts tell us
that an ID card is a loser because it will cost billions of dollars and will be
counterfeited within weeks," said Warren Leiden, a commission member and the
executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

The nine-member commission was created by Congress in 1990 to study and report
on the impact of immigration policies. In the past year it has worked closely
with the Clinton administration but has not sought specific approval for its
proposals, Martin said.

Congress considered workplace identity systems when it enacted major changes in
immigration law in 1986 and 1990, and both times it rejected the idea in the
face of determined opposition.

Latino leaders said their people would be unfairly victimized. Civil
libertarians protested that a national data bank and identity cards could be
misused. Some immigration experts said many illegal immigrants would be beyond
the reach of such a system because they work on farms, in households or in
sweatshops where many employment laws routinely are ignored. All of these
objections have resurfaced as the commission moves toward a final
recommendation.

Congress and the administration will have to decide whether concern about
illegal immigration is great enough to overcome the controversy that an
employment verification system is certain to encounter.

Lawrence H. Fuchs, a history professor at Brandeis University and a vice
chairman of the commission, is certain that the political atmosphere has changed
and that better solutions are now available.

"Congress punted two times," he said, "and this commission is saying that we are
not going to punt this time. We are not going to have a national identifier, but
we are going to have a system that identifies people eligible for work and we'll
do it with full regards for civil rights and civil liberties."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              173 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 24, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Acts to Push Cubans To Immigrate Legally

Ann Devroy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 987 words


The Clinton administration has decided to loosen immigration rules to make it
easier for Cubans who apply in Havana to move legally to the United States,
officials said yesterday.

The new policy's goal is to encourage an orderly exit of Cubans rather than the
swelling wave of illegal migrants who have set off in recent days in small
vessels and rafts from the island's shores.

As thousands of Cuban boat people continued to be sent to join 14,000 Haitians
at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the administration also engaged
in a diplomatic juggling act urging 12 nations to provide refuge to either
group. Washington also was considering expanding Guantanamo Bay's capacity.

Several Caribbean and Central American countries that tentatively agreed earlier
this summer to accept Haitian refugees are now being pressed either to change
the deals to accept Cubans, or to fulfill those promises and take Haitians from
Guantanamo Bay.

If some of the Haitian refugees located at the base can be moved to
third-country facilities, that would open space for Cubans. They are being
brought to Guantanamo Bay since the United States reversed a long-standing
policy last Friday and stopped welcoming Cubans as refugees under special rules
authorized by a 1966 law.

That change was separate from the new plan, which affects rules for immigrants
rather than refugees.

The flow of boat people continued without letup, as the Coast Guard reported
that 2,259 had been picked up in the Florida Straits by 6 p.m. yesterday. That
raised to more than 7,000 the total intercepted since President Clinton reversed
policy Friday.

Clinton met with his top national security aides yesterday to assess the
situation. Afterward, officials said they still hope that the outflow will stop
once Cubans understand that fleeing by sea will never lead to residency in the
United States, but rather to detention. For the first time, however, officials
acknowledged that the same policy that succeeded in stemming an outflow of
Haitians last month might not work with the Cubans.

The policy shift for Haiti took seven to 10 days to work to "demagnetize" the
United States for those boat people. But State Department officials noted that
the Cubans were acting differently than the Haitians. "The Cubans still expect
that some day, they will get to the United States," an official said.

Boats carrying Cubans are sturdier than they were previously, apparently
reflecting a decision by the Castro government to let Cubans use a wider range
of resources to build vessels and reduce the risks of taking to sea. "For a
while, they weren't permitted to use anything of real value. Now they can," the
official said.

Details of the planned loosening of immigration rules for Cubans were being
worked out by the Justice Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, administration officials said.

Under current rules, the annual U.S. quota of legal immigrants is never filled.
This year, for example, 2,059 Cubans have been accepted as immigrants out of a
quota of 27,845, according to the Associated Press.

Under the new plan, the intention is to fill the quota, which is viewed as an
acceptable rate of inflow, by granting immigration to "broader categories" of
Cubans than in the past, a senior administration official said.

That change is very likely to be welcomed by Cuban leader Fidel Castro, who has
repeatedly complained that the U.S. failure to fill the legal immigration quota
was encouraging Cubans to flee illegally across the Florida Straits.

Afraid that Guantanamo Bay's capacity of 10,000 Cubans will rapidly fill,
officials said interagency teams have been holding talks with the three
countries with which the United States signed memos of understanding in July to
accept Haitian refugees in safe havens. The three are Suriname, which has agreed
to take 2,500; St. Lucia, 5,000; and Dominica, 2,500.

In addition, agreements in principle, the first step toward a formal
understanding, were reached with Antigua and Grenada, White House press
secretary Dee Dee Myers said.

Five other countries -- Nicaragua, Honduras, Costa Rica, Guatemala and El
Salvador -- indicated "they would be willing to explore the possibility" of
locating safe havens for Haitians on their territory, Myers said.

Another, Panama, has shown the same willingness once the new government takes
office on Sept. 1, she said.

Officials indicated that some of the nations that agreed to accept Haitians did
so with the understanding that a set period of time was involved. The Turks and
Caicos Islands placed a six-month time limit on the 2,000 Haitians it would have
been willing to accept for processing.

The United States has threatened to use military action against Haiti to restore
the democratically elected president there, and the safe havens for Haitians
were considered temporary until the military leaders there step aside or are
forced out.

But the U.S. policy on Cuba is what Myers called yesterday "peaceful democratic
change," so safe havens for Cubans cannot include short time limits.

Myers said that the administration is "clearly concerned" about the level of
migration.

She said, "We are doing everything we can to make sure that those who intend to
leave Cuba understand they will not be able to reach the United States if they
take to the sea."

The instability of the encampments at Guantanamo Bay was emphasized by a protest
Monday by Haitian refugees.

The disturbance, announced by the Defense Department yesterday, broke out after
the Haitians did not get the orange juice that had been a regular part of their
breakfast, and thought incorrectly that the Cubans had received it.

No rocks were thrown, and no one was injured in the protest, during which 722
refugees bolted outside their camp, the Pentagon said.


Staff writers John F. Harris and Daniel Williams contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, COAST GUARD CUTTER COURAGEOUS ENTERS NAVAL BASE AT GUANTANAMO
BAY MONDAY WITH CUBAN REFUGEES PICKED UP AT SEA. AP; ILLUSTRATION, DAVE COOK

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              174 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 25, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Rafters Are Driven By Misperception;
Cubans Still Believe They Can Stay in U.S.

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 937 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Aug. 24, 1994


Taking a break from raft building this morning, Luis Garcia rested his head on
an inner tube and complained about U.S. immigration policies.

"The last thing I wanted to do was go in a raft, but everyone knows there are no
visas for Cubans," he said.

Similar sentiments have been expressed by dozens of rafters in recent days, as
thousands of Cubans have put out to sea bound for Florida, and the exodus seems
fueled in part by a widespread perception that there are no avenues for getting
to the United States legally.

At the same time, most of the rafters are convinced -- despite what the Clinton
administration has announced -- that they will eventually get to live in the
United States even if they begin their journeys illegally.

A volatile mixture of fact, propaganda and emotion, these perceptions have
helped prompt thousands of Cubans to risk their lives at sea even after the
Clinton administration closed the door last week on the easy entry to the United
States that has been part of the Cuban-American reality for years.

Garcia, a 28-year-old factory worker, is the last of his immediate family still
left in Cuba.

His two brothers left in the 1980 Mariel boatlift. They are now U.S. citizens.
Three years ago, his elderly parents went to Miami on visitors' visas and simply
stayed. Now they are legal residents. None went through the regular process of
applying for an immigrant's visa at the U.S. Interests Section that carries out
the functions of an embassy and consulate here in the absence of formal
U.S.-Cuban diplomatic ties.

"Going to the Interests Section is a waste of time," Garcia said

"Of course, I would rather go in an airplane, but this is the way Cubans get to
the United States," he said, pointing to the heap of inner tubes and lumber that
he and several friends were assembling on a beach in Havana's eastern suburbs.

In recent weeks, President Fidel Castro and the Cuban media have hammered at the
suggestion that the United States invites illegal immigration by allowing
illegal arrivals to stay. This has been part of an overall effort to blame U.S.
policies for the economic pain and political suffocation that are driving so
many people to flee this country.

All of these views -- the rafters' and the Cuban government's -- as distorted as
they may be, have some basis in fact.

The illegal avenues, such as going on a visitor's visa and not going back, or
going by raft, have indeed led more Cubans to legal immigrant status in recent
years than the bureaucratic process of making an application for a resident's
visa on the basis of employment, family ties or fear of persecution.

In 1992, for example, before the current wave of rafters began arriving in
significant numbers, nearly 5,400 Cubans gained immigrant status under the Cuban
adjustment act. That 1966 law allowed Cubans who reached the United States by
whatever means to seek immigrant status a year after their arrival. None of
those people, however, came in through the regular immigration channels that
apply to all other countries of the world.

That same year, fewer than 1,500 Cubans were granted regular immigrant visas and
only 2,800 entered as refugees granted entry because of special status.

This oddity reflects several policy decisions taken by both the U.S. and Cuban
governments in the 35 years since Castro took power. Rather than the steady,
gradually increasing immigration rates typical of other Latin American and
Caribbean countries in recent years, most Cuban immigration since 1959 has come
in bursts.

The first burst came immediately after Castro took power; the next was the 1980
Mariel boatlift of 125,000 Cubans. In this year's exodus, more than 16,000 Cuban
rafters have headed for the United States so far.

"It is true that the rate of legal immigration from Cuba is somewhat lower than
you would expect for a country of its size in this region, but that is the
result of unusual factors in the pattern of Cuban immigration," a senior U.S.
official at the interest section here said in an interview.

Family reunification is one of the fundamental principles of U.S. immigration
policy. Visas for the minor children, spouses and parents of U.S. citizens are
the easiest to get and the only ones not subject to numerical limitations and
long waiting lists.

Most of the original Cuban exiles of the early 1960s, however, had brought their
relatives over by the mid-1970s. As a result, only the Cubans of the Mariel
boatlift have provided a base for family immigration in recent years.

As a result, the number of Cubans here who have immediate relatives legally
living in the United States -- those who can obtain emigrant visas -- is
limited. Many of these are still not naturalized U.S. citizens and thus cannot
easily apply for their relatives to join them in the United States. Finally,
even those who could qualify find the application and approval process laborious
and long.

In addition it was only in 1987 that the United States and Cuba put an agreement
into effect that permitted legal immigration on a regular basis. Even then, the
Cuban government imposed its own restrictions on who could leave.

Refugee admissions, those granted to political exiles or other special
categories in addition to regular emigrant admissions, have been limited to
about 3,000 Cubans a year out of a worldwide total of about 115,000 -- the
result of a decision by Congress and the administration.

A senior U.S. official at the interest section here argued that, in any case,
greater legal immigration in the past would not have meant a smaller illegal
exodus this summer.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, RICHARD AND MARGARET ADAMS OF WESTCHESTER, N.Y., ON VACATION IN
BOCA RATON, FLA., WATCH A BULLDOZER CLEAR THE BEACH OF AN EMPTY CUBAN RAFT. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              175 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 30, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

'This Country Can't Take Them All';
Miami's Neighbors Hail Attempts to Stem Flow of Cubans

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1024 words

DATELINE: PLANTATION, Fla., Aug. 29, 1994


As the Clinton administration and critics tussle over policy toward Fidel Castro
and Cuba's flood of refugees, it is here in suburban America where the real
political battle over U.S. immigration policy is being waged.

And the bottom line is this: Many of the largely white, middle-class swing
voters who will decide the next election in this battleground state -- like
their counterparts around the country -- do not want more immigrants. No
offense, they say, but that's the way they feel.

"The Cubans are just like everybody else. They want to come to the United States
and I don't blame them. But this country can't take them all and I'm sorry, but
it's no way, Jose. We're full," said Ricky Saunders, a construction worker
munching a hamburger at a mom-and-pop cafe in a strip mall here in Broward
County, site of most of the white flight from heavily Hispanic Dade County and
Miami.

So far, suburban white voters seem to like what President Clinton and Florida
Gov. Lawton Chiles are doing. At least for now, the two Democrats have stopped
the Cubans from entering the country by taking them to the U.S. naval base in
Guantanamo, Cuba. To the voters of Plantation, everything else is back-page
news.

Black voters seem to agree. "It's not secret there's a real schism between black
Americans and Cubans in Miami," said H.T. Smith, a black community activist
here. "If you took a poll among black Americans in Miami, 90 percent would be in
favor of Clinton's current policy, especially if he carries it out to the
letter."

In Florida, a place filled with outsiders, voters of all political and ethnic
stripes around the state repeatedly tell pollsters there are already enough
people here taxing already overburdened schools, hospitals and roads.

Added to the underlying national tilt toward nativism is the feeling among many
Floridians that Hispanics, in particular the Cubans, have "taken over" South
Florida -- both for good and bad.

Unlike in many other cities with large Hispanic populations, Cuban Americans
hold more than token positions of power in business and politics in Miami. In
fact, they run the town. And while there is grudging respect among many whites
for what the Cuban Americans have done in creating a kind of gateway city to
Latin America, there is also resentment of their special treatment, their
different language and their political clout.

South Florida was the birthplace of the "Official English" movement in 1980,
when a grass-roots campaign by whites who felt increasingly disenfranchised made
English the official language of Dade County government. But the English-only
statute was overturned last year by the county commission, which unanimously
voted for its repeal, stating before a cheering audience that Miami and the
county embraced Spanish as a second official language.

Max Castro, a scholar at the North-South Center at the University of Miami who
has written widely on the tensions between whites and Hispanics here, said there
is a great difference of opinion between what he calls the "enlightened
accommodation" of whites in the elite and the anger felt by many middle-class
and working-class whites who feel they do not so much "accommodate" Cuban
Americans as "compete" against them.

Chiles and Clinton, he said, are both successfully appealing to white and black
voters who feel overwhelmed by immigration and fear a loss of status and jobs.

"I think it was fear of white perceptions that have driven the historic change,
and what we're seeing now, this new policy, is the political consequences of
that fear," Castro said. "This was a preemptive strike."

One prominent Cuban American politician, who asked not to be quoted by name on
this topic, said simply: "I think Chiles just won reelection."

While Miami and Dade County may embrace Spanish, most of Florida does not. Here
in Broward County, just north of Dade, many whites interviewed said they
resented the new arrivals and believed both Cuban and Haitian refugees burdened
the state.

"The American dream ain't as big as it used to be," said George Banks, a hotel
manager. "Taxes keep going up, people keep coming and there's not enough to go
around for everybody. The Cubans should solve their problems in Cuba."

According to Banks, a self-described political independent who said he voted for
Ross Perot in 1992, "Chiles was right to get excited. If he didn't declare a
state of emergency, there'd be 100,000 Cubans in Miami today."

The opinions of Banks and his neighbors are sweet music to Chiles and Clinton,
according to political analysts here.

"Statewide elections tend to be decided by white, non-union, suburban baby
boomers who move back and forth between the Democrats and Republicans," said
Robert Joffee, director of Mason-Dixon Florida Polls.

"What's up for grabs in a statewide election? Whites," Joffee said. "They may be
sympathetic, but what's abundantly clear in poll after poll is they don't want
any more immigrants here."

Chiles faces a tough reelection bid this fall, most likely against Republican
front-runner Jeb Bush, who has not vigorously attacked either Clinton or Chiles
on their get-tough stands against Cuban refugees.

Many Republicans in the state seem to be searching for a response but it is a
politically delicate exercise. Cuban Americans in South Florida are
overwhelmingly Republican and will most likely support Bush, according to
Joffee. But Bush cannot seem too immigrant-friendly, or he risks turning off
other voters who do not want any more Cuban refugees admitted into the state.

Tom Slade, chairman of the Florida Republican Party, admitted that Chiles was
"politically wise" in refusing to allow Cuban refugees to flood into the state.

Even Jeb Bush's spokesman conceded, "Chiles definitely got some political
mileage out of it... . PR-wise, he handled it brilliantly. But he avoided a
problem, more than winning a lot of new votes."

In the coffee shops and supermarkets of Plantation, most residents do not appear
too concerned about the political calculus of the Cuban crisis. As long as the
Cubans are kept out, they say, there is no crisis.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CUBAN REFUGEES DETAINED AT THE U.S. NAVAL BASE AT GUANTANAMO
BAY, CUBA, SHOUT TO VISITING JOURNALISTS. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              176 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 3, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Clinton Experiment Poses Shift on Human Rights

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 1096 words


Faced with the seemingly unstoppable exodus of Cuban rafters the Clinton
administration has proposed an unprecedented experiment with immigration policy
that is certain to arouse controversy in Congress and the courts, and could well
fail to deter the flight.

Ironically, the administration's best hope for success is to prompt the Cuban
government itself to stop the departures by blocking boat people from leaving --
potentially a large-scale violation of human rights.

In talks with a Cuban delegation that began in New York on Thursday, American
officials have offered to let sharply higher numbers of Cubans enter the United
States under the attorney general's sweeping powers to "parole" anyone into the
country. Secretary of State Warren Christopher explained last Sunday what was
expected of the Cubans in return.

"We're quite prepared to consider lawful migration, perhaps enhanced lawful
migration, if they're prepared to stop the unlawful migration," Christopher
said.

This bargain -- creating a new program of legal immigration in exchange for some
kind of crackdown on rafters -- is the Clinton administration's only initiative
to stop the flow of Cubans now that it is clear they will keep going to the sea
even though they are headed for an encampment at the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay.

Such an arrangement would appear to run counter to a central tenet of U.S.
foreign policy -- protection of an individual's right to emigrate.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations General
Assembly in 1948 declares unequivocally: "Everyone has the right to leave any
country, including his own," and that statement was used to bludgeon communist
governments all through the Cold War.

But that principle has been overshadowed by concern over uncontrolled
immigration.

The U.S. proposal in the New York talks marks the first time Washington has
offered to use parole to close a deal with another government, and not because
the newcomers were judged particularly deserving.

Since the 1950s thousands of people have been admitted to the United States
under the parole power. The most prominent cases have involved refugees in
emergency situations such as the admission of Hungarians after the failed 1956
revolt, Vietnamese after the fall of Saigon in 1975 and Cubans during the 1980
Mariel boatlift. But in every case parole was offered because the people
receiving this extraordinary benefit were specifically deemed worthy of it.

The first potential parolees are 19,800 Cubans who have already qualified for
immigrant visas because they have close family relatives in the United States
but who are stuck on worldwide waiting lists that can take 10 years to clear. As
a group, these Cubans are no different from the 3.4 million people from other
countries who are also on the lists.

Rick Swartz, a Washington attorney who represents Haitian and Chinese refugee
groups, said, "This use of parole would be certain to provoke lawsuits from both
pro-immigrant ethnic groups angry that the Cubans are getting special treatment
and anti-immigrant groups angry that the administration is circumventing the
statutory limits on immigration." Indeed, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a group that advocates tighter limits, has already
threatened to sue.

A large-scale use of parole also is likely to prove controversial in Congress,
which specifically restricted the practice in the Refugee Act of 1980 and
established a complex system of numerical caps and visa preference categories
for legal immigrants in the Immigration Act of 1990.

"Parole is a long-standing sore point between the executive, which has often
interpreted it broadly over the past 40 years, and Congress, which has sought to
rein it in," said David Martin, a professor at the University of Virginia law
school. "Consultation has traditionally been the means to resolve some of these
tensions."

No formal consultations were held on Capitol Hill before the talks with the
Cubans, congressional officials said.

Simply opening the doors through paroles is no guarantee the rafters' exodus
will stop.

"I know of no instance in which increased legal immigration has been used
effectively to curb an influx of illegal immigrants," said Demetrios
Papademetriou, director of immigration policy programs at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, a Washington think tank. "A lot of people would
actually argue that it could have the opposite effect, that the sight of many
people leaving with visas might actually stimulate those who can't get visas to
make illegal trips."

Although some of the rafters may qualify for the new program, administration
officials acknowledge that most probably would not. Instead of substituting one
form of migration for another, the Clinton plan is designed to satisfy demands
for increased legal immigration pressed by Cuban President Fidel Castro, who has
often encouraged the departure of dissatisfied citizens as a means of defusing
dissent. Then, having placated Castro, the administration would count on him to
take measures to keep the rafters from leaving.

Human Rights Watch, a research and advocacy organization, noted in a letter to
President Clinton sent Wednesday that Castro has a brutal record of punishing
Cubans who committed the crime of "illegal exit from the country," and that the
United States should welcome his decision to let the rafters leave freely.

"We urge you to acknowledge that the goal of restricting immigration, while
legitimate, must not be pursued by countenancing or promoting the violation of
human rights," the letter said.

This would not be the first time the United States compromised the right to
leave. In recent years that simple principle has been bent in international
agreements designed to fight hijacking and immigrant smuggling. Moreover, the
right to leave does not translate into a right to enter.

But, this would be the first time that the United States has encouraged another
government to explicitly limit the right of its people to travel when they are
not otherwise committing a crime.

"This area of human rights was shot through with hypocrisy," Martin said,
because aside from exceptional events like the Mariel boatlift Western nations
could count on communist countries to prevent huge numbers of their citizens
from fleeing.

"We could preach the right to leave because no one ever called our bluff,"
Martin said.

This summer Castro called the bluff for the first time since the Cold War ended,
and the administration folded.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, U.S. IMMIGRATION OPTIONS FOR CUBAN EXODUS, COMPILED BY
ROBERTO SURO; PHOTO, CANADIAN PRESS; PHOTO, AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS, ANALYSIS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              177 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 5, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Cuban Response To U.S. Immigration Offer 'Outlandish'

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 4


Cuba today gave what a U.S. official called an "outlandish" response to an
American proposal for increased immigration. Officials said bridging the gap
will be difficult.

The Cuban delegation's offer called for admission of more than 100,000
immigrants to the United States and for a declaration that the U.S. trade ban
with Cuba is at the root of the problem. The response also included other
unacceptable demands, U.S. officials said.

"They are asking for too much; they have gone too far," said one U.S. official.
"It is not acceptable. The numbers are too big, and other things they raised are
beyond what we can accept."

The offer came during the third day of talks in which the Clinton administration
is trying to persuade Cuban President Fidel Castro to stem the flow of boat
people from his country.

Cuba's proposal appears to be based on Havana's complaint that migration through
legal channels has been unfairly slow and that the United States has to make up
for lost time.

The proposal threw into question Castro's seriousness in reaching an agreement,
U.S. officials said. They expressed puzzlement at the Cuban offer, and one
described the U.S. proposals on immigration as "generous."

In these talks, the United States has offered to let a minimum of 20,000 Cubans
a year migrate through a combination of immigrant visas, appeals for refugee
status and special dispensation from Attorney General Janet Reno.

In effect, the United States would modify a 1984 agreement in which Cubans could
qualify for a maximum 20,000 visas a year. Only 11,000 immigrant visas were
issued under the program, which was in force for eight of the last 10 years.
"What we have offered is firm, with no loopholes," a U.S. official said. It is
uncertain politically whether Clinton can increase Cuban immigration above the
offer, given national opposition to the influx of newcomers from poor countries.

According to Cuba's math, about 150,000 Cubans should have been permitted to
enter the United States since 1984, and Washington is beholden to them. "Just
think how many people have died waiting for a visa," Cuba's chief negotiator,
Ricardo Alarcon, said in an interview last week.

State Department spokesman David Johnson held out the possibility that the talks
may reach a dead end, saying, "I want to caution against premature speculation
that an agreement will be reached."

His comments, made when the talks concluded today, were the first pessimistic
assessment by a U.S. official since the negotiations began Thursday. Another
round is scheduled for Monday, and U.S. diplomats were working late into the
night to forge a written response.

President Clinton, who was being kept informed of the talks at Martha's Vineyard
in Massachusetts, where he is vacationing, has limited negotiations to issues of
migration. The talks have become a test of his policy of separating the
treatment of Cuban refugees and migrants from Cuba policy at large.

For more than 30 years, the two subjects were intertwined: Easy entry to Cuban
refugees was a kind of compensation for the inability of the United States to
oust Castro.

With the Cold War over, concern for refugees has been overwhelmed by national
opposition to immigration, whether political refugees or migrants seeking better
economic conditions.

Clinton's goal is to stop the Cuban exodus across the Florida Straits. He has
tried to woo anti-Castro exiles in the United States by adhering to the
long-established line on Cuba, toughening the trade embargo and making no move
to restore relations broken early in the Cold War.

The outcome may well depend on whether Cuban raft people continue to leave Cuba.
More than 1,000 were picked up by the Coast Guard today, and 30,000 have been
picked up at sea so far this year.

After having withdrawn the U.S. welcome mat in mid-August, the Clinton
administration is storing refugees, now numbering nearly 20,000, at the U.S.
Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and at internment camps in Florida and
Texas. The U.S. Border Patrol arrested five Cuban Americans on Saturday for
trying to smuggle refugees into Florida. Their two boats carried a total of 64
refugees, who were being ferried to Guantanamo.

Officials said 22 other Cubans slipped past the U.S. Coast Guard patrols and
landed at Dry Tortugas National Park, about 70 miles west of Key West, Fla. They
were transferred to an immigration camp in Texas.

Washington is especially nervous about the possibility that Cuban exiles in
Florida will try to pick up friends and relatives, vastly increasing the number
of Cubans taking flight. A repeat of the 1980 boatlift from Mariel, an
outpouring of 125,000 Cubans, is the Clinton administration's biggest nightmare.

Castro is using the exodus in the way that the Kim dynasty in North Korea used
its program to build atom bombs as a lever to prod the United States to open
wide-ranging talks. But U.S. negotiators have refused to discuss Cuba's loudest
demand -- easing of the American trade embargo.

The Castro regime has come to view the unconditional restoration of trade
relations as a kind of magic wand that will revive the country's economy without
forcing fundamental changes or weakening its grip on Cuban society.

In Miami's Little Havana, the office of the magazine Replica, whose editor
advocates improved U.S.-Cuban relations, was the target of Molotov cocktails
early today, Knight-Ridder reported.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              178 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 22, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Who Counts?

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 565 words


YOU MIGHT think that's it's easy to figure out how many Americans there are.
After all, for every decade since the establishment of the republic, the census
has tried to count up every man, woman and child in the country and produced a
number we took to be the U.S. population. But the census's final number is no
longer taken on faith. The count is now mired in a thicket of political
controversy and litigation. The latest judgment from the Second Circuit declared
that the Bush administration had not offered an adequate justification for its
refusal to adjust the final census number to take into account the fact that
certain groups -- mainly minority groups, especially groups fearful of the
immigration authorities -- are systematically undercounted. The Clinton
administration announced yesterday that it would not immediately challenge the
decision and is reportedly considering an adjustment in the count, increasing
the number by about 5 million to 255 million.

But that figure is not nearly as important as the changes an adjustment would
make in the populations of states and cities. That matters because if you change
those, you alter the flow of federal dollars. An adjusted count would be
expected to help states with large populations of undocumented aliens, such as
Texas and California, and many big cities -- notably New York. But other states
then lose some federal money. The issue gets even thornier, since congressional
representation is also based on the census. Readjusted figures could switch some
House seats from one state to another.

None of this is about affirmative action; it's a technical issue. Statisticians
know that any count of large numbers of people is really an estimate -- even
assiduous counters won't find everybody. Recent studies have shown that certain
kinds of people in certain places are far more likely to be missed than others.
One school of statisticians would argue that it is simple common sense to use
all the methods and knowledge at their disposal to adjust the census estimate to
make it more accurate. But it's far easier to know how many people are missed
nationwide than in any given neighborhood. Since congressional districts are
constructed town by town -- and in big cities, block by block -- a readjustment
can be a nightmare for mapmakers. You may have a fair idea of how many people
were missed by the census in New York City as a whole, but you don't know where
they live because you didn't count them in the first place.

For that reason, we have been wary of the adjustment that the Clinton
administration is contemplating, especially as it affects congressional
representation. But it's clear that many of the places with the greatest need
for federal help -- cities and states with large populations of immigrants and
poor people -- are those most likely to be shortchanged by census undercounts.
It would thus be reasonable for the administration to propose that federal aid
formulas be based on the adjusted census figures and get Congress to approve the
new formula. That would recognize that this issue is not only statistical but
also political. In the meantime, the National Research Council came up with some
suggestions this week on how to improve the count. It would save a lot of
trouble if the Census Bureau could broker an agreement on how to arrive at a
final number before the next count.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              179 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 13, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Announces Plan Relaxing Visa Restrictions for Cuban Immigrants

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A32

LENGTH: 573 words


The Clinton administration announced details yesterday of a migration plan
solely for Cuba that will permit at least 20,000 immigrants to enter the United
States each year, including about 6,000 chosen by lottery.

The administration expects more than 24,000 Cubans to arrive under the plan
during the first year, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Michael Skol said.

The plan grew out of a U.S. pledge to increase the number of visas granted in
return for action by the government of Fidel Castro to stop citizens fleeing the
country by raft and boat. An uncontrolled exodus from the Communist-ruled isle
resulted in more than 30,000 rafters being picked up at sea.

More than 25,000 Cubans are living in a tent city at the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and 6,128 others have been ferried to Panama, where an
internment camp was set up with a capacity for 10,000. All are being encouraged
to return to Cuba and try their luck at both eased immigration rules and the
lottery.

Only about 225 detainees have asked to return to Cuba, and 17 have been given
permission by Havana to reenter.

The refugees' reluctance to go home is becoming a stain on the Clinton
administration, which ended more than 30 years of welcome to refugees from
Communism. Cuban American groups in Miami have begun to demonstrate for
admission of all the refugees into the United States.

"The type of Cuban who was desperate, desperate enough to take unsafe rafts ...
to the United States, possibly because he or she didn't have any other legal
hope to get to the United States ... he or she too will have an opportunity to
legally migrate," Skol told reporters. "That is the reason for the lottery."

The administration also is expanding the categories of applicants who qualify
for migration as refugees, Skol said. The usual definition of someone with a
well-founded fear of persecution will be more loosely applied to ex-political
prisoners, members of persecuted religious minorities, human rights activists
and people who face discrimination for political beliefs.

"The original concept was political prisoners only. We are expanding that
definition," Skol said.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimate that about
6,000 Cubans will qualify for refugee status annually, another 8,000 or 9,000
for normal immigration to the United States and the rest by lot. The higher
number for the first year is due to a backlog of migrants who are on a waiting
list built up over past years who are going to be let in quickly.

The deal with Cuba over migration effectively ended the refugee crisis.
President Clinton averted an uncontrolled Cuban exodus into Florida in the
months leading up to elections. In this political season, immigration is a
nationwide issue, with Americans much less tolerant of waves of newcomers than
in the recent past.

Clinton, who said that Castro would not dictate his immigration policy, twice
gave in to demands from the aging dictator: first, in declaring that Cubans who
tried to arrive by sea would no longer automatically be considered refugees;
second, by guaranteeing 20,000 visas annually for Cubans. U.S. officials,
answering a complaint that visas were issued too slowly in Havanna, denied that
the speed of processing for Cubans was different than for anyone else.

Castro still wants talks on ending the long U.S. ban on trade with the island.
Clinton has resisted that demand.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              180 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 20, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Md. Woman Charged With Money Scheme

Toni Locy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C3

LENGTH: 383 words


A 66-year-old Bethesda woman allegedly linked to drug money launderers in Miami
and Colombia has been charged with running a money-laundering operation out of a
check-cashing business she and her brother operated in the District.

Clara Santos, a Colombian national, pleaded not guilty yesterday to charges that
she laundered nearly $ 200,000 in what an undercover FBI agent and a cooperating
federal witness told her was drug money.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael L. Volkov said the FBI focused on Santos and her
business, Tele-Kash, in the 4200 block of Connecticut Avenue NW, because of her
suspected ties to "very significant money launderers" in the District, Miami and
the Cali drug cartel in Colombia.

U.S. District Judge Joyce Hens Green refused to release Santos on bail because
Santos's immigration status could not be confirmed yesterday by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Santos's attorney, Gerald Baker, said Santos has a green card and has lived in
the United States for more than 40 years. He also argued unsuccessfully that
Santos, who worked for the World Bank before retiring, has closer family ties in
the United States than in Colombia.

The judge set a hearing for Tuesday.

During yesterday's hearing, Volkov said the FBI secretly recorded numerous
conversations that occurred in Spanish between Santos and the undercover FBI
agent and cooperating witness. He said the agent and informer infiltrated the
Santos operation at Tele-Kash in October 1992. Volkov said the agent and
informer eventually told Santos that they wanted to launder drug money by
sending it to Colombia, Canada and New York.

The prosecutor said the FBI recorded Santos as she discussed how they could
avoid detection by the Internal Revenue Service.  Volkov said it is clear on the
tapes that Santos thought she was helping real drug dealers and that she was
interested only in making money for herself. "Santos said [on tape] that she
knew it was drug money," he said. "She stated she could not make money without
this kind of business."

The indictment also contains a forfeiture count, in which the government is
seeking repayment for the nearly $ 10,000 in commissions that Santos allegedly
charged to handle the wire transfers of the money the agent and informer gave
her.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              181 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 26, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Bogged Down in Bucharest;
U.S. Immigration Law Strands Va. Parents, Adopted Son

Marylou Tousignant, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 692 words


By now, if all had gone according to plan, 13-month-old Matthew Goldstein would
be at his new home in Fairfax, playing with his new big sister and pestering the
family's two dogs. His parents, Martin and Deborah Goldstein, would be back at
their civilian jobs with the Navy in Crystal City.

But things did not go according to plan when the Goldsteins traveled to Romania
on Oct. 10 to pick up their newly adopted son. In fact, because of a change in
U.S. immigration regulations that took effect after the Goldsteins legally
adopted Matthew but before they filed the last bit of paperwork with U.S.
officials in Bucharest, the toddler is trapped in a bureaucratic limbo.

He is unable to enter the United States because under the new regulations, he
does not qualify for an orphan's visa.

The Goldsteins, who knew nothing about the new provisions when they left to pick
up Matthew, say they are trapped too: unwilling to abandon their son in
Bucharest until the legal tangle is resolved but unable to stay indefinitely.

"We both need to get back to work," Martin Goldstein, a naval engineer, said in
a telephone interview yesterday from the Bucharest apartment where the family
has been staying. "I'm in a very difficult situation with the projects I'm
working on. I really ought to be there. I don't know what to do."

At the same time, he and his wife say they have bonded with Matthew in the two
weeks they have had him and are reluctant to leave him, even temporarily, to
return to the United States.

"He's happy. He enjoys being with us," Goldstein said. "The worst part is, if we
have to leave him, it's going to tear us up."

Meanwhile, the couple's older child, 4-year-old Samantha, who also was adopted
from Romania, is at home in the care of her grandparents. "Yesterday she asked,
'Are Mommy and Daddy coming home with baby Matthew?' And I said, 'Yes,' " said
her grandmother, Mildred Goldstein. "But I'm trying to prepare her, just in
case."

The Goldsteins are one of the first families to be tripped up by the new
Immigration and Naturalization Service regulations, but worried adoption agency
officials predict they won't be the last.

"This could impact on thousands of adoptions, especially from Central and South
America," said Linda Perilstein, director of the Cradle of Hope Adoption Center
in Washington, which is assisting the family. "They're basically prohibiting
private adoptions" overseas, Perilstein said.

The new provisions took effect Sept. 30, three days after Matthew's adoption
became final in the Romanian courts. The regulations say that, in countries such
as Romania that do not distinguish between legitimate and illegitimate births,
all children are considered by the United States to be legitimate. For these
children to qualify for an orphan's visa, they must have been abandoned by their
birth parents to a government-sanctioned institution in their native country.

In Matthew's case, his unmarried mother gave him up for adoption and emigration
shortly after his birth. His birth certificate lists no father. The child was in
foster care in Romania for the 10 months the Goldsteins waited for his adoption
to become final.

"These regulations have put this family in a lose-lose situation. Romania is out
of it. He's basically a kid without a country," said Ann Dorough, an aide who
has looked into the case for Rep. Leslie L. Byrne (D-Va.).

An INS spokesman yesterday would say only that Matthew's orphan visa petition
was rejected because "the new regulations tighten up how an orphan is defined.
Merely relinquishing rights ... by the mother was not sufficient."

But Martin Goldstein said the INS interpretation "is so narrow, it's pathetic."
So far, the couple's appeals have failed. Getting a special waiver to bring
Matthew home without a visa will take at least 30 days, assuming a waiver is
available, the Goldsteins learned yesterday.

"We're running out of time. We're running out of money," Goldstein said. " ...
Everybody at INS seems to be dotting i's and crossing t's, with no consideration
for the end result. We've got a little kid here and nobody seems to care about
that."



LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRANDPARENTS MILDRED AND PHILIP GOLDSTEIN CARE FOR 4-YEAR-OLD
SAMANTHA WHILE HER PARENTS_MARTIN AND DEBORAH GOLDSTEIN, OF FAIRFAX_TRY TO
OBTAIN A VISA TO GET THEIR NEWLY ADOPTED SON OUT OF ROMANIA. BELOW, SAMANTHA'S
NEW BROTHER, MATTHEW. MARY LOU FOY; PHOTO

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              182 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 28, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Adopted Romanian Boy Headed for Va.

Marylou Tousignant, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B8

LENGTH: 352 words


Matthew Goldstein is coming home at last.

The toddler has been stuck in Bucharest, Romania, for two weeks while his
adoptive parents, Deborah and Martin Goldstein, of Fairfax, tried to clear an
immigration snag that was barring Matthew's entry into the United States.

Yesterday came word that a top-ranking Immigration and Naturalization Service
official in Washington had cut through the red tape and ordered Matthew's case
resolved immediately.

"To be honest with you, we're kinda numb," Martin Goldstein said in a telephone
interview from the two-bedroom apartment in Bucharest where the family has been
living for 17 days. "I'll believe it when I'm on the plane and out of this
place."

That could be as early as Sunday, if Matthew's paperwork comes through in time.
Immigration officials in Rome have granted the boy what is known as humanitarian
parole status. "That's a little trapdoor that we have for people not authorized
to come in [to the United States] some other way," said Patricia Trubiano, an
INS spokeswoman in Washington.

A child adopted overseas ordinarily is issued a U.S. orphan's visa, but
Matthew's application was denied because of a new interpretation of U.S.
immigration laws that went into effect Sept. 30, three days after his adoption
became final in the Romanian courts. The Goldsteins applied for an orphan's visa
Oct. 12.

Matthew, now 13 months old, had been living in foster care for the 10 months the
Goldsteins waited for his adoption to be completed, during which he had periodic
contact with his birth mother, according to INS officials. Under the new rules,
to qualify as an orphan Matthew would have had to have been relinquished to a
government-authorized third party, such as an orphanage, with no parental
contact.

Matthew's father is not on his birth certificate and has had no involvement with
the boy.

Between 3,000 and 4,000 humanitarian paroles are granted each year under the
authority of the U.S. attorney general, according to an INS spokesman. They are
usually a temporary remedy, he said, for as long as it takes to resolve the visa
problem.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              183 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 2, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Canada to Admit Fewer Immigrants, Screen for Skills

Anne Swardson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A26

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 1, 1994


Canada announced today that it will accept fewer immigrants each year and
overhaul immigration guidelines to give less emphasis to family members and more
to those with marketable skills.

The action came in response to widespread sentiments that Canada, which accepts
proportionately more immigrants than any other major industrial nation, has
become too generous to those who seek to come here. It marked a policy reversal
for the governing Liberal Party of Prime Minister Jean Chretien, who promised
when he was campaigning just over a year ago that he would keep immigration at
about 1 percent of population and give priority to the families of those already
in this country.

In announcing the new rules, Immigration Minister Sergio Marchi said 1995
immigration totals will not exceed 215,000, a decline from 1994's ceiling of
250,000 immigrants. One percent of Canada's population would be about 290,000
immigrants. Unlike the United States, Canada does not have a significant problem
with illegal immigration.

Marchi said the plan did not mark a change of course because the government
remained committed to keeping immigration at 1 percent of population "over a
long period." Eight months of public consultations had indicated that the public
wants "the ability and capacity to manage our immigration programs," Marchi
said.

Of all the countries in the world, only Canada, the United States, Israel and
Australia are receiving significant numbers of people to become legal residents
and eventually citizens, according to Jeff Passel of the Urban Institute in
Washington. Except for Israel, which is obliged under law to accept all Jewish
immigrants, Canada allows the most people in as a percentage of population.

Under Canada's Conservative Party governments, immigration increased from 84,300
in 1985 to 245,800 in 1993. In recent years, however, as the economy went
through a severe recession and a few high-profile crimes were committed by legal
immigrants and refugees, anti-foreigner sentiment has increased. In a poll taken
by the Angus Reid Group last year, 47 percent of respondents said Canada was
allowing in too many immigrants.

In addition, the rise in political power of Canada's conservative west,
represented by the Reform Party, has given a voice to those views. Reform wants
to curtail legal immigration to 150,000 a year, and the party's immigration
critic, Art Hanger, today said the new government plan was "pure smoke and
mirrors."

The rules will place numerical limits on admitting family members of current
legal immigrants, as U.S. rules do now. In Canada, once one family member
obtains legal residency, he or she can sponsor not only spouse and children, but
parents and grandparents, who in turn can sponsor other children or siblings.
Such family members now account for 51 percent of all immigrants; the new rules
aim at reducing that proportion to 44 percent by 2000.

Applicants for immigrant status also will be more closely examined as to their
skills that could help them support themselves and to determine that they have a
good command of English or French. At present, about 44 percent of those
entering Canada speak neither of the country's official languages. Immigrants
who sponsor family members also may be required to post a bond.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              184 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 24, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. to Alter Status of Salvadorans;
Under Clinton Plan, Thousands of Refugees Face Uncertain Future

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1150 words


The Clinton administration is preparing to end a program that offered temporary
refugee status to tens of thousands of Salvadorans who fled their homeland
during the bloody civil war, obliging them either to return home or to face a
state of legal limbo.

Although a final decision will not be announced until early December,
administration officials said it appears to them politically impossible to
extend the program given popular demand for a tougher line on immigration issues
created by the midterm elections, especially the overwhelming approval of
Proposition 187 in California.

In addition, however, some officials say they favor the move as a way of
demonstrating that the government is capable of terminating temporary refugee
programs that often seem to become permanent over time. They cite special
provisions for Jews from the former Soviet Union and for Vietnamese boat people
as other examples of programs that were designed to be temporary but remain
intact.

Some 200,000 Salvadorans were first granted "Temporary Protected Status" in 1990
under legislation that allowed them to remain in the United States and work
legally but did not advance them toward permanent residency as immigrants. In
one form or other it was extended twice by the Bush administration and once more
by President Clinton.

When the latest order expires Dec. 31, the Salvadorans will no longer need
protection in the United States, administration officials argue, because the
political situation in their country has stabilized since a truce in 1992 ended
the 10-year civil war there.

That view has also been pressed by some powerful Republicans. Sen. Alan K.
Simpson (R-Wyo.), who is due to become chairman of a Senate immigration
subcommittee, complained about temporary refugee programs that seem to become
permanent in a speech on the Senate floor in May.

"In El Salvador, they came here because five factions were going in and chopping
each other to pieces," Simpson said then. "And now that is all over. You have
democratic elections. Have one of them gone back? Not one."

A half million or more Salvadorans entered the United States, most of them
illegally, in the face of widespread human rights abuses by the Salvadoran army,
which was trained and equipped by the United States, and by leftist insurgents.
The vast majority were denied political asylum at the time. Subsequent lawsuits
revealed that the proceedings were biased against them because of U.S. policies
that deliberately understated the terror wrought by the Salvadoran military.

No hard estimates exist of the number of Salvadorans who remain in the United
States under temporary status, but they represent a last legacy of the bitterly
disputed era of U.S. involvement in Central America.

Deciding their fate involves a series of diplomatic, humanitarian and legal
issues still being resolved, U.S. officials said.

Previous extensions of temporary status were prompted in part by pleas from the
Salvadoran government that the sudden return of thousands of citizens would have
disastrous social and economic consequences for a nation still recovering from
years of conflict. That view is still held by the Salvadoran government,
opposition parties there and some U.S. officials.

A diplomatic cable sent from the U.S. Embassy in San Salvador to the State
Department in June noted that the $ 840 million in remittances sent home by
Salvadorans in the United States is essential income, far surpassing the amount
of sales of El Salvador's largest export, coffee. The cable, which was published
in full by the authoritative immigration newsletter Interpreter Releases last
month, argues that because most of the remittances go to regions devastated by
the civil war, a significant reduction in this income "would be economically
disastrous for these areas. In fact, it would probably lead to increased illegal
immigration to the U.S."

A sudden end to the temporary status would also have wide impact on the
estimated 1 million Salvadorans living in the United States, including about
100,000 in the Washington metropolitan area, immigration advocates say.

"The effects would be immediate and overwhelming if all these people are denied
legal status just like that," said Saul Solorzano, director of the Washington
office of Carecen, an assistance and advocacy organization for Central American
refugees.

Although only about 20,000 Salvadorans in the Washington area now live under the
temporary status, Solorzano said, the entire Salvadoran community would be
affected here and in other cities. Many of the Salvadorans have lived in the
United States for a decade or more. Their families here often include legal
residents and U.S.-born children, and almost all have established themselves in
homes and jobs.

"This is not something that has just come up out of thin air," Solorzano said.
"We struggled to get fair treatment from the U.S. government all through the
1980s and the justice of this cause was recognized when temporary status was
created. Now, people are more rooted here after another four years and have a
stronger claim for fair treatment."

Recognizing these concerns, administration officials are now considering
measures that would allow the Salvadorans to live and work in the United States
legally while they either prepare to go home or seek permanent legal status
here. Proposals have offered transition periods ranging from 45 days to 18
months, and the administration is considering something on the order of six to
nine months, officials said. During this period, most of the Salvadorans are
expected to file for full legal status.

Administration officials and immigration advocates believe many will have claims
under a provision of the law that allows people to avoid deportation if they
have lived in the United States for seven years and can show that being forced
home would cause severe hardship.

All of the Salvadorans who applied for temporary status are eligible to seek
asylum under the settlement of a lawsuit that contended that Salvadoran and
Guatemalan asylum applicants had been denied fair hearings. The settlement,
reached in 1990, dictates special procedures to ensure them due process.

U.S. law allows people to seek asylum on the basis of past persecution without
showing that the threat is ongoing.

Late yesterday a small group of refugee advocates held a protest on the front
steps of the Supreme Court, demanding that the amnesty be extended or that the
Salvadorans and Guatemalans affected be granted permanent residence.

The group said it plans to petition the federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service to allow all 200,000 affected refugees to apply for permanent residence
on the grounds that being forced to return to their countries would create
"extreme hardship" for them and their families.

Staff writer Pamela Constable contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              185 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 27, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Which Salvadorans Can Stay?

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 411 words


THE ADMINISTRATION must make a decision by the end of the year about the status
of Salvadorans who are in this country as temporary refugees. That status, which
allows them to remain here and work legally, was granted in 1990 and has been
extended three times. But without further action by the president, it will
expire at the end of the year. About 100,000 of those who will be affected live
in the Washington metropolitan area. The case is important not only to these
individuals and their families but also to American policy-makers who are being
pressed to clarify the immigration laws and enforce them vigorously.

This country was reluctant, during the civil war in El Salvador, to acknowledge
the political persecution alleged to have been perpetrated by a government the
United States was supporting, so most immigrants from that country were
initially denied asylum or refugee status. Passing legislation to give them
temporary relief from deportation while the war continued was difficult. Many
members of Congress resisted in the belief that once legalized, even
temporarily, these immigrants would never go home. That, in fact, is what has
happened, for even though the fighting ended two years ago, there has been no
mass exodus and no effort on the part of the American government to encourage
return. Legislators who predicted this outcome have warned that if the situation
continues, Congress will take a hard line toward future requests from any part
of the world for temporary sanctuary.

If the Salvadorans' special status is allowed to expire, complications,
uncertainty and some hardship will ensue. But will there be immediate round-ups,
planes filled with protesting would-be immigrants and a heartless separation of
families based on immigration status? That's extremely unlikely. The law already
allows for compassionate relief in a wide variety of cases. Families with
children born in this country -- who are citizens -- will surely be given
special consideration. Those who have been here for a long period of time,
working and participating in the life of their communities, will be able to make
a claim of extreme hardship if forced to leave.

This sorting-out process, and the resolution of lawsuits that will inevitably be
filed, will take years. Any administration would dread this task in human terms,
but in the absence of a sign that the law is being taken seriously, a backlash
in Congress becomes increasingly likely.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              186 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 3, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Salvadorans Get Reprieve as U.S. Amnesty Ends

Roberto Suro, Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 666 words


The Clinton administration announced yesterday it will end a temporary amnesty
program for about 200,000 Salvadorans living in this country, but officials
reassured the refugees they will not face massive deportations and extended
their permission to work here for nine months.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said the protection could no longer be continued because the human rights
situation in El Salvador has "improved significantly" since its civil war ended
in a 1992 truce.

But Meissner said the measure would be implemented in a "delayed and gradual"
way. "There is no reason to fear large scale and immediate deportations," she
told reporters at the Justice Department.

Salvadoran authorities and refugees alike reacted with grateful relief to the
news, which they had feared would be worse. The administration has been under
pressure to curb illegal immigration, and many Salvadorans had anticipated they
might lose their legal right to be here on Jan. 1, when the protection expired.

"All Salvadorans here should spend a peaceful Christmas with their children and
not dread the coming year," said Ambassador Ana Cristina Sol, the Salvadoran
envoy in Washington. "We have nine months, and we will work hard to find a
permanent solution for all of them."

"This is a great relief. We have a nice house in Hyattsville, we all have jobs,
and I am going to college. We were afraid we would lose all of that and maybe be
deported as well," said Nelsy Parada, a 21-year-old secretary.

An estimated 26,000 Salvadorans in the Washington area have been living here
under the amnesty program, which was first approved in 1990 by President Bush.
The protection has been extended twice since.

In San Salvador, President Armando Calderon Sol called the reprieve "a true
diplomatic success" for his country. The ailing economy cannot absorb tens of
thousands of returnees, and it depends heavily on about $ 825 million sent home
annually by Salvadorans working in this country.

Meissner said work authorization for all refugees in the temporary program will
be extended for nine months. She stressed that employers should continue to
honor existing work papers.

During the period, officials said, about 190,000 refugees will be able to apply
for political asylum under the terms of a 1990 court settlement. It was reached
after a class action suit alleged that some Central Americans had been unfairly
denied asylum during the 1980s.

Salvadorans also can try to avoid deportation by claiming it would pose a
special hardship. Meissner said a large number would likely have valid claims
because they have been in the United States for years and have children born
here.

"People have made their lives and families here," said Ambassador Sol. "Any
Salvadoran who wants to come home will be welcomed with open arms, but we still
cannot offer them the same economic opportunities they find here."

Refugee advocates in the D.C. area said their agencies are preparing to handle a
flood of paperwork. They also warned against unscrupulous lawyers who may take
advantage of desperate or uninformed refugees.

"We now have a window of opportunity to help people find a permanent solution.
Our greatest fear was a total cutoff. Now we can get to work," said Saul
Solorzano, director of Carecen, a refugee agency in Mount Pleasant.

Some refugee advocates said they were not relieved by the nine-month grace
period, pointing out that nervous employers may begin firing affected
Salvadorans anyway.

"People are still desperate and anguished," said the Rev. Jorge Morales, a
minister in Arlington. "I hear some bosses are saying after Dec. 31, there is no
work. Everything is still very uncertain."

Correspondent Douglass Farah contributed to this story from San Salvador.

CAPTION: Salvadoran Ambassador Ana Cristina Sol, right, told citizens of her
country living in the area not to panic. Astrid Ariz, left, and Gerardo Sol
Mixlo listened.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, LUCIAN PERKINS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              187 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 13, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Fairfax Man Pleads Guilty to Immigration Fraud

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D3; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 209 words


A Fairfax County man pleaded guilty yesterday to filing phony immigration papers
for more than 1,500 people, falsely claiming they suffered persecution in their
native countries on applications for political asylum.

German Alberto Alvarez, 36, of Herndon, could face 20 years in prison when he is
sentenced in March in U.S. District Court in Alexandria. Authorities said he and
his mother carried out the scheme through their business, Metropolitan
Immigration Services, based in Falls Church.

Alvarez pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy, mail fraud, tax fraud and
immigration fraud. His mother, Luzmila Centeno Rincon, 62, of Falls Church,
remains under investigation, federal authorities said.

Prosecutors said Alvarez specialized in cases involving Mexicans who wanted to
come to the United States to work. He admitted preparing the false papers in
return for fees as high as $ 500. Customers came from 10 states and the
District, court documents stated.

The paperwork usually helped the applicants get work permits from the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service, enabling them to stay in the United
States while their asylum requests were processed. Because of INS backlogs, that
could mean stays here of two years or more.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              188 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 20, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Despite U.S. Pledge, Detainees Languish;
Advocates for Chinese Allege Administration Interference With Asylum Process

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 1408 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa.


When the dismal voyage of the Golden Venture ended off a New York City beach on
a moonlit night in June 1993, the Clinton administration vowed swift justice for
the nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants who made it to shore alive.

As part of an emergency counterattack on the burgeoning human trade from China,
the administration announced that the boat people would get quick hearings on
their claims for political asylum and that the undeserving would be sent home
swiftly.

But 18 months later, only 16 of the Golden Venture's passengers have been
deported and more than 180 remain in jails around the country. Now it is the
administration that finds itself on the defensive, fighting off a lawsuit that
challenges some basic principles of current immigration policy.

In asking a U.S. District Court to release 136 of the ship's passengers who are
being detained here, the Golden Venture lawsuit alleges that top White House and
Justice Department officials directly interfered with the asylum process to
ensure a high rate of denials.

"Down at the White House they were in a panic because everyone was getting this
vision of America under siege by illegal aliens, and we can now see how they
reacted," said Craig T. Trebilcock, one of the local lawyers pressing the case
against the administration.

"They decided to get rid of these Chinese -- pack 'em up and send 'em home in a
hurry -- to show everyone, starting with the American public, that they could be
tough," Trebilcock said.

At issue in the lawsuit is the means the government can use in crises such as
those involving Haiti and Cuba this year, when large numbers of people try to
enter the country illegally and then contend they are fleeing political
persecution back home. The improvised solution in several such crises has been
the kind of quick processing attempted in the Golden Venture case, and
administration officials say they will propose legislation next year making it a
permanent practice in such emergencies.

"The Golden Venture case raises a critical question... . Is it reasonable to
expect that a hurry-up process will produce fair results when the government
declares in advance that the people being judged are not legitimate refugees?"
said Arthur Helton, a specialist in refugee law at the Open Society Institute in
New York.

Julie Anbender, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said that in the
Golden Venture case, "The department is certain that it acted appropriately and
consistent with due process. We have a strong commitment to protecting
individual rights and are confident that expedited administrative procedures do
not encroach upon these rights."

Rejecting the lawsuit's allegations of interference with the asylum process,
Anbender said, "The department did not give instruction to immigration judges as
to how to adjudicate their cases." She noted that the judges who heard asylum
claims from the Golden Venture's passengers have said in dispositions that "they
were never under the impression that they were being instructed to conduct
themselves any differently than usual."

Attorneys for the boat people argue that documents and testimony show President
Clinton decided to make an example of the Golden Venture's passengers after
several crisis meetings with his top advisers on national security affairs, law
enforcement and immigration matters. Officially the goal was to deter others in
China from trying to reach the United States aboard smugglers' ships but,
according to the lawsuit, the effect was to railroad dozens of people who had
legitimate asylum claims.

The administration created a new legal category for the Golden Venture cases,
Trebilcock argues: "smuggled aliens." It even marked their records
distinctively, "which was like putting a bull's-eye on them," he said.

This was carried out according to a detailed six-page plan developed by the
Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), a quasi-independent branch of
the Justice Department that rules on asylum claims.

The official who drafted that plan, Gerald S. Hurwitz, counsel to the director
of the EOIR, said in a deposition that the White House had asked for expedited
processing of the cases, something that had never happened before. Given the
supposed impartiality of the asylum process, Hurwitz said he would have
preferred that the White House had not called because "it created a hint of an
appearance that I wasn't comfortable with."

Hurwitz acknowledged, however, that he conveyed the message to some of the
judges directly involved in handling the cases.

Anbender said the Justice Department's contacts with the EOIR were consistent
with standard practices. "There was no interference with the decision-making
process in any of the individual cases," she said.

The plan to speed the processing of the Golden Venture cases was announced by
Clinton less than two weeks after the ship went aground. It was part of an
ambitious program involving 12 government departments and agencies to combat the
smuggling of migrants by criminal syndicates of the sort that had organized the
Golden Venture's voyage.

"Deterring this transport in human cargo and traffic in human misery is a
priority for our administration," Clinton declared.

Hurwitz said the chief judge in charge of the asylum process, David L.
Milhollan, "was aware that there was a general program and that we were part of
it, and it had to do with deterring smuggling."

The lawsuit argues that "the unspoken, yet readily apparent" message behind the
administration's plan to speed the hearings was "that deterrence would best be
accomplished when a large proportion of the smuggled aliens' applications for
asylum was denied."

Trebilcock said, "You are not going to get much deterrence if expedited hearings
produce a lot of approvals and that must have been obvious to the people judging
these asylum claims, who are employees of the Justice Department after all, not
constitutionally independent judges."

The ultimate proof, Trebilcock argues, lies in the results. During the past two
years, about 40 percent of all Chinese asylum claims have been approved, but
only 14 percent of the applications from Golden Venture passengers have been
accepted.

Of the original 282 passengers who arrived, 6 have died, 5 escaped custody, 16
have been deported, 70 have been released for various reasons, and the rest, 172
men and 13 women, remain in detention here in southeastern Pennsylvania, and in
New York, Louisiana and Virginia, according to Justice Department figures.

Many, if not most, of recent Chinese asylum claims come from people who said
they were persecuted for resisting China's policy of limiting couples to having
one child. The handling of these claims has been subject to complex and
sometimes contradictory practices.

The idea of deterring unwanted refugee flows with quick processing and quick
returns of those rejected did not originate with the Clinton administration, and
the significance of the lawsuit goes well beyond the Golden Venture case,
according to refugee advocates and experts in immigration law.

Speedy hearings were used in efforts to deter the first waves of Haitian boat
people in the early 1980s and when large numbers of Central Americans crossed
into South Texas seeking asylum in 1989. Those cases and others produced court
rulings against various elements of the process.

Shortly after the Golden Venture's grounding, Clinton announced he would seek
legislation to create standing authority for expedited processing of people who
arrived in the United States with fraudulent documents or no documents. The
administration never pursued that proposal, but last summer it developed a
broader plan.

Under this legislation, which senior administration officials say will be
reintroduced next year, the attorney general would be authorized to declare an
"immigration emergency." Then the federal government could conduct quick
hearings and grant strictly limited appeals before returning people to their
homeland.

"In the abstract there is no reason why asylum claims should not be handled
expeditiously, but you have to look at the track record," said Robert Rubin, an
attorney with the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.

"It comes down to a matter of credibility," said Rubin, who has won several
lawsuits against the asylum system. "I am skeptical when deterrence is the
openly stated goal of expedited decision-making."


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHINESE PASSENGERS LEAVE THE FREIGHTER GOLDEN VENTURE AFTER IT
RAN AGROUND OFF NEW YORK IN JUNE 1993 DURING AN ALIEN-SMUGGLING OPERATION. MORE
THAN 180 OF THEM REMAIN IN CUSTODY. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              189 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 10, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

Gingrich Softens Stance Against Aliens' Benefits;
 Speaker Suggests GOP Will Revisit Welfare Question

Kevin Merida , Judith Havemann, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 866 words


House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) yesterday backed away from a controversial
part of the Republicans' welfare reform proposal, indicating that they might
drop a plan to deny benefits to legal immigrants who have not become citizens.

"I think we're going to revisit the question of eliminating legal aliens from
ever getting access to government services after some length of time of being
here and paying taxes and ... participating," Gingrich said in response to a
question at a news conference with officials of the National Restaurant
Association. "I am very pro legal immigration."

His comments come as Republican leaders are finalizing a broad proposal to
reform welfare benefits that would replace hundreds of federal programs with
direct cash payments to states. Some state officials have objected strongly to
cutting off all noncitizens, and have been negotiating with congressional staff
over the provision, which would raise about $ 22 billion over five years.

Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr. (R-Fla.), who heads the House Ways and Means subcommittee
that will take the lead on welfare reform, expressed surprise yesterday over
Gingrich's comments.

While he said he was "happy to look at different provisions ... the problem is
that we have a proposed bill, and the revenue we're looking at to finance the
welfare budget comes from saving money by taking noncitizens off some of the
programs.

"People are really scratching for money to pay for not only welfare reform but
tax breaks for the middle class. The pebble that the speaker has thrown into the
water has substantial ripple effects; he has opened up Pandora's box" by
suggesting that the cutoff of noncitizens might be softened, Shaw said.

"Philosophically, I have no problem saying that it is not our responsibility to
take care of people who have not become citizens," Shaw added.

The plan being finalized now, in conjunction with Republican governors, is
expected to be the main legislative vehicle for welfare reform in the House and
would supplant the bill contained in the GOP "Contract With America."

Gingrich said yesterday that because 30 Republican governors are willing to
accept a five-year freeze on growth in federal welfare payments in exchange for
wider latitude to experiment, the government can save $ 40 billion and eliminate
the "necessity" of cutting off aid to legal immigrants.

He also embraced a long-held Democratic principle of providing transitional
assistance to beneficiaries of Medicaid, the medical program for the poor.

While Gingrich said he had no specific legislative proposal, he added: "There
should not be a cliff you fall off by starting to work... . I don't know the
answer... . But I can tell you flatly the answer has to involve a transition
process by which every act of effort has a marginal increase in value."

Gingrich spoke at a news conference at the Capitol with Herman Cain, president
of the restaurant association. Cain pledged that the food-service industry, the
nation's largest retail employer, would play a key role in providing employment
and training to help people get off welfare.

Questioned about his views on legal immigrants and welfare, Gingrich said, "I
think that it is legitimate to say if you come to the United States as somebody
who is sponsored, that the sponsor should take a fairly significant
responsibility, whether that's three years or five years or something like that,
but I think we're going to revisit the question of eliminating legal aliens from
ever getting any access to government services."

Douglas Besharov, a resident scholar and welfare expert at the conservative
American Enterprise Institute, said that Gingrich was making a distinction
between different types of legal immigrants.

"I think there is a legitimate case [for helping] someone who has participated
in American society and paid taxes by making them eligible" for government
services, he said. "But America does not owe an obligation to people who come to
this country to retire."

As proposed, the Republican legislation would bar most legal immigrants from 60
federal programs, prohibiting them from receiving free childhood immunizations,
housing assistance, Medicaid, subsidized school lunches and many other federal
benefits.

A study by the Congressional Budget Office found that more than three-quarters
of the budget savings would be realized from denying income assistance and
health care to elderly or disabled immigrants, who are eligible for such aid as
dependents that legal immigrants are allowed to bring into the United States.

Naturalized "U.S. citizens who bring their parents to this country pay taxes to
take care of other people's elderly parents, why not their own?" said Cecilia
Munoz, of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group.

"Many of the [elderly have not been able to work long enough] for Social
Security," Munoz said. "Programs to aid poor elderly people are the only way
many of them have access to medical care. Their children have trouble footing
all the medical bills for elderly parents."


CAPTION: House Speaker Newt Gingrich stands with Herman Cain, president of
National Restaurant Association.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, RAY LUSTIG

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              190 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 11, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Support for Legal Immigrants

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A16

LENGTH: 443 words


SPEAKER NEWT Gingrich says House Republicans may back off that part of their
welfare proposal that would make even legal immigrants ineligible for most
federal benefits. We hope they do back off; it was a bad idea.

The ban would save some $ 22 billion over five years. The Republicans need the
money to help finance the rest of welfare reform, pay for tax cuts and carry
them toward the rest of their goals, including a balanced budget. But excluding
from benefit programs people who have followed the immigration rules, are
legally here and just not citizens is the wrong way to raise it.

There are millions of legal aliens in the country. Most who are receiving
federal benefits are elderly. Some were illegals given amnesty in the
immigration act of 1986. As illegals they had been unable to accumulate Social
Security credits; the act made them eligible for Supplemental Security Income
instead. Others receiving benefits came to the country with sponsors who were
legally responsible for them for a period of years. They went on the rolls when
the period lapsed.

The administration itself proposed to extend this period of responsibility a
couple of years ago to raise some money for unemployment benefits, and it
proposed a further extension last year to help finance its version of welfare
reform. That much Mr. Gingrich suggested the Republicans would likely also do.
"I think that it is legitimate to say if you come to the United States as
somebody who is sponsored, that the sponsor should take a fairly significant
responsibility, whether that's three years or five years or something like
that."

But several leading Republicans have tried in recent months to steer the party
away from becoming or being labeled anti-immigrant. William Bennett and Jack
Kemp went so far as to issue such a warning -- and take issue with their party's
gubernatorial and senatorial candidates -- in the midst of the California
election. Mr. Gingrich adopted a similar position -- "I am very pro legal
immigration" -- and said the party would likely "revisit the question of
eliminating legal aliens from ever getting any access to government services
after some length of time of being here and paying taxes and ... participating."

That's the right way to head. He was helped along, he said, by the fact that
Republican governors seem to have agreed on another way of raising the needed
amount of money. They would convert a number of existing welfare programs to
block grants and freeze them for five years. This, too, presents some enormous
problems, but it's another story. The change in policy concerning legal
immigrants is the right message.


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              191 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 16, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Md. Au Pair Provider Pleads Guilty

David Montgomery

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D3; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


A Bowie au pair entrepreneur, accused of providing dozens of young women from
Northern Ireland who lacked proper visas to work as nannies for Washington
families in 1992 and 1993, has pleaded guilty to violating immigration law.

Janie Renee Cochran, 40, operated her au pair business from a house on Belair
Drive from about August 1992 to the fall of 1993. During that time, she placed
advertisements for Irish nannies in newspapers near Belfast.

Many young women from small Irish towns dreaming of an exciting year as au pairs
in the United States answered the call.

At the same time, Cochran advertised in Washington area newspapers, offering au
pairs as an inexpensive, cross-cultural type of live-in child care for busy
couples.

Cochran and her associates coached the women to tell immigration inspectors that
they were coming to the United States on vacation, according to Robert M. Thomas
Jr., an assistant U.S. attorney.

In fact, Thomas said, the women arrived in the United States on the so-called
visa waiver offered to citizens of the United Kingdom, which did not allow them
to work here.

Cochran said in an interview that she told the au pairs she would secure working
papers for them once they arrived, and she told the families that the girls
already had proper visas to work as au pairs.

The families paid as much as $ 3,000 in advance for their au pairs, believing
they were legal.

Cochran's attorney, William F. Renahan, said at a hearing this month that
Cochran was not responsible for any illegal acts she may have committed, because
she was "insane," with a manic-depressive disorder, while she was running her
business. He also said her condition meant she did not realize that her
associate in Northern Ireland was coaching the girls to lie to immigration
officers.

Cochran opted not to use that defense in federal court.

She pleaded guilty last week to one count of knowingly hiring an undocumented
Irish woman to work in her office and faces a sentence in March that could range
from probation to five years in prison.

Renahan said he will seek probation by arguing that Cochran had a "diminished
capacity" to be responsible, because of her manic-depression.

Thomas, the prosecutor, said he will seek jail time for Cochran by arguing that
she ran an organized criminal enterprise that preyed on especially vulnerable
victims.

LOAD-DATE: Jan 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              192 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 29, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

What Do Immigrants Deserve? A Warm Welcome and the Usual Benefits -- but Not
Affirmative Action

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 1093 words


NEWT GINGRICH appears to have joined Sen. Alan Simpson (R-Wyo.) and other
leading conservatives in backing down on his initial plan to deny welfare and
other benefits to legal aliens, saying he would not want to enact policy that
could be seen as hostile to immigrants who live here lawfully.

His change of heart isn't surprising, given the generally pro-legal immigration
stance of many top Republicans from Ronald Reagan to Jack Kemp. What is
surprising is that neither Gingrich nor anyone else -- including spokespersons
for African Americans -- have raised the issue of whether immigrants should be
eligible for various affirmative action programs. Granting benefits to legal
immigrants is sound policy, but their inclusion in affirmative action programs
is an historical accident for which there is no possible justification.

Affirmative action grew out of the civil rights revolution of the late 1950s and
1960s. James Farmer, the former head of the Congress on Racial Equality, once
recalled a 1963 conversation he had with Vice President Lyndon Johnson. Farmer
urged Johnson to consider implementing a new federal policy that would grant
"compensatory preferential hiring" for blacks. According to Farmer, the vice
president said: "Yes, it is a good idea, but don't call it compensatory. Call it
'affirmative action.' "

Six years later, President Nixon announced the Philadelphia Plan, which required
companies doing business with the government to set up "goals and timetables"
for the hiring and promotion of African Americans in craft union jobs. In all,
more than one third of the nation's work force was affected by the new
regulations. The idea was simple: to make up for America's legacy of slavery and
caste segregation. Employers were told to pay particular attention to jobs where
they had fewer minorities than would be expected given the pool of available
candidates.

But the Nixon regulations took another big step by defining four categories of
minorities: Asians and Pacific Islanders; African Americans; Hispanics; and
native American Indians and Alaskan natives. With that move, a much broader
notion of minorities slipped into American law at the very moment when the
volume of immigration was not only growing but increasingly including Asians and
Hispanics.

Today, Hispanics make up about 40 percent of the foreign-born population, and
Asians about 23 percent. In the 1980s, the Philippines, China, Korea and Vietnam
led all other countries in immigration to the United States. The new composition
of American immigration results from a worthy 1965 decision to get rid of
national-origin quotas, a system driven by racist assumptions. The problem is
that most of the post-1965 immigrants and their children are eligible for
affirmative action. Even if one thinks, as I do, that immigrants contribute a
great deal to the national interest of this country, giving them preferential
treatment in the workplace isn't helpful.

It is true that, in various ways, American laws discriminated against Asian
immigrants through the 1950s, and that Latinos, particularly in the Southwest,
suffered from discrimination often backed by state action until the civil rights
movement of the 1960s. But no one has come up with a plausible reason why
immigrants (and their children) who have come to America voluntarily in the last
two decades should qualify for affirmative action.

To include immigrants who came to this country after 1970 in such programs is
bad for them and bad for the United States. The message these new entrants
receive is that they are entitled to special benefits merely because of their
membership in a designated group. That message is contrary to the American civil
rights compact, based on the principle of individual and not group rights. No
Supreme Court justice, not even Thurgood Marshall, Harry Blackmun or William
Brennan, ever defended affirmative action programs in the name of group rights.
To the contrary, they have been careful to insist that numerical goals linked to
timetables, set-asides, ethnic gerrymandering and the like are temporary
remedies, sometimes rough and flawed, to ensure individual rights.

African Americans rightly resent it when new immigrants, including those who
were legalized under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, are counted
to fulfill affirmative action goals. The effect is bound to be divisive. When
the Republican governor of Ohio recently awarded 19 contracts to businesses
owned by immigrants from India, he provoked a strong protest from elected
African American officials and a counter-attack by one of the Indian
businessmen, who said that the black-owned firms continue to get "all the work."

When a new city council district was created in Oakland, Calif., for the
specific purpose of electing an Asian, African-American leaders loudly protested
in a heated debate that has yet to end. Other examples of
affirmative-action-induced ethnic conflict exist in dozens of states.

Such policies serve only to inflame the anti-immigrant feeling spreading through
this country. For many Americans, immigrants have become the scapegoats who get
blamed for crime, unemployment and all varieties of problems this country faces.

This negative sentiment gelled most recently in California's Proposition 187,
which, if upheld in court, would deny all but emergency medical benefits to
illegal aliens. Proponents say that chief among their goals is to send
Washington a message that Californians are fed up with the federal government's
failure to enforce the nation's immigration laws.

Though California voters may not realize it, the Clinton administration actually
has been more attentive to enforcement than previous administrations. New
strategies and tactics have been developed for better border enforcement and
airport control. More recently, President Clinton in his State of the Union
address recommended a new measure that would sanction employers who knowingly
hire illegal aliens by validating Social Security numbers through a computerized
national registry.

Enforcing immigration laws is critical to sound policy, but the vast majority of
legal immigrants who work hard, pay taxes and are subject to any military draft
should not have safety net benefits taken from them.

One reform that should be made is to end the policy of including immigrants in
affirmative action programs under the guise of civil rights.

Lawrence Fuchs is a professor of American civilization and politics at Brandeis
University.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              193 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 10, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Canadian Laws Block Replacement Teams

Anne Swardson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: Sports; Pg. F03

LENGTH: 783 words


Unlike the United States, which this spring faces the prospect of major league
baseball with replacement players and lower-echelon minor leaguers, Canada faces
the prospect of no major league baseball at all.

It would be the first time Canada has opened a season without major league play
since 1968, the year before the Expos started up in Montreal. Nine years later,
the Blue Jays set up shop in Toronto, and proceeded to win five division
championships, two league championships and two World Series from 1985 to 1993.

The Expos and the Blue Jays, like nearly every other major league team, are
recruiting replacement players in case the players strike is not resolved in
time for Opening Day. But unless something changes, those players will not bat,
pitch or throw on Canadian soil.

Two separate laws forbid the Blue Jays from fielding non-union players in Canada
during the strike. Laws of the province of Ontario, headed by an openly
socialist government, do not allow the use of replacement workers in labor
disputes. And even if that provincial law did not exist, Canadian federal
immigration regulations prohibit work visas for foreigners if their work in
Canada would affect the outcome of a pending labor dispute.

In Quebec, similar provincial anti-replacement worker statutes are on the books,
but they do not cover the Expos because the players' organization has never
registered as an official union. The federal immigration regulations, however,
effectively preclude replacement workers for the Expos -- unless management
wishes to field an all-Canadian team, a highly unlikely possibility.

Among the options for both teams are playing all games on the road, and thus in
the United States; playing at an American site near the Canadian border; or
playing at their spring-training facilities in Florida: Dunedin for the Jays,
West Palm Beach for the Expos.

The Jays seem to be leaning toward Dunedin, where officials are searching for
portable bleachers to expand the stadium's seating capacity. Other U.S. cities,
such as Buffalo, two hours' drive from here, or Syracuse, where the Jays' Class
AAA team plays, pose scheduling problems in order to work around the minor
league teams already there. And playing every game on the road would be
exhausting, Starkman said: How do you handle a "homestand" where the team is
scheduled to play Seattle one night, Detroit the next?

Newspapers here have reported several potential loopholes the Jays could exploit
to try to avoid the Ontario labor law. The way the strike vote was taken does
not conform strictly with Ontario requirements, for instance. But Jays President
Paul Beeston has repeatedly said the team would not use technicalities to evade
Ontario law, and Starkman said today that: "It's like speeding: If you knowingly
go over the limit, you're breaking the law, even if you don't get caught."

Bob Rae, premier of Ontario and the man who pushed through the
replacement-worker law in 1992, has said he firmly believes it should be applied
to the Blue Jays. In a recent television interview, in fact, he suggested that
the fact the Jays cannot use non-union players in their home town might increase
pressure on team owners and players to push for a settlement.

The Expos, unlike the Blue Jays, are bound by only one law, but it appears to
have few loopholes. Roger White, spokesman for the federal Ministry of
Citizenship and Immigration, said the only exceptions allowed to any of the
immigration regulations are for "compassionate and humanitarian" grounds. "We've
got the regulations on the books and that's the way it is," White said.

However, reports from the management side indicate the Expos are talking to the
Canadian government about some kind of exemption to allow them to field a
replacement team in Montreal. Expos vice president of baseball operations Bill
Stoneman said the team will not comment publicly on discussions it is having,
but that "we are pursuing discussions with the appropriate people. . . . We have
every intent of supplying baseball product to Montreal and to Quebec. We are
planning to play here, whether it is with replacement workers or regular
players."

A higher proportion of Canada's labor force is unionized than in the United
States. But opinion here is mixed. When The FAN, a local sports radio station,
asked its listeners whether they would pay to see replacement workers play
baseball, 79 percent of the 200 or so callers said they would not. Only 7
percent said yes, the rest had no opinion.

@CAPTION: The SkyDome's grounds crew digs up the turf around home plate.
Canadian fans might wait a long time before the Blue Jays play in Toronto again.


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CANADIAN PRESS

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              194 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 11, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Carns Withdraws As CIA Nominee; 'Abusive Accusations' Cited; Deutch New Choice

Ann Devroy; Walter Pincus, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1585 words


Michael P.C. Carns, the retired Air Force general selected by President Clinton
to head the CIA, said last night he has asked that his nomination be withdrawn
because he is the victim of "venomous and abusive accusations" that he was
unwilling to fight in his Senate confirmation hearings.

A senior administration official said Clinton, in a conversation with Carns
yesterday, accepted that decision and offered the CIA nomination to John M.
Deutch, deputy secretary of defense. Deutch, who had turned the CIA post down
before it was offered to Carns, has accepted, the official said. The
announcement is scheduled for today.

Carns, in an interview, said he was withdrawing in the face of accusations made
by Elbino Runas, a Filipino citizen, to the Senate intelligence committee and
the FBI. Runas lived with the Carns family in the Philippines, and the family
obtained immigration documents to bring him with them to Hawaii in 1987. He
subsequently moved with them to Washington, and stayed with the family until
1992.

Carns said he was presented with allegations that he had violated U.S.
immigration law in providing for Runas to come to the United States, and that
the Carns family had failed to honor an employment contract with Runas. Carns
said he also was presented with "groundless, outrageous, tabloid charges" made
by Runas about members of Carns's family.

Carns acknowledged that his wife, Victoria, had provided inaccurate information
to U.S. Embassy officials in the Philippines in obtaining the original visa for
Runas, a nephew of the family's Filipino cook. She signed papers falsely saying
he had worked for the Carnses in the Philippines and would continue to work for
them in the United States. In 1992, Carns said, he provided false information to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington in obtaining an
extension of the visa.

In explaining his actions and those of his wife, Carns said last night they had
acted out of humanitarian motives in helping Runas and "did not realize" what
they were signing.

In the case of the original visa, Carns said, "what we think happened is my wife
and Elbino went to the embassy and they signed whatever [you] have to sign to
get this visa. . . . She signed a number of papers and did not realize what she
signed."

He continued, "I tell you up front, I erred in not looking into the details of
the visa and its requirements, and I am at fault for that."

When he appealed to the INS in 1992 to extend Runas's visa, he said he wrote a
letter "from a humanitarian standpoint. . . . I signed it because I thought this
is necessary."

The withdrawal is another blow for an administration that has been plagued with
a string of high-profile embarrassments over nominations and senior appointees
who were found to have tax or other difficulties regarding domestic help, or
other legal or ethical problems. The speedy decision to name Deutch was an
effort by the White House to put this episode behind it as quickly as possible.

Carns said he told the White House "the very first day" that his family had
obtained a visa for a foreign national. But Carns said he did not recognize
until recently, when the allegations of wrongdoing surfaced after his
nomination, the extent to which he and his wife had violated immigration rules.

Carns yesterday said he took full responsibility for the mishandling of the visa
and said he was told by the White House that his opponents would say he should
have known the details, should not have put false information in a letter and
that "this calls into question my competence for the job" of director of central
intelligence.

Carns said Runas disappeared three years ago after Carns refused to help him get
a second extension of his visa. Carns said he was "absolutely flabbergasted"
when charges about Runas's employment emerged in recent weeks.

Carns said he saw no reason for Runas to make "groundless" personal accusations
about his family.

A senior administration official said the White House had determined that
Carns's nomination proceedings would probably be "nasty and prolonged," and most
likely the personal charges would emerge even if efforts were made to deal with
them privately. Carns said the White House told him the same thing. "I was told
in my discussions with the White House that . . . this would have been a
protracted, miserable, ugly and drawn-out procedure. I said, 'Hey, wait a
minute. It's time to stop.' "

Carns, who was selected on Feb. 7 to succeed R. James Woolsey as CIA director,
retired from the Air Force last year. He served as vice chief of staff of the
Air Force from 1991 to 1994.

His nomination received virtually unanimous backing from the military,
intelligence and political world when it was announced.

But the complicated saga of the Filipino worker -- which became an issue after
Carns already had answered allegations that he interceded to help his son in a
criminal case -- stopped the nomination short.

Carns describes Runas as the nephew of a cook who worked for him when he was
commander of Clark Air Base in the Philippines in 1986-87. He said Runas was not
on his payroll but worked in the yard and did other odd jobs. When Carns and his
family were preparing to move to Hawaii, Runas asked if he could come along.

After the move to the United States, Carns insists Runas was not a servant and
described him more as a companion and helper for his then-teenage children. He
said he had agreed to put $ 200 a month in an account for Runas to help him
return home and establish himself there later. No taxes or Social Security were
withheld or paid for those payments to Runas.

Carns said his wife went to the U.S. Embassy and applied for a visa that allows
overseas Americans to bring domestic workers into the country temporarily. Carns
said he supplied a letter certifying that he was likely to be reassigned
overseas again within four years, the length of the visa.

It was only last week, Carns said, that he was shown a "contract" signed by
Runas and Victoria Carns that stated he would work for her at least at the
minimum wage for 40 hours a week. He said his wife does not recall signing it,
and acknowledged it contained false information because he said there was no
intent that Runas would have full-time employment.

When the four-year visa was about to expire, Carns said he talked to the INS and
then submitted a letter that among other things listed Runas as a hard worker.
At the time, he said last night, Runas was no longer living with him and was
working elsewhere in violation of his visa.

"I am at fault. . . . I take responsibility," Carns said of the false
information.

A year later, he said, Runas "got very hostile and unpleasant" when he was told
a further extension could not be obtained. Carns said he was responsible for
getting Runas back to the Philippines, but that Runas "disappeared," only to
call him sometime later and ask for $ 4,000, the amount they calculated he was
due based on the agreed $ 200 per month. Carns said he paid Runas $ 1,000 a
month for four months.

During conversations with FBI investigators, Carns said, Runas went beyond
allegations about his contract and made "personal allegations" about the Carns
family.

Describing himself as "a reluctant suitor" to be CIA director, Carns described
what he called his anguish at being presented with "muck" and being asked to
"stand up and slug it out with accusation after accusation on national
television" to get a job he had not sought in an atmosphere he said would hurt
his wife and children.

"This conduct is simply beyond the pale and kills any willingness by myself and
others to subject themselves to this process," he said.

Carns praised Clinton and the White House for sticking with him. "They were
loyal to me. They did not need this and I think I am being loyal to them" in
withdrawing, he said.

It is unclear how the allegations about Carns first came to FBI attention. One
law enforcement source said associates of Carns passed allegations to the Senate
intelligence committee that were then investigated by the FBI, which then found
and interviewed Runas. But another source suggested Runas came forward on his
own. Administration officials last night pointed out that virtually everyone
associated with Carns through a long career had given him glowing public and
private endorsements.

Officials checking Carns's background also looked into a situation involving
allegations regarding his teenage son Marc. In May last year, Marc and another
teenager became involved with two older Bolling Air Force Base commissary
employees who were subsequently caught and charged with stealing eight boxes of
meat from the facility, according to the Air Force judge advocate, Maj. Gen.
Nolan Sklute.

Marc Carns and the other teenager were given $ 25 each to drive their cars to
where the commissary employees had hidden the stolen meat and wait while they
picked it up and took it away. The whole sequence was videotaped.

Sklute said he first learned of Marc's problem from Carns, his superior, who at
the time was No. 2 in the Air Force command. Carns, according to Sklute, "said
he wanted the investigation to proceed and 'let the chips fall where they may.'
"

Marc Carns was questioned by the Air Force Office of Special Investigation,
Sklute said, and admitted what he had done. "He was not prosecuted," Sklute
said, "nor were others on the periphery" of the case.


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, JOHN M. DEUTCH MICHAEL P.C. CARNS

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              195 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 17, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

INS to Probe Carns's Data On Employee

Pierre Thomas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 353 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun a preliminary investigation
into the citizenship status of a Filipino national who entered the United States
with the support of retired Gen. Michael P.C. Carns, who last week withdrew his
nomination to become CIA director.

INS officials said yesterday they are gathering information about Elbino Runas
and hope to interview him to find out if he is an illegal immigrant. INS
officials also plan to interview the former Air Force officer about the Carns
family's efforts to obtain visas for Runas, who is believed to be in the
Washington area.

Carns acknowledged in interviews last week that his wife had provided inaccurate
information to U.S. Embassy officials in the Philippines in obtaining the
original visa for Runas, a nephew of the family's Filipino cook. In 1992, Carns
said, he provided false information to the INS in obtaining an extension of the
visa.

Neither Carns nor Runas could be reached for comment. If INS officials determine
Runas is illegally residing in the United States, deportation proceedings will
be initiated, an agency spokeswoman said. If INS officials conclude Carns
knowingly provided false information to federal officials, he could face fraud
charges.

Carns was selected Feb. 7 to succeed R. James Woolsey as CIA director. The
announcement was met with virtual unanimous support from military, intelligence
and political circles.

But the immigration problems along with what Carns called "groundless,
outrageous, tabloid charges" allegedly made by Runas about Carns's family to the
FBI, forced the former vice chief of staff of the Air Force to withdraw. There
also were allegations the Carns family had failed to honor an employment
contract with Runas.

According to Carns, he put $ 200 a month in an account for Runas to help him
return home and get established. No taxes or Social Security were paid for the
payments to Runas, who was not on Carns's payroll.

An Internal Revenue Service spokesman, citing federal disclosure laws, declined
to comment on whether the agency was looking into the matter.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              196 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 22, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

For the Record

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 299 words


From "An Economy Without Immigrants" by Glenn Garvin in the April issue of
Reason:

Last year a House bill that would cut the number of legal immigrants by 65
percent immediately and 85 percent in the long run attracted 73 co-sponsors from
both parties, the single most popular immigration measure introduced during the
past Congress. . . .

The timid few who demur [from restrictive immigration policy] are almost
universally scorned as ivory-tower knuck leheads who mistake poet ry for po li
cy. . . . But if there's anyone who's neglecting the real world, it's the people
who want to cut immigration. . . . Of the million or so people who make up the
full-time farm work force . . . the U.S. Department of Labor estimates that 60
percent are foreign born. . . . Their average wage is around $ 6.00 an hour. How
much would it cost to find native-born Americans to replace them in the fields?
. . .

"It's not just money that keeps Americans out of those fields," argues Libby
Whitley, an agricultural labor consultant, ". . . [Let's say] I'll pay you [at a
rate of] $ 110,000 a year to be a migrant farm worker. But you'll leave your
friends and family. You'll live in a house trailer in an orchard, do your
cooking in a group kitchen. And the job will only last for three months. Will
you do it?

" . . . It's outdoors, it's often in unpleasant weather, it's physical, it's
hard. It hurts your back. It's short term. . . . If there's a bad freeze or a
hailstorm just as a crop is ready to be picked, you're not guaranteed anything.
You go home empty-handed. That's the nature of nature. And that's the nature of
farm work."

Throughout most of American history, there's only been one group willing to
consistently take on that kind of labor: recent immigrants. . . .

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              197 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 25, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Legal Immigrants Say Welfare Debate Unfair

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 684 words


The mother of Rep. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) is furious with House Republicans
over the welfare bill passed yesterday that denies benefits to legal immigrants
who are not citizens. Evangelina Menendez, a Cuban immigrant, worked for 30
years in a Hoboken factory, and paid income taxes and Social Security, her son
said.

At 74, she has never received public assistance, nor does she plan to. But she
is "incensed" that the bill would prevent her from getting help -- such as
disability benefits and Medicaid -- should she ever need the aid in her old age,
her son said.

Republican architects of the welfare plan say the cutoff in assistance to legal
immigrants who are not citizens would produce a large part of the bill's $ 66
billion in savings.

For Menendez and a few House members who are immigrants or first-generation
Americans, the debate on benefits for legal immigrants is taking place on a
deeply personal level.

"I know she is totally affronted by this process, and so am I," said Menendez,
who voted against the bill.

His mother lives with Menendez's older sister in Union City, N.J. She is a legal
permanent resident, and like many Cuban immigrants, she did not become a U.S.
citizen because she thought she might one day return to Cuba, and because she
had difficulty learning English, her son said. Menendez's mother, who declined
to be interviewed, is now applying for citizenship, he said.

In general, permanent residents are eligible to become citizens after living in
the United States for five years. With some exceptions, they must pass a civics
and English proficiency test, after which they obtain the rights and privileges
of native-born citizens.

Menendez said he and some other Hispanic members feel insulted by what they say
is the anti-immigrant tenor of the debate. In particular, he pointed to remarks
Thursday by Rep. Bill Archer (R-Tex.) when he spoke against an amendment by Rep.
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) that would permit welfare for noncitizen legal
immigrants unable to take the citizenship test because of physical or mental
disabilities.

"My ancestors and most of our ancestors came to this country not with their
hands out for welfare checks," said Archer, chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee. "They came here for the opportunity for freedom and the opportunity
to work and to achieve the successes that this country offers more than any
other country in the world."

Menendez and Ros-Lehtinen were among those who took Archer's comments to mean
some immigrants come to the United States only for welfare benefits.

"It's all part of the propaganda that's spewing out that refugees and immigrants
come to this country for welfare, and that is ludicrous and certainly not true
among the people I represent," said Ros-Lehtinen, 42, one of the few Republicans
who voted against the welfare bill. Born in Havana, she came to the United
States when she was 7 and became a citizen at age 20.

A spokesman for Archer said yesterday the congressman, whose ancestors came to
the United States in the 1700s and 1800s, "has never insinuated that any group
of people has come for any other reason" but work, and the United States was
built by hard-working immigrants.

Nevertheless, among some members, such as Rep. Esteban Edward Torres (D-Calif.),
there is a feeling the debate is unfairly targeting immigrants.

In 1933, when Torres was 3, his father, an undocumented Mexican working in an
Arizona copper mine, was deported by U.S. authorities and he never saw him alive
again. The elder Torres later returned to the United States to look for his
family but never found them. Instead, he was drafted into the U.S. Army, and
served with honor in the Pacific Theater. When he died in California, his son
did not find out about his death until six months later, Torres said.

"Many immigrants gave their sons and daughters to the defense of this country,
and they never became citizens because of old world attitudes," Torres said.
"Now, in their later years, if they want some help, they would be denied, and I
think it's horrible."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              198 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 19, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Lawmakers Assail New Policy On Returning Cuban Refugees

Michael Dobbs, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 659 words


The Clinton administration ran into a storm of criticism on Capitol Hill
yesterday over the change in its Cuban immigration policy, with Democrats
joining Republicans in denouncing the State Department for negotiating with the
"Cuban dictatorship" and "trusting the word" of Fidel Castro.

The man who negotiated with the Castro regime to end a 30-year policy of
automatically granting Cuban refugees asylum in the United States,
Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff, drew a skeptical response from
legislators when he insisted that Havana was living up to its end of the
bargain. He told a House International Relations subcommittee that the Castro
regime had kept a promise to refrain from harassing refugees returned to Cuba by
the U.S. Coast Guard or Cubans who apply to emigrate legally to the United
States.

Tarnoff provided further details of his talks with Ricardo Alarcon, a Castro
confidant and president of the Cuban National Assembly, that led up to the May 2
announcement on the forcible repatriation of Cuban rafters who attempt to cross
the Straits of Florida. Tarnoff said that during four hours of talks with
Alarcon in New York and Toronto, he was acting under the instructions of
President Clinton, as relayed by deputy national security adviser Samuel R.
"Sandy" Berger.

As a result of the agreement with Alarcon, most of the approximately 20,000
Cuban rafters who were interned at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay after
being intercepted by the U.S. Coast Guard will be permitted to enter the United
States. The U.S. general responsible for the Guantanamo facility told
legislators that some Cuban detainees had mutilated themselves and injected
paraffin into their arms in a desperate attempt to draw attention to their
plight.

Marine Gen. John J. Sheehan, head of the U.S. Atlantic Command, said there would
have been riots at the camp over the summer in the absence of a solution to the
refugee crisis. "We would have had U.S. servicemen hurt, and Cubans hurt," he
told the Western Hemisphere subcommittee.

Rep. Robert G. Torricelli (D-N.J.) predicted that Congress will overwhelmingly
approve a package of tough new sanctions against Cuba designed to help Cuban
exiles regain property confiscated by the Castro regime. But Tarnoff warned the
legislation could "severely disrupt" important U.S. trading relationships with
third countries and would be "difficult to defend under international law."

The bill, sponsored by Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), would deny entry to the United
States to shareholders of mutual funds that have invested in Cuban businesses.
It also envisages cutting aid to Russia in retaliation for the transfer of a
former Soviet intelligence facility on the island to the Castro government.
Legislators complained that the facility could be used to eavesdrop on Cuban
citizens and "spy on the United States."

Although most Cuban exile groups have denounced the immigration agreement with
Havana, there are divisions within the Cuban community over how to handle
Castro. A spokeswoman for the Cuban American Committee, Alicia Torres, cited a
recent poll in the Miami Herald which indicated that 45 percent of the exile
community approved of the new policy.

Jorge Mas Canosa, leader of the Cuban American National Foundation, dismissed
the poll and told the subcommittee that the migration agreement had "set back
the prospects for freedom and democracy in Cuba by 20 years," sending a message
to Castro that he was able to draw the United States into a negotiation without
undertaking meaningful political and economic reforms.

Tarnoff said the administration remains committed to tightening sanctions but
also seeks to "encourage those forces in Cuba working for democratic change"
through cultural exchanges and other programs. "That sounds to me suspiciously
like taking incremental steps towards Castro's regime," shot back subcommittee
Chairman Dan Burton (R-Ind.).


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, PETER TARNOFF

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              199 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 03, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Expands Asylum Protection for Women; New Guidelines Recognize Rape, Domestic
Violence May Be a Form of Persecution

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A04

LENGTH: 971 words


The Haitian soldiers who went to the woman's house that day wore stockings over
their heads to disguise their faces. They mocked her political work in support
of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the president overthrown a few months earlier in a
military coup.

They threatened to kill her. Then, while her mother was forced to watch, three
soldiers raped and beat her. The woman, who was 27 and married, is unable to
bear children as a result of the attacks.

She fled to the United States in July 1992, five months after the attacks, and
sought political asylum. Her request was denied. A U.S. immigration judge ruled
that she had failed to prove she was persecuted because of her political
beliefs.

But last month, the Board of Immigration Appeals overturned the decision. The
board, an administrative decision-making body, found that her rape was a form of
political persecution in a ruling that all asylum officers and immigration
judges are now required to apply in deciding similar cases.

Last week, in a related step, the Immigration and Naturalization Service issued
new guidelines formally recognizing that rape, domestic abuse and other forms of
violence against women can constitute grounds for asylum. Only Canada had
previously adopted such specific measures on asylum cases related to gender.

The guidelines and the board decision reflect a growing recognition in the
United States and abroad that violence against women -- solely because they are
women -- can constitute serious human rights violations and should therefore be
considered when granting asylum.

In the past, the fact that an asylum claim was based on a rape or some other
gender-related factor would result in its dismissal as merely "personal" by U.S.
immigration authorities even if it amounted to persecution on account of
political opinion, according to Deborah Anker, a founding member of the Women
Refugees Project at Harvard Law School and the Cambridge and Somerville Legal
Services. The group was instrumental in helping the INS develop the guidelines.

Until quite recently, there were few federal court decisions that addressed the
claims of women to asylum protection even tangentially, she said.

But in the last few years, there has been growing attention to human rights
abuses based on gender, prompted in part by international atrocities such as the
mass rape of women in Bosnia as part of "ethnic cleansing," the systematic use
of rape in Haiti by police and soldiers during and after the 1991 coup against
Aristide, and the domestic violence in Rwanda, immigration officials and
advocates said.

"These claims weren't made in the past, but they're beginning to be made now,"
said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, general counsel of the immigration service.

In an important decision last December, an immigration judge in Arlington
granted political asylum for the first time to a 51-year-old Jordanian woman
whose government had failed to protect her from over three decades of physical
and mental abuse by her husband. The immigration service initially turned down
her request for asylum, arguing that it was simply a case of domestic abuse that
should be settled in another forum.

The husband was from a wealthy, well-connected Jordanian family. Among his good
friends was the head of the secret police, who gave him a gun that the husband
later used to shoot at his wife. After getting drunk, the husband often beat his
wife, even when she was pregnant, and once used a tennis racket to hit her when
he found her studying for a high school equivalency exam.

In his decision, Judge Paul A. Najelski wrote that the woman had been persecuted
because she sought her own identity and espoused Western values in a country
where wives, generally, are expected to subordinate themselves to their
husbands. Also, she was among a group of women who were unwilling to live their
lives in a "harem" at the "mercy of their husbands, their society and their
government," he wrote.

This ruling marked the first recognition that spousal abuse can become a form of
persecution under some conditions. The Jordanian woman had suffered at her
husband's hands because of her beliefs, and she could not get real protection
from the Jordanian authorities because of those same beliefs.

The INS guidelines took effect immediately. They do not lower the standard for
asylum that must be met for women. Women will have to meet the same basic tests
as men, and all asylum cases will continue to be decided on a case-by-case
basis. Applicants seeking asylum in the United States must still demonstrate a
well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality, political
opinion or membership in a particular social group.

Some groups that favor less immigration, such as the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), have argued that permitting gender-related asylum
claims will produce a rush of claims by many thousands of women who will see an
easy opportunity to obtain legal status in the United States.

"We cannot bring people here simply because they are suffering under general
cultural forms of oppression," said Dan Stein, president of FAIR.

Although most of the world's refugees are women and children, supporters of the
new guidelines argue that women are often the least able to leave refugee camps
or their native countries to seek asylum abroad and are unlikely to produce the
flood of asylum claims that opponents fear.

In the two years since Canada adopted specific guidelines, 195 gender-related
claims for asylum were accepted, according to Canadian officials. That accounts
for about 2 percent of all Canadian asylum claims filed since the guidelines
went into effect.

In the United States, there were 147,000 asylum applications last year, almost
triple the number in 1991.

LOAD-DATE: June 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              200 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 06, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

Commission to Propose Lowering Number of Immigrants Let Into U.S.

Bill McAllister, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A04

LENGTH: 704 words


A congressional commission Wednesday will propose a fundamental revamping of the
nation's immigration laws, ultimately lowering the number of foreigners allowed
to move into the country by one-third, but promising in return to speed the
admission of spouses and young children of legal aliens.

The report by the Commission on Immigration Reform could trigger a major debate
by Congress on immigration policy. If enacted, the commission's proposals would
drastically reorder who could get into the United States and who couldn't.

The commission, headed by former representative Barbara Jordan (D-Tex.), over a
period of years would gradually reduce the annual number of legal immigrants
from the current level of about 830,000, first to 700,000 and then to 550,000.
The panel also recommends new restrictions on the admission of unskilled workers
and would impose special fees on employers who bring skilled workers into the
country.

News of the commission's proposals was warmly received by those who have argued
that immigration is having a negative impact on the nation. "This is a
recognition that the system is broken, a recognition that we need to bring
immigration down," said Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a group that has advocated even sharper cuts in the
flow of immigrants.

A source close to the commission said, however, that the nine-member panel
believed that basic U.S. immigration policy was fine. But the commission "became
more and more convinced that there were major problems in the current policy"
and wanted to be involved in congressional efforts to rewrite immigration laws,
the source said.

Jordan will come to Washington on Wednesday to hold a news conference and brief
congressional leaders on the panel's recommendations. The commission's proposals
were disclosed by the San Francisco Chronicle and the New York Times.

Despite the commission's efforts to avoid controversy, "what you will get are
fights," said Michael Fix, an immigration policy analyst at the Urban Institute,
a Washington think tank. Noting that the commission's proposal parallels
legislation being drafted by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), chairman of the
Senate immigration subcommittee, Fix predicted that the report will give
momentum to an issue that some GOP leaders had hoped to avoid while they focused
on their primary legislative agenda.

Based on recent immigration statistics, analysts said yesterday that the
commission's proposals would make it more difficult for many Latinos and Asians
to gain visas to enter the county. Both groups have benefited from preferences
that have allowed brothers, sisters and adult children to join their relatives
who have become U.S. citizens.

Advocates of tighter restrictions argue that the current preference system
promotes "daisy chain immigration" that allows for big, extended families to
gain admission.

Warren R. Leiden, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, was the lone dissenter on several key commission votes, taken
during closed meetings this spring. "The final recommendations of the majority
are not well enough thought through and are shortsighted," he said.
Congressional Republicans have been sharply divided over the issue, with some
favoring immigration controls and others, including House Majority Leader
Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.), arguing that controls do more economic harm than
good. It was unclear yesterday how the Clinton administration would respond.

Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president at the National Council of La Raza, a
Latino group, said her organization would fight the proposal because of the
recommended changes in family preferences. "The impact is going to be on
Americans who want to bring their families together," she said, accusing the
commission of crafting proposals to win favor on Capitol Hill.

"What was clearly a thoughtful body has turned into one that is being driving by
politics," Munoz said. A commission official conceded that Munoz may have a
point. "We're a congressional commission. What do you think a congressional
commission does?" the official said, speaking on the condition he not be named.

LOAD-DATE: June 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              201 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 12, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

How Many Legal Immigrants?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 414 words


CHAIRMAN BARBARA Jordan of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, in
introducing the commission's proposals to reduce immigration numbers and revise
priorities, underlines the incalculable benefits of immigrants to this country.
But the commission acknowledges that in some areas of the country with a high
proportion of recent immigrants, the economic and social impact has been
adverse. The cost of educating children, for example, providing SSI and Medicaid
for aged parents and the competition with Americans for low-skilled jobs are
cited. Unfortunately, the data to back up these expressed concerns won't be
available until the commission's full report is released this summer.

Immigration, which is near a historic high, has in fact been declining in recent
years. The total number of legal immigrants and refugees admitted last year was
about 800,000, down slightly from the year before, and projected to be about
750,000 by 1998. Commission members would reduce that figure to 700,000 the year
after legislation is passed, and eventually to 550,000 once backlogs are
reduced.

The commission would, in revising priorities, emphasize the reunification of
nuclear families as opposed to extended families including adult children and
siblings and the admission of professional and skilled immigrants at the expense
of the unskilled who, the panel believes, take jobs from unskilled Americans. It
calls for greater family financial responsibility for aged immigrant relatives.
As for refugees, it recommends a smaller quota -- 50,000 a year, as against
110,000 this year.

None of this is radical or far from mainstream proposals being introduced in
Congress already. And, of critical importance, the commission wants the numbers
revisited every three years to allow flexibility in the national interest. But a
number of matters need to be elaborated on before it is possible to judge the
plan as a whole. More needs to be explained about the thinking behind the
reduction in numbers, of refugees as well as legal immigrants, and the
elimination of visas for the unskilled, a category that undoubtedly once
included the immigrant ancestors of most Americans. It would also be instructive
to see the data on economic and social impact, including an analysis directed by
demographers at the National Academy of Sciences. Private scholars who use
different assumptions have come up with wildly differing answers. Those
differences need to be aired and explained.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              202 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 02, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

Open and Shut Immigration

Richard Estrada

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C07; RICHARD ESTRADA

LENGTH: 757 words


DALLAS -- Like a bell ringing in the dead of night, extremism is reverberating
in the national debate over immigration.

To make things worse, charges of immigration extremism are being voiced by
immigration extremists from virtually all segments of the political spectrum. In
a debate that cries for informed discussion, the nation is instead witnessing an
old Marxist strategy of demonizing one's enemies by "exacerbating the
contradictions."

If it is too much to be guided by the national interest, everyone might at least
heed Mark Twain's timeless advice: "First you get your facts straight, then you
can distort them all you want."

In the search for extremism, one need look no further than current U.S. legal
immigration policy itself. First, consider that this country takes in nearly as
many immigrants and refugees for permanent resettlement as the rest of the world
combined.

Around 800,000 legal immigrants are entering the United States annually, along
with an estimated 300,000 illegal immigrants. This adds up to record levels of
well more than 1 million newcomers every year.

Immigration enthusiasts often speak as if the nation's history has featured
ever-spiraling immigration from 1607 and the founding of Jamestown, Va., onward.
Yet this is false. Instead, American immigration has always featured an
ebb-and-flow quality.

In the 20th century, for example, extremely high levels of immigration leading
up to World War I gave way to a period of extremely low immigration, especially
from the late 1920s through the mid-1960s. The current wave of immigration that
has been occurring for over 25 years is largely a function of a family
reunification policy implemented in 1965 that has yielded unintended
consequences.

Against this backdrop, conservative author Peter Brimelow is now raising the
specter of internecine strife and national disintegration because of non-white
immigration in particular. His view is vigorously seconded by presidential
aspirant Patrick Buchanan.

Now, expressing concerns over immigration is not necessarily racist or
xenophobic. Yet in pitting racial groups against one another, Brimelow and
Buchanan go beyond responsible policy prescriptions.

Obsessed by the genuine excesses of our immigration system, they seek to cut
immigration with the ax of an immigration moratorium where a scalpel is more
appropriate. In imbibing their doctrine straight, their vision has become so
blurred they have overlooked the great power of assimilation in our history.

Elsewhere on the political spectrum, liberals such as New York Times columnist
A. M. Rosenthal have not only supported unusually high levels of legal
immigration, they have long been apologists for undocumented immigration as
well.

Finally, the logical extremity of libertarianism was encapsulated in a 1990 Wall
Street Journal editorial that called for a five-word constitutional amendment:
"There shall be open borders."

Libertarian extremism is present in Congress, as well. In a recent speech before
the libertarian Cato Institute, House Majority Leader Dick Armey sought to curry
favor by supporting still higher levels of legal immigration, while expressing
his opposition to those measures before Congress that promise to seriously
control illegal immigration. Armey is the immigration policy soul mate of former
housing secretary Jack Kemp.

What do the American people think? Polls have consistently found that the public
at large favors curbing immigration. Moreover, virtually all national polls of
minority opinion have found that African Americans and Hispanic Americans also
believe the levels of immigration are too high. Perceived drains on public
budgets and intensified competition for jobs, social services and low-cost
affordable housing are some of the reasons offered.

Immigration is an enormously complex issue, but the questions that should guide
poli cy-makers are simple enough: Who shall come? How many shall come? How shall
the law be enforced?

Reasonable people may disagree over the answers to those questions. But
obviating a need for a discussion of them by lobbying for doors to be slammed
shut or floodgates to be opened can only be seen as prima facie evidence of
extremism.

Some might think I find a fixation upon race in the debate or the artificial
flooding of immigrants into low-wage labor markets to be troubling because I was
born into an impoverished American family of Mexican descent.

But the truth is, I find it troubling because I am an American.

LOAD-DATE: July 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              203 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 09, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

Becoming Citizens to Fight Anti-Immigrant Tide

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg.  B01

LENGTH: 701 words


Alejandrina Alvarez, 38, a housekeeper from Alexandria with tiny Peruvian and
U.S. flags pinned to her green dress, raised her right hand yesterday morning
and vowed to renounce all foreign princes and potentates, support the
Constitution and bear arms on behalf of the United States.

Marie Reyes, who came here from Guatemala 21 years ago, watched the swearing-in
ceremony on the Mall with envy and then sat down to apply for citizenship
herself, commenting that "we need more voice, more protection against the wave
of discrimination against Hispanics in this country."

And Carmen Lepe, a Mexican American volunteer who grew up in the California
produce fields and became a citizen three years ago, rushed about with a
walkie-talkie, making sure that there were enough translators and lawyers,
folding chairs and cold sodas for the day-long citizenship drive.

"It gives me goose bumps to see how excited people get, knowing they have the
right to vote," said Lepe, 26, who works at the National Council of La Raza, a
Latino advocacy group. "I've been in this country since I was 4, but now that
I'm a citizen, I feel everything I do and say means a lot more."

It was a day of pride and excitement for recent, brand-new and would-be
citizens, hundreds of whom gathered for the National Citizenship Day event,
co-sponsored by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a local Latino civic group
called GANAS.

Similar workshops -- aimed at helping foreign-born residents acquire new rights
amid growing attacks against immigrants -- were held in 10 other cities
yesterday, from Union City, N.J., to Santa Fe., N.M., and even San Juan, Puerto
Rico.

"We've gotten an incredible response," Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) said
from Miami, where she has been encouraging older Cuban Americans to become
citizens. "Certainly the anti-immigrant feeling has spurred us on, and people in
our community are learning how powerful a weapon voting is."

Here in the nation's capital, the citizenship drive received a boost from the
federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, whose director, Doris Meissner,
presided over the formal swearing-in of 63 new citizens from 30 countries under
a white tent erected on the Mall.  In a brief welcoming speech, Meissner called
naturalization, the application by foreign-born legal residents to become
citizens, "the right way to the American dream. It is playing by the rules," she
said. "I applaud your choice."

In the last year, immigration offices across the country have been flooded with
record numbers of citizenship applications, partly driven by immigrants' fears
that they will lose benefits under proposals sponsored by Republicans in
Congress and a number of states.

Last year, 400,000 applications were approved; this year, officials said
yesterday, they expect the total to reach nearly 1 million.

They also said they are trying to ease the process by relaxing language
requirements for elderly residents and possibly by simplifying the host of
questions asked of applicants.

Many new citizens taking the oath of allegiance yesterday, as well as families
filling out naturalization forms, said they were concerned about the current
anti-immigrant mood.

After years of settling for legal residence without voting rights, they said
they had decided to take no chances.

"I want to live here forever, and I don't want to be separated from my
children," said Edilman Robles, 46, a house cleaner and mother of six from
Guatemala who lives in Reston. "Every day, I see the law closing in on us
residents. What if one day they say citizens can stay and we have to go?"

Among the young professionals who volunteered with GANAS, there was an added
sense of responsibility to help newer, less privileged Latinos become part of
the political process that has opened opportunities for them.

"We are all first-generation Americans, so that immigrant struggle is still very
close to us," said Patty Caballero, 26, a Cuban American advertising account
executive.

"My parents came here as refugees, and I have a vested interest in seeing other
Latinos become successful, productive citizens," she said.

"This is one way to do it."


LOAD-DATE: July 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, Alejandrina Alvarez, a native of Peru, is hugged by
brother-in-law Honorio Peralto after becoming a U.S. citizen on National
Citizenship Day.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              204 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 09, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

Revised Political Asylum System Shows Promise in Early Stages

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A16

LENGTH: 1211 words


Six months after instituting major reforms in the U.S. political asylum system,
the Clinton administration believes it is making progress toward weeding out
fraudulent claims while granting asylum expeditiously to people who face
persecution in their home countries.

"After years in which fraudulent asylum claims were routinely used as a backdoor
way to enter the United States, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
finally has sufficient staff and resources to stop the abuse and ensure that
legitimate asylum-seekers no longer pay the price for those who seek to misuse
the system," INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said in an interview.

However, while non-governmental experts on immigration acknowledge INS has made
a promising start, they note the reform effort is only beginning. They say the
administration must do much more to get control of the badly overburdened
system, which has a backlog of about 450,000 people who, in some cases, have
been waiting years for a decision on their requests for asylum.

"The situation is analogous to a hospital that has incorporated all of the most
up-to-date methods into its operations," said Warren Leiden of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "But the real test for the hospital is whether
it is saving more lives than before. For INS, the test is whether you've made
the system more effective in protecting people from persecution."

U.S. immigration law operates on the principle that, within certain limits,
persons who can demonstrate "a well-founded fear of persecution" in their
countries of origin should be granted asylum status if they have reached U.S.
soil or refugee status if they are applying from abroad.

During the 1980s, when the Cold War still was on, the asylum program was of
particular importance to defecting Soviets, Vietnamese boat people and refugees
from such war-torn parts of Central America as El Salvador and Nicaragua. But,
even as changing circumstances have eased political repression and rights abuses
in these places, other countries -- Guatemala, Sri Lanka, India -- have produced
a new stream of refugees looking to this country for refuge.

Compounding the pressures they put on the chronically understaffed and
underfunded INS was a surge of asylum applications from people who saw a chance
to get a toe in the U.S. job market. By 1993, asylum applications were running
at 150,000 annually and the backlog had reached proportions that could not be
disposed of until some time in the next century.

In 1993 President Clinton ordered the Justice Department, which has oversight of
INS activities, to overhaul the system, and the reforms went into effect last
Jan. 4.

The main goal was to streamline and speed the process of granting valid asylum
claims and referring those that cannot be granted by INS asylum officers to the
Justice Department's Immigration Court, known as EOIR, for deportation
proceedings. The reforms also sought to deter people trying to use the system to
get jobs by providing applicants with a work authorization only when their case
is not decided within 180 days. What the INS is trying to do most immediately,
Meissner said, is "to become current with receipts," by which she means
expeditious processing of new applications as they are received. Delays were
thought to have encouraged the fraudulent or flimsy claims that overburdened the
system because applicants were allowed to remain in the United States and work
legally while they waited for their cases to be resolved.

For the 1995 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, the INS has set a goal of
adjudicating 150,000 cases. In the first eight months of fiscal 1995, it
completed more than 61,000 cases, a 76 percent increase over the 35,000 cases
handled the same period of fiscal 1994. Similarly, INS asylum officers
interviewed about 74,000 asylum applicants the first eight months of fiscal 1995
compared with 27,000 during the same period of the preceding year.

To deter spurious claims, the INS is relying on strict enforcement of the
180-day rule for granting work permits, increased detention and faster
deportation to remove those whose applications have been denied from the country
and stepped-up investigation and prosecution of people involved in making
fraudulent claims. Between January and May, Meissner said, these measures helped
produce a 14 percent drop in asylum claims.

Of the cases considered by INS officers since January, 6,532 were granted
asylum, 6,360 were rejected without a right of appeal and 22,089 were referred
to the Immigration Court for decision on whether they should be deported.
Nevertheless, many immigration experts say a number of potentially troubling
questions remain. Leiden, for example, says it is not clear whether there has
been a significant reduction of cases that are adjudicated before reaching the
180-day mark.

He also says statistics do not reveal whether any inroads are being made on the
backlog of long-pending cases and, most importantly, whether the demand for
speed and efficiency is causing people to be rushed through the process without
sufficient attention to merits of their claims.

Arthur C. Helton, director of migration programs at the Open Society Institute,
questioned whether faster action by INS in referring cases to the Immigration
Court means "faster adjudication or simply a shifting of the caseload from one
part of the Justice Department bureaucracy to another."

In addition, he said, it is not clear whether "INS has improved its detention
process to ensure that it is not holding genuine refugees too long while
releasing people with spurious documents because of limited detention space."
Helton charged that frustration over this point was a major cause of the fracas
last month when detainees at an INS detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., briefly
took two guards hostage as a protest.

"These are all very valid questions, and they are all things that we anticipated
and planned for when we worked out the reform program," Meissner said. "But it's
a progressive thing that has only been in operation six months, and we still
need time to see if it works out as we had hoped and planned." She agreed the
new system would be a failure if swifter referrals to the Immigration Court
resulted only in shifting the caseload.

"These things move along the equivalent of a conveyor belt, and right now we're
working on the first part, which is the determinations made by INS asylum
officers," she said. "Additional resources like more judges for the Immigration
Court are being built into next year's budget in anticipation of a larger
caseload arriving there. In a few more months, we'll have a better picture of
whether the caseload is starting to move through the judicial process in more
timely fashion."

As to the 450,000-person backlog, INS officials note that about 157,000 are
Salvadorans who constitute a special case because their status is tied up in a
complex judicial proceeding. As to the rest of the backlog, Meissner said, "The
idea of concentrating initially on new cases is that it puts some discipline
into the system. If we can get a decline in incoming cases and get them out
quickly, we'll be able to address the backlog much more quickly."

LOAD-DATE: July 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              205 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 10, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Ethnic Groups Unite Against Benefit Cuts; Hundreds Protest Bills Aimed at
Immigrants

Lena Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg.  C01

LENGTH: 866 words


Choon Hwa Shin, 64, a housekeeper at Fort Belvoir's Army hospital, has lived and
worked in the United States for nearly 20 years. She had never taken part in a
public protest.

But yesterday, she and her family joined about 300 people from the Korean,
Vietnamese, Chinese and Latino communities on the steps of the Capitol to
protest proposed legislation that would deny benefits to legal immigrants.

"I came because the Republicans don't want to treat us equally, like other
Americans," said Shin, using her hand to shield her face from the strong
afternoon sun. Like Shin, who became a citizen 10 years ago, many of those who
drove from Virginia and Maryland to take part in the protest were naturalized
citizens who had never spoken out in public.

Waving placards that read "Same Taxes, Same Rights, Same Public Benefits" and
"We Were All Immigrants Once," the crowd marched behind a local Korean American
percussion group that beat on traditional drums and gongs. College students in
jeans and T-shirts walked alongside elderly Korean Americans and Vietnamese
Americans, most of them wearing sun visors and hats. One hatless Korean American
woman, 75, leaned heavily on her wooden cane.

Although organizers had hoped for a larger turnout, they praised the effort as
one of the few times that the area's different ethnic groups, especially the
more reticent Asian groups, had joined for a common cause. The two-hour march
and rally were in English, but organizers also shouted instructions in Korean,
Vietnamese and Spanish.

Several Republican-sponsored bills are pending in Congress that either would
deny assistance to legal immigrants who are not citizens or make it more
difficult for legal immigrants to receive benefits, even after they become
citizens.

Advocates of a ban on certain benefits to noncitizens say legal immigrants must
make substantial sacrifices at a time of widespread federal cuts. Proponents of
legislation to make it more difficult for immigrants to get assistance say the
sponsors who pledged to help immigrants should be held to those agreements.

"This is the first time in U.S. history that a citizen would lose public
benefits because he was foreign-born," said Sang Park, a Korean American lawyer
who helped organize the march. "This is really alarming, and we are here to
fight against that mean-spirited legislation."

Immigrant advocacy groups say the proposals are unfair because they do not make
allowances for the economic hard times that befall immigrants as well as
citizens. Permanent residents who are living in the United States legally and
paying taxes should be eligible for the same programs as other Americans, they
say.

"They are trying to make us second-class citizens," said Nam Thai, 24, who came
to Washington from Vietnam with her family more than 10 years ago. Thai is a
citizen, but her mother has not learned enough English to pass the citizenship
test.

According to bills pending in the Senate, however, even becoming a U.S. citizen
would make no difference.

Under the immigration bill sponsored by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), any
federal means-tested program -- including educational loans and work-study --
would be required to take into account not only the income of the immigrants
applying for the program but also the income of their sponsors and the sponsors'
spouses in determining eligibility.

Legal immigrants to the United States often are sponsored by relatives.

Many immigrants say that few could qualify for assistance under such provisions,
known as "deeming" rules. Under Simpson's bill, deeming would continue to apply
to immigrants even after they become citizens.

Under current law, the income of sponsors must be "deemed," or counted, when a
noncitizen applies for aid from just three programs: Aid to Families with
Dependent Children, food stamps and the Supplemental Security Income program for
the elderly and disabled.

The new proposals would affect a much broader group of applicants, including
students such as Julie Jung, 19, who will be a sophomore at George Mason
University in the fall.

Last year, Jung received about $ 5,000 in loans and grants under federal
programs for needy students. Her parents' income is less than $ 15,000 a year.
If the income of her sponsor -- an aunt with her own carpet business -- is
counted on Jung's loan application, Jung no longer would qualify for assistance,
she said.

Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), who voted to deny legal immigrants benefits
from five federal programs as part of the House bill to remake welfare,
yesterday praised immigrants' contributions to this country. He said his vote
was only to help the welfare bill advance.

Now that the legislation is working its way through Congress, Davis said, he
would vote against anti-immigrant measures, which he called unfair.

"When I look at the shops at the Baileys Crossroads area, I see the frontier
spirit more than anywhere else in America," he said, referring to the diversity
of that area's merchants.

"It's people like you, who come here looking for a better life and better
education for your kids, who make me remember what America is all about."


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dudley m. brooks, (Photo ran on page A01) A UNITED FRONT: Three
hundred people from the Korean, Vietnamese, Chinese and Latino communities come
together on the Capitol grounds to denounce legislation that would deny benefits
to legal immigrants or make it more difficult for them to recieve benefits.  Pam
Pham, who is Vietnamese, protests anti-immigration bills during the march.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              206 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 28, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Palestinian With Local Ties Is Detained as Suspected Hamas Leader

Pierre Thomas; Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A31

LENGTH: 855 words


Immigration authorities have detained a Palestinian who lived many years in
Northern Virginia and who they believe is a senior political leader of the
militant Islamic group Hamas, federal officials said yesterday.

Mousa Abu Marzook, 44, was detained by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service at Kennedy International Airport in New York on Tuesday after his name
surfaced in a terrorist lookout database, said Carole Florman, INS spokeswoman.

Marzook, formerly of the Falls Church area, has told federal officials that he
is a member of Hamas, and a number of law enforcement sources said that they
have received intelligence reports indicating that he is a major operational
figure in the group, intimately involved in the planning or support of terrorist
activities in the Middle East.

Marzook has not been charged with committing any crimes in the United States.
Israeli officials, who spoke on condition they remain unidentified, said the
Israeli government suspects him of direct oversight of Hamas's terrorist
campaign against Israeli civilians.

Marzook's lawyer, Stanley Cohen, said he was guilty of nothing more than
political devotion to Palestinian independence.

"There's not even a suspicion of him committing a crime in the United States,"
Cohen said. "He's never denied he's a supporter of the political platform of
Hamas. That makes him no different than many other Palestinians." Hamas, in
addition to its guerrilla activities, also runs schools, clinics and mosques in
the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

Abdurahman Alamoudi, executive director of the American Muslim Council in
Washington, said he had known Marzook since the 1980s, and expressed disbelief
that he is involved in terrorism. He expressed outrage over the detention and
criticized Israelis for anonymously tarring Arabs.

Cohen described Marzook as a successful construction executive who has a wife
and six children, four of them born in the United States. He said Marzook has
been traveling for the past four months, visiting relatives in the Mideast. He
did not identify which countries.

"The Palestinian diaspora is all over the world," Cohen said. "It's not unusual
traveling to Middle Eastern countries, visiting friends and family. There is
nothing sinister about that."

Cohen said he would seek a hearing in immigration court, demanding his parole.

INS officials detained Marzook under two sections of the Immigration and
Nationality Act. One section alleges he is an "alien who has engaged in
terrorist activity." The other section identifies Marzook as an alien "who a
consular officer or the Attorney General knows or who has reasonable grounds to
believe is likely to engage after entry in any terrorist activity."

To underscore concern about Marzook, INS officials yesterday initiated
proceedings to exclude him from entering the United States. "We are seeking to
bar him from the United States," Florman said.

Marzook had lived in the United States at least 14 years and was given permanent
legal resident alien status in 1990 along with his wife and two of his children,
INS said. Five months ago he left the country and was returning from the United
Arab Emirates via London when he was arrested Tuesday.

A number of U.S. terrorism analysts described Marzook as the head of Hamas's
political committee. He is among the many known Middle East militants who have
addressed the annual conventions of a group known as Muslim Arab Youth
Association of Plainfield, Ind. He has been prominent in the past year or so
among the Hamas leadership in Jordan, issuing blistering sermons, said a number
of sources familiar with the matter.

Israeli officials said the Israeli Justice Ministry and the U.S. Department of
Justice are "working closely" on this case but as of now no formal extradition
request from Israel has been submitted.

"We have a very keen interest in Dr. Marzook, one of the principal orchestrators
of terrorist attacks against citizens in Israel," said an Israeli official, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.

Marzook was born in Gaza in 1951. He came to the United States in 1973 for
graduate studies in engineering at Louisiana State University, an Israeli
official said. He left the United States when the issue of U.S. support for
Hamas surfaced and went to Jordan, where he reportedly remained until expelled
last month, reportedly because of his identification by Israel as a sponsor of
terrorism.

Alamoudi of the American Muslim Council said Marzook had lived regularly in
Falls Church until the beginning of 1994, when he began spending most of his
time traveling in the Middle East.

"I know the man, he is a moderate man on many issues," Alamoudi said. "If you
see him, he is like a child. He is the most gracious person, soft-spoken. He is
for dialogue."

Alamoudi, noting that Marzook was being held without evidence of wrongdoing,
said, "This is a hard insult to the Muslim community. We want proof, and frankly
we are fed up with people in Israel giving information anonymously" about Arab
nationals.

Staff writer Thomas W. Lippman contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, MOUSA ABU MARZOOK

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              207 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 29, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Is Asked To Turn Over Terror Suspect; Israel Wants Marzook For Activities
in Hamas

John Lancaster; Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A15

LENGTH: 1152 words


Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin called on the United States yesterday to
turn over Mousa Abu Marzook, the Palestinian Islamic activist and former Falls
Church resident detained by U.S. immigration authorities in New York Tuesday on
suspicion of involvement in terrorism.

But Israeli officials acknowledged they may have a hard time persuading an
American court to accept their case against Marzook. They conceded they lack
evidence connecting him to specific acts of terrorism despite his role as a
high-profile fund-raiser and spokesman for the Islamic group Hamas.

U.S. authorities predicted that the federal government would seek to have
Marzook declared "an excludable alien," and expel him from the country, on
grounds that his activities in Hamas meet the legal standard for participating
in terrorism. Marzook has the position of head of the political division of
Hamas, which has been linked to suicide bombings and other attacks against
Israeli targets.

"We think that we will be able to offer ample evidence that his position within
Hamas was so high that he cannot argue credibly that he was unaware or
uninvolved in its terrorist activities," a senior official of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

U.S. officials also expressed doubt that Israel ultimately would ask to have
Marzook extradited, because his return could inflame passions and arouse unrest
among Palestinians.

The Palestinian authority under Yasser Arafat offered Marzook a new home in the
Gaza Strip, even though Hamas opposes Arafat's peace accord with Israel. Hamas
retains considerable popular support in Gaza where, in addition to its
involvement in terrorism, Hamas provides social services such as schools and
medical clinics.

Rabin told Israel Radio that "we are very interested in reaching a situation in
which first of all if possible he [Marzook] will be extradited to us." Failing
that, Rabin said, Israel would like to see the case "dealt with by American law
because President Clinton passed through a law in Congress which defines Hamas
as a terrorist organization."

Hamas warned the United States against heeding Rabin's wishes.

"While demanding the immediate release of Dr. Abu Marzook, Hamas warns the U.S.
authorities against contemplating the handing over of Dr. Abu Marzook to the
Zionist occupation authorities," Hamas said in a statement. "The U.S.
administration is hereby held fully responsible for whatever harm [occurs] to
Abu Marzook."

Israeli officials and terrorism experts said Marzook long has played a pivotal
role in Hamas, which is dedicated to the destruction of Israel and the creation
of an Islamic state stretching from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean. As
Hamas's political director, they said, Marzook helped fill the void left by the
arrest and imprisonment in Israel of Hamas leader Sheik Ahmed Yassin, and that
Marzook helped rebuild the organization following Israel's deportation of 400
suspected Hamas activists in 1992.

Martin Kramer, an Islamic specialist from Israel who is a visiting professor at
Georgetown University, said Marzook was the organization's political liaison to
leaders in Iran, which is believed to have bankrolled Hamas.

Marzook's U.S. lawyer, Stanley Cohen, acknowledged that Marzook had met with
Iranian leaders and has been quoted in published reports as attacking Israel, in
some cases saying it should be "exterminated." But Cohen said that there was no
basis for extradition to Israel or prosecution here. "You can't deport someone
merely because he or she belongs to an organization or practices speech," Cohen
said.

In American mosques and in the offices of Arab and Islamic organizations
yesterday, condemnation of Marzook's detention continued to grow. Many echoed
descriptions of Marzook as a political leader of Hamas who opposes violence.
They accused the United States of showing bias in favor of Israel and against
Palestinians by detaining him without linking him to a specific crime.

"An anti-Islam, anti-Arab attack by the administration, that's how it's
perceived," said M.T. Mehdi, secretary general of the National Council on
Islamic Affairs in New York City.

A federal immigration court in New York is expected on Monday to set a date
sometime in the following weeks for a hearing on Marzook's case, officials said.
Marzook, who moved to Northern Virginia after receiving an engineering doctorate
in the 1980s, received a U.S. immigrant visa in 1990.

Immigration authorities detained him at John F. Kennedy International Airport
because his name had been placed in recent months on an INS list of "suspected
terrorists." That happened, officials said, after considerable recent
discussions about Marzook between U.S. and Israeli officials.

Although Marzook lived in Northern Virginia as recently as the early 1990s, he
left few clear traces of his time here. Local officials said they were unable to
find tax records under his name.

One of the few organizations in which Marzook held an official role was the
United Association for Studies and Research, a Springfield Islamic think tank.

Yesterday, the group denied it had any links to Hamas and said Marzook resigned
as a member of its board of directors in 1993 before his links to Hamas had
become widely known. Institute officials said they were "surprised and dismayed"
by his arrest.

Marzook "contributed to the work of our institute by serving as a public
relations specialist in the Middle East," the statement said. "By virtue of his
status as a well-known businessman, his doctoral education, and his ongoing
widespread connections throughout the Arab world, he proved to be ideal for the
task."

Marzook is a well known figure among Palestinians in Gaza, where he was born in
1951 and where his brother, Brig. Gen. Mahmoud Abu Marzook, is the head of the
Palestinian authority's civil defense department.

The Israeli officials and terrorism experts described Marzook as the main
organizer of Hamas's overseas fund-raising and recruiting network. During a stay
in Jordan, they said, Marzook took public credit on behalf of Hamas for attacks
on Israeli soldiers and citizens. Marzook subsequently was expelled from Jordan.

But linking Marzook to specific acts of terrorism may prove difficult, according
to a Western diplomat and some Israeli officials. "I'm not sure what the chain
of command is from the spokespeople to the . . . brigades" that carry out Hamas
terror bombings, the diplomat said.

Chief Israeli government spokesman Uri Dromi said: "Definitely he's a terrorist
because he's a leader of Hamas and Hamas is a terrorist organization. But when
you have to take him to court, both here and in the United States, and extradite
him, this becomes a different story."

Lancaster reported from Jerusalem. Staff writers John M. Goshko and Debbi
Wilgoren contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, MOUSA ABU MARZOOK YITZHAK RABIN

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              208 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 01, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

Israel Seeks Custody of Alleged Terrorist; Fund-Raiser for Palestinian Group
Faces U.S. Immigration Hearing

John Lancaster, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A12

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 31


A Jerusalem court issued an arrest warrant today for Mousa Abu Marzook as the
first step toward formally requesting that the United States extradite him on
grounds he is a leader of a radical Palestinian organization.

Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who last week called on the United States to turn
Marzook over to Israel for prosecution on terrorism charges, decided to seek
extradition at a meeting Sunday night with Israel's justice minister, attorney
general and representatives of the Shin Bet security service, officials said.

Marzook, a U.S.-educated engineer, was detained July 25 as he tried to reenter
the United States at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport after five
months abroad. U.S. officials said Marzook, who had lived in the United States
for 14 years and has a permanent residence visa, was taken into custody because
his name appeared on a "watch list" of aliens not allowed into the country. An
immigration hearing is scheduled for Wednesday.

Rabin's legal advisers initially had expressed reluctance to petition the United
States for custody of Marzook, a spokesman and fund-raiser for the Islamic
Resistance Movement, also called Hamas, a Palestinian group that has
acknowledged suicide bombings and other attacks on Israeli citizens and
soldiers. But officials said Rabin decided to press ahead after becoming
convinced, on the basis of information presented by Shin Bet, that Marzook has
been involved in planning terrorist attacks.

They said Israeli officials have notified the Justice Department and U.S.
Ambassador Martin Indyk of their intention to petition a U.S. court for custody
of Marzook, who would then be brought to Israel to stand trial. Israel has 60
days to submit a formal extradition request to the United States.

The information presented by Shin Bet "shows that he was not only a political
leader as he likes to portray himself," chief government spokesman Uri Dromi
said.

In its request to the Jerusalem court, the state attorney's office charged that
as the head of Hamas's political bureau, Marzook raised money to finance
military operations and helped set up the "organizational infrastructure for
Hamas, including . . . violent activity."

In 1992, it charged, he raised a large sum of money that wound up in the hands
of a Hamas militant and was used to buy weapons that were used to attack Israeli
soldiers. Marzook's attorney has disputed the terrorism charges.

In a statement given to the Reuter news agency in Damascus, Syria, today, Hamas
warned the United States that continued detention of Marzook would lead to
"extremely negative consequences."

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              209 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 04, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Salvadorans Given More Time To Put In for Political Asylum

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg.  C02

LENGTH: 355 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service sent notices this week to
200,000 Salvadoran immigrants across the country giving them a four-month
extension -- until Jan. 31 -- to apply for political asylum.

But they still must apply by Sept. 30 for permission to keep working in the
United States, immigration officials said yesterday. Otherwise they risk losing
their jobs while they wait for their asylum petitions to receive initial review,
a process that takes at least two months.

"It's fine that they'll have more time to file, but it won't do people much good
if they don't extend the work authorization. Employment is the key issue," said
Yvonne Vega, executive director of Ayuda, a legal aid agency in the Adams-Morgan
neighborhood.

The Salvadorans affected are those who received temporary legal amnesty in 1990
under the terms of a California court case. More than 10,000 Salvadorans in the
Washington area are living and working under temporary amnesty.

The amnesty ended last December, but authorities gave permission for nine more
months of work to ease the transition for families who have lived and worked
here for years. At the same time, immigration officials also encouraged
Salvadorans with amnesty to apply for asylum to buy more time in the United
States.

The original application deadline for asylum also was Sept. 30. This week, the
INS mailed notices to affected Salvadorans giving them until Jan. 31 to apply
for asylum.

However, "the deadline for work authorizations is Sept. 30, and if they want to
have uninterrupted work status after that, they have to comply with the rule. It
is to their advantage to apply for both [work status and asylum] as soon as
possible," said Dan Kane, an INS spokesman.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the National Lawyers Guild, which filed
the original suit that led to the amnesty, commended immigration authorities for
"setting a reasonable deadline" for asylum applications. Legal aid offices have
been swamped with requests for help, and many Salvadorans have been bewildered
by the complicated procedures and shifting deadlines.

LOAD-DATE: August 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              210 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 22, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Meets Quota For 20,000 Visas In Cuban Accord

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A09

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Aug. 21


The U.S. government said today it had fulfilled its part of a bilateral
immigration agreement with Cuba by granting more than 20,000 entry visas to
Cuban migrants in the first year of the accord.

"I am very pleased to announce that as of Aug. 15 we have fulfilled our
first-year commitment agreed to in the Migration Accord signed in New York on
Sept. 9, 1994," said Joseph Sullivan, head of the U.S. Interests Section in
Havana.

At a brief ceremony in which he presented U.S. travel documents to three Cuban
families, Sullivan said the United States had complied "24 days early" with the
terms of the accord, which required it to issue a minimum of 20,000 visas each
year.

Besides the 20,000, Washington had issued 6,244 visas since Sept. 9 to Cubans
who were immediate relatives of U.S. citizens or who had been on a worldwide
waiting list to migrate.

The immigration agreement, under which both sides pledged to guarantee safe,
orderly and legal migration, ended last summer's "Cuban rafters' crisis" in
which more than 30,000 Cubans fled Cuba in flimsy rafts and boats.

U.S. officials say that of the 20,000 Cubans to be granted entry in the year
beginning next month, 5,000 will be Cuban refugees who had been held at the U.S.
Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay in eastern Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              211 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 22, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

A Fading American Dream; From the Streets of Johannesburg She Made a Family. Now
Paperwork Threatens to Take It Away.

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: STYLE; Pg.  C01

LENGTH: 2262 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG


Thabo, Thandi, Gerry and Moses thought they'd be in America by now. They thought
the family instability, hard drinking, battering, political violence,
homelessness and hunger would be, by now, far away -- painfully etched in their
memories, yes, but physically separated from them by an ocean.

The four children -- Thandi and Thabo Mohlomi, 10- and 12-year-old siblings,
along with their cousin Moses Mduli, 15, and another child, Geraldo Van Der
Berg, also 10 -- are caught between a tragic past that still could seize them
and an unfulfilled promise that seems to mock them. In practical terms, they are
trapped in a Catch-22 between the immigration and adoption laws of South Africa
and those of the United States. And each day, the children bow their heads and
pray that the waiting will end.

They are, in effect, orphans. Thabo, Thandi and Moses, then 6, 7 and 11, were
dropped off at a police station here four years ago by a penniless and jobless
guardian who said he would find food and return. They were cold. They were
hungry. As hours passed, they realized they were being abandoned. Gerry is not
related to the others, but he became parentless as well when he was 5 and was
forced by older boys to come to the big city and act as bait for their street
gang of beggars and thieves.

It was by a quirk of fate that the children met a woman named Amy Flickenger, an
American missionary who in those days worked back on the streets of Hillbrow,
helping to feed and otherwise assist the hordes of street children who
congregate in that slightly seedy, slightly artsy section of central
Johannesburg. Flickenger also visited the local jail, where street children
routinely were incarcerated. When Thandi, Thabo and Moses were abandoned at the
Hillbrow police station that night in June 1991, a police officer phoned
Flickenger for help. She took the three children in, then took in Gerry six
months later.

Her intention, at first, was to find foster care or other placements for the
children, whose families could not or would not keep them. She had no success,
so she kept the children with her. She re-enrolled them in school, saw to their
needs and grew to love them, as they grew to love her. They have become a
family, bonded together by love and circumstance and the determination not to be
separated.

"My commitment to them is strong," says Flickenger, 30. "Even though I wasn't
pregnant with them, I love them as my children. We came into each other's lives
and I have the opportunity to help them grow up until they can be on their own.

"We became a family here, and as much as I might have given something to them,
they also gave to me. I think we do very well as a family."

Chasms to Cross

They cut an odd figure, this white woman and the four black children, and people
here stop and stare and whisper. It makes Gerry nervous. "People look at us and
I think, 'Whoa!' " Being an interracial family "feels okay, but people stare at
us when we go to the shops."

For Thandi, the way people react feels scary. Those people probably assume, she
says, that Flickenger is the madame and they are the children of her maid. She
wonders if Americans will stare and judge and whisper at this family the way
South Africans do. "I hope they don't," Thandi says, then adds a charitable view
she may yet outgrow: "Some will, but most won't notice."

Moses says he is not at all bothered by Amy's color. "I don't really view Amy as
a white person. She's got a black heart. Many white folks wouldn't take a black
kid like me and live with them, especially in South Africa." A few minutes
later, after giving it more thought, he adds, "Another thing is I don't view the
world as black and white, because behind every skin you have a person."

Flickenger and the kids also represent a clash of cultures, which in the
beginning made for some comical communication. Moses, Thabo and Thandi come from
Zulu and Sotho backgrounds, the two largest tribal groups of South Africa. Zulu
and Sotho were their primary languages, with only a smattering of English. In
school under the old apartheid system of purposefully inferior black education,
Moses recalls learning only a few English or Afrikaans phrases, such as "yes,
baas." Flickenger, who had moved to South Africa in January 1991, did not speak
their languages at all.

Then came Gerry, a mixed-race Colored whose ethnic group speaks the Afrikaans
language of the previous white minority rulers, the Afrikaners. He also could
speak some English and Zulu.

Moses tells how they met Gerry: "We used to sometimes drive around with Amy when
she worked on the streets. He was just a little boy and he would come to Amy and
ask for hugs. So then Geraldo joined the family, and luckily Geraldo could speak
Zulu and we were able to communicate with him and help Amy."

Flickenger, who has a degree in psychology and has worked for several years with
emotionally needy children, enrolled the kids in special schools set up to
bridge the education gap caused by the disruptions of the anti-apartheid
struggle.

"I couldn't write any English," says Moses. "My English wasn't perfect; wasn't
good at all, let's say. But I learned English quickly. I went to that school for
three years."

Moses, who believes that opportunities for him in South Africa are severely
limited, is particularly excited about American schools. A suggestion that he
may be behind in the American grade-level system disturbs and puzzles him. Long
after the interview has moved on to other subjects, he returns to the
grade-level issue, asking politely: "What do you mean, I may be behind? It's not
that much different: Standard 7 is Grade 9."

Gerry, a chatty, dramatic and precocious child, is wondering how he'll fit in
with the kids in America. From what he has learned, he says, there are "lots of
naughty children, and rude. I can't say all, but a lot. Lots of swearing."

Thabo, a sensitive and thoughtful child, says he is excited about America and
that it sounds familiar to him. "The way Amy tells me, I think it's almost like
Lesotho," he says, recalling the tiny mountainous country near here where he
spent time as a small child. "It snows. A lot of trees. Some houses are made of
wood. It's got lots of mountains, and different kinds of eagles."

Children of Turmoil

In a country internationally hailed for its new democracy and the living-legend
status of President Nelson Mandela, where corporations are moving in and
cultural, trade and diplomatic delegations come calling in droves, it may seem
surprising to learn of four children eager to leave.

These children live a reality narrowly defined by their basic survival needs and
a sense of belonging.

Like untold numbers of other children, their lives were torn apart in the
maelstrom that was South Africa under white minority rule. Families routinely
moved around under apartheid, forced by government policies, employment
prospects or poverty to double or triple up with relatives in tiny township
shacks, or to parcel out children to ease overcrowding. Among them, Moses, Thabo
and Thandi have lived in Lesotho and also in the townships of Soweto, Orange
Farm and Thokoza. Gerry comes from a township called Kliptown. Agencies to serve
children such as these remain in bureaucratic flux. The cracks they can fall
through remain wide.

On top of the turmoil imposed by apartheid, these particular children came from
families burdened with dysfunctions such as heavy drinking and violence. Thabo
and Thandi's mother, for instance, ran off one night after a beating by her
husband, who was, ironically, angered that she had obtained a job without
telling him. She never came back. Moses, who never really knew the woman he
matter-of-factly refers to as his "so-called mother," was raised by a
grandmother until she fell ill, and then he shuttled from relative to relative.
The grandmother died in 1992, shortly after giving her blessings to Flickenger's
parentage of the children.

So when the children say things are bad here -- and that is what each of them
says -- they are talking mostly about the lives they led before. Thabo offers
this distinction emphatically: "My mother doesn't work, and without Amy, I don't
think I would have been in school and known English, and my life was going to be
difficult because my mother drinks a lot."

He pauses, looking down at the Madonna and Child necklace he wears, and ponders
what many troubled children do: whether his is the only family on Earth where
hurtful things have happened. Looking up, he asks quite earnestly, "Does your
mother drink, too?"

Thabo's emotions are quite close to the surface, which may be natural for a
child who has known so much heartache. Fifteen-year-old Moses, on the other
hand, takes a far broader view of his circumstances, seeing it in the context of
South Africa as a whole.

"If you look at South Africa properly, even though Mandela is president, not all
things have been changed. Apartheid will never die. Apartheid is not in the
mind; I'd say it has dropped into the heart. South Africa has a lot of problems,
just like any other country. But if Mandela dies, what's going to happen?
Everybody respects Mandela for forgiving everything. But not so many things have
been done for the black communities in the townships.

"If I could have a good life, yeah, I'd stay in South Africa. But what the
future holds, I don't know.

"I'm planning on working hard in my studies -- real hard, I mean. If you look at
South Africa, most of the people don't get opportunities like these. If I were
to go there [to the United States] and mess it up, I'd be abusing what has been
given to me. That's why I'm planning to work hard."

His words begin to sound like a sales pitch, an image that takes more certain
shape when he adds: "And I'm really good in basketball."

A Race Against Time

California adoption authorities as well as the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service have given Flickenger permission to adopt the children.
The families have signed over guardianship to her, and the children have said
their goodbyes. Flickenger also obtained passports for the kids.

But she cannot get U.S. visas for them because she does not have a South
African-issued adoption decree. She cannot get that decree because she is not a
permanent resident of South Africa and therefore has no standing in court.

"We're stuck," said Richele Keller, an officer at the U.S. Consulate here. "We
can't issue visas to these children."

To get around these obstacles, Flickenger has applied for a special humanitarian
parole from the U.S. Justice Department. Keller has forwarded the application to
the district office in Rome. These applications take about 60 days to process,
but Flickenger has asked that it be expedited. Still, the request is
complicated. "The fact that she doesn't have legal custody will certainly be
problematic," said Keller.

Already, Flickenger may have run out of time. She has extended her leave of
absence from a brain-injury rehabilitation center in Santa Rosa, Calif., several
times during the past two months. The latest leave ended last week. Should she
lose her job as a residential care manager, it will likely throw the whole U.S.
adoption process back to square one, for the original approval to adopt was
based on the fact that she had solid, stable employment.

"They understand that I'm in a bad situation, and I understand that they have to
do what they have to do," Flickenger says of her employers.

Flickenger's fall-back plan is to remain in South Africa and begin the adoption
process here -- if she can get status as a permanent resident. But there is a
real risk of the children becoming wards of the courts and, against their will,
being separated in foster or orphan placements.

The children do not want to be separated. Once, before they came to stay with
Flickenger, Moses had a chance to live with an aunt where he would be fed and
sheltered. He refused, for it meant leaving his younger cousins, whom he refers
to as "the little ones." He stayed with them and their stepfather, though it
meant stealing chickens for dinner and, ultimately, being abandoned at the
police station.

And the children do not want to be separated from Flickenger. Once, back in
1993, when she fell ill with hepatitis B and simultaneously ran into problems
over her visa, she was forced to return to America for more than a year. The
children were placed together in an orphanage, where Flickenger phoned them
regularly to maintain contact and keep up their hopes that she would return. "It
was painful to us the time Amy left. She was more like a mother to us," says
Moses.

'I Think We Will Go'

The children are struggling hard these days to keep alive their hopes of
America. Their clothes are neatly folded and stacked in anticipation of packing
to go. But time passes, and there's still no word on whether they will be issued
visas.

You can hear the worry in their voices. Thabo says he is afraid he won't be able
"to stay away from all the fighting and violence" of his family. "If we don't
go, Amy says she'll stay here. It will be okay, but I'd rather go."

"Do I think that we are going to go to America?" asks Moses. "I am not too
certain about it, but I think we will go."

But he is looking weary and shaking his head as he speaks.

"Okay, let me be honest. I'm not too sure we are going to go. . . . We were
supposed to have left a long time ago. It's too emotional."

And so the children wait.


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, lynne duke, Amy Flickenger with the South African children she
wishes to adopt and bring to the United States. From left, Moses, Thabo, Geraldo
and Thandi.  From left, Geraldo, Moses, Thabo and Thandi are waiting to see if
the United States will grant them visas, but time is running out.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              212 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 26, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Haitian Says He's Political Candidate; Ex-Paramilitary Chief Fights U.S.
Deportation

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A22

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Aug. 25


A former Haitian paramilitary leader appeared in shackles before a U.S. judge
today and claimed he was a presidential candidate in his country in a bid to
avoid deportation.

Emmanuel "Toto" Constant, who ran the feared Front for the Advancement and
Progress of Haiti (FRAPH), is wanted in Haiti on charges of murder, torture and
rape under the military regime that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in
1991.

Constant, who was arrested in New York on May 10 after the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service summarily revoked his visa, said his life would be in
danger if he were deported to Haiti.

The State Department wants him sent back to stand trial and requested his
deportation, arguing that his presence in the United States hurts U.S. foreign
policy objectives of strengthening democracy and respect for human rights in
Haiti.

Judge John Gossart said the immigration court had no jurisdiction to review the
government decision and only high officials of foreign governments or
presidential candidates could escape such a deportation request.

"I am running as an official candidate," Constant said from the witness stand.
"My deportation back to Haiti would be my physical execution by the Aristide
government."

Constant, who is being held at the Wicomico Detention Center in Maryland, said
he had written to Haiti's electoral authorities to register for presidential
elections scheduled for late November or December.

But a senior U.S. State Department official told the court FRAPH was not a
legally registered party and was considered an illegal paramilitary organization
under laws passed since Aristide returned to office last October.

David Miller, deputy director of the State Department's Haiti Working Group,
said FRAPH dissolved last September after 20,000 U.S. troops landed to restore
Aristide and U.S. forces raided FRAPH offices and confiscated weapons.

Human rights groups said Constant's deportation would be a major contribution to
justice in Haiti where 4,000 Aristide supporters died or disappeared during the
three-year military regime of Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras.

Cedras stepped down and left Haiti for Panama under an agreement with the United
States.

The judge will take up to 10 days to make his decision. If Constant is deported,
he has asked the court if he can be allowed to leave the United States
voluntarily or be sent to the Dominican Republic, where Haiti's former chief of
police, Col. Michel Francois, fled last year.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              213 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 30, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Salvadoran Amnesty Rules Clarified

SECTION: METRO; Pg.  B02; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 168 words


Federal immigration authorities have announced that Salvadorans living in the
United States under temporary amnesty will be able to continue working legally
until Jan. 31, the date by which they must apply for political asylum to stay in
the country.

The announcement Friday was intended to resolve confusing requirements and
conflicting deadlines for about 200,000 Salvadorans nationwide -- including more
than 10,000 in the Washington area -- who were allowed to remain under a
temporary protection program that expired Dec. 31.

After the program expired, immigration officials extended its benefits for nine
months and then added four more months to allow affected Salvadorans to file
their asylum applications. But until the new announcement, many would have lost
permission to work after Sept. 30.

Now, all federal employment authorization cards held by that group of
Salvadorans automatically will be valid until Jan. 31, even if the cards show an
expiration date of Dec. 31, 1994.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              214 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 06, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Haitian Facing Charges Is Ordered Deported

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A22

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Sept. 5


A U.S. immigration judge ordered the deportation to Haiti of former paramilitary
leader Emmanuel "Toto" Constant, U.S. Immigration Court administrator Brenda
Cook said today.

Constant, once head of the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti
(FRAPH), is wanted on Haitian charges of murder, torture and rape under the
military regime that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1991.

"It is extremely important that a man such as Toto Constant . . . who was very
involved in human rights abuses of the worst type, should be returned to Haiti
to face justice," said Jocelyn McCalla, executive director of the National
Coalition for Haitian Refugees.

The New York-based coalition has been involved in Haitian judicial issues since
Aristide's restoration to power last October.

Cook said the judge's ruling was made late Friday. Constant will have 13 days
from the time of the decision to appeal.

Constant's attorney, John Jennings, could not immediately be reached for
comment, and U.S. officials declined to comment. Jennings said earlier today
that he expected an appeal regardless of the decision.

Appeals could delay a final legal decision on Constant's return until next year.

Constant fled Haiti after Aristide's restoration and entered the United States
under a tourist visa. He was arrested in New York on May 10, after the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization service revoked the visa.

He had told an Aug. 25 deportation hearing that his life would be in danger if
he were deported and that as a presidential candidate he should not be subject
to deportation.

U.S. government attorneys had argued that Constant's presence in the United
States hurts foreign policy objectives of strengthening democracy and human
rights in Haiti.

McCalla said he hoped Haiti would soon reform its judicial system so Constant
would face a thorough trial. Such a trial would examine the extent of Constant's
ties to Haiti's wealthy elite and its now-disbanded military, and reputed
associations with the Central Intelligence Agency, he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              215 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 11, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

INS Debates Female Mutilation as Basis for Asylum

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1301 words


The two African women, both from Sierra Leone, endured almost identical ordeals
at the hands of secret tribal societies: They were abducted, gagged and bound;
their sexual organs were partly cut away with a knife; and they were forced to
swear they would never reveal what been done to them or face death by
witchcraft.

Yet, two area immigration judges recently issued strikingly different rulings on
the women's requests for political asylum in the United States. In Arlington, a
judge declared that one woman had suffered "an atrocious form of persecution"
and granted her asylum. In Baltimore, a judge denied the other woman's request,
suggesting that she could choose to support the practice, which he called
important for maintaining tribal unity.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service recently embraced the issue, making
this the second country, after Canada, to include abuse of women as possible
grounds for granting political asylum. But in both legal cases, the INS argued
in court against the women's claims. And 10 days ago, INS lawyers appealed the
Arlington ruling, saying the woman was not credible and the judge had "abused
his discretion."

Human rights groups, while hailing the Arlington ruling as a breakthrough for
foreign-born victims of female genital mutilation, expressed dismay at the INS's
opposition to the women's claims, especially in light of the agency's
high-profile efforts to make its staff aware of such abuse.

The Arlington ruling "does exactly what the INS guidelines called on judges to
do -- recognize that women can be persecuted because of sex. For them to appeal,
it seems like a direct contradiction," said Regan Ralph, director of the women's
rights project of Human Rights Watch, a nonprofit advocacy group.

Immigration officials said that they could not comment on individual asylum
cases but stressed that requirements for proving persecution remain strict and
that many cases of sexual abuse do not qualify as persecution. They said the new
guidelines were aimed at sensitizing immigration officers to sexual persecution,
not at encouraging abused women to seek asylum. In their appeal of the Arlington
case, INS lawyers said the woman had not mentioned mutilation in her initial
asylum application.

"There is no formula, no exact answer. We have had a very limited number of
cases, and the guidelines are very new," said Rosemary Melville, director of
asylum at the INS. "A woman still has to show she has a well-founded fear of
persecution based on being a member of a social group, and simply having
personal problems with a husband who beats her is not going to qualify her."

In a separate statement, an INS spokesman said that the agency is "striving to
be fair and consistent" but that "not every applicant who makes a gender-based
claim qualifies as a refugee."

Female genital mutilation is performed in more than 40 African countries. U.S.
doctors have decried the procedure, in which a girl's genitals are partly
removed and/or sewn shut, as barbaric and medically dangerous. Many African
governments tolerate but do not endorse the practice, which tribal elders say
keeps girls pure for their weddings and wives faithful to their husbands.

The contrasting U.S. court rulings come at a time when female genital mutilation
has captured the West's attention. The U.N. General Assembly has denounced it;
the State Department has included it in its annual report on human rights. This
week, most U.S. specialists on the issue are participating in the U.N. Fourth
World Conference on Women in Beijing, where sexual violence against women is a
major theme.

Last year, the INS Resource Information Center published an "alert" paper on
female genital mutilation for asylum officers, describing it as extremely
painful, with "serious, often fatal consequences." In many societies, the paper
said, a woman's resistance to social pressure to undergo mutilation "can have
dire consequences," including being viewed as someone who "deserves to be
killed."

Yet, in a few test cases, U.S. immigration judges have tended to rule very
cautiously as to whether the practice constitutes persecution. In Oregon last
year, a judge ruled that a Nigerian woman could keep her two daughters in the
United States to protect them from undergoing the procedure, but he sidestepped
the issue of whether the mother deserved political asylum because she feared
reprisal for trying to spare her children.

In the Baltimore case, Judge John F. Gossart Jr. ruled this summer that a
37-year-old woman from Sierra Leone, identified only as D.J., did not qualify
for asylum and could be deported because her visa had expired. In court, the
woman described how she had been kidnapped at 13 and held down by her female
relatives while her clitoris was cut off, then threatened with death if she ever
spoke about it.

Last week, the woman, who lives in Hyattsville, repeated her story for a
reporter while the woman's 13-year-old daughter squirmed in a chair, covering
her ears. The woman asked that neither be identified and said she feared that
the girl and her two younger sisters also would be mutilated if they were forced
to return to Sierra Leone.

"This is a very wrong thing to do to someone," she said. "They beat the drums so
no one can hear the screaming. There is nothing you can do about it, because
even the wives of high officials in my country believe in it.

"They say they will harm me with witchcraft if I tell, but I say let me die.
People have to speak out."

In his decision, Gossart described female genital mutilation as an "important
ritual" that "binds the tribe" in many African countries. He said the
Hyattsville woman's concern about retribution against her or about the forcible
circumcision of her daughters did not amount to "fear of political persecution."
The woman "cannot change the fact that she's a female, but she can change her
mind with regards to her position" toward mutilation, he wrote. "It is not
beyond [her] control to acquiesce to the tribal position."

So far, the only U.S. immigration judge to take a strong stand against the
practice is Paul A. Nejelski, who ruled in the Arlington case last month.
Nejelski found that a 29-year-old Sierra Leone woman identified as M.K. had been
persecuted for trying to resist the procedure as well as for defying her abusive
husband. He also ruled that she had a "well-founded fear" of being persecuted if
forced to return home.

"In recognizing gender-based asylum claims, the United States courts are . . .
creating the standard by which this country will serve as a refuge for women who
are being persecuted because of their gender," Nejelski wrote. "Forced female
genital mutilation clearly merits being recognized as a form of persecution."

In this case, the woman, who lives in Northern Virginia, was ordered deported
last year after her visa expired, and she then applied for asylum. She testified
that at age 23, she was abducted and forcibly circumcised by members of the
secret Bundo Society. She also said she often was beaten by her husband for
refusing to be subservient. Through her attorneys, she declined to be
interviewed.

"She feels very strongly about this issue, but it is extremely difficult for her
to talk about," said John Linarelli, her attorney. "She was elated at the
judge's decision, but now she is very scared of what might happen to her" if the
INS wins its appeal and she is sent home.

Neither of the Sierra Leone women faces imminent deportation. Attorneys for both
said the cases probably will be sent to the Board of Immigration Appeals, which
could grant the women asylum, allow them to remain in the United States for
humanitarian reasons, ask them to leave the country voluntarily or order them
deported.


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dudley m. brooks, "D.J.," right, walks with two of her
daughters. She fears they would be mutilated if sent back to Sierra Leone.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              216 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 27, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Foe of Aristide Now a 'Detainee' In Maryland Jail; Haitian Paramilitary's
Ex-Leader Feels Betrayed by U.S. Officials

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: SALISBURY, Md.


Confined to a maximum-security cell in the Wicomico County jail here on
Maryland's eastern shore, Emmanuel "Toto" Constant, the former leader of a
feared Haitian paramilitary group, says he feels "betrayed" and "humiliated."

"Betrayed" because he once was on the payroll of the CIA, cooperated with the
Defense Intelligence Agency and -- before his arrest in New York in May --
"trusted" the United States. "Humiliated" because when U.S. authorities
summarily revoked his valid visitor's visa, he was thrown in jail with "common
criminals" to await deportation.

But perhaps the crowning indignity came when Constant wrote a conciliatory
letter to President Clinton shortly after his arrival -- and the White House did
not realize who he was.

In Haiti, as the leader of an organization that backed the former military
regime, Constant was accused of terrorizing political opponents and working to
thwart U.S. foreign policy. Yet he received a "Dear Emmanuel" reply,
electronically signed by Clinton, thanking him in pro forma language for his
"interest in my efforts to restore democracy in Haiti."

Before U.S. troops landed in Haiti and restored President Jean-Bertrand Aristide
to power last year, Constant was riding high as the leader of the Front for the
Advancement and Progress of Haiti, known as FRAPH. Formed to support the
military junta of Gen. Raoul Cedras that had overthrown Aristide in a 1991 coup,
FRAPH claimed to be a popular organization with 300 offices and 300,000 members
nationwide.

However, human rights organizations denounced it as a violent paramilitary group
responsible for widespread human rights abuses, including political
assassinations, illegal arrests, torture, rape and general thuggery against
Aristide supporters. According to Human Rights Watch/Americas, FRAPH included
military and police enforcers known as "attaches" and was responsible for many
of the estimated 3,000 to 4,000 political killings in Haiti in the three years
following Aristide's ouster.

Surrounded by police and plainclothes agents armed with submachine guns,
Constant in those days held court at his house, dispensing favors to petitioners
and waging what he called a "media war" against Aristide.

At 6 feet 4 inches tall, the goateed son of an army general still cuts an
imposing figure. But now he wears an orange jumpsuit with "INS Detainee" on the
back, denoting his status as someone awaiting deportation while in the custody
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The Aristide government wants
Constant back to answer criminal charges, and he is appealing a Baltimore
immigration judge's Sept. 5 deportation order on grounds that he is a
presidential candidate and would be killed if he were sent back "in handcuffs."

"Everyone knows I would not pass the airport . . . because Aristide will not be
at ease until I'm dead," Constant said in an interview last week at the Wicomico
County Detention Center. "If I don't go back as a free man, I will be killed . .
. and everyone will hold the U.S. administration responsible."

In the interview, Constant professed innocence of any wrongdoing and denied that
he had gone into hiding in the United States after fleeing Haiti last December.
In fact, he said, he lived with friends in Washington, wrote two letters to
President Clinton on FRAPH letterhead, attended the inauguration of Mayor Marion
Barry and was even invited to a "networking party" by a group calling itself
"Clinton Administration African-American Appointees" to mark the Martin Luther
King Jr. holiday.

In a Dec. 31, 1994, letter to Clinton, Constant portrayed himself as "the head
of a new constructive opposition" in Haiti and called for "reconciliation" among
rival Haitian factions through a "democratic peace conference." In response, he
received a three-paragraph form letter from Clinton outlining U.S. policy on
Haiti and thanking him for sharing his views.

Apparently encouraged, Constant wrote back Jan. 16 to request a meeting with
Clinton and Aristide.

"It was a mistake," a White House official said of the form letter to Constant.
The official said there was no reply to Constant's second missive.

Another letter from Constant -- to the United Nations special representative for
Haiti on Feb. 3 -- eventually got the attention of Secretary of State Warren
Christopher. Christopher asked Attorney General Janet Reno on March 29 to detain
and deport Constant on grounds that his continued presence "would compromise a
compelling United States foreign policy interest."

On May 10, INS agents arrested Constant in New York after he left a Queens
apartment to buy cigarettes. He was driven here the next day in shackles.

"It was a complete surprise to me," Constant said. "If they wanted to let me
know that I was not welcome, they could just, in a civilized manner, tell me,
'Mr. Constant, go, leave the country,' and I would leave."

Constant declined to comment on reports that the CIA paid him $ 500 a month from
1992 to 1994, saying this was "a very deep and complicated subject." The reports
last year that Constant was on the CIA payroll at a time when FRAPH was
terrorizing Haitians embarrassed the agency and raised pointed questions in
Congress.

"In a country like Haiti, everybody needs or likes to have some type of contact
in the U.S. Embassy," Constant said. "For example, I worked with the CIA, yes, I
worked with the DIA. I worked with all the other political bodies in Haiti that
were against the return of Aristide and against the [U.S.] invasion." He
insists, however, that he was not "a spy or an informant," and he denies that
the CIA had a hand in his Dec. 19 escape from Haiti.

Constant said he crossed on foot into the Dominican Republic (which is on the
same island, Hispaniola, as is Haiti), walking for 14 hours, and flew to
Baltimore by way of San Juan, Puerto Rico. He said he arrived Dec. 24 with a
valid tourist visa, which the U.S. government says it mistakenly failed to
annul.

"It's very sad," Constant said of his current predicament. "I've been charged
with being an embarrassment to the foreign policy of the United States."

"I never gave any type of orders, public or private, for any type of human
rights violation -- not rape or murder or whatever," he asserted. "They cannot
tie any of those crimes to me."

He said his organization was "infiltrated" by the army and police, whose leaders
have fled to the Dominican Republic, Panama, Miami and other havens. "I've been
used as a scapegoat," Constant complained. "I'm the fall guy. . . . Everyone
else is free, and I'm the only one in jail."

"I was Mr. Nice Guy," he said. "I was too nice. That's why I ended up where I
am, because I should have made a deal with the U.S. Army."

"Right now I feel humiliated, and I feel betrayed. I feel like I imagine my
slave ancestors would feel when they disagreed with the master. I feel I am
being punished for I don't know which reason."


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, Former FRAPH leader Emmanuel "Toto" Constant is held
by INS awaiting deportation in Wicomico County, Md.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              217 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 09, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

As Effects of Welfare Reform Bills Emerge, So Do Critics; Proposals Would Bar
Legal Immigrants From Many Forms of Federal Assistance

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1282 words


Denise Lee, 22, wants to be a lawyer. Like most young Americans, the George
Washington University junior could not afford college, much less dream about law
school, without the federal loans and grants that cover most of her $ 24,000
yearly costs.

But little-noted proposals in Congress's huge welfare reform plans would cut
access to federal financial aid for the Denise Lees of the future. Legal
immigrants would be denied many federal benefits under new eligibility standards
that would count their sponsors' income as their own and it would make no
difference whether, like Lee, they had already lived most of their lives in the
United States and had become U.S. citizens.

Supporters say the measure merely reinforces century-old policies intended to
prevent immigrants from becoming "public charges." Critics say the result would
create two classes of U.S. citizens, imposing a lower status on those who become
citizens by naturalization compared to those who are citizens by birth.

Sparked by the growing costs of social welfare programs for legal immigrants,
particularly the elderly, a bipartisan consensus has developed in favor of
restricting the public benefits offered to legal immigrants. However,
Republicans and Democrats in Congress and the Clinton administration differ on
how far the restrictions ought to go. The provision to cut benefits for
immigrants even after they become citizens is among the most controversial of
the proposals now contained in separate House and Senate welfare reform bills.

A House-Senate conference committee is expected to finalize the provisions
regarding immigrants today, and it appears likely that Congress will approve
some measures under which millions of legal immigrants, perhaps even citizens,
will lose their right to receive a wide array of public benefits, from food
stamps and cash to job training, non-emergency health care, and financial aid
for college.

Illegal aliens are not eligible for most programs under current law.

Most legal immigrants are sponsored by relatives who promise to support the
newcomers. One element of the proposals that has broad backing would try to hold
sponsors to those pledges by making them legally binding.

If immigrants cannot be self-sufficient, "then it is the responsibility of that
sponsor, that friend or relative who has promised the support, to provide aid
before the newcomer turns to the American taxpayers for relief," said Sen. Alan
K. Simpson (R.-Wyo.), chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration.

Underlying the measures to limit assistance is a view widely shared among
lawmakers that social welfare benefits extended to legal immigrants cost a
substantial amount of money and that those costs are growing rapidly. Roughly
one-fourth to one-third of the estimated $ 66 billion to $ 102 billion in
savings from GOP welfare reform proposals over seven years would come from
denying or curtailing access for most legal immigrants to public benefits.

Most of the money would come from two programs: Medicaid and Supplemental
Security Income assistance for the elderly poor and disabled. The number of
legal residents receiving those benefits has skyrocketed in recent years as
naturalized Americans have brought their elderly parents from abroad to live in
the United States.

Unable to afford health insurance, many elderly immigrants, after an initial
five-year period when their children's income is counted as their own,
eventually apply for and receive SSI benefits. By then, many elderly parents are
living by themselves, with no assets or income. SSI, in turn, automatically
qualifies them for Medicaid in most states.

"These elderly parents, who have never contributed to our system in any way,
then receive a generous pension for the rest of their lives from the American
taxpayer," Simpson said in floor debate before the Senate welfare bill passed in
September.

More than 700,000 legal aliens receive SSI benefits, an increase of 580 percent
since 1982. Legal aliens account for about 28 percent of SSI recipients 65 and
older.

While the practice is not illegal, critics say it is contrary to the U.S.
immigration policy of having a family assume responsibility for needy relatives
who come to the United States.

Supporters and opponents of the welfare reform bills, including the Clinton
administration, agree that no immigrants should come to the United States with
the expectation of receiving public assistance. They also agree that something
must be done to make the sponsor's obligation legally binding.

That is not the case now.

"The current situation is a total joke," said Bruce A. Morrison, a member of the
bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, which opposes a broad denial
of benefits to immigrants but supports stronger financial obligations of
sponsors.

In addition to outright bars on some federal programs, both bills would make
many legal immigrants ineligible for a wide range of other assistance. They
would extend the amount of time and the number of programs for which their
sponsor's income is counted in determining eligibility for most means-tested
programs.

The sponsor's income now is counted along with the immigrant's in only three
programs -- AFDC, SSI and Medicaid -- and only for three to five years depending
on the program. But under the GOP proposals, that ineligibility period would
extend to citizenship, and even beyond.

Critics say the bills go too far by preventing some legal immigrants from
receiving benefits even though they must pay taxes and serve in the military.

In particular, the Senate provision that would make immigrants ineligible for
aid after citizenship raises questions about the constitutionality of creating
such distinctions among citizens of different origins.

"We're going to be a nation divided, separate but unequal," said Diana Aviv,
Washington director of the Council of Jewish Federations, which opposes the
legislation.

While Clinton has said he favors tightening the responsibility of sponsors,
Health and Human Services Secretary Donna E. Shalala recently complained that
the GOP proposals "go too far in cutting benefits." The administration also
"strongly opposes" the Senate provision that would "discriminate against U.S.
citizens by denying benefits to legal immigrants even after they became
naturalized U.S. citizens."

One program affected under both bills is financial aid for college students. An
estimated 390,000 legal immigrants across the country receive about $ 662
million in Pell grants, a federal program for low-income college students,
according to a draft report by the General Accounting Office.

Had the Senate provision been law when Denise Lee, a U.S. citizen, applied for
college, she would probably have been denied aid, including her Pell grants,
after the school counted income earned by her parents, who own a small
children's clothing store, her sponsor, an aunt who is a surgical nurse and
helped Lee's family enter the country 15 years ago, and the aunt's husband, an
electrical engineer. Lee would have been disqualified even if her sponsor
refused to help.

"It's a complete outrage," said Lee, when she learned about the proposal.

But Richard Day, chief counsel for the Senate immigration subcommittee, said the
situation needs to be viewed in a broader context.

"If this South Korean family with three kids had said to U.S. officials, 'We're
going to need to have Pell grants to get the kids through school,' how many
Americans would think, 'There isn't enough around so native-born kids can go to
college, we shouldn't be admitting people who are going to need that.' "


LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo, frank johnston, GW University junior Denise Lee's aid
would be questioned.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              218 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 12, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

Don't Gut Political Asylum

Philip G. Schrag

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 956 words


For many years, the United States has granted political asylum to victims of
persecution who come to our country and seek our protection. Now, however,
Congress is on the verge of abolishing the right of political asylum.

Congress is not proposing to repeal the asylum provisions of the Refugee Act of
1980. An outright repeal would probably never pass, because many in Congress,
recalling America's sorry treatment of refugees during the Holocaust, accept the
humanitarian premises underlying asylum. Rather, the abolition is in the form of
a new, apparently innocuous "procedural" requirement. The House Judiciary
Committee recently adopted, as an amendment to this year's immigration reform
act, a proviso that denies asylum to any person who applies for it more than 30
days after arriving in the United States. A Senate subcommittee has approved a
similar proposal.

If this bill becomes law, the asylum process will shut down because, as a
practical matter, it is impossible for an applicant to file that quickly. Most
refugees fleeing persecution must give top priority to searching for their
American relatives and acquaintances. In many cases, they do not speak English.
They are not permitted to hold jobs in the United States. They must immediately
find ways to feed themselves and their children. It takes weeks for them to find
minimal housing and to achieve the most basic orientation to American culture.
Months may pass before they even learn that if they want asylum, they have to
file an application with the immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) on
Form I-589.

After refugees learn about asylum and obtain the form, they will discover the
daunting task ahead of them. The form itself is quite complicated: seven pages,
plus eight pages of fine-print instructions. It is only available in English and
must be completed in English. It requires applicants to prove that they have a
well-founded fear, should they be deported, that they will be "persecuted"
because of their "race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership
in a particular social group" -- all legal terms of art that have been
interpreted by many courts. Because the legal standard has been embellished by
judicial decisions and because a lawyer can help a refugee to argue the case
effectively, an applicant is well advised to have an attorney help compile and
organize the supporting documentation. Mistakes can literally be fatal,
resulting in deportation into the hands of a persecutor.

At present, most asylum applicants need weeks or months to find a lawyer,
especially if they need one who will handle the application free of charge. Even
now, only a few neighborhood offices that offer free legal help to the poor
handle asylum cases, and Congress is slashing the budget of the Legal Services
program.

Once the applicant finds a willing lawyer, however, more inevitable delays are
in store. The instructions for the application form "strongly urge" applicants
to "attach additional written statements and documents that support" their
claims, including "newspaper articles, affidavits of witnesses or experts,
periodicals, journals, books, photographs, official documents, other personal
statements, or evidence regarding incidents that have occurred to others."

The law students who help prepare these applications under my supervision in an
asylum law clinic at Georgetown University Law Center spend at least a month of
nearly full-time work putting together just one application for a client.
Obtaining supporting affidavits or even such elementary documentation as birth
and death records typically includes, among other things, making repeated
telephone calls to people in the country from which the applicant has fled
(sometimes with interpreters on the line) and exchanging numerous faxes with
witnesses and officials there. These communications are expensive as well as
time-consuming.

Similarly, obtaining accounts of arbitrary imprisonment, torture, rape and other
human rights violations from local newspapers in the applicant's country, often
written in foreign languages, can take many weeks of investigative effort.
Finding experts who know about human rights violations against the applicant's
tribe or ethnic group is also an arduous and lengthy process.

The attachments to support an application can include several hundreds of pages
of evidence, and the file can be several inches think. It is not reasonable to
expect a refugee to develop such a file within 30 days after arriving in the
United States, with or without the help of a lawyer.

A few years ago, the asylum program was abused by large numbers of applicants
who were not genuinely eligible for it, but the federal government closed this
loophole by ceasing to issue work permits for people whose applications have not
yet been approved. In July, Commissioner of Immigration Doris Meissner reported
that "after years in which fraudulent asylum claims were routinely filed as a
backdoor way to enter the U.S., INS finally has . . . stopped the abuse."

Congress should preserve the asylum program. At the very least, Congress should
not abolish asylum by invisibly and irresponsibly imposing a procedural
requirement that is impossible to satisfy. Fewer than one percent of the 900,000
people who immigrate into the United States each year are asylees. This small
immigration program poses no serious problems and is worth keeping. When we give
sanctuary to victims of oppression we demonstrate to everyone the most
humanitarian impulses of the American spirit.

The author, a professor of law at Georgetown University, directs a clinic that
provides free legal help to refugees seeking political asylum.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              219 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 25, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Extorting $10,000 For a Visa

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 306 words


Authorities often find battling immigration fraud a frustrating experience,
especially when one of their own is at fault. But when INS agents arrested a
senior consular investigator of the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi in connection with
a visa racket, they extracted a small measure of ironic revenge. The agents
handcuffed the investigator, an Indian citizen, at Dulles International Airport
after inviting him to Washington for a phony training seminar. The ostensible
subject: visa fraud.

The arrest of Naveen Seth in October 1991 broke up a ring that had been
extorting money from Indian immigrants in the United States by charging them up
to $ 10,000 per visa to bring in relatives. He was the latest in a series of
senior Indian consular investigators who had carried on the racket for more than
a decade.

An investigation resulted in the imprisonment in New York last year of an
Indian-born immigration lawyer. He had been charged with involvement in a scam
that fraudulently obtained amnesty for more than 1,000 illegal Indian
immigrants.

The first to fall was the extortion ring's New York-based bagman, Pardeep Kumar,
arrested in 1991 in Woodbridge, Va. He signed a plea agreement, but subsequently
became a fugitive. Two retired consular investigators who had emigrated to the
United States, Kirpal Singh Rai and Puran Chand Bector, were arrested soon
afterward. They and Seth each pleaded guilty to interstate racketeering.

However, at sentencing in April 1992, Rai and Bector received relatively light
10-month jail terms. Only Seth was subsequently deported. Much to the annoyance
of INS case agents, the sentences of Rai and Bector were insufficient to revoke
the immigrant "green cards" they had received for their "loyal service" at the
embassy, and they were allowed to remain in the United States.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, One extortion ring included a consular official, Naveen Seth,
above, and a bagman, Pardeep Kumar, below.  The probe also uncovered two retired
consular investigators, Kirpal Singh Rai, above, and Puran Chand Bector, below.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              220 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 09, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Announces Green Card Plan; All Immigrants Must Have Modern Fraud-Proof ID in
Three Months

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 431 words


Citing an "enormous" nationwide problem with immigration fraud, federal
immigration officials announced yesterday that any foreign-born U.S. resident
with a "green card" issued before 1980 must obtain a new, fraud-resistant card
in the next three months.

Officials also urged all such long-term residents to apply for citizenship,
noting that it costs only $ 20 more than the $ 75 fee required to obtain a new
green card, or resident alien permit. They also pointed out that citizens are
"able to participate fully in the American democratic system."

Chris Sale, deputy commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said the old green cards, still being used by several hundred thousand
foreign-born residents, are easy to counterfeit because they are made of paper
and have no expiration date.

The newer resident alien cards, which have been in use since 1980, are pink
plastic with a computer code, thumb print, signature and photograph. They must
be renewed every 10 years.

The toll-free number to call for information about applying for a new card is
1-800-755-0777. Residents of the Washington area will be required to apply
through the INS office in Arlington.

"There are millions of poor quality counterfeit green cards out there," said
Elaine Komis, an INS spokeswoman. "We seize up to 250,000 at a time during
raids, and we assume they are being sold."

She added that fake cards are so plentiful in cities such as Los Angeles that
one can be bought for about $ 35.

Sale said anyone who does not renew his or her resident alien card by March 20
will remain a legal resident but may encounter difficulty applying for a job,
obtaining public benefits, or returning to the United States from travel
overseas.

Sale also reminded all Salvadorans who are living in the United States under
temporary amnesty that they must apply for political asylum by Jan. 31 or they
will lose their permission to work and technically become vulnerable to
deportation.  "There will be no massive deportation" of Salvadorans after that
date, said an INS statement issued yesterday, "but, if individuals are found at
the work site or in the community, INS will seek to remove them if they are
otherwise ineligible to remain in the United States."

An estimated 200,000 Salvadorans and a smaller number of Guatemalans have
temporary permission to live and work here under an amnesty program that was
ended last year by the Clinton administration. If they file for asylum by the
end of January, they will be able to remain in the United States indefinitely.

LOAD-DATE: December 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              221 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 23, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Seeks to Deport Mexico Ex-Official; Ruiz Massieu Detained After Fourth
Extradition Attempt Fails

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 511 words


U.S. immigration agents yesterday detained Mario Ruiz Massieu, the former deputy
attorney general of Mexico, moments after a federal magistrate rejected the
government's fourth attempt to extradite him and said he was "free to go."

The United States will now seek to deport Ruiz Massieu to Mexico, where he is
wanted on corruption and conspiracy charges, on grounds his continued presence
would harm U.S. foreign policy, government officials said.

The development was the latest twist in a byzantine case that has concerned
Mexico since the powerful former federal prosecutor was arrested in March at
Newark International Airport while trying to board a flight to Spain with
thousands of dollars in undeclared currency.

The government of Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo has charged Ruiz Massieu
with enriching himself through corruption while in office under Zedillo's
predecessor, Carlos Salinas de Gortari.

Ruiz Massieu, who turns 45 Sunday, also is wanted for allegedly acting to cover
up a conspiracy that led to the September 1994 assassination of his brother,
Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, then the secretary-general of the ruling
Institutional Revolutionary Party. Raul Salinas, a brother of the former
president, was arrested in February on charges of masterminding the murder.

In explaining his ruling yesterday, federal Magistrate Stanley Chesler said that
while U.S. prosecutors demonstrated Ruiz Massieu had vast unexplained wealth,
they failed to show he had stolen the money from the attorney general's office
or otherwise violated Mexican law.

"Mr. Massieu . . . is a wealthy man," Chesler said, but the government did not
prove the embezzlement charge involving the equivalent of $ 400,000.

In any case, Ruiz Massieu "did not need the money, as his other bank accounts
show," the judge said. "For instance, he had $ 9 million in Mexican banks, and
the court cannot assume that that money was gained through illicit means."

In a statement read by his wife after the judge told him he was free, Ruiz
Massieu, who had been held without bond since March, said he wanted to spend
time with his family and pursue an academic career. "Goodbye, Mexico," he
concluded.

In immediately detaining him, however, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service invoked a letter from Secretary of State Warren Christopher to Attorney
General Janet Reno.

The letter, written in October, said Ruiz Massieu should be sent back to Mexico
in the interests of U.S. foreign policy.

"He is now subject to deportation proceedings," INS Deputy General Counsel Paul
Virtue said. Ruiz Massieu is expected to claim political asylum to avoid
deportation, however, having already expressed fear for his life if he is
returned to Mexico.

A State Department official said Christopher wrote the letter requesting
deportation "because of the great importance of this case to the Mexican
government, especially in its efforts to root out official corruption and
wrongdoing."

He added, "We're trying to be as helpful as we can to the Mexican government."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              222 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 23, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Marlene Cooke Sues To Stop Deportation; Attorney Says INS Has 'Vendetta' Against
Her

Toni Locy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 942 words


Nearly two years after immigration agents tried to deport her, Marlene Ramallo
Chalmers Cooke still is fighting to stay in the United States, the country that
she and law enforcement officials say she helped by providing key testimony
against several international drug kingpins.

In late September, her attorney, Robert S. Bennett, filed a lawsuit in U.S.
District Court in Washington on behalf of the wife of Washington Redskins owner
Jack Kent Cooke seeking to force the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
drop its deportation order. The suit uses her maiden name of Ramallo and asks a
federal judge to place much of the case under seal. Although Bennett later filed
a public version of the lawsuit, the Justice Department has filed its response
under seal.

The desire for such secrecy seems to stem at least in part from concern over
divulging too much about large-scale drug investigations and endangering the
safety of Cooke and others involved in the probes.

But Cooke's work as an informant is no secret. The Washington Post reported in
March 1994 that Cooke helped authorities lock up more than 30 drug dealers from
1988 to 1990 to save herself from being deported to her native Bolivia. Because
she pleaded guilty to a drug charge in 1986, she is a convicted felon and was on
the verge of being kicked out of the country after her release from prison.

In the lawsuit, Bennett portrays Cooke, a jet-setter best known for her two
marriages to Jack Kent Cooke and speeding through Georgetown in 1993 with a man
hanging on to the hood of her Jaguar, as a woman wronged by coldhearted
bureaucrats at the INS.

The INS officials, according to the transcript of an Oct. 10 hearing, appear to
take the position that Cooke made her deal with federal prosecutors in
Alexandria and the Drug Enforcement Administration, not them.

Bennett vigorously contests the INS position, accusing the agency of having a
"vendetta" against Cooke and trying to "deliver her into the cross hairs of the
South American drug lords." He based much of his suspicion on a complaint by the
immigration judge who was miffed at seeing Cooke on TV sitting next to then-Vice
President Dan Quayle at a Redskins game in 1989.

"If Ms. Ramallo were deported to Bolivia, she will, in all likelihood, be
tortured or executed" by associates of drug dealers she helped put away, Bennett
wrote, accusing the government of "extreme . . . misconduct" by placing her in
such grave danger.

Bennett insists in court papers that the INS was in on the deal. He cited a
high-level government meeting in May 1990, in which INS officials and
prosecutors discussed the best way to allow Cooke to stay in the United States.
No one at the meeting mentioned any problems for her, he said. An INS memo shows
that INS officials appeared more concerned about who would field media calls and
whether the agency would be viewed as giving "preferential treatment" to Cooke
by working out a way for her to stay in the country.

Bennett wants U.S. District Judge Charles R. Richey to force the government to
honor its deal with Cooke by allowing her to keep her green card and ordering
the INS to drop attempts to deport her.

Cooke came to the United States in 1972 with her 6-month-old son and received
permanent resident status in 1978. She married Jack Kent Cooke the first time in
1990 and again in July.

In March 1994, Cooke's status was imperiled when INS agents burst into her home
on a weekend and attempted to throw her out of the country. Bennett persuaded a
Virginia judge to stop them, and the battle moved into the INS bureaucracy.

Eventually, the Board of Immigration Appeals ruled that its hands were tied
because Cooke had agreed -- on bad legal advice, Bennett now says -- to waive
her right to appeal a deportation order entered automatically against her at the
time she was working out her deal with law enforcement officials.

The board also said it could do nothing for Cooke because she had
"self-deported" by leaving the United States several times since 1987. Bennett,
however, argued that her agreement with the DEA allowed, and required, her to
travel.

Cooke appealed the board decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th
Circuit in Richmond. On Nov. 7, appellate Judge H. Emory Widener Jr. put the
case on hold so Cooke could file her lawsuit in Washington. Widener said he
agreed to do so because he did not understand why the government was trying to
deport her despite a deal he said it appeared she had and had honored.

According to court papers, Cooke felt she had no choice but to become a DEA
informant. She had been arrested after returning from a trip to Brazil in June
1986 with friends, one of whom was caught with cocaine.

Her attorney at the time never told her that pleading guilty to a felony meant
that she automatically would be deported, according to the lawsuit. He talked
her into pleading guilty, even though she maintained -- and later law
enforcement officials acknowledged -- that she played little, if any, role in
her friend's smuggling attempt. She spent 5 1/2 months in prison.

When the INS began deportation proceedings after her release, the lawyer she
hired then helped broker the deal that would keep her here but didn't get the
deal in writing, although he did manage to get an oblique reference to it on the
record during a May 1988 hearing before an immigration judge.

The legal miscue that continues to haunt Cooke is that she agreed, as part of
her bargain with the government, to waive her rights to appeal a deportation
order that was technically entered against her despite the deal.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, MARLENE RAMALLO COOKE

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              223 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 28, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Mexican Ex-Prosecutor Held For U.S. Deportation Hearing

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Dec. 27


Former Mexican prosecutor Mario Ruiz Massieu was denied bail today and ordered
held by immigration authorities who want to deport him to Mexico.

The State Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service are trying to
deport Ruiz Massieu, wanted in Mexico on charges he covered up the investigation
into the assassination of his brother, a leading politician, and allegedly
embezzled from the Mexican government.

The U.S. and Mexican governments have failed four times to extradite the former
deputy attorney-general. Ruiz Massieu has been in custody of immigration
officials since Friday, when the latest extradition attempt failed.

His request for bail was denied at a hearing before federal Judge Andrew
Meisner, who noted he would consider the bail request further. A deportation
hearing is expected early next month.

Separately, Ruiz Massieu's attorney, Cathy Fleming, said she was seeking
political asylum in the United States for her client on grounds he would be
physically harmed if he returned to Mexico.

On Friday, the State Department and INS issued a statement saying they were
seeking Ruiz Massieu's deportation on grounds his "presence and activities in
the United States would have potentially serious adverse foreign policy
consequences for the United States."

Mexican authorities want Ruiz Massieu to face charges of covering up an
investigation into the September 1994 assassination of his brother, Jose
Francisco Ruiz Massieu, then-secretary general of the ruling Institutional
Revolutionary Party.

Ruiz Massieu has been held without bail since March 3, when he was arrested at
Newark International Airport trying to board a flight to Spain with his family.
He was carrying a large amount of undeclared cash, U.S. Customs officials said.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              224 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 29, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Citizenship Knocks on the Door; After Decades in America, Elderly Immigrants
Fulfill a Cherished Dream

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 744 words


Years ago, they came to America. Yesterday, America came to them.

Three elderly immigrants, ages 81, 85 and 95 and too frail to venture out, were
sworn in as U.S. citizens by an immigration official in a series of special home
visits that fulfilled long-cherished hopes of naturalization for the families of
all three.

No trekking to the U.S. District Court in Washington or Baltimore. No standing
in line for the traditional ceremony conducted by a federal judge.

For each -- 95-year-old Hang Kuen Mui, a native of China; 81-year-old Egbert
Wynter, a native of Jamaica; and 85-year-old Maria Albanese, a native of Italy
-- it formed a poignant moment as they and their families were administered the
oath of allegiance by Immigration and Naturalization Service adjudications
officer Karen Ratke.

"I wanted her to become a U.S. citizen before she died," said Salvatore Matera,
one of Maria Albanese's three children, as he and other family members embraced
Albanese in her nursing home room in Hyattsville.

Albanese, who suffers senile dementia and speaks and writes with difficulty,
managed a faint smile. Matera and his sister, Giuliana DeRobertis, spoke the
words of the citizenship oath on behalf of their mother.

Similarly, in their home in Silver Spring hours earlier, Chit Fai Hui, 60, took
the oath for his mother, who suffered a stroke in October and is partially
paralyzed and uses a wheelchair.

"She told us . . . about a year ago that she wanted to become a citizen," said
grandson Chung Hui. After the oath was completed, the 95-year-old woman clenched
a miniature American flag that Ratke had placed in her right hand and gave a
hint of a smile. In an almost breathless whisper, she spoke to her grandson in
Chinese. "She said she's glad but is sad she can't stand up," he said.

A few miles away in College Park, Wynter spoke in rich Caribbean accents after
repeating the 141-word oath. "I feel good, man."

He also correctly answered 10 basic U.S. history and government questions thrown
to him by Ratke. (Examples: Who was the president during the Civil War? What is
the minimum voting age in the United States?)

A former doorman at the Watergate apartment complex, Wynter said, "I don't want
to go back to Jamaica." He said he followed his wife, Zetelda, here, arriving
three years after her in 1971.

He suffers from diabetes and is blind in one eye. But he said of America: "I'm
satisfied with this place. . . . Nobody worries me here."

Ratke, 26, an INS officer for three years, performs about a dozen swearing-in
home visits a year, a drop in the bucket compared with the more than 16,000
naturalizations done every year in Maryland at the federal courthouse and War
Memorial Building in Baltimore and various INS facilities in the state.

Citizenship applicants usually are required to speak, read and write English and
undergo a more extensive civics test than that given to Wynter. But under
recently liberalized immigration laws, the test can be shortened or eliminated
and the language requirements waived for older immigrants and those, such as
Albanese and Mui, with physical disabilities or mental impairment.

Naturalization entitles a new citizen to vote, hold a job requiring U.S.
citizenship, travel with a U.S. passport without time limits, and apply for
relatives to immigrate.

Mui, born on May 3, 1900, spent most of her life in China and neighboring Hong
Kong, coming to the United States in 1972. Her husband died in 1939, and she now
lives with her son, a retired Langley Park restaurant owner. Because of the
seven-day workweek at the restaurant, the son said, he had not had a chance to
start the application process for his mother's citizenship until his retirement
earlier this year.

After her stroke in October, the family asked the INS to make the home visit for
the swearing-in -- the final step to citizenship.

Matera said his Italian-born mother came to the United States in 1962 as a
"specialized tailor" working in a high fashion sewing shop in New Jersey.

"She was so enthusiastic about America," he said. ". . . She wanted to become a
citizen but just never took the initiative. . . . She didn't know much about
politics, but she knew life here was a different ballgame."

He said all the other employees at the sewing shop were Sicilian, "so the only
English she learned was 'thank you,' 'hello' and 'goodbye.' "

And one other phrase, he said: "God bless America."


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, With the aid of a magnifying glass, Egbert Wynter,
81, signs his name to a certificate making him a United States citizen.  INS
official Karen Ratke administers the citizenship oath to Wynter, a native of
Jamaica, at his home in College Park.  Flanked by family members, Maria
Albanese, center, becomes a citizen in a Hyattsville nursing home.  Holding a
U.S. flag, Egbert Wynter reads citizenship certificate. "I don't want to go back
to Jamaica," he says. "I'm satisfied with this place."

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              225 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 30, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Salvadoran Work Permits Extended

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 211 words


Salvadorans living in the United States under a temporary amnesty program have
been granted permission to work legally for an extra three months, officials of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service have announced.

The decision, which affects thousands of Salvadorans living in the Washington
area, means that work permits that were scheduled to expire Jan. 31 will now be
valid until April 30.

The INS already has extended this deadline several times to allow affected
Salvadorans to file applications for political asylum or complete other
paperwork. The extension does not apply to Salvadorans who have permanent
amnesty, only to those who are living here under a program called "deferred
enforced departure."

The Clinton administration ended the temporary amnesty program at the end of
1994 because the civil war in El Salvador had ended. But it encouraged all
affected Salvadorans to apply for political asylum under the terms of a 1991
court case.

Applications for asylum must be filed by the end of this year, but those who
apply may now work legally for another three months while awaiting an official
response. In any case, INS officials said they do not intend to deport large
groups of Salvadorans once the April deadline expires.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              226 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 17, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Cuba Immigration Pact Lawsuit

Reuter

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A37; DEFENSE & DIPLOMACY

LENGTH: 96 words


A private group advocating stricter immigration measures filed a lawsuit
yesterday challenging the immigration agreement reached between the United
States and Cuba in September.

The suit by the Federation for American Immigration Reform charged the Clinton
administration has exceeded its legal authority to admit Cuban immigrants and
has abused its power to circumvent the limits set by Congress.

The suit, filed in federal court in Washington, named Attorney General Janet
Reno and Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner as
defendants.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              227 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 18, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Former Head of Haitian Paramilitary Group Released

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE


The former head of a feared Haitian paramilitary group has been released from a
U.S. detention center where he had been held more than a year, but he still
faces deportation to Haiti, officials said.

Emmanuel Constant was released from a Maryland jail Friday in exchange for
dropping a civil lawsuit in which he challenged the constitutionality of the
statute under which he was held, said his attorney, Susan Bryant.

Constant, who has admitted working for the CIA and fled murder charges in Haiti,
is under a deportation order issued by an immigration judge last year. INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron said Constant would be "adequately supervised until he
is deported."

Another INS official said Constant is wearing an electronic ankle bracelet and
is required to check in daily while his deportation is negotiated with Haiti.
"We're waiting for the government of Haiti to be able to ensure his safe
return," the official said.

Constant fled Haiti in December 1994 after U.S. forces helped end three years of
military rule there. He arrived on a tourist visa, subsequently revoked, and was
arrested in New York five months later. He has said his life would be in danger
if he returned to Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              228 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 04, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Trailer Park a Bleak Home for Immigrants; Workers -- Here Legally or Not --
Struggle, Strive in Md. Settlement

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1474 words

DATELINE: MARYDEL, Md.


They had traveled for days, and they were less than an hour short of the
Promised Land -- a rundown, crowded trailer park in Marydel that is home to more
than 1,000 migrant workers.

The human cargo would have arrived on schedule if a rental truck, packed with 37
people suspected of being illegal immigrants, had not crashed Feb. 7 at a
Chesapeake Bay Bridge tollbooth.

At least some were destined for Marydel, a town just shy of the Delaware line on
the Eastern Shore. For years, it has served as a magnet for migrant workers. "We
get rental trucks in here. We get black market trucks in here," said James
Walker Jr., whose father owns the trailer park. "Not too long ago, someone was
making green cards in a van."

By U.S. standards, the living conditions at Marydel are dismal. Perhaps 10 to 15
people live in each two- or three-bedroom trailer at this time of year, Walker
said. During the summer months, the population of each trailer can swell to 20
or 30, he said. The immigrants, the majority of them Guatemalans, sleep and work
in shifts.

Many of the trailers have bare wiring, light sockets screwed directly into
walls, rotting floors, furnaces that don't work. Some residents use kerosene or
electric heaters. About a month ago, officials handled reports of two cases of
carbon monoxide poisoning. Fires are frequent. Cockroaches crawl everywhere.

Whether Marydel is the ultimate destination, or one of the destinations, of an
organized smuggling operation remains unclear. Walker said some of the residents
have gone to Florida, Georgia and Arizona to bring others to Marydel.

The truck's driver and two other men in the cab were indicted Thursday by a
federal grand jury on charges of transporting and harboring illegal immigrants,
as well as conspiracy to do so. Benedict Ferro, district director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, confirmed reports by residents of
Marydel that three men who live at the trailer park were arrested within days of
the Bay Bridge accident.

A source close to the investigation of the truck crash said the Marydel men
arrested after the accident were suspected of being involved in smuggling
illegal immigrants. INS officials said shortly after the crash that they
suspected that smugglers were collaborating with illegal contractors who supply
workers to employers for prearranged jobs. The 37 immigrants in the truck were
placed in the custody of immigration officials.

Marydel is but one of many migrant settlements on the Eastern Shore, which is
but one of many areas throughout the United States that draw thousands of
migrant workers each year. In July, immigration officials detained 42 suspected
illegal immigrants at Showell Poultry Inc., a chicken processing plant near
Ocean City.

For people who come from desperately poor circumstances, these camps and jobs
represent the dream of a better life in America.

The truck was so close. "They had very bad luck," said an elderly Guatemalan
woman who lives with her husband and her children's families in one of the
trailers at Marydel.

About 20 Guatemalans and Mexicans interviewed said they found their ways here by
circuitous routes. "My sister came with her husband, who knew a friend who knew
this place," said Miguel, 38, a Mexican man who was one of the few immigrants
interviewed that admitted to being illegal. Miguel, who said he attended medical
school for two years in Mexico City, said he left behind his wife and two young
sons to come and stay with relatives in Marydel in hopes of finding work and
sending money home. He said his family could not survive on the wages he
received in Mexico after the peso crisis that began a few days before Christmas
1994. "One comes here out of necessity," he said.

Since his arrival six months ago, Miguel said, he has felt like a prisoner
inside the trailer and misses his family and friends. He spends most of his free
time watching videos of movies in English and studying the language by listening
to tapes and writing out phrases over and over.

Many migrants at Marydel work at a poultry plant owned by Allen Family Foods,
about 20 miles away in Cordova, Md. One immigrant said that workers are paid
about $ 6.60 an hour and that some must grab and hang up 60 live chickens a
minute -- one every second.

"That sounds like an exaggeration," said Charles Allen III, the company's
president. He confirmed that workers receive $ 6 to $ 7 an hour for a 38- to
42-hour week and that they can volunteer for extra hours on the weekends.

Allen said that employers are placed in a "frustrating situation" because they
must screen out illegal applications but can be charged with discrimination if
they treat Latino applicants differently than others.

"We're required to comply with the law, which we do," Allen said. "We are
neither document experts nor immigration experts . . . but we don't accept
somebody's Mickey Mouse Club card." Allen said his company had no connection to
the truck that crashed at the Bay Bridge.

Allen also praised Latino workers, saying they tend to have a "very good work
ethic, be family-oriented and be very kind and gentle people."

Other residents of Walker's trailer park work in various poultry plants, in
mushroom or egg packing plants or in the fields throughout the rural Eastern
Shore. One Guatemalan man said he cuts lawns at a golf course in Easton. Some
stay only a few months; others remain for years. Their children attend local
public schools. Many of the men drink beer on weekend afternoons that run late
into the night, then play soccer on Sunday mornings. The local store is stocked
with Mexican sweet bread, fresh goat cheese, hot sauce and corn husks for
tamales. Clerks have to work hard to keep enough corn flour in stock. They often
go through 60 five-pound bags a week.

James Walker Sr., a chain-smoking man with a grizzled face, said he owns the
trailer park, a convenience store and a trucking company.

"Damn, I lost 40 tenants today," Walker said he joked after hearing of the truck
accident. Walker said he has thrived on the influx of immigrants. Several years
ago, a Mexican woman named Maria bought one trailer, then two, then three. She
started renting them out, then urged Walker to do the same, he said. Now he said
he charges about $ 400 a month for each of the rundown trailers, although he
says he gets shortchanged because the rent is supposed to be $ 100 a person.

"I probably only get $ 25 or $ 50 for each head," Walker said. "That's what tees
me off."

Two of the residents said Walker does charge per person, so he receives as much
as $ 1,000 a month for a trailer with 10 people.

Several residents said that Walker charges the Latino residents double for items
at the store and that he makes money by towing away cars and selling them.
Walker said that he does not charge Latinos extra and that he removes only
abandoned vehicles with expired tags.

Walker said he missed out on one lucrative opportunity by not getting into the
money-order business. He added, "I could have charged $ 2 a money order."
Marydel residents buy thousands of dollars worth of money orders weekly from the
People's Bank in Marydel and the U.S. Postal Service to send back home.

Still, Walker praised the Mexicans and Guatemalans for their work ethic and for
paying their rent on time. "Sometimes they even pay early," he said. "And they
are workers. . . . They're out there at 5 a.m."

A law enforcement officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that
Caroline County has no livability code and that the immigrants cannot complain
to Walker about living conditions or he would evict them. Walker said that he
knows many of the trailers are in horrible condition and that he plans to
renovate them soon.

Immigration officials long have known about the settlement, the officer added.
"Immigration's been contacted, and they don't want to hear about it," the
officer said. "They're swamped."

Ferro, the INS district director, said immigration agents try to "balance our
efforts and prioritize." They focus first on criminals, then on employers, then
on illegal immigrants who are working, he said.

Delia Gnall, a part-time translator and native of Spain who lives a few towns
away, helps many of the Guatemalans with medical and legal issues. She said she
sometimes wishes the trailer park would burn down, because it is "such a
disgrace."

She said she has no idea how many of the immigrants are legal, although many try
to request political asylum as soon as possible. She has wondered since the Bay
Bridge accident about how many other rental trucks are packed with illegal
immigrants.

"This is what people do. They come here, and they challenge themselves, and they
challenge the system," Gnall said. "They work very hard. They're almost slaves."


LOAD-DATE: March 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias; Map, brad wye, This Marydel trailer park is home to
many migrant workers. During the summer, 20 or 30 people might live in a
trailer, sleeping in shifts.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              229 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 21, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

The Wages of Immigration; Liberals Won't Face the Real Cost of Foreign Workers

Roy Beck

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1717 words


AFTER SOME formidable election-year maneuvering, Democrats won a key round last
week when Republican leaders in both the House and Senate conceded that a vote
to increase the minimum wage now seems all but certain. Only, before seeking too
much applause from the working poor, Democrats should remember what they haven't
done: curtailed the flood of immigrants that is dragging down the wages of those
who can least afford it.

The minimum wage fight, it should be remembered, comes amid a battle that finds
most congressional Democrats trying to block moves to lower immigration back
toward more traditional levels. Yet what few Democrats or news commentators have
even noticed is the jarring inconsistency of trying to bolster bottom wages
while working against the tight labor market that could increase wages at all
levels. Raising the minimum wage is a worthy first step, but it does not address
the most critical problem.

On TV recently, Sen. Edward Kennedy, the leading champion of the minimum wage
hike, used janitors to extoll the moral priority of raising wages for those on
the bottom rung of the economic ladder, citing these workers' right to an income
above the poverty level. His choice of occupations was illuminating, but not in
the way the senator intended. In fact, the plight of janitors can be used to
illustrate just how carelessly most Democratic leaders have treated the working
man's and woman's concerns about the last two decades of stagnant and declining
wages, job insecurity and widening income disparity. In the early 1980s,
janitors in many cities had little interest in the minimum wage because they
earned so much more. A much-cited study by the General Accounting Office noted
that janitors in downtown Los Angeles office buildings, for example, had won
excellent wages and working conditions through their union since World War II.
By 1983, the prevailing wage had reached $ 12 an hour. The ability to deliver
credible threats to strike if wage increases weren't forthcoming played an
important role in that success.

But Congress -- overriding recommendations of a federal commission -- continued
a legal immigration program that poured hundreds of thousands of foreign workers
into the country annually during the 1980s. Thus, Washington inadvertently
provided the opportunity for aggressive nonunion businesses to take the jobs, or
deflate the wages, of union workers. In Los Angeles, the nonunion firms hired
immigrants at less than half the going rate and fairly quickly underbid the
unionized firms, taking over the office building contracts. Most of the
native-born workers were driven from their jobs. Real wages for the foreign-born
and remaining native-born janitors since then have fallen further toward, and
even down to, the minimum wage.

A similar story has played out in the lives of formerly middle-class workers in
scores of occupations and cities across America, I discovered during my travels
and research on the effects of high immigration on communities and labor
markets. Although a number of reports by pro-business think tanks have claimed
to find no sign of immigration-caused wage depression, the real-life experiences
of American workers suggest the methodological inadequacies of those studies.

Harvard economist George Borjas says most previous studies failed to discover
the full human cost to native-born Americans of high immigration because they
surveyed too wide a metropolitan area and because many of the workers who were
hurt were no longer around to measure, having fled the cities where immigration
had driven wages and living conditions down. Economists Jeffrey Williamson and
Timothy Hatton point to newer peer-reviewed research showing that surges in U.S.
immigration in the past slowed down growth in investment per worker, in
technological improvements, in productivity and in wages while widening income
inequality. People who cannot find that the same thing is happening during the
current surge probably "have looked for evidence in the wrong place," write
Williamson and Hatton.

In small cities across the Midwest, the congressionally engorged labor markets
have helped transform the meatpacking industry from one of the nation's best
blue-collar occupations to one of its most dangerous. The availability of
foreign workers allowed upstart meatpackers to drive established, unionized
corporations out of business. Wages that rose as high as $ 18 an hour (in
today's dollars) have crashed to below half that level today.

The importation of hundreds of thousands of foreign workers and dependents each
year (more than 700,000 last year) is worse than unnecessary: It ruins good
occupations; it rewards callous business management; it penalizes employers with
a strong sense of corporate citizenship; and it creates sweeping changes for
communities that never request them and seldom approve of them.

The construction trades in Miami -- much like in other cities with large sectors
of immigrants -- amply show the wage-depressing effects of the tripled and
quadrupled immigration levels of the last 20 years. Sociologists Guillermo
Grenier and Alex Stepick found that construction jobs that provided middle-class
lifestyles and benefits collapsed into little more than minimum-wage labor, with
few or no benefits, after the federal immigration program created a huge labor
surplus that could be exploited by firms that gained competitive dominance by
cutting wages.

By contrast, look at what has happened in the tight-labor markets enjoyed by
cities where the level of immigration has been much lower. Omaha, for example,
has seen little of the national tidal wave of immigration. The limited supply of
workers has pushed wages at fast-food restaurants to $ 7 and $ 8 an hour, far
above anything contemplated by the most aggressive proponents of raising the
minimum wage.

Not to accept that the influx of millions of workers has an impact on wages is
to deny the effects of supply and demand. Most Democrats still seem to have a
vestigial understanding of the importance of tight labor markets. When House
Republicans offered amendments during March that would have set up new temporary
foreign worker programs and extended old ones, most Democrats helped kill them.
One after another, the Democrats strode to the podium and denounced any federal
program that would force American workers to compete with temporarily imported
foreign workers.

But when the full House and the Senate Judiciary Committee turned their
attention to a federal program that annually imports hundreds of thousands of
foreign workers and their dependents permanently, most Democrats voted against
tight labor markets and sided with the industrialists and immigration lawyer
lobbies that have profited enormously off high immigration and loose labor
markets.

The program in question is the one created in 1965 that gives immigrants, who
have willingly made the decision to separate from their families and homes, the
right to send off not just for spouses and dependent children but for adult
relatives. Those adult relatives can then bring their dependents and their own
adult relatives in a pattern that constantly jumps into new in-law families.
Thus, the program has created an endless chain of migration that continues to
snowball and is responsible for total immigrant numbers climbing to four times
higher than during the 1925-1965 era of tight-labor conditions and rapidly
rising wages. Unless Congress cuts the chain, the U.S. population will double
again in the next century and current downward pressures on wages are sure to
worsen.

Wage earners -- who overwhelmingly tell pollsters they want the permanent
importation of foreign workers cut back drastically -- have been set politically
adrift. With most Democrats deserting them on that issue this spring, it would
be understandable for them to turn to the two-thirds of House Republicans who
voted for curtailing the adult-relative program. But wage earners are unlikely
to feel much security with Republicans since the House GOP leadership, feeling
pressure from corporations who want to import cheap labor, joined the Democrats
in defeating all attempts to reduce legal immigration. And Republican senators
such as Spencer Abraham of Michigan have been key allies of Kennedy in the
Judiciary Committee not only in defending the massive importation of permanent
foreign workers but in increasing the number.

Meanwhile, Kennedy leads the way on raising the minimum wage. He might consider
the work of anthropologist Katherine S. Newman of Columbia University, who found
that the native New York City residents she studied were in a desperate search
for entry-level jobs at any price.

In the fast-food industry, with jobs offered at the minimum wage of $ 4.25 an
hour, there were 14 times more people looking for jobs than there were job
openings during a five-month study period in 1993. A year later, 73 percent of
the workers studied still did not have a job, even though most had continued to
look and either had a high school degree or were in high school. Part of their
dilemma resulted from stiff competition from immigrant workers. Finding a job
was particularly tough for native black residents; employers tended to pass them
over for immigrants, who were three times as likely to be hired.

Raising the minimum wage would help applicants who get the jobs. But how much
better it would be for all those low-skill job-seekers if Congress would also
stop pouring in more foreign workers to compete for work at the bottom of the
labor pool. The fast-food wages in Omaha ought to be the goal.

None of this is to suggest that high immigration levels alone are responsible
for the nation's stagnating wages or economic angst. But on-site observations,
new academic studies and common sense suggest that the influx of immigrants has
been a key contributor. So far, neither the Democrats nor the Republicans have
come to recognize this. The first party that does could reap a huge electoral
prize.

Roy Beck, Washington editor of The Social Contract Quarterly, is the author of
"The Case Against Immigration: The Moral, Economic, Social and Environmental
Reasons for Reducing Immigration Back to Traditional Levels" (W.W. Norton).


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1996April 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, rob shepperson for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              230 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 29, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Buried in the Welfare Bill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 443 words


A SNEAKY THING happened last week on the way to welfare reform. The sweeping
bill passed with the support of House Republicans would make legal aliens
ineligible for a panoply of federal assistance programs. At the same time, the
bill creates eligibility, for the first time, for a special category of aliens,
temporary farm workers. No one has been willing to say how this provision got
into the composite bill, including recommendations of a number of House
committees, that was brought to the floor. But it's easy to guess who the
beneficiaries are: farm interests who will now be able to pass on to taxpayers
some of the costs of maintaining their foreign workers.

Current law allows farm employers to petition the Labor Department for
certification that domestic workers are unavailable to help with a harvest. This
certification, in turn, is presented to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which issues an H2a visa permitting a foreign worker to enter for a
short time -- usually six months -- to take those jobs. About 16,000 of these
visas are issued each year, primarily for workers on fruit and tobacco farms.
Advocates representing domestic farm workers have traditionally opposed this
program, arguing that it displaces Americans and legal aliens and keeps wages
low. Nevertheless, workers entering this country with H2a visas are here
legally, though they are ineligible for welfare benefits.

The problem with the reform bill just passed by the House is that it
distinguishes between these temporary workers and other legally admitted aliens,
some of whom have been in this country for many years. The distinction operates
to the great disadvantage of the latter group. Farm laborers who have been here
for 20 years, for example, and who have worked in a back-breaking, low-wage
industry paying taxes year in and year out, would no longer be eligible for
assistance that their tax dollars support. But temporary farm workers, though
legally admitted for only a short time, would be able to get AFDC, SSI,
Medicaid, disability benefits, food stamps and all the other help provided by
the federal government. These benefits would be paid for in part by the very
individuals -- long-term legal aliens -- who are their competitors for jobs and
who are themselves barred from these programs.

Rep. Howard Berman (D-Calif.) discovered this provision deeply embedded in the
massive reform bill. Although he was not able to offer an amendment to strike
the relevant language on the House floor, he has alerted the Senate and the
public. It is one of many that should be corrected before a final bill goes to
the White House.

r

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              231 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 16, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

U.S. Targets 'Slave Labor' Sweatshop; Back Wages Sought From Clothing Makers

Frank Swoboda; Margaret Webb Pressler, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A01

LENGTH: 716 words


The federal government said yesterday it would seek $ 5 million in back wages
from clothing manufacturers that subcontracted with a Southern California
sweatshop that held immigrant workers in "slave labor" conditions inside a
barbed-wire compound and forced them to work seven days a week for as little as
50 cents an hour.

Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich called the conditions that state and federal
investigators found during an Aug 2. raid in El Monte, Calif., east of Los
Angeles "the most heinous thing we've seen. This really was slave labor inside
the United States," he said in an interview.

Seven Thai nationals were taken into custody, according to Labor Department
officials. Authorities are trying to determine ownership of the operation, which
was run under several company names, the officials said.

Garments made at the El Monte shop were found in the stores of some of the
nation's leading retailers, including Hecht Co., the Washington area's largest
department store chain. Goods also were sold at the stores of Sears, Roebuck &
Co., Filene's Basement Corp., Macy's West, Neiman Marcus Co., the Limited Inc.,
Dayton Hudson Corp. and Montgomery Ward & Co., the Labor Department said.

Reich said there was no evidence that any of the retailers knew the garments
were illegally manufactured.

May Co., which owns Hecht's, issued a statement yesterday saying it was trying
to determine whether the El Monte operation was manufacturing goods for any May
division and pledged full cooperation with the ongoing government
investigations.

The Labor Department also announced it would hold a meeting of major retailers
Sept. 7 in Washington in an effort to find ways to keep illegally manufactured
goods from reaching consumer markets. The meeting is an effort by the Labor
Department to pressure major retailers to help in cracking down on sweatshop
manufacturers.

Government investigators raided the compound of the El Monte garment
subcontractor and discovered more than 60 immigrants from Thailand -- most of
them women illegally in the United States -- being held in peonage.

The workers were threatened with rape or murder if they tried to escape from the
compound, the Labor Department said. In addition, they were told they had to
stay until they had paid back the cost of bringing them to the United States
from Thailand, the Labor Department officials said.

Reich said yesterday that while he believed the extreme nature of the El Monte
operation was isolated, the Labor Department has seen more evidence of illegal
immigrants being hired in the United States under abusive conditions in recent
years.

"We are witnessing the development of a Third World economy -- both workers and
employers -- in the very midst of the First World," he said.

Under federal law, the government can use a provision of the Fair Labor
Standards Act to force manufacturers to pay back wages owed workers employed by
their subcontractors.

In the El Monte case, 14 manufacturers used the illegal shop and each can be
held liable for the full $ 5 million in back wages if the other companies can't
pay their share.

But retailers cannot be held liable unless they knowingly received illegally
produced goods. The government can, however, block retailers from receiving
shipments of illegally produced goods.

Reich said yesterday the government needs to enlist the support of the retailers
to put pressure on the manufacturers not to subcontract work to illegal
sweatshops.

Reich said it was a "black eye" for retailers to be found selling goods produced
by workers employed under inhumane conditions.

"No one wants to be associated commercially with this kind of enterprise," he
said.

Steve Pfister, vice president of the National Retail Federation, a trade
association representing many of the nation's largest retailers, said his group
welcomed a chance to participate in the Sept. 7 meeting, but that retailers were
not the problem.

"Retailers deal with literally hundreds of vendors and it's virtually impossible
for the retailer to know that this is going on," he said.

Reich said May, Sears and Federated Department Stores Inc., which owns
Bloomingdale's, Macy's and other large retail chains, have agreed to attend the
retailer conference.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 17, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: An article in yesterday's editions incorrectly identified Filene's
Basement Corp. as one of the companies named by the Labor Department for selling
goods produced in a Southern California sweatshop. The company in question was
Filene's, a subsidiary of May Co., which is a separate company.

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post, COMPANIES CITED THE LABOR DEPARTMENT
SAID CLOTHING PRODUCED IN A LOS ANGELES SWEATSHOP WENT TO THESE COMPANIES.
MANUFACTURERS *F40 California, Tomato, L.F. Sportswear, Balmara, New
Boys/Voltage, Point Zero, Excuses Sportswear, Paragraff Clothing Co., Bermo
Enterprises, A&M Casuals, US Boys, Ms. Tops of California, B.U.M.
International, Diane Samandi (Jonquil label) RETAILERS *Hecht's, Montgomery
Ward, Sears, Lerner, Foley's Petites, Macy's West, Meier & Frank, Robinson's
May, Filene's, Kaufman's, Neiman Marcus, Dayton Hudson, Mervyn's, Broadway,
Rich's, Specialty Retailers, Fred Meyer, Venture SOURCE: Labor Department

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              232 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 21, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. Seeks Fugitive Falls Church Man After 3-Year Alien-Smuggling Probe; Asian
Gang

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1069 words


Like thousands of other immigrants from his native Vietnam, Ngoc Bich Nguyen
came to the United States a decade ago as a refugee in search of freedom and
opportunity. But somewhere along the way, U.S. authorities say, his visi

Like thousands of other immigrants from his native Vietnam, Ngoc Bich Nguyen
came to the United States a decade ago as a refugee in search of freedom and
opportunity. But somewhere along the way, U.S. authorities say, his vision of
the American dream took a vicious turn.

Now the slight 29-year-old, whose last known address was in Falls Church, is a
fugitive from U.S. justice, wanted by both the FBI and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) on a raft of federal charges.

Nguyen was one of 23 Vietnamese and Chinese immigrants indicted this week by a
federal grand jury in San Francisco on charges of involvement in a major
alien-smuggling operation that brought two boatloads of Chinese to the shores of
Northern California in June 1993. He is also wanted by the FBI for heroin
trafficking and the armed robbery of high-tech businesses.

Culminating a three-year nationwide investigation, INS agents Thursday arrested
14 of the suspects in raids in several California cities and Philadelphia. Six
others were already in custody for other offenses. FBI and INS agents are still
searching for the remaining three, including Nguyen.

The INS investigation, dubbed Operation Sea Dragon, provided a glimpse into the
U.S. end of what has become a highly lucrative international criminal enterprise
in recent years: the smuggling of thousands of Chinese into the United States.
Carried out by gangs that charge their passengers up to $ 30,000 each, the trade
in this human cargo often involves circuitous voyages that take many months,
arduous sea passages in crowded ship holds to escape detection and, finally,
indentured servitude in the United States to pay off the huge smuggling debts.

In this case, the probe led investigators to a highly sophisticated,
compartmentalized network made up of Asian gangs in different parts of the
country. The investigation found close cooperation among gangs representing
nationalities that are bitter rivals in Asia, but that came together to bring
illegal immigrants from China's Fujian Province to New York City by way of the
West Coast.

Among those involved in the enterprise, investigators said, were several
powerful U.S.-based Asian criminal organizations, including the White Tigers,
Fuk Ching and Broom Street Boys in New York and two gangs in the San Francisco
Bay area. Using contacts in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Asian communities in
the United States, the ring recruited emigrants in Fujian Province, hired a
Taiwanese ship and crew to get them across the Pacific, sent fishing boats
manned by California-based Vietnamese to pick them up at sea, rented safe
houses, set up communications networks and organized transportation to get them
to New York, investigators said.

While not as lucrative as drug trafficking, the trade in humans is much less
risky, authorities said. Under current sentencing guidelines for
alien-smuggling, those indicted last week face jail terms of 18 to 36 months.

According to Michael Yamaguchi, U.S. attorney for the Northern District of
California, Operation Sea Dragon represented the first systematic attempt to
root out a nationwide support system for Chinese alien smuggling. "These
alien-smuggling ships cannot operate without a support system on land to
transport and house these people," he said.

Among those arrested, said Thomas Schiltgen, the INS district director in San
Francisco, were two 25-year-old immigrants alleged to be key California-based
organizers of the support network: John Luong, originally from Vietnam, and
Chris Huie, a native of China who used the alias "Monkey." Luong, the head of a
Vietnamese gang in San Francisco, coordinated the smuggling of the illegal
aliens to the California coast from the Taiwanese "mother ship" 200 to 300 miles
offshore, while Huie, leader of a Chinese gang in Oakland, organized the
on-shore transportation to safe houses in the Bay area and delivery of the
aliens to the Chinese gangs in New York, Schiltgen said.

"This was not their first smuggling operation," said Michael Desmond, an INS
case agent. "These people were involved in prior boat cases that were
successful."

The investigation began when two fishing boats, the Angel and the Pelican,
arrived in Northern California on June 2, 1993, with 279 Chinese illegal aliens
on board. Waiting for them were rented vans, which drove away with 19 of the
Chinese before INS agents moved in and seized both boats. The other illegal
immigrants were detained -- most were later repatriated -- and five people
involved in the smuggling were arrested.

The probe led to Nguyen, who investigators said had used a fake driver's license
to buy the Angel, a World War II-vintage wooden fishing boat, for $ 60,000 in
cash a few days before the smuggling operation. The money had come from the Fuk
Ching in New York, a gang of young Chinese from Fujian Province, investigators
said.

Described by authorities as "highly mobile," Nguyen belongs to a Vietnamese gang
in California, where he was arrested in 1993 on state burglary and forgery
charges and survived a gang-related murder attempt, officials said.

After buying the boats, Nguyen and his cohorts removed all fishing gear, cleared
out the cargo holds and installed new state-of-the-art radar gear and CB radios,
officials said. The Vietnamese crews were also given cellular phones to contact
the waiting vans.

Crammed with 151 Chinese, the creaking Angel took at least two days to reach
shore after its rendezvous with the Taiwanese ship, which subsequently vanished.

"People were literally piled on top of each other," Schiltgen said. "Many were
begging for food and water" and could barely walk when INS agents brought them
out of the hold. "It shows the reprehensible nature of the alien smuggling
business."

In this case, each Chinese was charged $ 26,000, and most had paid $ 1,000 down
before leaving their homeland, investigators said. Of the 19 who initially got
away, they said, 14 were found two weeks later in a safe house in Queens, New
York, where they were being held by the White Tigers and Broom Street Boys to
force their families to pay the rest of their smuggling fees.


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1996April 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, NGOC BICH NGUYEN

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              233 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 14, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

People Smugglers Sent to Prison

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Two brothers were sentenced to eight years in prison for running a smuggling
ring that brought into the United States more than 1,000 East Indian and
Pakistani nationals who said they paid $ 10,000 to $ 14,000 each for passage
through Panama and other Latin American nations.

Jit Singh Nagra, 46, and Mohan Singh Nagra, 49, also were ordered to pay $
100,000 each and both will be placed under federal supervision for three years
after their release from prison.

The brothers were among 13 people who pleaded guilty to charges that included
alien smuggling, money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to bribe public
officials. During an 18-month undercover investigation, U.S. Attorney Kate
Pflaumer said immigration agents and Border Patrol officers were paid more than
$ 1.4 million in exchange for more than 800 immigration documents.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              234 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 29, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

U.S. Pacific Paradise Is Hell For Some Foreign Workers; Filipinos Report
Beatings, Rapes, Lockups

William Branigin, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1905 words

DATELINE: ROTA, Northern Marianas


For most visitors, this tiny U.S. island is an idyllic place of flowering flame
trees, turquoise waters and homey cordiality where motorists routinely wave to
each other. Natives like to call it "the Friendly Island."

But for many foreign workers over the last several years, a little slice of
paradise in the Pacific has become an outpost of tropical hell under the
American flag -- a place where labor and human rights are routinely violated by
islanders who are U.S. citizens.

According to U.S. officials, human rights advocates, church sources and victims
of alleged abuses, the exploitation of guest workers, most of them from the
Philippines, has become practically a way of life for indigenous employers on
Rota, which belongs to the U.S.-affiliated Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands. The commonwealth is a chain of formerly Japanese-ruled islands captured
by the United States in World War II.

Waitresses have been forced into prostitution and locked up during their free
time, the sources say. Housemaids have been beaten and raped. Farm laborers have
been treated as virtual slaves. Construction workers have been abandoned without
pay. And foreign employees of all categories have been routinely cheated of
their wages.

Those who complain often have been threatened or deported. In many cases,
employers have been allowed to repeat the abuses by simply bringing in
replacement workers.

Among the recent victims are two Philippine women who came here to work in a
restaurant but were forced to become nude dancers and prostitutes. In another
case, a Philippine maid said she was kidnapped, beaten and raped by her employer
and had to leave the island to get medical treatment and file a complaint. No
criminal charges have been filed in either case.

Their stories are among dozens of cases of physical mistreatment, sexual abuse
and labor violations described in interviews, human rights reports and workers'
affidavits submitted to U.S. and Philippine authorities. Many other workers have
been afraid to complain, residents say.

"It's a small island where everyone knows everyone else," said commonwealth Gov.
Froilan Tenorio, a reformist who took office in January. "They seem to cover up
allegations against one of their own."

In a review of labor complaints on Rota, a commonwealth panel "has found that in
case after case, labor law and regulations were violated to the benefit of
employers of alien workers," the governor's office said Aug. 16. It noted that
"there were also more serious complaints ... of physical and mental abuse as
well as sexual harassment and assault."

A recent report by a Roman Catholic church organization cited a "human rights
crisis" on the island against a background of "racist bias" toward foreign
workers and "extreme dysfunction" in the commonwealth society generally.

"Abuse is so common here that it appears that it has become a normal and
accepted practice," American schoolteacher Wendy Doromal wrote in an independent
report. "Few, if any, abusers are ever punished ... and so the abuse continues
to grow and grow and grow."

For trying to help workers caught in conditions that she said sometimes amount
to slavery, Doromal, her Philippine husband and their family have become targets
of death threats, vandalism and vilification. Fearing for their safety, they
have decided to leave Rota after eight years here.

Rota's top local official, Mayor Joseph Inos, called the criticism "overblown."
Rapes are "bound to happen in any society," he said, and forced prostitution "is
not rampant on Rota; it happens everywhere."

Labor and human rights violations have been reported on other islands in the
Northern Marianas, notably Saipan and Tinian, but church and social workers say
they are particularly acute on Rota. Although most U.S. laws apply in the
commonwealth, Rota seems to have slipped largely through the cracks of the
federal justice system, whose laws often are not enforced here.

In attempting to pursue some abuse complaints on the islands, federal
authorities have regularly encountered challenges to their jurisdiction,
hostility from tight-knit local communities and witnesses too intimidated to
testify. "It's like trying to do a civil rights action in the old Deep South,"
said Mikel Schwab, an assistant U.S. attorney on neighboring Guam.

"Congress has got to send a very clear message that this kind of behavior cannot
be tolerated," said Rep. George Miller (D-Calif.). He favors cutting the
commonwealth's current annual federal grant of $ 28 million. Rep. Elton Gallegly
(R-Calif.) wants U.S. immigration laws applied to curb the importation of "slave
labor."

Under a unique 1976 "covenant" with the United States, the commonwealth controls
its own immigration, rebates federal taxes and sets its own minimum wage.

The current minimum wage of $ 2.45 an hour is low by U.S. standards but high
enough to attract workers from the Philippines, where jobs are scarce, salaries
are paltry and the lure of earning dollars is strong. Often, however, employers
pay less than that and impose various illegal deductions. And the minimum wage
does not apply to maids and farm workers, who often are paid less than 50 cents
an hour.

Philippine workers usually arrive on Rota with tourist visas and large debts to
recruiters back home. Once here, they often feel stuck. Their passports are held
by their employers, who typically impose large illegal penalties if they quit
their jobs.

Their vulnerability has facilitated sexual abuse of migrant women on Rota, which
human rights investigators say is perhaps the most alarming aspect of a broader
problem of labor exploitation throughout the islands that also affects men. Most
victims are Filipinos, who make up the bulk of the commonwealth's 27,000-strong
alien labor force, but other exploited contract workers have come from China and
elsewhere in Asia.

U.S. officials say the abuses reflect a pattern of discrimination by native
islanders, who belong mostly to the Chamorro ethnic group. More than 65 percent
of employed Chamorros hold government jobs, and Asians have been brought in to
do the dirty work and heavy lifting. Most Chamorros -- including people on
welfare -- now have Philippine maids in their homes, residents say.

The influx of Asian workers has made the natives a minority on their own islands
and created a vast, politically powerless underclass. Of the commonwealth's
population of nearly 63,000, indigenous residents now compose less than 37
percent. Contract workers, "statesiders" and others make up the rest.

In the Northern Marianas, "indigenous rights" promoted by Washington have come
to mean "the exploitation of Asian minorities," Schwab said. "It's American
policy gone bad. Good intentions got flipped around."

In its first attempt to address the problems, the U.S. Justice Department's
Civil Rights Division has filed a class-action suit against the commonwealth,
charging discrimination in its public school system. Besides salary and benefit
disparities, the suit cites a "pervasive attitude of disrespect" in which
Philippine teachers have been racially insulted by students, ordered by
cafeteria workers to wipe tables and mop floors, and forced by administrators to
mow lawns after school.

Housemaids have suffered far worse treatment. In a case documented by the
church, a Philippine maid known as Nell was raped by a police captain and became
pregnant. After flying home and living in the jungle so her neighbors would not
find out, she bore a baby boy and gave him to a married sister. But the child
had a heart defect that required a $ 2,000 operation. So Nell returned to Saipan
to earn the money, only to be raped by her new employer. After giving birth to a
girl, she was hospitalized for depression and now faces a deportation order.

On Rota, where the total population of about 3,000 is divided roughly evenly
between native Chamorros and Phillipine contract workers, abuses have thrived
amid what human rights advocates describe as a "corrupt" regulatory system and
close family or political ties between employers and local authorities. In
several cases, police and government officials have been implicated in abuses.

Since 1991, more than 30 Philippine women have complained to local authorities
of forced prostitution on Rota, and others have alleged abuses ranging from
assault to rape. Most were subsequently deported. So far, no Rotanese has been
convicted of such an offense against a foreign worker.

Gov. Tenorio recently suspended Rota's director of commerce and labor from his
duties in implementing labor regulations after a maid in his own household
complained of mistreatment. The governor has also declared that families on
welfare will no longer be allowed to hire alien workers.

Despite such moves, however, residents of Rota say little has changed. Standard
contracts call for housemaids to work 12 hours a day, six days a week for $ 200
a month. But many say employers demand even longer hours for less pay or have
withheld their salaries, illegally confined them or forced them to perform other
jobs, including farm work.

"There is slavery on Rota," Doromal charged in a 26-page human rights report.
"Many of the victims who have sought our help were working seven days a week,
over 12 hours a day, were not permitted to leave the employer's house or
barracks and were not being paid. Is this not slavery?"

One housemaid, Brigida Leal, said in an affidavit that when she asked for
Sundays off so she could attend church, her employer threw her Bible and clothes
in the road and kicked her out of the house. She said she had been working at
least 17 hours a day with no days off for about 29 cents an hour and had not
been paid in four months. Another housemaid said she was not paid for three
years.

Many workers have been afraid to press charges, especially if their alleged
abusers were government officials. In February, for example, a Philippine
waitress, Rosalie Tirasol, complained in writing to her consulate that Inos had
sexually molested her. She left the island shortly thereafter. Inos denies the
charge.

Last year, another waitress went back to the Philippines after she was raped by
a Rota police officer and several of his friends. "She was too afraid to go to
the police because the man who raped her was a policeman," said a Filipino who
helped her.

A missionary said a waitress in his congregation was locked in a shipping
container by her employer when she refused to become a "take-out girl," as
prostitutes are called in local parlance.

"Women who have refused to be prostitutes have been beaten, threatened, raped,
locked in their barracks and sent home before their contracts ended," Doromal's
report says. "It is no secret that prostitution on Rota exists. It is no secret
that most of it is forced prostitution."

Residents say about 80 Philippine women are currently working in a half-dozen
establishments that engage in prostitution here, a high proportion on an island
with only about 1,500 indigenous people. They say the women are hired almost
exclusively by local Rotanese or their visiting friends.

"Individuals have gone back to the Philippines economically and psychologically
destroyed," said Phil Kaplan, a human rights advocate for the Roman Catholic
Church. "A lot of abuse, especially sexual, is happening because [the abusers]
can get away with it."


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HOUSEMAID BRIGIDA LEAL SAYS SHE WAS NOT PAID FOR FOUR MONTHS AND
HER EMPLOYER THREW HER OUT WHEN SHE ASKED FOR SUNDAYS OFF TO ATTEND CHURCH.
WENDY DOROMAL FOR TWP; MAP, LARRY FOGEL

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              235 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 03, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Universities Say Wage Rule for Foreigners Hurts Research

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A01

LENGTH: 1313 words


A new federal policy designed to protect U.S. workers by limiting the number of
foreigners hired by universities threatens the country's ability to compete
globally in scientific research, educators say.

For decades, U.S. universities have relied on international scientists to carry
on essential research in fields such as medicine, the basic sciences and
engineering. Like their U.S. colleagues, these foreign nationals are paid less
in academia than in private industry.

But a recent change in Labor Department policy often requires universities to
pay foreign workers on a wage scale more comparable to private industry. That
scale is significantly higher -- in some cases, as much as triple the standard
university salary. The change does not affect Americans or legal immigrants who
live in the United States permanently.

Labor Department officials say the policy is aimed at preventing employers from
having a financial incentive to hire foreign workers over Americans. But
educators say the result has been to price universities out of some important
research because there are not enough qualified Americans for the jobs and
foreigners have become too expensive.

"Our future depends on our technology, and our technology depends on our
educational institutions," said Jud Samon, coordinator of international faculty
and student services at the University of Maryland at College Park. "If we can't
hire the very best people in colleges and universities, that will have a very
big impact," he said.

"The quandary in which we now find ourselves defies logic," William C.
Richardson, who until recently was president of Johns Hopkins University, wrote
to Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich. The letter also was signed by the presidents
of the University of Maryland's three research campuses.

"It is untenable that we be compelled to pay international faculty and staff
more than their counterparts who are United States citizens or who already
possess valid work permits," the letter stated.

When Sonia Esperanca, 41, a native of Brazil, was hired recently by Maryland's
geology department, the university was told to pay her $ 70,000 a year to run a
laboratory that researches the evolution of the solar system. The advertised
salary was $ 27,500 to $ 32,000. By rewriting the job description three times
and cutting her hours from 40 to 38 a week, the university was able to talk the
price down to $ 35,000, which still required raiding other parts of the
department's budget.

At Johns Hopkins Medical School in Baltimore, which hires about 100 temporary
foreign professionals each year and has about 275 such professionals, officials
recently stopped paying an Israeli anesthesiologist in training while they
decide whether to renew his contract. Under the new policy, he must be paid
about $ 90,000 a year, nearly triple what he is receiving now, officials said.

Maryland universities have been among the hardest hit because the state was one
of the first to implement the change, beginning last fall. But the policy has
come under sharp attack from dozens of other universities that also have been
affected, or soon will be, as the changes are implemented nationwide.

Among them are Harvard University, Dartmouth University, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Baylor College of Medicine, the University of
California, the University of Pennsylvania and Duke University.

Academic institutions are among the employers that seek permission every year
from the Labor Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service to hire
foreign professionals under a special immigration status that allows them to
work in the United States for as long as six years. Known as H-1B, it is one of
the few routes that allows foreign professionals to work legally in the United
States while seeking permanent residency here.

U.S. law limits the number of such temporary foreign workers to 65,000 a year.
Academic institutions usually hire about 20,000 such employees each year, and
private industry hires most of the rest. Many universities rely on state
employment agencies to calculate the average pay for a job.

The reliance on foreign nationals is driven partly by the international nature
of the search for a cancer cure or the latest advances in microchip technology.
A second factor is the declining number of Americans pursuing academic careers
in science, in part because of higher-paying jobs in the corporate sector.

"If you want to make sure there are enough Americans in these fields, you have
to start when kids are in kindergarten and first grade and let them know science
and research and math are wonderful, fascinating fields," said Catheryn Cotten,
international adviser at the Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. The
university hires about 200 temporary foreign professionals each year.

"You don't solve [the problem] today by saying we stop hiring foreign nationals
and start hiring Americans who are less qualified just for the sake of hiring
Americans," Cotten said. "Or stop doing the research because there's not enough
Americans to do it."

The change stems from a legal ruling last year by an administrative
decision-making body under the Labor Department. The decision redefined how
state employment offices calculate the prevailing wage -- the average pay for a
given area -- when U.S. employers hire foreign nationals.

The policy requires state employment offices to stop distinguishing between the
nonprofit sector and private sector in determining average salaries. The
reasoning is that biochemists at universities are considered to be doing the
same research as biochemists at chemical firms and therefore should be paid
comparable wages.

But educators say research at universities, where there is greater freedom to
conduct investigations, is fundamentally different from research conducted in
private industry, where there is increased pressure to produce a product.

Officials at several universities say the new salary rule effectively bars them
from hiring foreign nationals because much research is funded through federal
grants, which have a limited pool of money. Budget limitations often make it
virtually impossible to pay the higher wages that foreign nationals must receive
under the new calculations.

Most universities also do not want to pay different salaries to foreign and U.S.
workers who are doing similar jobs.

At the University of Maryland at College Park, which hires about 100 temporary
foreign professionals each year and has 141 international faculty members and
researchers, more than a dozen foreign nationals have been considered for
positions in several departments since October. About half of them were not
hired because the prevailing wage was too high. In five cases, the departments
were able to find extra funds or negotiate lower wages by changing job
descriptions. Two other cases are pending.

Esperanca, who was hired to run a geology department lab, is pleased with the
higher salary. But she is angry at what she says is the new policy's false
assumption that universities hire foreigners because they work more cheaply than
Americans. University officials said the top candidate for the job was an
American who also had been offered $ 35,000 -- higher than the advertised limit
-- because she had more experience. She turned it down.

Representatives of universities and professional academic associations have been
meeting with Labor Department officials to try to resolve the problem.
Department officials say they will consider a separate wage category for
researchers at academic institutions if educators can provide tangible evidence
of the differences between work at universities and work in private industry.

"They have to show us they're not the same," said Dennis Gruskin, a senior
specialist who works on the issue.


LOAD-DATE: July 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, The University of Maryland was told to pay Sonia
Esperanca $70,000 for a job advertised for $27,500 to $32,000.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              236 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 03, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Asylum Issue Lingers After Fasting Ends

Nancie L. Katz, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 1042 words


Ever since 10 Chinese women arrived in the United States illegally more than two
years ago, they have called one jail after another home as they desperately
sought to avoid deportation back to the land of their birth.

Claiming they fled China because of fear of persecution by Chinese officials
enforcing the country's strict one-child policy, the women have launched legal
entreaties and a 50-day hunger strike to press their case, but to no avail.
Weaker and more frail, they now are simply hoping their luck will change when
the Chinese New Year comes in February, supporters of the women said.

"They're looking for recognition and help," said Paula Harris, a lawyer
representing the women for the Chinese-American Foundation. "They don't see any
way out. They think everyone has forgotten about them."

U.S. immigration officials have treated the women's pleas for asylum
skeptically, suggesting the immigrants are grasping for any argument that will
allow them to remain here. "It's simple for advocates and their attorneys to
make claims regarding these cases," said Russ Bergeron, spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "But the reality remains
that those claims are not the entire picture, and the only people who have seen
the entire picture are the judges who have consistently ruled that these people
have no right to remain in the United States." He said eight of the women now
face deportation; two still have appeals pending.

The 10 women, who now live in the Kern County Lerdo Detention Facility, near
Bakersfield, Calif., are tied in part to the saga of the Golden Venture, a ship
carrying 282 illegal immigrants that ran aground off New York in June 1993. Four
of the women were on that ship.

The Golden Venture passengers have drawn support from human rights
organizations, antiabortion groups and conservative members of Congress. The
case has highlighted the Clinton administration's dilemma over how to balance
U.S. obligations to protect legitimate refugees while discouraging illegal
immigration.

The passengers, who paid thousands of dollars each to be smuggled into the
United States, endured months of stormy seas, foul conditions and rations of
bread and water before straggling ashore on June 6, 1993. Six died and six
escaped after the ship was grounded by its crew. While 47 have been deported and
76 have been released, according to the INS, another 147 remain in detention
awaiting final adjudication of their pleas for asylum.

Ninety percent of the passengers applied for asylum, saying they could face
sterilization, imprisonment or worse if returned to China. Some said they or
their wives had been forced into having abortions or using birth control
methods.

Over the past two years, U.S. immigration and district court judges have
rejected the asylum claims based on a 1989 ruling by the Board of Immigration
Appeals, the INS's highest court. That decision, called Matter of Chang, said in
order to qualify for asylum, an immigrant must prove he or she was selectively
forced to be sterilized or have an abortion.

There were 18 women on the Golden Venture. In October, the Vatican arranged for
nine facing deportation to go to Ecuador. Another was released and the remaining
eight are at the Kern County jail.

Last July, Li Bao Yu, 27, who is now in the Kern County detention facility, told
a House subcommittee that she had fled China after authorities repeatedly
threatened to sterilize her. She said village "cadres" had forced her to accept
an intrauterine device after the birth of her first child -- a daughter -- but
she had it removed by a private doctor because she was ill and bleeding
profusely.

When she became pregnant again, she said through a translator, the "cadres
dragged me to an exam and told me they wanted me to have an abortion." When she
refused, she said, they threatened to deny her daughter state social benefits.
"They forced me to have the abortion," she told the panel, in an account that
could not be independently confirmed.

In August 1994, the Clinton administration sought to soften the U.S. asylum
policy by announcing that immigrants who could prove they would face persecution
based on coercive family planning policies would be allowed to stay in the
United States. But only 3 percent of the 776 Chinese immigrants originally
considered for relief ever got it, their advocates say. That included 10 Golden
Venture passengers.

Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-N.J.) introduced legislation in the House foreign
relations bill that would consider forced abortions and sterilizations as
persecution under asylum law. The bill passed in June, but the Senate must still
vote on its version.

Sources close to the administration said the detained women are not on the verge
of deportation, but they declined to say what the administration planned to do.
Bergeron said the women were being held in detention because they had "elected
to pursue a broad range of due process which is available to them."

In desperation at their situation and convinced their deportation was imminent,
the 10 women launched a hunger strike last Nov. 9 that lasted until early
December. After eating three or four meals, they resumed the strike three weeks
ago, giving up again only last Friday.

Most of the women lost between eight and 22 pounds, according to prison
officials, who said the women received a nutrient drink during their hunger
strike. The officials said the women were monitored daily.

According to Terri Palmquist, a supporter of the women who visits them nearly
every day, they gave up the strike because they did not come to the United
States to die. Palmquist said the women had been lead to believe by some in the
Chinese-American Foundation that a hunger strike would win them their freedom by
Christmas. Harris denied that the women were urged into anything, but said she
thought the hunger strike had brought needed attention to their case. "The story
is no longer in the closet," she said.

Bergeron said the INS was sensitive to the health conditions of the women during
their hunger strike. "We do care about their health," he said. But such actions,
he said,"will have no bearing on their asylum cases."


LOAD-DATE: January 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, Luan Ying Wang and Xui Qing Zheng, who took part in a
seven-week hunger strike, meet with their attorney Paula Harris in a California
jail last month.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              237 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 05, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Defending Our Borders Against Dangerous Ideas

David Cole

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 596 words


Without hearings or debate, both houses of Congress have enacted State
Department authorization bills that would resurrect a Cold War approach to
immigration that we only recently rejected as contrary to the most fundamental
of American principles.

The bills include identical provisions that would make political ideology and
association a condition for entry into the United States. They state that
non-citizens are barred from entry if they "advocate terrorist activity" or "the
overthrow of the United States government," or "incite targeted racial
vilification." And they make mere membership in any group that the attorney
general labels "terrorist" a basis for exclusion.

If signed into law by the president, these provisions won't be the first in
American history to erect a political speech test at our borders. We've done it
before, most infamously in the McCarran-Walter Act, enacted in the 1950s at the
height of the McCarthy era. At that time, the enemies were Communists and
anarchists. Today's enemies are terrorists and racists. But the theory is the
same -- both laws treat people not for what they have done or plan to do but for
what they say and with whom they associate.

Our experience under the McCarran-Walter Act demonstrates the danger of
empowering government officials to screen political ideology. Under that act,
the State Department examined the politics of every person who entered the
United States, and kept a "lookout book" of some 50,000 names based on rumors
and hearsay about their political inclinations.

We excluded such "dangerous" visitors as French movie star Yves Montand, British
comedian Charlie Chaplin and the authors Graham Greene, Carlos Fuentes, Farley
Mowat and Dario Fo. Nobel Prize winners Czeslaw Milosz and Gabriel Garcia
Marquez also fell victim to the law. Italian Gen. Nino Pasti, former deputy
commander of NATO, was denied a visa because he planned to speak out against the
deployment of cruise and Pershing II nuclear missiles in Europe. Even Pierre
Trudeau found himself in the "lookout book"; his name was removed only after he
was elected prime minister of Canada.

At the same time, the United States held itself out as the world's leader in
political freedoms. We sought to export the First Amendment to other nations as
a basic human right, yet we denied entry to foreigners based solely on their
speech and associations.

In large part because of this continuing embarrassment, Congress repealed the
McCarran-Walter Act in 1990. In its place, it enacted a law that denied
admission not on the basis of disfavored thoughts, words or associations but on
the basis of conduct. This revision sought to bring our immigration policy into
conformity with our constitutional principles, and repudiated ideological
exclusion as bankrupt.

Yet today, virtually without discussion, Congress proposes to resurrect the very
policy that it discarded only five years ago. In voting for the bill, no doubt
many in Congress asked themselves why we should allow those who espouse racial
hatred, terrorism or the overthrow of our government to come into the country.
These are all very bad ideas. But history suggests that empowering government
officials to suppress views they deem politically incorrect is an even worse
idea.

As Justice Louis Brandeis said long ago, "the fitting remedy for evil counsels
is good ones." When will we begin to learn from history?

The writer is a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center and volunteer
staff attorney at the Center for Constitutional Rights.

LOAD-DATE: January 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              238 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 19, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Growth in Bilingual Jobs Brings Demands for More Pay

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1139 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A growing number of American workers, including many government employees, have
begun to demand more pay for speaking languages other than English on the job, a
tacit acknowledgment that America is becoming more multilingual, not less.

The controversial trend flies in the face of the "English only" movement, which
has come during a huge wave of immigration and holds that English should be the
official language of government and public life. Instead, American workers who
speak other languages argue they should be paid extra to handle the increased
work of dealing with fellow citizens and visitors who do not speak adequate
English.

Among those seeking compensation for their multilingualism are emergency room
nurses, clerical workers, public defenders, phone operators, meter readers and
social workers, as well as many law enforcement officers.

In one of the most recent cases, U.S. Customs inspectors here in Miami
threatened this week to stop speaking Spanish and other languages unless the
Treasury Department increased their salary by 5 percent. The Miami inspectors,
many of whom are Hispanic, were joined in their demands by bilingual Customs
officers around the country.

"I'm working three times as much as the person who just speaks English," said
George Rodriguez, a leader of the Customs agents, who are seeking compensation
for their language skills promised by Congress almost two years ago.

The compensation demands, however, are generating controversy. In Miami, where
many non-Spanish speakers feel that Hispanics already dominate the city and are
given preferential treatment in hiring, critics say other languages should not
be encouraged and certainly should not be a source of extra income.

"Speak the language of our Constitution. That's the bottom line," said Enos
Schera, a leader of Citizens of Dade United, which in the 1980s successfully
pushed to make English the official language of Miami's Dade County. "You don't
come here and refuse to speak English or come here and demand to get paid more
to speak Spanish."

The call for more pay to speak Spanish here has been embraced by such groups as
the conservative anti-Castro lobby, the Cuban American National Foundation, and
the Spanish American League Against Discrimination.

The demand for extra compensation is not completely new, especially among some
law enforcement agencies. But it is a growing phenomenon, said Tony Copeland, a
spokesman for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
which has helped negotiate a number of contracts to garner extra wages for
bilingual government workers in the last few years.

Moreover, the workers are not only those in gateway cities traditionally
associated with immigrants, such as Los Angeles or Miami, but also may be public
defenders in Chicago, social workers in Cleveland or clerical workers in rural
California.

"As the population becomes increasingly multilingual, the work force will be
called upon to meet that need, and so it stands to reason that [bilingual
workers] should make more," Copeland said. Usually, the increased wages are only
a few percent, he said, "not enough to change anybody's standard of living."

Rodriguez, the Miami Customs agent, says it is not just money, but a principle
that is at issue: an acknowledgment that language skills are important and that
the U.S. government needs to recognize that the world, and the nation, are
polyglot places.

"I can go hours at the Miami International Airport without ever speaking
English," said Rodriguez. He speaks four languages and says he resents the
nativist and xenophobic politicians who want to ignore the fact that the world
is not only English speaking. "We should all be speaking more languages, not
less," he said.

The U.S. Customs workers had threatened to stop speaking Spanish and other
languages starting Wednesday if their money demands were not met. They agreed to
postpone any action until the end of the month after the Treasury Department
agreed to negotiate new payment rules to pay bonuses to some of the workers.

Other federal law enforcement agents, including officers from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the Department of Agriculture, have begun to
explore ways to demand extra pay, too, for speaking languages other than
English.

Compensation for those who use other languages in their work varies greatly
around the country.

"The situation is yes and no. Yes, we speak two languages and no, we don't get
compensated," said Miami police officer Elio Tamayo, a board member of the
city's Police Hispanic Officers Association.

But in Los Angeles, Jacqueline Vernon, the bilingual coordinator for the Los
Angeles Police Department, said that in the early 1970s, the police force
created a certain number of bonus pay positions for officers who use a second
language on the job.

Today there are nearly 1,400 such positions in the force for a total of 16
languages. At least 80 percent of these specially paid language jobs go to
Spanish speakers. They're trying to expand the program every year, Vernon said.

"It's so obvious that the communication skill [of speaking Spanish] is a tool
for the police officer," said Sgt. Ruben Padilla, the vice president of the
Latin American Law Enforcement Association in Los Angeles. "If you want to help
or communicate with someone you have to speak the language or it's very
difficult to do your job. If the officer is utilizing the language it's very
reasonable to get compensated for that. It's common sense."

But in the police force as well as public service, the number of positions with
extra pay are determined by policy makers, not Spanish-speaking employees.

Gilbert Cedillo, the general manager of the Service Employees International
Union's Los Angeles 660 Chapter, which represents county employees, said
interaction with a public as diverse as Los Angeles's often requires use of
another language, even when workers do not have one of the coveted bonus-pay
positions.

"A lot of time the workers just trying to do their jobs will use the skills
generously but won't be compensated for it," he said. Though it's "commonplace"
that workers are paid extra for their linguistic skills, he said, "the
shortcoming is that it's not common enough."

Discussions of whether such positions should exist, and to what extent, often
are mired in anti-immigrant sentiments rather than focused on efforts to provide
better service to a community, Cedillo said.

"I think we have to take it out of a context of the nativism and racism that
cloud the issue," he said. "This is a skill that public employees need to
utilize to provide service for the residents."

Special correspondents Kathryn Wexler in Los Angeles and Catharine Skipp in
Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, el nuevo herald, U.S. Customs inspectors in Miami are among the
growing number of U.S. workers seeking higher pay for bilingual work. From left
are Carlos Ramirez, George Rodriguez, Greg Mullaley, Jose Laboy and Jorge
Cortes.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              239 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 31, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

ID Card Whisks Travelers Into Canada With No Wait; 'Canpass' Holders Avoid
Customs Crunch

Charles Trueheart, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, B.C.


Disgorged by the jetful, weary passengers troop into straggling lines in the
Canadian customs and immigration processing center at Vancouver International
Airport. As they wait, sometimes by the hundreds, for inspectors to examine
their proof of citizenship, many look wistfully at more fortunate fellow
passengers who breeze into a special lane marked "Canpass" and are seen no more.

These happy few are among the pioneers of a new high-tech system that carries
them through the ordeal in 30 seconds or less with no human interaction at all.
Instead of the usual identification check and pop quiz, an automated kiosk takes
a swipe of a coded plastic card and conducts an instantaneous fingerprint check
of the card-holder.

Canpass is the wave of the borderless future between Canada and the United
States, and a child of the world's biggest trading -- and visiting --
relationship. More than 100 million people every year cross the 5,513-mile-long
international boundary.

Canadian officials said the ultimate objective of the program is a merger with
an American counterpart dubbed INSPass that is being tested and recently was
upgraded at John F. Kennedy and Newark international airports. But the Canadians
concede that the United States has a more complicated and challenging situation
at its other border that could delay a perfect customs union.

"The concern is Mexico," Canada's minister of transport, David Anderson, said in
an interview, noting the traffic in narcotics, guns, babies and undocumented
aliens that is far more serious along the United States' southern rim.

Canpass was launched here in Canada's westernmost province, British Columbia,
and some form of it eventually will be available to frequent crossers at most
major highway border posts and at every seaport and airport of likely entry.

Already at White Rock, B.C., the crossing 35 miles south of here on the northern
border of Washington State, a similar five-year-old scheme allows Canadians and
Americans who drive across regularly -- families, vacationers and business
people in the Portland-Seattle-Vancouver corridor -- to purchase a Canpass decal
for their automobile windshields. It gives them the equivalent privilege now in
place at the airport: a special, much quicker lane where Canadian customs
officers check their decal and nod them through.

The Canpass system for land and air is simple. Citizens of both countries are
eligible to apply for the Canpass cards. Frequent crossers register and pay a
modest fee -- $ 50 for the airport card, for example -- to apply. The Canadian
authorities conduct a security check or, in the case of U.S. citizens, ask their
U.S. counterparts to do so. If the applicant's record is clear, he gets a ticket
to the fast lane that is good for a year.

In the case of the three-month-old Canadian airport program, applicants pose for
a color photograph that goes on the card. They also encode their fingerprints --
and, as a backup, biometric hand measurements. Upon arrival in Canada, the
Canpass user inserts his or her card, answers a few on-screen prompts and
presents an index finger for verification. Then, barring glitches, it is on to
baggage claim.

Does the passenger have anything to declare? If so, the computer tots up the
duty and tax -- some things are sacred, even under the North American Free Trade
Agreement -- and bills the passenger's credit card.

The rationales for Canpass, and its U.S. counterpart, are manifold. Canadian
officials said that Canpass, by whisking through known law-abiders and
non-smugglers, can free up customs officials to deal with more likely suspects.
Fee-paying Canpass members also thin out the lines that nonmembers must stand
in.

The program is also in keeping with Canada's desire to reduce obstacles for any
Americans who might want to do business here. "We want to make sure there's no
impediment to the person who wants to establish a factory in Canada," said
Anderson. "We don't want anyone to say, 'Oh, gee, we may be held up at the
border for a couple of hours.' "

Canpass was officially blessed by President Clinton and Canadian Prime Minister
Jean Chretien at their meeting in Ottawa last February, a less publicized part
of the package dominated by the "open skies" agreement that loosened
protectionist restrictions on Canadian and American commercial air carriers
wishing to operate in the neighboring country.

Just last week, as they announced that Canpass lanes would open at Canada's
other two big airports in Toronto and Montreal this year, officials of both
countries hinted at even more far-reaching future consolidations of border
formalities.

One idea on the table is unifying border operations at remote land crossings --
a cost-cutting system that would empower one country or the other's authorities
to handle the light traffic in both directions. Another scheme being tested is
computerized voice-recognition technology to fully automate little-used highway
crossings in the North American West.

To judge by the numbers of Americans who head for Canada without a passport and
seem puzzled to be asked for one, the existence of actual Canadian customs
formalities is not widely known in the United States. But Canadian and American
immigration authorities have tightened security in the last several years,
insisting on documentation from U.S.-Canada travelers.

A passport is not the only suitable proof of citizenship, but it is the simplest
and surest one. The alternative is a much longer conversation with an
immigration officer. The same policies apply at highway crossings, but in
practice, identification is seldom requested.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, christopher grabowski for The Washington Post, A border official
operates the new ID card machine at Vancouver's airport.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              240 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 01, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Ethiopians Seek Future In America; Community Group Adjusts To Meet Long-Term
Needs

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - DISTRICT; Pg. J01

LENGTH: 914 words


The telephone in Hermela Kebede's downtown office is seldom silent. Because she
runs the oldest community organization serving Ethiopians in the United States,
she often is the first person called for anything that touches the lives of
Ethiopians here: a father seeking a kidney for his ailing teenage son; the FBI
looking for leads in the murder of a California immigrant; a local businessman
searching for the telephone number of a popular Adams-Morgan restaurant.

"People don't get out the Yellow Pages or call 411," Kebede explained with a
good-natured smile. "This is their 411."

Kebede, 45, an elegant woman with a graceful bearing, is the executive director
of the Ethiopian Community Center. Located on the second floor of an office
building at 1012 14th St. NW, the center was founded in 1980 to help Ethiopian
refugees escaping the persecution of dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam. Until 1994,
when it lost funding from the District, the center survived on government grants
and private donations from the Ethiopian community.

Over the years, an increasing number of the Washington area's estimated 50,000
Ethiopians -- the largest community outside Ethiopia -- are choosing to settle
in the United States instead of returning to their homeland. The center tries to
help them adjust by bridging the gap between Ethiopians and the larger
community, Kebede said.

The center is separate from the Ethiopian Community Development Council in
Arlington, which, despite its name, resettles refugees from all over the world
and provides a variety of social services to refugees, immigrants and
limited-English speakers.

Kebede and two other staff members help with job referrals, counseling,
translating documents for the D.C. public schools and fingerprinting, which is
required for many immigration forms. Any problem or question involving the
country and the people, from domestic disputes to traditional rules and customs,
finds its way to Kebede and staff members Yosef Ford and Zenebework Berhane.

"It's really hard to say [what we will do] from day to day, even minute to
minute," said Kebede, who took a pay cut from her previous job as a Howard
University budget officer to become the center's executive director five years
ago.

Last fall, Kebede helped the family of an Ethiopian man who had been shot to
death by an off-duty D.C. police officer get a response from the police about
the progress of the investigation. Last week, she was arranging the funeral of
an elderly Ethiopian man who had no family and preparing to translate for an
Ethiopian community activist who was seeking political asylum in the United
States.

The center began filing asylum claims last fall as a way to earn money and to
meet a community need. As part of her preparation for the woman's asylum
hearing, Kebede discovered that many dates in the woman's story were not
accurate because previous translators had not taken into account the differences
between the Ethiopian calendar and the Gregorian calendar used in the West. The
Ethiopian calendar has more months and days.

"The lady had her dates all mixed up. Here we are in the year 1996, but in the
Ethiopian calendar, it is still 1988," said Kebede, who pulled out a three-page
chart that the office uses to make the conversions.

At that moment, a staff member interrupted to tell Kebede that the Immigration
and Naturalization Service had granted political asylum in a petition filed by
the center on behalf of another woman, a 41-year-old nurse's assistant.

"This is wonderful!" said Kebede, as she congratulated Zenash Fesseha. Before
she fled to the United States, Fesseha said she and members of her family had
been arrested and beaten by government forces in Addis Ababa for participating
in the political opposition. Her 19-year-old daughter was killed.

Fesseha, a short woman in a green sweat shirt and black pants, could not stop
thanking Kebede, repeating in Amharic, one of Ethiopia's major languages, over
and over again as she left the office, "It's because of you."

"My job at Howard University was just a budget officer," Kebede said. "But here,
I feel good because you're able to change somebody's life."

Kebede came to the United States in 1970 to complete her undergraduate and
graduate degrees in business administration at California State University at
Fresno. She arrived in Washington in 1973 for an apprenticeship and worked for
16 years at Howard University, first as a secretary and then as a budget
officer.

She has won many awards for her community work, and will be among the nine
immigrants to be honored next week for their achievements by the International
Law Society of the Georgetown University Law Center and the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

Her biggest challenge in the short term is finding funds to keep the center
running. Until 1994, the center received a significant portion of its $ 120,000
budget from government grants. But because refugee arrivals from Ethiopia have
largely stopped, the District cut off its funding. To cut costs, the
organization moved in 1994 from Connecticut and Calvert streets NW to its
current location. Staff members, including Kebede, took a pay cut.

This year, Kebede will seek funding from private foundations. But because so
many community organizations are facing the same budget crunch, the center will
have to rely on the Ethiopian community for more contributions and find new ways
to generate revenue.


LOAD-DATE: February 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, reginald pearlman for The Washington Post, ph,,reginald
pearlmanfor The Washington Post, Hermela Kebede, left, meets with Ethiopian
clergy after a service at an Arlington funeral home. She directs the oldest
Ethiopian community group in the United States.  Hermela Kebede's work ranges
from making funeral arrangements for Ethiopians to translating immigration
papers.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              241 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 05, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Influx of Immigrants Meets Beefed-Up Resistance at U.S. Border; Apprehensions
Rise Sharply With Recession in Mexico

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1796 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Under cover of darkness, a steady drizzle and a patchy fog, Manuel Parra-Sierra
and 11 other Mexicans scaled the eight-foot-high fence and bolted into the muddy
salt flats of Border Field State Park.

Their destination: Imperial Beach, a community two miles away that illegal
Mexican immigrants have long used as a staging point en route to other places in
California and across the United States.

But this was not their lucky night. Almost immediately, the group was detected
by seismic sensors, then tracked from a hilltop more than a mile away by a
Border Patrol agent operating a Loris infrared night-vision scope. By radio, the
officer directed colleagues in Ford Broncos to the scene about three-quarters of
a mile north of the border. The illegal crossers were then quickly surrounded by
agents shouting "halt" in Spanish.

"It's the economic situation we're living through," said Parra-Sierra, 33,
explaining why he left his wife and two children at home in Yucatan state, where
he earned less than $ 34 a week as an electrician, to seek work in the United
States.

The group was part of a wave of illegal border crossers driven by Mexico's worst
economic recession in 60 years, an influx that is being met by a major new U.S.
effort to tighten control of the southwestern border. Launched Jan. 16, the
program reinforces Southern California and Arizona with 300 Border Patrol and
immigration officers supported by police, National Guard and military personnel.
The move serves to bolster President Clinton's claims of getting the border
under control and ending the "neglect" of previous administrations that had made
the San Diego area a freeway for illegal immigration.

The effort also carries high stakes politically in this election year --
especially in California, a crucial constituency in which illegal immigration is
a key issue. At the same time, it has provoked expressions of alarm and
condemnation from officials in Mexico, who accuse the United States of
"militarizing" the border.

An existing campaign, "Operation Gatekeeper," already has made crossing here
more difficult. Notably, it has driven up the costs that smugglers charge to
guide illegal aliens through the human, physical and technological barriers that
have changed the face of the border in the last couple of years.

As a result, illegal crossers have resorted increasingly to document fraud at
legal ports of entry, and many have moved eastward into rougher and more
dangerous terrain.

On Jan. 20, one young Mexican was killed and five others were injured, one
critically, when they fell off a 120-foot cliff in the Otay Lakes area about 20
miles east of Imperial Beach. The survivors were rescued by the Border Patrol
and a local sheriff's department helicopter.

There also has been a change in the type of people coming north illegally,
according to U.S. and Mexican authorities. Traditionally, most illegal crossers
have been jobless laborers or farm workers from a few states in Mexico. Now, as
in a previous economic crisis in the mid-1980s, they come from all over the
country and include a higher proportion of skilled workers and middle-class
people. The latest crossers have been fleeing an economy that shrank 6 percent
and lost 1 million jobs last year while running 50 percent inflation and
sustaining a nearly 60 percent drop in the value of the peso.

"In the last couple of months we've been seeing people who would never have
considered coming to the border before," said Johnny N. Williams, the Border
Patrol chief for the 66-mile San Diego sector. "They tell us they're forced to
try something."

Parra-Sierra seemed to be a case in point. "The money I earned was not enough to
feed my family," he said glumly as Border Patrol agents put plastic handcuffs on
his compatriots, a few of whom had removed their pants in preparation to cross a
small channel. "I came with the idea of working in whatever job I could find."

Wearing a green jacket, bluejeans and muddy running shoes, the visibly
apprehensive Mexican said his Jan. 16 foray was his first attempt to enter the
United States, an assertion supported by a computer that found no record of an
encounter with the Border Patrol in the recent past.

In January, apprehensions of illegal aliens along the entire 2,000-mile border
with Mexico rose 66 percent from a year ago. In the San Diego sector, the most
heavily traversed portion of the frontier, the Border Patrol last month caught
an average of 1,890 a day, up 51 percent from January 1995, reflecting both the
increased traffic and the Border Patrol's increased ability to catch people.

Efforts to step up enforcement along this stretch of the border began slowly in
1990 and then accelerated with the launch of Operation Gatekeeper in October
1994. Since then, illegal crossers in this sector have had to contend with 14
miles of fences made of surplus iron runway mats, a 50 percent increase in
Border Patrol agents, newly bulldozed access roads for patrol vehicles, rows of
stadium lights that illuminate smuggling routes, an enhanced array of night
scopes, hundreds of seismic, metallic and infrared sensors, seven helicopters
and a computerized identification system called "IDENT" that records the
photographs and fingerprints of everyone apprehended.

"The scopes basically run the show at night," Border Patrol supervisory agent
Ron Henley said after personally collaring two of the illegal crossers rounded
up in Border Field State Park.

"They took advantage of weather they thought we were not going to work in," said
Steve Kartchner, another agent who arrived on the scene. While fog tends to
limit the scopes' ability to pick people out of the darkness, on a clear cold
night "you can almost count fingers," he said.

"The weather is about the only thing that can defeat us," Henley said.

With the IDENT system, authorities have a new weapon against smugglers who guide
groups of migrants across the border. Previously, they would give different
names each time they were caught and claim to be ordinary migrants themselves,
claims that could not be disproved. The Border Patrol, a branch of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), would then bus them back to Mexico
with other detainees, and the smugglers would be back in business.

Now, repeat offenders and previously deported criminal aliens can be more
readily identified, then prosecuted on felony charges if they come back.

"For the first time, we have a border that is being managed," asserted Alan
Bersin, the attorney general's special representative on border issues.

Fred Krissman, a researcher at the University of California-San Diego's Center
for U.S.-Mexican Studies, charged, however, that the border-control program is
merely "deflecting flows from one sector of the border to another." He added,
"All we're really doing is raising the cost and difficulty of migration, but
we're not even slowing, let alone stopping, the historical pattern."

The main effects of the campaign, he said, are to put on a political show and to
warn America's already fearful illegal immigrants against asserting labor
rights.

Migrants like 23-year-old Hector Camarillo Delgadillo express more immediate
concerns. "For the last five months there has been no work in the fields, no
manual labor, no nothing," he said. He left his village in Zacatecas state out
of "extreme necessity," he said, only to be caught Jan. 18 and brought to a
Border Patrol station to await repatriation. He said he plans to return to his
village.

Alicia Corona Lopez almost made it. A $ 27-a-week secretary from Guadalajara,
she used another woman's border crossing card in a look-alike scam to get by an
inspector at the San Ysidro port of entry, but was arrested when an undercover
Border Patrol agent spotted her with a smuggler on the U.S. side.

She was to pay a driver $ 500 when she got to Los Angeles, agent Tim Sheehan
said. The driver was charged with alien smuggling, but could not be prosecuted
immediately because of a lack of jail space, he said. The smuggler fled.

At the San Ysidro crossing, the world's busiest port of entry with 45 million
crossings last year, smugglers often operate within 50 yards of the inspection
windows, said INS district director Mark Reed. "The smugglers are continually
prodding," he said. "This has always been their turf. They're not going to give
it up easily."

As he showed a reporter where the smugglers regularly gather, three men were
boldly climbing a 12-foot fence that runs perpendicular to the border a few feet
inside U.S. territory. Reed sprinted over and ordered them to climb down.

"They see California as a dream, as the promised land," said the Rev. Gianni
Fanzolato, an Italian priest who runs a shelter for migrants in the Mexican
border city of Tijuana. But it is harder than ever to get there, he said, and
the number of migrants who report being turned back is now around 80 percent, up
30 percent from last month.

"It's more difficult now, but we're going to keep trying to cross, because we
don't have any other choice," said Enrique Gonzalez Garcia, 37, who left a wife
and seven children in central Mexico. Gonzalez said he had worked illegally in
Los Angeles for five years as a gardener and factory hand. But when he tried to
sneak back into California in October, he said, he was caught and punched by two
Border Patrol agents. Now he is trying again.

Jose Roberto Portillo, a 36-year-old Honduran, said he was treated worse than
that by Mexican police, who detained, beat and robbed him four times on his way
north. It has taken him eight months to reach Tijuana, he said, and he has been
unable to talk to his wife and child since he left.

In diaries, Fanzolato has recorded the stories that migrants bring to the
shelter, tales commonly marked by poverty, hardship and violence.

One youth said he and a friend were riding north on a freight train when they
were joined by three men who wanted to rape them. The youth said he submitted,
but his friend resisted and was murdered on the spot, then dumped off the train.
At the shelter, the troubled boy tried to kill himself. Then one day he showed
up with a pistol and said he was leaving to hunt down his friend's killers, the
priest said.

Another young migrant, a 19-year-old from Michoacan named Omar, kept a diary
while riding a freight train to the border town of Mexicali, Fanzolato said.

"I saw much perdition of minors and adults," Omar wrote. "I saw drug addicts,
robbers, murderers, rapists, vagabonds and young boys and girls dedicating
themselves to prostitution. I realized all that can happen when one leaves home,
and I remembered what my mama said: 'Don't go, because the world is very
dangerous.' "


LOAD-DATE: February 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap; Photo, todd bigelow/black star; Illustration, The Washington
Post, POLICING THE BORDER Illegal border crossings have increased sharply
because of Mexico's recession. The rise is being met by a stepped-up U.S. effort
to tighten control of the country's southwestern border.  Apprehensions on the
U.S.-Mexican border for January 1996: 169,463. For the same period in 1995:
102,037 (an increase of 66 percent).  Apprehensions in the 66-mile San Diego
sector for January 1996: 58,582. For the same period in 1995: 38,871 (an
increase of 51 percent).  APPREHENSIONS ALONG THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER BY COUNTRY
OF ORIGIN Fiscal years 1991-95 1991 Mexico 1,058,174 El Salvador 8,280 Guatemala
4,901 Honduras 3,133 Other 3,388 TOTAL 1,077,876 1992 Mexico 1,132,148 El
Salvador 4,393 Guatemala 3,690 Honduras 2,697 Other 2,646 TOTAL 1,145,574 1993
Mexico 1,195,951 El Salvador 5,174 Guatemala 4,458 Honduras 3,536 Other 3,767
TOTAL 1,212,886 1994 Mexico 963,132 El Salvador 4,935 Guatemala 4,376 Honduras
2,963 Other 3,695 TOTAL 979,101 1995 and percent change from 1994 Mexico
1,256,455 (+30.5%) El Salvador 3,528 ( -- 32.2%) Guatemala 3,840 ( -- 12.2%)
Honduras 4,031 (+36%) Other 3,536 ( -- 4.3%) TOTAL 1,271,390 (+29.85%) SOURCE:
Immigration and Naturalization Service A U.S. Border Patrol officer uses an
infrared night scope.  Illegal immigrants run head-on into traffic on
California's Interstate 5 in an attempt to avoid Operation Gatekeeper, a U.S.
campaign to make border crossings more difficult.  Mexican men seek food at a
shelter in Tijuana, Mexico. Poverty has driven many to attempt crossing the
border.  Above, illegal immigrants attempt to

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              242 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 11, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Stunned, Scared and Saddened; Workers, Employers Reeling from Immigrant Raid in
Md.

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1365 words


Paul Golkin, owner of the East Side Cafe in Bethesda, doesn't know what he'd do
without Rosa Arias. She cooks, she cleans, she supervises, she stays late, she
helps out on weekends and she always has a friendly smile for the students and
office workers who come in for coffee and bagels or a noontime sandwich.

Golkin is so appreciative of Arias, a 42-year-old mother of five from El
Salvador, that last year he offered to sponsor her to become a legal permanent
resident. The application is still pending with the federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

But the morning of Feb. 1, while Arias was humming over the breakfast grill, two
INS agents appeared, put her in handcuffs and drove her to a National Guard
armory, where she was fingerprinted and checked for a criminal history. Arias,
who entered the country on foot in 1982, was one of 83 immigrants arrested that
day in one of the most sweeping INS raids ever in Montgomery County.

"My wife and I were almost crying when they took her away," said Golkin, 58, who
was still shaken by the incident five days later. "There seems to be this gross
misconception that foreigners are freeloading on this country. Rosa is the
hardest worker I have, and she has paid her taxes for 14 years. The way they
treated her is just not right."

Arias eventually was released on personal recognizance, as were several other
women and teenagers seized in the raids at 37 restaurants and other businesses
in Rockville and Bethesda. Nine more people were freed after proving they had
legal work permits or were permanent residents.

The rest, mostly men from El Salvador and Honduras, will be detained to await
deportation hearings unless they pay a $ 5,000 bond or agree to fly home
voluntarily. A smaller number of the detainees were from Peru, Bolivia, Mexico
and Nicaragua, and a few were from Asian and African countries.

In interviews at detention centers in Jessup and Salisbury, several of the men
said they had sneaked into the country alone, slaved at kitchen jobs and sent
home what money they could. With few roots or relatives here to help them post
bond, they said they had little hope of avoiding deportation.

"I am very sad, because I have no one to help me in this country. I just want to
get my ticket and go home," said Cristobal Correa, 27, a farmer and father of
three from Honduras who crossed the border into Arizona six months ago. He was
washing dishes for $ 5 an hour at an Italian restaurant in Bethesda when the INS
arrested him. "To me it was a good job, but I'll never try this again," he said.

The Clinton administration, spurred by public outcry over illegal immigrants and
a rash of legislative proposals to curb immigration, has begun to crack down on
border crossings into California and Texas and on businesses such as
restaurants, hotels and poultry plants that are magnets for illegal immigrants.

On Wednesday, a truck filled with 40 smuggled workers from Mexico and Guatemala
bound for jobs on the Eastern Shore was discovered near the Chesapeake Bay
Bridge after it crashed. The incident suggested that the flow of illegal
immigrants to this region is continuing. In addition, a long period of legal
amnesty for many Salvadorans ended last month, leaving thousands in this area
without permission to work.

Immigration officials in Baltimore described the Feb. 1 raid as a successful,
carefully planned operation aimed at sending a strong deterrent message to
illegal immigrants and their employers. The businesses can be fined $ 2,000 per
worker unless they can show that the individual appeared to have proper legal
documents when hired.

"We are trying to be smarter and more cost-effective by focusing on employers in
a concentrated area who knowingly hire illegals," said Benedict Ferro, director
of the Baltimore district of the INS. "This way, we accomplish two things at
once: enforcing employer sanctions and removing any violators that happen to be
present."

But an informal alliance of local Latino groups, restaurant owners and legal
advocates for immigrants has come together in the last week to protest the
raids, which they described as humiliating, discriminatory and unfair. They
charged that bonds were set at unusually high levels, detainees were not allowed
to call home to obtain identification, and Latino-looking workers were singled
out for questioning.

"We have heard a lot of things that are very disturbing," said Grace Rivera, an
activist with the Hispanic Alliance of Montgomery County. "Are they deciding to
target only brown-skinned people? Do they have to come in with their badges and
guns like the Wild West? If someone asks me for my papers and I tell him I'm an
American citizen, is he going to believe me?"

Ferro said that legal immigrants are supposed to carry their resident alien
cards or work permits at all times and that bonds were set at high levels
because illegal immigrants often vanish after paying lower ones. He said that
the INS did not intend to single out Latinos but that a substantial majority of
illegal immigrants working in this area happen to be from Latin America.

None of the detainees interviewed complained of brutality, but many said they
felt frightened, confused and angry at being treated like criminals. Even those
who were released after proving their legal right to work said they found the
experience humiliating.

"My wife is a law-abiding person, not a gang member or a drug dealer, and this
has hurt her very much," said Gary Cheng, 31, a computer specialist from
Shanghai whose wife was arrested during an INS raid on a Rockville restaurant
where she works as a cashier. She was freed after relatives delivered her work
permit to the authorities. "My in-laws happen to be visiting us, and this has
totally changed their vision of America as a civilized place," Cheng added.

Owners of restaurants and other raided businesses complained that the INS seemed
to be targeting employers who had left paper trails by putting immigrants on
their payrolls and sponsoring some for residency. Thus, they argued, the raids
punished employers that were trying to do the right thing and unintentionally
encouraged them to hire workers under the table in the future.

But Ferro said that there was no deliberate intent to target employers who were
sponsoring their workers for residency and that sponsorship was likely to help a
detainee obtain a lower bond or even be released without bond. He said the raids
were based strictly on tips that certain employers had deliberately hired
illegal workers.

At Tragara, an elegant Italian restaurant in Bethesda where Correa and two other
Latinos were arrested, manager David Amsellem said it is difficult to find
Americans willing to wash dishes and do other menial jobs for minimum wage. He
said all his foreign-born workers had provided Social Security cards or other
proper identification when hired.

"When the agents came, everyone in the kitchen was terrified," Amsellem said.
"They took them back and handcuffed them, and the guys were looking at us for
help. We felt terribly guilty, but there was nothing we could do."

Rosa Arias is unusually lucky. With 14 years of steady jobs, dutifully filed
income taxes and one child born here, the Adams-Morgan resident is likely to be
allowed to remain in the United States until her legal papers come through. But
when asked about her first brush with the law last week, she reddened and
brought her wrists together in imaginary handcuffs. "Dios mio [my God], it makes
one feel like an animal," she said.

At the East Side Cafe, regular customers were angered to learn of Arias's
arrest. Kimberly Hurt, 24, who works at a Bethesda health care company and often
chats with Arias on her lunch hour, said she thought the Salvadoran woman should
be commended, not condemned.

"There are plenty of people who live here legally and are out selling drugs and
doing things they have no business doing. She is out there making an honest
living, and she has a smile on her face for everyone," Hurt said. "I know we
have to set certain legal standards, but I would be sad to see her leave, I
really would."


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, joel richardson, Immigrant Rosa Arias, who works at the East
Side Cafe in Bethesda, stands with her employer, Paul Golkin. She was arrested
in a recent raid by INS officials. Golkin has sponsored Arias for legal
permanent residency.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              243 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 17, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

A Love Story Tangled in Red Tape; INS Income Rules Keep This Couple, and Others,
Apart

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 882 words


Jonathan McLeary first asked Evelyn Ellis to marry him more than 50 years ago
under a pear tree near her family's home in Jamaica. She declined gently, he
remembers. She was only 16, and a religious girl.

Then, two years ago, Evelyn met Jonathan once again. She was visiting a cousin
in Toronto. He had retired there after working as a doorman. Evelyn ran into one
of Jonathan's daughters at a Sunday morning church service, and Jonathan came
calling the next day. Evelyn returned home to her life in Howard County, and
Jonathan started phoning. Soon he was sending cassette tapes with romantic love
songs from the 1940s and 1950s. They were married a year later in Ellicott City,
with Jonathan in a white tuxedo and Evelyn in a lacy white dress.

And for a while, they were happy. Friends say Evelyn was transformed from a
somber woman into a giddy newlywed. The McLearys, Jonathan, 73, and Evelyn, 67,
passed their time reading, visiting friends, doing church work and taking long
walks around their Columbia neighborhood.

Then, the bad news. Immigration officials said Evelyn, a U.S. citizen and a
retiree who lives on Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
payments of about $ 6,000 a year, is too poor to sponsor her new husband for
permanent residency. The SSI payments and Evelyn's housing aid are considered
forms of public assistance and could not be included in calculating her income
for sponsorship purposes.

It only made things worse when immigration officials learned that Jonathan had
been admitted to Howard County General Hospital for a blood clot in his right
leg and had run up $ 7,000 in unpaid medical bills.

The problem was detailed in a Jan. 3 letter from the Baltimore office of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service stating the agency's intent to deny
Evelyn's request to sponsor her husband. Included in the "classes of excludable
aliens," the letter stated, is "any alien who . . . is likely at any time to
become a public charge." That meant Jonathan.

He was given 12 weeks to submit a rebuttal or additional evidence. But the
McLearys had nothing more to submit.

Jonathan returned Jan. 11 to Canada, where he is eligible for a pension, health
benefits and housing assistance. This Valentine's Day, he sent a card. The
couple could not afford a long-distance phone call.

Immigration advocates said the McLearys' case is not unusual. No hard estimates
are available on the number of immigrants in this situation, but Anya Sikes, a
managing attorney at Ayuda, a District-based group that provides legal services
to immigrants, said it is common for immigrants who are relatives or spouses of
U.S. citizens not to apply for residency because of finances. A newlywed couple
who are students at the University of Maryland have postponed applying for the
husband's residency until the wife can graduate and earn income above the
poverty line, according to one local advocate.

Benedict J. Ferro, INS district director, said applicants for permanent
residency are required to show that they will not become public burdens. "It is
certainly one of the tests that one must meet," he said.

Current poverty guidelines require a family of two to make at least $ 10,000 a
year, Sikes said. Immigration legislation pending in Congress would double that
requirement. "It will make it impossible for people with moderate income to
sponsor anyone," she said.

One of her clients who has been married to a U.S. citizen for two years remains
in the country illegally because her husband, who has several children, works a
minimum-wage job, Sikes said.

"They are surviving, but their income is not officially big enough for a family
of five or six," she said. "Many people in the United States who are
hard-working people are making minimum wage. Here we are pro-family. We're
talking about pro-family values. There should be exceptions in cases like this."

Immigration officials, when evaluating an application to sponsor an immigrant,
also will not include potential income from the spouse who is applying for
residency, because the spouse is usually not allowed to work at the time of the
application.

Jonathan McLeary suggested to his wife in a recent telephone call that they
might need to find a new country that would be willing to take them both.

"I miss my wife. I really need to be with the woman," Jonathan said during a
telephone interview. "She deserves to have me with her, too."

Evelyn, speaking in the living room of the simple apartment she has decorated
with prayers, family photos and artificial flowers, said she does not know what
to think, other than to say she hopes that "Providence intervenes."

At least, she said, she now knows what it feels like to be in love. Her first
marriage ended after years of abuse, she said.

"It's a wonderful feeling," Evelyn said. "You feel the world is at peace with
you. You love everything and everybody. It gives you a purpose to be alive."

And anything is possible. Ferro, of the INS, said in an interview that he would
review the McLeary case personally in light of its "extenuating circumstances
and humanitarian interest."

"The letter is only a notice of intent to deny," Ferro said. "That isn't to say
the story ends for the purposes of INS."


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, michael williamson, Evelyn McLeary holds her wedding album and a
valentine from her husband, but he's in Canada.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              244 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 24, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Does Not Seize Passport Of Farrakhan; Mideast Trip Ends Without Incident

Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 563 words


Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan returned from his five-week "world
friendship" tour without incident yesterday, although State Department officials
had suggested his passport might be seized because he traveled to Iraq and
Libya.

State Department officials backed away from tough statements suggesting
Farrakhan would be confronted.

"He presented himself to us at two ports, Guam and then Hawaii," said Russ
Bergeron, an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman. "He demonstrated
to us that he was a U.S. citizen. To my knowledge, we did not seize his
passport. We did not look at his passport to check where he had been, [because]
that is not an issue for readmission."

Farrakhan's return to the United States was widely anticipated because he had
angered policymakers by being quoted in foreign news agency reports as
condemning the United States after meeting with leaders in several "pariah"
nations, including Libya, Iraq and Iran.

On Thursday, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said INS officials would
examine Farrakhan's passport for entry and exit stamps from Iraq and Libya,
nations U.S. citizens are forbidden to visit without special permission from the
State Department.

"If they do find those stamps," Burns said, "they will turn those passports over
to the proper authorities . . . for a review of whether or not U.S. laws were
violated."

But yesterday Burns said he was only quoting the policy that would apply if
Farrakhan's passport were seized. Told yesterday that Farrakhan had reentered
the country without incident, Burn said: "Interesting."

Nevertheless, Burns said he stands behind his harsh condemnation of Farrakhan
for statements attributed to him during the trip, although White House officials
have suggested that Burns should soften his rhetoric.

Farrakhan has said the purpose of 23-nation tour of the Mideast and Africa was
to spread a message of "atonement and reconciliation" and to win support for an
international celebration of the Million Man March next Oct. 16.

But in government news agency reports, Farrakhan was quoted as angrily
denouncing the United States. In Iraq, Farrakhan reportedly called U.N.
sanctions against that nation "wicked." He also appeared at festivities marking
the 17th anniversary of the Iranian revolution and met with Libyan leader
Moammar Gadhafi, who reportedly pledged $ 1 billion to Farrakhan. The official
Libyan news agency later denied the pledge was made.

After hearing those reports, Burns accused Farrakhan of "cavorting" with
dictators who have "American blood on their hands."

Farrakhan's trip attracted other official attention. The Treasury Department
sent Farrakhan a letter asking whether he illegally spent U.S. currency in
restricted nations or accepted money for political purposes from Libya and Iran,
which are both under U.S. sanctions. The Justice Department asked in a letter to
Farrakhan whether he is an agent for Libya.

In addition, Rep. Peter T. King (R-N.Y.) has called for congressional hearings
into Farrakhan's trip. And Rep. Nita M. Lowey (D-N.Y.) has written a letter to
the State Department asking that Farrakhan's passport be canceled.

"We have to ensure that this is Mr. Farrakhan's last world tour," Lowey said.
"No American should be allowed to jet around the globe and cavort with dictators
and terrorists."


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp, Farrakhan's visit with Iran speaker Ali Akbar Nateq Nouri,
right, and officials in Iraq and Libya angered the State Department and members
of Congress.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              245 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 27, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Buchanan Versus the Bishops

Colman McCarthy, Washington Post Writers Group

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D20; COLMAN MCCARTHY

LENGTH: 661 words


Ever religious, which befits a believer with 16 years of Catholic school
education, Patrick Buchanan has asked the faithful to "say your prayers about
this cause and campaign."

As the Jesuit fathers could have told Buchanan in the eight years he was
presumably listening to them in high school and college, God answers all prayers
but sometimes the answer is no.

While awaiting the Almighty's response to the requests of the newly formed
Buchanan Prayer Group, it's safe to assume that Pat the good Catholic is right
with the Lord. That's private. Whether he's squared away with church teaching on
issues of social justice is something else. That's public.

Many of Buchanan's positions, mostly heaved as hunks of raw meat to his
starved-for-a-simple solution followers, are far out of line with the teachings
of the United States Catholic Conference and its 350 member bishops.

Since the mid-1970s, the conference has published a document every four years
called "Political Responsibility: proclaiming the gospel of life, protecting the
least among us, and pursuing the common good." The 1995 statement covers 20
topics, including immigration, foreign aid, capital punishment, abortion,
housing, human rights, food and agriculture.

Some of Buchanan's surest applause lines are for his promise to build "a
security fence along our southern border" and stop illegal immigration "cold."
For a further freeze: "a basic moratorium on legal immigration for five years
because I think this country is in danger of pulling apart."

The bishops, remembering a century ago when U.S. Catholicism was an immigrant
church, teach differently: "(We) support a generous U.S. immigration policy and
U.S. commitment to providing temporary safe haven for those in need." The
bishops pledge their "solidarity with the undocumented."

It's natural that they would. The bishops understand that a new immigrant church
is taking shape, much as the old one once was. This time, they are Hispanics
pouring in through Tijuana and Nogales, not Europeans being stamped in Ellis
Island. They are Asians who send their kids to the kind of Catholic elementary
schools that also took in the Scotch-Irish Buchanan -- then called Paddy Joe --
in the 1940s.

Despite the increased wealth and social standing now enjoyed by large numbers of
grandchildren of Catholic immigrants, the bishops see no need for fences or
furies to keep America from "pulling apart."

The Buchanan Doctrine wants not only to keep the poor out but to keep U.S.
wealth in. "I'm telling you right now," he says with customary subtlety, "that I
will phase out all country-to-country foreign aid within three years and save $
60 billion. ..."

Catholic bishops, aware that the United States is last among Western nations in
the percentage of GNP that goes to foreign aid, "reject the illusion of
isolationism." They back "a reshaped foreign aid program designed to combat
poverty with sustainable development and economic opportunities for the poor."

On capital punishment, the bishops say no, Buchanan yes. Unless he has a Saulish
conversion, it's unimaginable that Buchanan, vehement in support of
state-sanctioned killing, would ever approvingly quote the bishops' teaching:
"Our society should reject the death penalty and seek methods of dealing with
violent crime that are more consistent with the gospel visions of respect for
life and Christ's message of healing love."

About the only issue among the 20 where the Catholic bishops and the Catholic
Buchanan are together is abortion. Even in shared opposition, they don't speak
in the same tone. Buchanan's is judgmental, the bishops' firm but understanding.

Buchanan is not the first Catholic politician to ignore his bishops. But he had
a father -- raised, married and buried in the church -- who forbade his children
to question Catholicism: "If you think that, you can leave my house."

Metaphorically, Pat's been gone for some time.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              246 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 03, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration: Rhetoric and Reform

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 533 words


THERE HAS been much talk during this election cycle about immigration, both
legal and illegal. Now the subject is about to be taken up in both houses of
Congress. The Senate Judiciary Committee is in the midst of markup sessions on a
comprehensive bill, and the full House will consider similar legislation later
this month. Proposed changes in the law are not the result of campaign rhetoric.
Most came instead from a bipartisan national commission created by President
Clinton and led by the late Rep. Barbara Jordan.

In contrast to 10 years ago when they were given a generous amnesty, there is
today very little sympathy in Congress for illegal aliens. The bills now being
considered would beef up border control, strengthen employer sanctions and
provide some relief for the handful of states that attract almost all these
aliens. There may be some debate about the system now proposed for verifying job
eligibility -- a call-in system similar to that now used to check credit card
validity -- but that system has been tested in pilot projects and found to be
easily implemented and effective. It should be expanded.

The real struggle will come over the proposed restructuring of legal
immigration. Bills in both houses would somewhat reduce the current level of
immigration, now near 800,000 a year including refugees. A return to about the
level of six years ago, as the national commission recommended, is not out of
line, but more extreme proposals such as a five-year moratorium on new entries,
should be rejected. The bills would also end preferences for some family
members, including brothers and sisters and adult children, in exchange for
increasing available visas for the spouses and children of permanent residents
who are not yet citizens. It's not a bad bargain. Finally, the bills would raise
the share of immigrant visas available to those with skills needed in this
country. Some business groups, particularly those in computer and high-tech
industries, say proposed changes in the certification process now contained in
the Senate bill add unnecessary burdens. If they can make their case that they
need more flexibility to bring in highly trained professionals from abroad to
fill jobs for which Americans are not available, they can probably win
concessions.

Amending the immigration laws of this country is serious business that will have
a direct and personal impact on millions of families. Careful ground work has
been done on these proposals, and they are, by and large, reasonable. But it
would be easy in the heat of the primary season to succumb to the demagogues who
would blame all the nation's problems on those who didn't have the good fortune
to have been born here. That would be a terrible mistake. The welcoming of
immigrants and the protection of refugees are at the heart of this country's
traditions. This government has the right to set reasonable limits on the
numbers of newcomers and to rearrange preferences to reflect the national
interest. But as debate on this subject gathers momentum over the next few
weeks, legislators must have as an ultimate goal the preservation of an
immigration policy that is both generous and fair.

LOAD-DATE: March 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              247 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 11, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Ungenerous And Unfair To Immigrants

Elliott C. Lichtman

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 838 words


Professing support for the "preservation of a policy that is both generous and
fair," The Post's lead editorial on March 3, "Immigration: Rhetoric and Reform,"
concludes that the bills under consideration in Congress are "by and large,
reasonable." With respect, I believe these proposals to modify our system of
legal immigration are neither "generous" nor "fair." A review of the bills
reveals drastic restrictions for the three principal vehicles for achieving U.S.
permanent residence.

Family sponsorship: Under the Simpson bill (the major Senate bill) and, with a
minor exception, under the Smith bill (the major House bill), U.S citizens could
no longer sponsor their children age 21 and over.

U.S. citizens could no longer sponsor siblings under both bills.

Under Simpson, precluded from immigration would be all parents younger than age
65 -- and many 65 and older -- of U.S. citizens. Since the bills contain no
"grandfather" provisions, the rights of the above categories of sponsored
persons whose cases have been pending for years would be extinguished. In view
of these harsh restrictions on the eligibility of family members to immigrate, I
disagree with The Post's conclusion that a trade-off of all of these categories
for a temporary addition of visas for dependents of permanent residents in the
Smith bill (but not in Simpson) is "not a bad bargain."

Employer sponsorship: Although the editorial suggests the contrary, the bills
would reduce visas for needed professional and skilled employees. Under Simpson,
the 140,000 visas available for employment cases annually would be diminished to
90,000, a 35 percent cut that will cause backlogs where none now exists.
(Although Sen. Simpson announced recently that he will withdraw his employment
provisions from the bill in committee, he indicated that they may be restored on
the Senate floor). Other provisions discussed below would deter the sponsorship
of foreign employees even when employers demonstrate their inability to hire
qualified Americans.

Use of the labor certification process -- by which employers recruit to show the
unavailability of qualified Americans -- would cost a minimum fee of $ 10,000
under Simpson, an exorbitant amount that would price foreign workers out of the
market for most small- to medium-size employers.

The "best and brightest" foreign students graduating from our colleges would be
far less attractive to employers because of the combined effect of two other
provisions offered by Simpson. One would curtail the duration of temporary
professional visas to three years (down from six years). These are the visas for
which professionals normally qualify after graduating from college or graduate
school. The second proposal would add a three-year experience requirement for
professional and skilled employees before they could be sponsored for permanent
green cards. The pernicious result of these provisions in combination would be
that the foreign graduate could work for only three years on the temporary visa
and would then have to return home for the green card processing (one to three
years). No sensible employer would hire the graduate if the employment would
thus be interrupted for one or more years.

Under both bills, the sponsorship of "unskilled" employees would be eliminated.
For example, foreign child care, home attendant and other household employees
could no longer be legally employed even where employers are unable to recruit
Americans. Again, no grandfather clause protects the tens of thousands who have
been waiting in line for years.

Asylum: The Simpson and Smith bills make it almost impossible for asylum
applicants to secure refuge in the United States by barring any application
filed more than 30 days after entry into the country. Upon arriving in the
United States, refugees typically have no capacity to gather affidavits and
other documents from persons located in or outside the United States, find
lawyers or put together the comprehensive materials a persuasive application
requires. If this horrific proposal is a response to past abuses, it is
unnecessary since the Immigration and Naturalization Service largely ended any
abuses when it revamped the system a year ago.

Most important, both Simpson and Smith have attempted to secure passage of these
mean-spirited attempts to restrict legal immigration by hitching them to bills
that seek to bolster the nation's efforts to counter illegal immigration. A
crucial procedural issue has arisen in the Senate Judiciary Committee, where
Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) is attempting to split Simpson's legal-illegal
immigration bill. In addition to requesting The Post to reconsider its
conclusion that the Simpson and Smith bills are "by and large, reasonable," I
urge The Post to support Abraham's effort to divide the bill, thereby requiring
Congress to consider in a more neutral context these wide-ranging proposals to
diminish legal immigration.

The writer practices immigration law in Washington.


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, john overmyer

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              248 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 12, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Meet Our 'Jose'

James K. Glassman

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 953 words


This country is going through another one of those ugly periods when demagogues
-- as well as politicians and intellectuals who should know better -- forget
their own roots and start treating immigrants as enemies rather than as
colleagues, neighbors and ancestors.

What makes the current nastiness so dangerous is that it has inspired
legislation that would damage the economy as a whole and increase the invasive
power of government.

Tougher action against illegal immigration makes sense, but not if all Americans
have to suffer. Do we really need a Big-Brother plan to require all Americans to
carry ID cards with retina scans and to force employers to get an okay from
notoriously fallible federal record-keepers before they can employ anyone,
immigrant or not? But the worst proposal put forward by Sen. Alan Simpson
(R-Wyo), who heads a key subcommittee, is to make it harder -- through new taxes
and bureaucratic hurdles -- for U.S. companies to hire skilled immigrants to
work here.

The proposal is based on the wrongheaded idea that labor is just a big finite
lump and that if immigrants take pieces of it then native-born Americans can't.
In fact, economists know that labor creates more labor -- which is one reason
jobs in this country grow by 2 million a year.

Also, many of the best U.S. jobs go begging, simply because we don't have
workers smart enough to fill them. In an extensive new study for Empower
America, Stuart Anderson reports that 16 large high-tech companies alone had
22,000 job openings in January.

Typical is Cypress Semiconductor in San Jose, Calif., which has 200 positions
for which it can't find qualified workers. T. J. Rodgers, the company's CEO,
wrote recently to Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), who has led the fight against
Simpson's measure:

"Competition is so intense for workers here in Silicon Valley that our average
San Jose employee, including the line workers and receptionists, earns $ 93,000
per year including benefits -- we also give every employee profit-sharing
totaling $ 5,000 a year and stock options."

Foreign-born workers help companies like Cypress grow and compete globally. When
an engineer from Russia moves here to work for a software firm, the U.S. economy
wins -- both because the engineer's family buys goods and services and because
the engineer's brain power creates more jobs.

Twelve percent of the Inc. 500 firms -- the fastest-growing in America -- were
started by immigrants. Andrew Grove, chairman of Intel Corp., the world's
largest chip-maker, came to the United States from Hungary in 1957 as a
20-year-old refugee with only $ 20 and the clothes on his back. And George
Gilder notes that "LSI, IDT, Actel, Atmel, Xicor, and Sun were all founded or
led by immigrants."

Rogers adds in his eloquent letter to Abraham (whose own immigrant ancestors
came from Lebanon):

"Pat Buchanan has taken up 'Jose' as a euphemism for immigrants. I would like
Mr. Buchanan to meet our 'Jose,' Dr. Jose Arreola, the Mexican immigrant with a
PhD in transistor physics. Jose is our top scientist, the one whose
responsibility is to manage a group of 30 people -- 80 percent with advanced
degrees -- to produce our most advanced semiconductor technology for the future
. . . Jose's top young star is Jeff Watt, a Stanford-educated PhD who immigrated
from Canada. We would lose jobs without our immigrant technologists."

Losing jobs is precisely what will happen if the ideas of immigrant-phobes in
Congress become law. One would impose a tax of $ 10,000 per immigrant. Another
would force companies to pay immigrants 105 percent of the "prevailing
compensation" in the field. Financial obstacles would pale before bureaucratic
ones.

The result: U.S. companies will move production abroad, or they'll contract with
foreign firms to provide work now done here. As Bill Gates, chairman of
Microsoft Corp., said, "The Senate bill is absolute disaster. If you want to
prevent companies like ours from doing business in the United States, this is a
masterpiece."

No, not every immigrant has a PhD. Low-tech entrepreneurs from India and
Pakistan have led a revival of the motel business. Other newcomers take drudge
jobs that natives won't, and work their way up. Others, to be sure, languish in
poverty. But, in the aggregate, immigrants greatly enrich American life. Is
basketball star Hakeem Olajuwon taking away a native's job, or is he adding
pleasure to the lives of millions of Americans, helping the Rockets at the box
office and boosting Houston's economy?

In a new paper, Julian Simon of the University of Maryland concludes that "total
government expenditures on immigrants are much lower than for natives" and
immigrants help the economy.

But even if they hurt it, I would favor their continued flow -- to inspire us in
our complacency and grouchiness and to remind us of the grit and drive that
built this country and the ideals, like respect for family, that we've
forgotten.

A little over 1 million people, including about 300,000 illegals, immigrate to
the United States every year. That's not very many in a country of 264 million.
Although it's easier to get here, today's immigrants aren't really much
different -- in education, wealth or initiative -- from those in the past. The
sad truth is that, throughout our history we've found reasons to hate the
immigrants we once were.

"At the heart of many misunderstandings," writes Sanford J. Ungar, in his
excellent "Fresh Blood: The New American Immigrants," is "the flawed assumption
that one day the country will have assumed its fully developed state and will no
longer need or want any more immigrants."

Let's hope we never reach that state.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              249 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 16, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

1-800-End-Fraud

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A15; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 564 words


The more I read my colleague Steve Chabot's March 14 op-ed on the mandatory
verification program many of us see as a crucial element of immigration reform,
["Hello? Big Brother?"], the more I think he ought to give up legislating and
pursue a career in fiction writing.

The aim of this pilot program is not to give the government the ability to
determine who gets hired and who does not. It is, instead, to ensure that those
who work in this country are legally eligible to do so. We are not asking any
employer to consult the federal government on hiring decisions. We are asking
that, within three days of making such a decision, they make a free telephone
call to verify that the Social Security number provided by a new employee is
valid.

That's it. A simple, toll-free telephone call. No new database subject to future
misuse by some dark, ominous force. No new national ID card containing creepy
"biometric" data. Just an attempt to ensure that those working in this country
are legally entitled to the work.

In his piece, Chabot writes, "We have to get better control over our borders."
That's a familiar refrain of those who oppose this program but have only a
passing interest in the devastating effects of illegal immigration. Anyone who
has truly worked on this issue, as I have for nearly a decade, knows that fewer
than half of our illegal immigrants actually enter at the border. Most come in
legally, largely on tourist or student visas, and overstay their welcome. Many
of these immigrants come here for jobs. While I have been a longtime supporter
of increased border enforcement, it is frankly beyond me how this kind of a
crackdown will effectively separate most immigrants -- including the estimated 4
million to 6 million already here -- from the employment they seek.

Since the passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act in 1986, the federal
government has forced American employers to hire only those with a legal right
to work in this country or face severe penalties. That sounds great, but
everyone agrees it hasn't worked. The major reason is that prospective employees
can present up to 29 different documents as proof of work eligibility, and
counterfeiters have long since figured out how to produce copies that would fool
the most earnest, law-abiding employer.

Immigrant rights advocates have opposed any attempt to tighten the current
system or broaden employer sanctions because they fear that legal immigrants
will be singled out for discrimination. The advocates argue that imposing
additional requirements on employers who hire foreign-born workers will cause
them to steer clear of foreign-looking workers to ensure compliance with the
law. For their part, employers have rightly opposed any effort to expand their
role as junior immigration agents.

The beauty of the telephone verification system is that it ensures compliance
with the law while taking the onus off employers. It removes any incentive for
employers to treat certain applicants differently because they will have access
to a simple, reliable way of ensuring that the employees they have hired are
eligible to work.

Steve Chabot has taken to calling this verification system 1-800-Big-Brother. I
call it 1-800-End-Fraud, because that is exactly what it will do.

-- Elton Gallegly

The writer is a Republican representative from California.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              250 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 18, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Wearin' of the Red, White & Blue; Irish Immigrants in Area Become U.S. Citizens
in Mass Ceremony

Robert O'Harrow Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 567 words


It's no blarney. They love America. That's why more than 125 Irish immigrants
living in the Washington area ventured out on a cold and wet St. Patrick's Day
to vow support for the Constitution and become U.S. citizens at a mass
swearing-in ceremony yesterday.

There was Tony Coughlan from Silver Spring, who clapped and cheered. Brian
Gaffney, the owner of Nanny O'Brien's Irish Pub on Connecticut Avenue in
Northwest Washington, played his guitar and sang in a thick brogue.

Marie Cassidy, who moved to the United States in 1963 and lives on Capitol Hill,
beamed as she sat next to her daughter, Grainne Cassidy. And Brendan White, his
two brothers, wife and sister-in-law happily became U.S. citizens at the same
moment.

With U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials looking on, they all
pledged allegiance to their new country while formally disavowing any ties to
princes, potentates, states or sovereignties elsewhere.

"We've all made our lives here. I guess you could say we love it," said Gaffney,
34, who has lived in the Washington area for seven years and is married to an
Irish American woman. "It's like we have two homes now."

The ceremony at a Department of Interior auditorium in the District -- just
before yesterday's St. Patrick's Day parade along Constitution Avenue -- was the
first of its kind for Irish immigrants. For two hours, they filled the room with
Irish accents, took snapshots and watched girls skip up the aisles and dance
lively jigs.

And, of course, they wore more green than they will for the rest of the year to
honor St. Patrick, who worked so hard to convert the Irish to Christianity
almost 1,600 years ago: Green socks, green pants, green blazers and sparkling
green shamrock stickers. Many also sported orange and white, the other two
colors in Ireland's flag.

"America has been very good to us," said Marie Cassidy, a professor of
physiology at George Washington University Medical Center, echoing the reason
many of the immigrants gave for becoming citizens.

But it wasn't quite that simple. Leaders of area Irish American clubs that
sponsored the swearing-in said they wanted to show support for efforts by the
Clinton administration to broker peace between Ireland's Catholics and
Protestants. Many of those who took the oath wore buttons calling for peace.

Two prominent Irish Americans, Environmental Protection Agency chief Carol M.
Browner and Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.), joined Albert Reynolds, the former
prime minister of Ireland, in praising Clinton's initiatives. They said that
ending the violence must be a top priority.

"We [Americans] understand the challenge of taking diversity and turning a
weakness into strength," said former representative Bruce Morrison, of
Connecticut. He said the new citizens could play an important role in addressing
the problem, because they live in a place that has to struggle constantly with
competing interests.

But the newly minted Americans also had more practical concerns. Nearly everyone
cited the right to vote as a reason for wanting to become a citizen. Some
mentioned tax laws. And they joked that deportation is no longer a worry. "They
can't kick us out now," Coughlan said.

He said the change of status means that he and his fellow citizens will have to
change their attitudes a bit: "We have to stop [complaining] about Americans
now."


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, susan biddle, Ken Sullivan, of Rockville, spreads some good luck
along with goodwill by touching spectators with his Irish flag during the St.
Patrick's Day parade along Constitution Avenue. About 25,000 attended the annual
event.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              251 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 19, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Caught in the Middle; Foreign-Born Doctors Are Recruited For Jobs That Others
Don't Want. But American Physicians Worry That Too Many Are Coming Here.

Lena H. Sun

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z10

LENGTH: 1963 words


At the Max Robinson AIDS clinic in Anacostia, the patients are mostly poor,
mostly uninsured and often very ill.

The clinic's only doctor, Shukdeo Sankar, sees between six and eight patients a
day, taking care of a variety of their needs -- from making sure they see a
dentist or eye doctor to helping them deal with the inevitability of death. It's
a demanding job, Sankar said after examining one man, who at age 22 already had
an advanced stage of AIDS. "It's supposed to take 10 years to get to this stage
. . . ," he said. "It's very, very sad and upsetting and . . . when I go home, I
take this home with me at night."

Under immigration law, Sankar should have returned to his native Guyana two
years ago, but because he agreed to practice medicine in one of Washington's
poorest communities -- one that most American doctors shun -- he was allowed to
stay.

Foreign-born doctors, he said, take jobs "where Americans won't go without a
bulletproof vest."

Now, some influential health experts say physicians like Sankar are a big part
of the reason why the United States may soon have too many doctors. As a result,
foreign-born, foreign-trained doctors are caught in a politically charged debate
that involves not only immigration laws but also fundamental health care issues,
such as the shift toward managed care and the unequal distribution of
specialists and primary care doctors.

Some professionals have argued that because managed care has changed the way
doctors practice by keeping patients under the care of primary care doctors,
limiting patients' access to specialists and often closely scrutinizing what
services patients receive, the country faces an oversupply of doctors. Several
panels of health experts have said in recent months that graduates of foreign
medical schools, like Sankar, are adding to an impending national surplus of
doctors because too many are coming to the United States for federally
subsidized residency training in hospitals and then staying to practice
medicine.

Foreign-educated, foreign-born doctors make up about 20 percent of the country's
620,000 practicing physicians, according to the American Medical Association.
Some come from schools in countries that experts say are on a par with U.S.
medical training, such as Great Britain and other European countries. But the
majority come from less prestigious schools.

Critics say these doctors -- as well as the more than 10,000 Americans who go
overseas for medical school each year -- often have a basic education less
rigorous than that of U.S. medical graduates and the foreigners must overcome
cultural and language differences in treating patients here.

Foreign-born doctors and some U.S. officials say these characterizations are
wrong and stem from fear of competition and rising xenophobia.

Contrary to claims by health experts that most foreign-born doctors stay in the
country to practice medicine, statistics from the State Department show most
foreign-born doctors return home after their training. Last year, more than
9,000 foreign-born doctors were in residencies here, but only 1,550 were allowed
to stay after their training was over. Virtually all who stay, U.S. officials
who run the program for foreign doctors say, do like Sankar: agree to work in
communities that desperately need doctors.

Steve Reiner, a hospital administrator in rural Kearny County, in southwestern
Kansas's beef-packing belt, tried for eight years to keep two doctors on staff
at the 20-bed hospital and clinic that serve the county's 4,000 residents.

"We don't have a movie theater. We don't have shopping malls. We don't have
department stores . . . " he said. "We're four hours drive from Colorado
Springs, a seven-hour drive from the University of Kansas Medical Center. We're
out there."

Now he has two full-time internists and a part-time pediatrician, all from the
Philippines. He doesn't know if they will stay after their two- and three-year
contracts are completed.

"But getting a three-year commitment is better than not having a physician at
all," he said.

'As Good as Anybody Else'

On a chilly winter morning, Sankar, 32, a tall bearded man who speaks with a
West Indian accent, chats with patients as they squeeze into a tiny waiting area
near the back of the Max Robinson clinic. He barely glances through the pale
green medical folders; he sees the patients often, calls them by their first
names, knows their case histories.

Sankar chides one woman for not coming sooner. He asks after another patient's
supply of medicine. He tells another patient to return the following week to get
the results of a blood test to check her T-cells, the key immune cells that are
targeted by the HIV virus that causes AIDS.

"Will I want to know what my T-cells are?" asks the woman, 42, anxiety tinging
her voice. They confer for a few minutes, and the woman looks visibly relieved.

"I hope Dr. Sankar don't ever leave because I don't know what I would do," said
the woman. "He listens to me. A lot of doctors, they put on airs, they don't
listen to you. . . . I got a lot of other problems, and he knows about that
too."

The clinic opened in 1992 to better serve residents on the east side of the
Anacostia River. The clinic, now housed in a former police precinct office about
two blocks from the Anacostia Metro stop, had medical staff but could not
recruit a doctor until Sankar started working in November 1994.

Although patients can see doctors at the main Whitman-Walker Clinic in
Northwest, many from the neighborhood are reluctant to cross the river, said
clinic administrator Barbara Chinn. Clinic patients tended to rely on hospital
emergency rooms for medical care, said Chinn. But in the 15 months that Sankar
has been at the clinic, many patients have come to trust him, according to staff
and administrators.

"He doesn't make them feel inferior, he doesn't put them down," said Mercedes
Barrett, the clinic coordinator who schedules Sankar's appointments. "They'll
wait all day for him."

Sankar is from a small town in Guyana, in South America, where most people grew
up to "cut [sugar] cane, drive a taxi or open up a rum shop." He excelled as a
student, graduating from medical school at the University of the West Indies in
Jamaica at 22.

Seven years ago, he came to the United States on a temporary exchange visa to do
his residency in internal medicine at Howard University. His fiancee came with
him. Among the top students at Howard, Sankar went on to win a prestigious
fellowship in infectious disease at Georgetown University. He passed the same
licensing tests as graduates of U.S. medical schools and received his board
certification in internal medicine and infectious diseases.

He bristles at the suggestion that because he is foreign-born and went to
medical school abroad that he is less competent than his American counterparts.
He pointed out that like many foreign doctors he had already completed a
residency overseas before coming to Howard. His training at U.S. hospitals, he
said, makes him "as good as anybody else."

Visas Are Difficult to Obtain

Foreign-educated doctors long have been part of the U.S. work force. In the
past, many foreign-born doctors were recruited by U.S. hospitals in need of
doctors. Many stayed to work in this country, becoming U.S. citizens and legal,
permanent residents. The Chicago-based American Association of Physicians from
India, for example, has 26,000 members.

In 1976, however, Congress set new restrictions on non-American medical
graduates entering the country for advanced medical training. Under that law,
they must enter on temporary exchange visas. After finishing their residencies,
they are required to go back to their home countries for two years before
attempting to return to the United States.

Only under special circumstances can they waive the return-home requirement to
stay in the country. Virtually the only way these physicians have been allowed
to stay is by agreeing to work in medically underserved communities, according
to the United States Information Agency, which oversees the exchange program.
(Even if doctors marry U.S. citizens during their training, they must first
obtain a waiver before they can change their immigration status.)

The waivers, which allow doctors to apply for visas to work permanently in this
country, are difficult to obtain. Many clinics and hospitals that apply on
behalf of doctors fail to qualify during the initial screening at the state
level, health officials said.

Until recently, few doctors were allowed to stay after their training -- those
facilities applying on behalf of doctors had to be run by the Department of
Veterans Affairs or under the jurisdiction of the Appalachian Regional
Commission.

But three years ago, that began to change because of shortages of primary care
doctors. The Department of Agriculture and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development began working with the U.S. Information Agency to get foreign
doctors to staff rural and inner-city hospitals and clinics. The number of
foreign doctors receiving permission to work in those areas has quintupled in
the past five years, from 328 in 1991 to 1,550 last year.

Congress also recently gave states the authority to grant up to 20 waivers a
year for doctors to practice in underserved areas. But because the program began
just last year, only a handful of waivers have been issued.

For many rural hospitals and clinics, foreign doctors have been a critical
source of medical care. Places in West Virginia, Kentucky, Alabama and parts of
the Midwest have historically had difficulty recruiting American doctors.
Salaries are not competitive. Doctors are on call much more often than their
counterparts in the cities.

With foreign-born doctors, there is sometimes an initial period "for the
physician to adjust and for the community to adjust," said Linda Hutchens,
executive director of the Bluestone Health Center, in Matoaka, W.Va. The
center's two full-time physicians -- from Pakistan and the Philippines -- serve
12,000 to 15,000 residents in a poor area where coal was once mined.

When Amar Safdar, a physician who was born in Karachi, Pakistan, started working
there two years ago, some patients had difficulty understanding him when he
spoke quickly, Hutchens said. Now that he is about to leave, many patients are
reluctant to see him go. One woman joked that she would have followed him to New
York if she could have lived in a trailer park there, he said.

Safdar said he found more resistance from his patients because he urged them to
change poor dietary and health habits than because he came from a foreign
country. "If you were born in New York, you would have faced the same problems,"
he said.

'Much Less Choice'

After Sankar finished his medical training at Howard and Georgetown
universities, he wanted to remain in the country. He and his fiancee, a nurse at
Howard University, had married and had an infant daughter. Through the
Department of Housing and Urban Development program for foreign doctors, he
agreed to work at the Anacostia branch of the Whitman-Walker Clinic and was
allowed to stay in the country.

His two-year contract ends in November. He has since become a legal permanent
resident and is not sure what he will do next. He would like to continue at the
clinic, he said, but also is interested in earning more money. He will not
disclose his salary, but generally doctors with his board qualifications would
be better compensated elsewhere.

"Foreign-born doctors have so much less choice than American doctors," he said.
"But we are providing service where it's needed, and I think that's a good thing
for the country."


LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, keith jenkins; Illustration, Practicing Physicians in the United
States Total Number Of Active Doctors In The U.S.  1970 316,000 1980 436,000
1993 620,000 Non-Citizen Doctors Permitted To Stay After Training 1991 328 1992
486 1993 669 1994 803 1995 1,550 A COMMON PATH TO PRACTICING IN THE U.S.  * A
foreign doctor in the United States may come here under an exchange visitor
visa.  * A doctor must gain certification by the Educational Commission for
Foreign Medical Graduates by passing licensing exams, an English competency test
and other requirements.  * A doctor spends at least one year in graduate medical
education, usually a residency program. Often this lasts more than one year.  *
A doctor may secure an unrestricted state license to practice by taking further
exams, depending on the rules of the individual states.  * A doctor is required
to return to his or her home country for two years before attempting to return
to the United States permanently.  * Foreign doctors can request a waiver that
allows them to stay in the United States if they agree to work in areas short of
physicians. The waivers allow doctors to apply for visas to work permanently in
this country.  Physician Shukdeo Sankar should have returned to Guyana two years
ago, but because he agreed to practice in one of Washington's poorest
communities he was allowed to stay.  Shukdeo Sankar

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              252 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 21, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigration Service Urges Legal Residents to Replace Expired 'Green Cards'

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A34

LENGTH: 454 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service announced yesterday that an
estimated 200,000 to 300,000 permanent residency cards -- commonly known as
"green cards" -- issued to legal residents before 1979 are no longer valid.

The expiration of the cards, effective yesterday, does not change the legal
status of the card holders. No one will lose permanent resident status -- which
allows legal residents to live and work in the United States indefinitely -- if
they have not yet applied for the new, more secure card, agency officials said.
Nor will holders of old cards be penalized.

But agency officials said that holders of old cards must replace them with new
cards to maintain acceptable evidence of their immigration status and to avoid
inconvenience in getting jobs, entitlement benefits and reentry into the United
States.

Someone with an expired green card who tries to enter the United States starting
today may be taken aside at the airport by U.S. officials and given instructions
about applying for a replacement card, officials said.

Residents with old cards should apply as soon as possible for a replacement at
their local INS offices, officials said.

Agency officials said they did not know how many legal, permanent residents in
the Washington area need to apply for new cards. But the INS Arlington office,
which serves Northern Virginia and District residents, and the INS Baltimore
office, which covers Maryland, have reported increases in applications for green
cards since the agency started publicizing the card replacement program three
years ago.

It can take three to 10 months for applicants to receive their new cards, agency
officials said. The card replacement program is funded by a $ 75 applicant fee.

While their applications for new cards or U.S. citizenship are pending,
residents can bring their passports with proof of filing for a green card or
citizenship to their local INS offices to receive a special stamp to maintain
proof of their permanent residency status.

The INS started its card replacement program in November 1993 to stem widespread
document fraud, particularly of the old green cards.

At the time, officials said there were an estimated 1.5 million legal permanent
residents in the country who needed to replace their cards.

Since then, all but 200,000 to 300,000 have replaced their cards, have
applications pending or have chosen to become U.S. citizens.

The new cards, which are pink, bear the holder's photograph and fingerprint.
They are "far more secure" than the old cards, which were "hand-typed, and the
photos were pasted on, then laminated," said INS Deputy Commissioner Chris Sale.
"You could produce one in your house."


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, The new "pink cards" for U.S. permanent residents bear the
holder's photo and fingerprint. The old "green card," right, was considered
easier to forge.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              253 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 26, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

A Wish Granted: Dying Va. Couple Become U.S. Citizens

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 459 words


A terminal cancer patient whose wife also is fighting the disease received one
of his dying wishes yesterday as an Immigration and Naturalization Service
official rushed to his Fairfax Hospital room and administered the oath of U.S.
citizenship to the couple.

Eduardo Belandres, 43, and his wife, Lolita, 46, took the oath in Eduardo's room
at 4:30 p.m. in a tearful ceremony administered by William J. Carroll,
Washington district director of the INS.

The Filipino immigrants received even more good news when Carroll told them he
had arranged to have Eduardo Belandres' 81-year-old mother admitted immediately
to the United States to visit the couple and their four children, who
automatically became U.S. citizens yesterday.

"He's as proud as any new citizen I've seen," Carroll said after the ceremony,
which he described as "very nice, wonderful, very emotional." Carroll said
joyous tears, including his own, filled the room.

"I'm so glad about our citizenship," Lolita Belandres said afterward, describing
it as one of the Sterling couple's two last wishes. The other wish is that
Eduardo's mother, Filomena Belandres, will arrive in time to hug her son and
daughter-in-law. She is scheduled to arrive next week.

The ceremony took on a sense of urgency when doctors informed the Belandres
family yesterday that Eduardo, who was lapsing in and out of consciousness, was
not expected to live much longer.

Eduardo was diagnosed in the fall of 1994 as having small-cell carcinoma that
had spread to his liver and bones. Three weeks earlier, Lolita Belandres had
been told she had pharyngeal cancer. It later spread to her spine and bones. She
and her husband were told in the fall that they each had six to 12 months to
live.

Before yesterday's ceremony, Eduardo Belandres' sister, Margaret Dodas, fretted
that her brother would not even be conscious when the oath was administered
because of his severely weakened condition.

"He's not really aware of what's going on," she said at the time.

But when Carroll arrived, she said, Eduardo "came alive. He was smiling and
waving and very happy. He even raised his hand himself" to take the oath. Dodas
said Eduardo was too weak to speak the oath, so she said the words on his
behalf.

Carroll said he had taken the steps to have the couple naturalized quickly after
reading a March 17 story about their plight in The Washington Post. The
application procedure usually takes about three months, but Carroll said he
pushed through the paperwork -- criminal checks and other background
investigations -- in about a week.

Their citizenship automatically passes to their four children, ages 8 to 18,
which Lolita Belandres said helps ease the tragedy's pain for her husband.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              254 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 27, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Battered Immigrants Gain Ally Against Abusers; New INS Rule Lets Spouses,
Children Seek U.S. Residence Status on Their Own

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 658 words


Battered immigrant women and children no longer have to depend on their abusers
to become legal, permanent residents of the United States and can now seek legal
status on their own, the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced
yesterday.

In the past, only U.S. citizens and legal, permanent residents could file
applications for their noncitizen spouses and children to become legal
residents. Typically, the husband filed the papers for his wife and children.

In domestic violence cases, the husband, already a U.S. citizen or legal
resident, often uses his role in the immigration process to keep his wife in the
abusive relationship, U.S. officials and representatives of advocacy groups
said.

"Foreign-born spouses and children are particularly vulnerable when their
ability to remain in this country is controlled by an abusive U.S. citizen or
lawful, permanent resident," said INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner.

In those situations, the abuser "often forces family members to stay in abusive
relationships by falsely promising their victims that they will petition on
their behalf for permanent resident status in the future, or by threatening
their victims with deportation -- creating a cycle of continuing abuse," she
said.

The new rule, which takes effect immediately, will allow abused family members
who otherwise would be eligible for permanent residence to seek legal resident
status on their own. The rule implements a provision of the Violence Against
Women Act, part of the 1994 crime bill.

Between 300 and 400 immigrants have cases pending under an interim procedure
that allowed INS officials to begin accepting -- but not acting on --
applications a year ago, INS officials said.

Officials and advocacy groups said it is hard to estimate how many others could
be affected because immigrant women who are victims of domestic violence
traditionally have been difficult to reach.

Leslye Orloff, founder of the domestic violence program at Ayuda, a
District-based group that provides legal services to immigrants, said there
might be an initial surge of "a couple thousand cases" nationwide.

Under the rule change, the abused spouse or child must be living in the United
States at the time; be a person of good moral character; and have entered into
the marriage to the citizen or lawful, permanent resident in good faith.

They also must provide evidence of abuse, which may include police reports,
medical records, affidavits from school officials and social workers, and "other
forms of relevant credible evidence," the INS said.

"Physical abuse and mental abuse is common," said Alakananda Paul, who heads the
Asian Women's Self Help Association, a local group that helps women from six
South Asian countries, including India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.

Many women follow their husbands to the United States, arriving with little
knowledge of English and less understanding of U.S. immigration law. Most are
financially dependent on their husbands.

One Indian woman in Montgomery County said her husband started abusing her five
years ago, when she and their daughter joined him in the United States. He was a
permanent, legal resident. More than once, she said, he threatened her with a
kitchen knife, saying, " 'I'm not going to give you the green card, and where
would you go?' "

The woman, 37, initially was afraid to seek police help but finally sought
refuge in a woman's shelter and sent her daughter to stay temporarily with a
relative. The woman has since moved three times, but is still stalked by her
husband, she said.

Last summer, she filed for permanent residence status on her own; her
application is pending with the INS office in Baltimore.

"I think the U.S. government has taken a very good decision because there are a
lot of women . . . who have been ill-treated by their spouses," said the woman,
who requested anonymity for fear of retribution.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              255 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 07, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Banking on Human Capital

Reed Ueda

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X04

LENGTH: 1099 words


MIGRATIONS AND CULTURES

A World View

By Thomas Sowell

Basic Books. 516 pp. $ 27.50

THIS VOLUME is like a gallery of portraits painted by a master who is adept at
revealing the inner qualities of his subjects. The subjects here, however, are
not individuals but some of the most prominent national groups in the world: the
Japanese, Italians, Chinese, Jews and Asian Indians. The economist Thomas Sowell
has created these group portraits to show that these peoples have not only been
"state" nations but also emigrant nations. Looking into the interior cultural
life of the worldwide communities they built, Sowell finds an explanation for
their ability to succeed in foreign lands that is a refreshing alternative to
recent depictions of collective human behavior as pre-determined by race,
gender, national character, or "civilizations."

Sowell makes the case that historically "constructed" and flexible cultural
patterns have acted as the key influence on societies in every part of the
world. Moreover, these patterns continued to play a shaping role in the lives of
emigrants in the new communities they built in foreign lands.

Sowell views collective cultures as pragmatic responses developed according to
context and period. He treats this interplay in the long span of evolutionary
development to get the fullest angle of vision and the deepest perspective. The
chapter on German immigrants begins in the Middle Ages; the story of Jewish
immigrants begins with the Assyrian conquest of Israel; the account of Japanese
immigrants starts with the rise of the Tokugawa shoguns.

But Sowell is ultimately an economist. Unlike most historians of American
immigrant groups, he wants his readers to recognize the "importance of creating
wealth." He stresses that his interest in collective cultures lies not in
rituals, customs, identity, or "high" artistic accomplishments. Instead his gaze
is fixed on the instrumental aspects of culture that yield advances based on
material development. What is important about cultures is that they developed a
"role as vast accumulations of human capital" in a structured way. Human
capital, for Sowell, is more than education, expertise, or skill; it is a set of
attitudes and values. "It was not the specific skills brought from Japan which
produced the greatest economic success for Japanese emigrants," he explains,
"but their more general 'human capital' in work habits, perseverance, social
cohesion, and law-abiding patterns of life." He also cites the case of Italian
immigrants: "Too proud to take charity, they were not too proud to wear rags and
to do the hardest and dirtiest work spurned by others." The primary advantage
derived from possession of this type of human capital is that it is transferable
to any setting.

Sowell's true subject is not the social history of the remarkable immigrant
peoples he surveys but the significance of "cultural capital," the stock of
human capital within collective cultures. The several global migrations he
describes are treated as manifestations of this cultural force. As vehicles of
cultural capital, they have been the principal agents for its worldwide
dissemination. As migrant peoples have spread over the world, they have elevated
themselves and invigorated their host societies by concentrating on creating
wealth.

In making this point, Sowell takes a didactic stance. He warns against the
distractions that keep well-meaning people from maintaining this path to
collective progress. He inveighs against shallow but popular therapeutic
policies for creating egalitarian group relations. There is more important
business to be attended to than crusades for cultural esteem, for cultural
security, for moral transformation, or for social engineering. Sowell preaches,
as those familiar with his previous writings know, that reformist politics
diverts energies from the building of the material basis which enables human
collectivities to realize their fullest possibilities for achievement.

For Sowell, immigration has been a very competitive school that teaches lessons
about how to be productive to immigrant and native host alike. Cultural
competition is a way of acquiring knowledge across group boundaries about what
works and does not work to produce wealth. He accepts the inevitability of
unequal outcomes: As a result of competition, groups will be distributed in the
social order according to their particular abilities to produce wealth. But he
argues that cultural competition is good for the so-called losers, whose
cultural traits are superseded or discarded. This is because "they gain a higher
standard of living and a wider cultural exposure which they themselves come to
value and embrace." In other words, cultural competition properly centered in
the sphere of practical life provides a form of beneficial intercultural
learning. And this, as Sowell convincingly demonstrates, has acted as the engine
of cross-fertilization underlying the progress of societies.

Evaluating the competition to create wealth is too serious a matter to obfuscate
by fears of creating invidious distinctions. Unlike many historians, Sowell does
not avoid making blunt assessments of effectiveness. For example, he baldly
states that German immigrants "were widely known for their industriousness,
thrift, neatness, punctuality and reliability in meeting their financial
obligations." He also observes, "In societies where haggling and sharp practices
have been the norm, with buyers and sellers both seeking to outdo each other,
the Chinese have played such games skillfully."

Sowell tries to steer clear of historical determination by stressing how
cultural capital has been fluid, created and re-created. He notes that the Scots
in the 19th century emerged from deep underdevelopment by launching a rapid
accumulation of cultural capital. In 20th-century America, the assimilation of
southern and eastern Europeans provided "some of the most dramatic examples of
cultural changes in a relatively short time." And in his examination of the fall
of the Roman Empire, Sowell shows how cultural capital can be uncreated by
circumstances as well.

This book demonstrates that the history of cultures is the history of their
plasticity and transferability. This lesson has been taught by emigrants of many
races who succeeded in different lands. It is one that bears re-learning in a
time of escalating xenophobia throughout the world.

Reed Ueda teaches American history at Tufts University and is currently a
visiting professor of history at Harvard University.


LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1996April 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, library of congress, A family of immigrants arriving at Ellis
Island

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              256 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 08, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Asylum for Nigerian

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 104 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The nephew of an executed Nigerian human rights activist has been granted
political asylum in the United States.

Barika Idamkue, 35, is an officer in the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni
People, which the Nigerian government views as a subversive group, U.S.
immigration officials said Friday. Nigeria has offered a $ 10,000 reward for
Idamkue's arrest, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

Idamkue left Nigeria last July before Nigerian dictator Gen. Sani Abacha ordered
the arrest of his uncle, playwright Ken Saro Wiwa, and eight other movement
leaders. The nine were executed on Nov. 10.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1996April 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              257 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 21, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Agency Guides Immigrants Seeking Citizenship

Lan Nguyen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 575 words


Victoria C. Rebara, 80, has visited the U.S. Capitol many times before, but
yesterday, as she stood amid gawking tourists in the Rotunda, she gazed at the
fresco paintings inside the cast-iron dome with new curiosity.

In February, the D.C. resident, a native of Peru, began studying to become a
United States citizen, and the process has brought home to her the importance of
where she was standing: the seat of the legislative branch of the U.S.
government.

"Oh, beautiful," she cried out, looking around the stately room filled with
paintings depicting the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the
victory over the British at the Battle of Saratoga. "It's all the history of the
U.S. It's the treasure of the country."

Rebara and 10 other immigrants were in the Capitol as part of a field trip for a
citizenship preparation class sponsored by the Arlington-based Community Refugee
Ecumenical Outreach (CREO) program.

"Some of them have lived here for a long time and want to become part of the
American community," said Judy Smith, director of the program, which resettles
refugees locally. "We want to help them so they can feel like other Americans
and be a part of the culture and the country."

Two months ago, CREO began holding several 12-week classes to teach applicants
about U.S. history and government, help them with English skills for their
citizenship interview with immigration officials and encourage them to vote and
do community service once they become naturalized.

The Arlington group is one of several local initiatives created to help
immigrants through the naturalization process at a time when the number of
people filing for citizenship is skyrocketing. Last year, more than 1 million
people applied for U.S. citizenship, up from about 540,000 in 1994 and 270,000
in 1990, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The increase stems from new efforts by the INS to encourage immigrants to become
naturalized and to reduce the backlog of nearly 600,000 people waiting to be
sworn in as citizens. Fear of anti-immigrant sentiment also has increased the
ranks of applicants for citizenship.

To become a U.S. citizen, an applicant must have lived in the United States for
five years and pass a 10-question oral exam on American government and history.
The applicant must also be able to read, write and understand English, the most
difficult requirement for many.

Some of the students in the CREO class have been in the United States for more
than a decade but recently decided to become citizens because they want to take
part in elections. They also want to bring family members over to join them. "I
have plans to stay here all the time," said Arturo Guebara, 35, an Arlington
resident who hails from El Salvador. "I don't plan to go back to my country."

Rebara, who retired at age 75 from her job as a nanny for Spanish-speaking
families, has lived in the United States for 15 years without learning to speak
English. Now she is watching television and reading American history to prepare
herself for the citizenship test. There she will face such questions as "When
was the Constitution written?" (1787) and "Who elects Supreme Court justices?"
(No one. They're appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate).

"I want to vote in the next presidential election," Rebara said. "I love the
country. I love the people, the American society. It's my life here."


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1996April 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, susan biddle, Noemy and Hugo Pacheco and their son Edwin, 4,
visit the Rotunda. They are from El Salvador.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              258 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 26, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Immigrants Get a Taste Of Mainstream Manners; Young Foreign-Born Students Are
Served A Formal Lunch With a Lesson in Alexandria

Steve Bates, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 658 words


Nine-year-old Brenda Sefoi sat down with her mother yesterday for a formal
luncheon, the first she has experienced since her arrival from Sierra Leone last
summer.

Brenda, who attends Polk Elementary School, in Alexandria, wasn't used to
putting on a party dress for lunch and sitting stiffly while the mayor and
school superintendent made speeches. But she said it was an experience that gave
her insight into her new country without losing the memory of her native land.

"This is not bad; it's just different," said the fourth-grader as she examined
the shiny cutlery at every seat and noticed waiters bustling around with fruit
cups.

That's exactly what the luncheon's sponsors hoped to hear.

Held at T.C. Williams High School, the meal was designed to expose about two
dozen foreign-born children to mainstream American table manners and lifestyle,
a small step in a different direction from other programs across the region that
emphasize the value of the diverse cultures that immigrants bring with them.

"This is not to replace their culture," said Katherine DeSilva, who teaches
English as a second language at Polk and planned the program for fourth- and
fifth-graders. "This is to supplement their education, so they can be successful
in the United States."

The luncheon was prepared and served by high school students in the culinary
arts program and was designed to teach the elementary students some of the
basics: which fork to use for salad, proper etiquette at a formal table and when
and when not to use one's hands.

Although students said they enjoyed the affair -- hardly anyone failed to finish
the pudding -- its importance was not lost on those in attendance.

Demonstrating the basics of U.S. culture to immigrant children "is a fantastic
idea," said Velator Ballah, whose stepdaughter, Nyamah, 10, is a recent arrival
from Liberia and attended the luncheon. Nyamah practiced setting a formal table
at home the night before. "I was very impressed," said her mother.

The mission of helping newcomers adjust to U.S. culture is not a new one for
teachers of English as a second language, who often help students' families
overcome language barriers in dealings with banks, immigration offices and other
institutions. Such tasks are not borne by the schools alone; some churches,
scouting programs and local government agencies also reach out to foreign-born
children in Washington area communities.

Some groups, however, are reluctant to sponsor programs like yesterday's
luncheon out of concern that they might be interpreted as disrespect for the
immigrants' home traditions or that foreign-born students might feel pressured
to give up part of their heritage.

Ronald Blackburn-Moreno, director of the Latino advocacy group Aspira, worried
that something as simple as a luncheon can send the wrong message when it
doesn't include all students. "Why aren't they teaching table manners to all the
children?" he asked.

But Lori Kaplan, who runs the Latin American Youth Center in the District, said
that although some immigrants will adjust to life in this country without
assistance, "some you have to go after." Immigrants, Kaplan said, "need to be
able to move in two worlds."

That was the conclusion drawn by T.C. Williams seniors Jorge Melendez, 20, and
Bridgette Larbi-Ansah, 17, who were hustling plates and pitchers at yesterday's
luncheon as part of their culinary arts course work.

Melendez, who was born in El Salvador, and Larbi-Ansah, who was born in Ghana,
have blended their native and adopted cultures in recent years but say it isn't
always easy for them or their peers.

"Sometimes the kids learn [U.S. culture] better than the parents," who become
anxious as their children adopt American ways, Larbi-Ansah said.

Melendez said: "You lose a part of who you are when you become a mainstream
American. But we have to combine the cultures" to survive in this country.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, Diana Mina, 10, from Colombia, gets pointers from
culinary arts instructor John Dorney at yesterday's luncheon at T.C. Williams
High.  At the luncheon, designed to expose foreign-born Alexandria students to
mainstream American table manners, Diana Mina, 10, from Colombia, gets pointers
from culinary arts instructor John Dorney, left. Subarna Kabir, 11, from
Bangladesh, selects a spoon, top, at the formally set table, above. (Photo ran
in an earlier edition) Minding His Mainstream Manners Ibrahim Koroma, 10, from
Sierra Leone, picks up his drink at a formal luncheon at Alexandria's T.C.
Williams High School. Yesterday's event was designed to expose about two dozen
foreign-born students to mainstream American manners.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              259 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 28, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Court Welcomes Latinos in Montgomery; Open House Gives Immigrants a Friendly
Introduction to Justice System

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 529 words


"Omar," a spindly 13-year-old accused of breaking into a woman's car, squirmed
in a courtroom chair yesterday, wrists handcuffed behind his back, as a lawyer
described in halting Spanish that his parents would have to pay for any damages
he had caused.

"Norma," the owner of the vandalized car, sat grim-faced at the next table as a
Montgomery County juvenile court judge explained through an interpreter that her
mission was to balance the interests of the victim, the community and the boy.

The audience of Latino immigrants listened intently as the mock trial unfolded
in Rockville. They nodded when a man asked how he could discipline his unruly
daughter without getting in trouble with the law, and they smiled when a
prosecutor urged them not to be afraid to call the police.

More than 100 people came to the daylong open house for Spanish-speaking
residents, sponsored by the Montgomery District Court and a coalition of Latino
groups. They were taken step by step through judicial proceedings such as
traffic court and juvenile hearings, and they were invited to meet prosecutors,
defense lawyers, parole officers, social workers and judges.

"This is your courthouse, not ours," said Judge C.J. Vaughey, chief
administrative judge of the District Court, in a welcome message from the bench
that was simultaneously translated into Spanish. "As members of society, it is
important to ensure that you all understand and feel comfortable during your
experiences in court."

Although many participants were shy at first, a number gradually spoke up about
their own brushes with the law or asked how to obtain help in various
situations. Several said they had reservations about complaining to the
authorities because they spoke poor English or feared being deported.

"I want to help my friends learn about the domestic law. Some of them are afraid
to do anything if their husband mistreats them, especially if he speaks better
English and knows more about the system," said Maria Gonzales, a cook from
Gaithersburg.

"Once I was carrying some pizza and beer into my building, and the police came
and threw it all on the ground and put me in handcuffs," recounted Jose Umanzor,
a masonry worker who also lives in Gaithersburg. "I proved to the judge I was
innocent, but a lot of Hispanic people don't defend themselves, because they
lack information and they are afraid."

During the mock trial of "Omar," social workers told the audience that the
system seeks to protect troubled children but that if they make a habit of
skipping school and breaking the law they can be sent to institutions for up to
18 months.

Teresa Wright, a bilingual teacher at Gaithersburg High School, brought a group
of her Latino students, hoping they would come away with a more positive
impression of a system that many Latino adolescents encounter only when they get
arrested.

"I come to this building a lot with kids who are in handcuffs and crying. What's
really needed is prevention," Wright said. "So many Latino kids don't feel they
can talk to their parents, and the parents are desperate about them. The key is
to bring them together before it's too late."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              260 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 04, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Dissident Gets 1-Year Stay in U.S.; Tiananmen Leader Escaped From China

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 596 words


Chinese political dissident Liu Gang, who escaped from China after several weeks
of hiding from the police, is living with friends in the Boston area and will be
able to stay in the United States temporarily under a special immigration
exception.

One of the most defiant student leaders during the 1989 Tiananmen Square
pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing, Liu has been permitted to remain in
this country for one year as a public-interest parolee under a provision of the
Immigration and Naturalization Act. The provision allows temporary entry in
emergencies or in cases in the public interest, U.S. officials said.

In a brief telephone interview yesterday, Liu, 35, said his health is "okay,"
and that he plans to seek political asylum in the United States. The former
physics graduate student also would like to continue his studies.

Liu said he was forced to flee China because of police harassment following his
release from jail last year.

"I couldn't live there one minute longer," he said, referring to the constant
police surveillance of himself, family and friends in his home town of Liaoyuan,
in northern China's Jilin province. He declined to disclose details of his
escape for fear of retaliation against friends and relatives in China.

Sources familiar with Liu's situation said he had been running from the police
for about a month, and fled to Hong Kong before arriving in San Francisco on
Wednesday.

Liu is the latest Chinese dissident to go into forced exile in this country.
Once abroad, these prominent and outspoken pro-democracy activists and labor
organizers are effectively removed as a force of domestic opposition, said Mike
Jendrzejczyk, Washington director of Human Rights Watch/Asia. Their absence
"makes far less likely the revival of any open pro-democracy activity" in China,
he said.

White House press secretary Michael McCurry said the United States did not
expect the case to damage U.S. relations with China. "We are confident that we
can maintain the broad, constructive engagement with China which reflects the
status of our current bilateral relations," he said. Privately, U.S. officials
said they are worried that Liu's case will further exacerbate already strained
relations.

McCurry said President Clinton still planned to extend China's
most-favored-nation trade status for another year. MFN status, which gives a
country low tariff treatment, comes up for review for China in June.

Liu was imprisoned for six years on charges of "conspiracy to subvert the
government." He was No. 3 on the government's list of 21 "most wanted" student
leaders. Because he refused to admit guilt while in prison, he was the last of
the main 1989 student leaders to be released. During his time in jail, he has
told reporters, he was beaten frequently.

He was held at the Lingyuan No. 2 Labor Reform camp in northern China's Liaoning
province, about 160 miles northeast of Beijing. Because of repeated reports of
beatings and torture, Chinese officials, under pressure from human rights groups
and Western governments, including the United States, took an unprecedented step
in March 1994 and invited five Beijing-based U.S. journalists to see Liu at the
labor camp.

The journalists were given a brief view of Liu through the window of the prison
warden's office but were not allowed to interview him.

Liu was released from prison last June. Last August, he was detained for 10 days
because Chinese authorities feared he would try to attend the U.N.-sponsored
International Women's Conference in Beijing.


LOAD-DATE: May 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp, Dissident Liu Gang, a leader of the Tiananmen Square
protest who escaped from China, spoke with reporters and friends near Boston
yesterday.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              261 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 05, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

O Canada! . . .  Whose Canada?; Multicultural Country Strives to Balance
Diversity, National Identity

Charles Trueheart, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1959 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 4


Before anything else happens every morning at Applewood Heights Secondary
School, the public address system crackles to life with the lilting voices of a
choir singing "O Canada." Teachers in the noisy corridors bark "Stand still!"
The students comply, falling silent and offering a freeze-frame of the Canadian
future:

Skin color comes in every hue from pink to chocolate. Asian eyes abound. A few
boys wear the topknots of adolescent Sikhs.

Three brown-eyed girls stand in their floor-length silks and modest head
scarves. When the national anthem is done, a white Canadian teacher offers them
an Islamic greeting.

Applewood Heights, a virtually all-white, English-speaking suburban high school
two decades ago, today is a place where scores of cultures, ethnicities and
languages swim together. A third of its 1,500 students were born outside Canada,
and nearly 40 percent first learned a language other than English. Little more
than a third are of European ancestry. Almost half are immigrants, or the
children of immigrants, from somewhere in Asia.

Applewood Heights looks a lot like Toronto. It offers a glimpse of a generation
of new Canadians who have grown up under one of the world's most welcoming
immigration policies and one of the most aggressive programs of promoting and
preserving immigrant heritage.

Twenty-five years ago, well before other Western countries, the Canadian
government adopted the concept of multiculturalism. The objective was a
"mosaic," a multihued collection of distinctive identities, in contrast to the
traditional American preference to stir immigrants into a "melting pot."

To help meet the objective, federally financed and locally administered programs
range from settlement services and legal aid to "ethno-specific" business
associations and summer street festivals. The official rhetoric of
multiculturalism and government largess have sent a message of respect to newly
arrived immigrants and refugees -- and to prospective ones the world over.

Strains on Canada's extensive medical and social safety net and a changing
political climate have driven the total Canadian take of immigrants downward
from 250,000 a year to 220,000. But at 1 percent that is still the highest
proportion of population of any Western country except Sweden. Canada has an
insignificant illegal immigrant problem compared with the United States -- in
part because of the relative ease of legal entry.

But many Canadians have begun to wonder about the costs of that approach.
Persistent unemployment and deep cuts in basic social services have made
multiculturalism seem to many like a luxury.

Some also question the premise of the luxury. Intellectuals and politicians
debate whether multiculturalism breeds isolation and fragmentation at a time
when Canada is struggling to maintain unity in the face of secessionist
sentiments in Quebec.

Looming over these questions is the test of the philosophy itself: In the
schools and on the streets where multiculturalism is so visible, cultural,
ethnic and linguistic identities feel the powerful pull of acculturation into
Canada and the rest of North America. That dynamic, and the Canadian and
American immigrant experience over the long haul, raise the question: Is the
mosaic ultimately a way station to the melting pot?

One Great Family?

Much of small-town and rural Canada remains all white. But Toronto, Canada's
largest city, with a metropolitan area the size of Washington's, has long since
shed the image and the reality of stolid white Englishness. It is the top
destination of immigrants to a country where one in five citizens was born
elsewhere. Its diversity is impossible to overlook.

Drivers' tests are given in 12 languages and social services provided in dozens
more. Street signs and local advertising come in English and Portuguese, or
Tamil, or Greek, or Vietnamese. Toronto does not have one Chinatown; it has five
or six -- including huge suburban malls catering almost exclusively to Asian
customers. Every summer weekend is given over to "ethno-specific" cultural
festivals featuring kielbasa, dim sum and mulligatawny. Soccer matches an ocean
away prompt an orgy of horn-honking and flag-waving -- Italian, Brazilian,
Portuguese, Irish.

"Things are more relaxed over here with the interracial stuff -- people are easy
with relationships and marriages," said Safa Massoumi, who was born in Iran,
spent 22 years in London and now owns a Toronto coffee bar called Buzz Stop.
"This is a very tolerant place."

In the view of skeptics in the French-speaking province of Quebec,
multiculturalism was Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau's way in 1971 of
sugar-coating for English Canada his simultaneous promulgation of official
bilingualism -- that is, national status for both the English and French
languages.

Canada's French-speaking province is a special case. But in its midst, too, in
Montreal, thrives a multicultural and often trilingual population deliberately
drawn through immigration and language laws from parts of the world where
educated elites often speak French, such as Haiti, Zaire and Vietnam.

Just the other day, Prime Minister Jean Chretien said, "We have welcomed people
from all over the world . . . and we have made one great family."

As families will, however, this one sometimes feuds. Canada's former secretary
of state for multicultural affairs, Sheila Finestone, stirred a major brouhaha
last year by stating that Canada had "no national culture" but instead was
characterized by the coexistence of many cultures.

That is just the problem, in the view of novelist Neil Bissoondath, a native of
Trinidad who lives in Toronto. Bissoondath stirred a hornet's nest with a recent
nonfiction book, "Selling Illusions: The Myth of Canadian Multiculturalism,"
that rejected most of the pieties of the last quarter century. It also earned
him the derision of Trudeau-era liberals and cultural-community leaders, one of
whom called Bissoondath a "coconut."

Multiculturalism, Bissoondath contends, "has highlighted our differences rather
than diminished them, has heightened division rather than encouraged union. More
than anything else, the policy has led to the institutionalization and
enhancement of a ghetto mentality . . . a divisiveness so entrenched that we
face a future of multiple solitudes with no central notion to bind us."

Conflicts Over Integration

True to immigrant patterns in the United States and elsewhere, many Canadians
whose families have been here a generation or more make a resentful connection
between newer immigrants and economic insecurities. Ontario's unemployment rate
is 9 percent. A 1994 Angus Reid poll found that nearly half of all Canadians
thought "too many immigrants" were admitted.

Toronto is awash in what Canadians call "visible minorities" to distinguish them
from light-skinned earlier immigrants from Europe as well as from Canada's
linguistic minority of French-speakers. That demographic convulsion has bred
what some see as a new strain of racism in Canada's urban centers, where most
new Canadians flock.

Sharmini Peries, executive director of the Ontario Council of Agencies Serving
Immigrants, said economic stress "seems to legitimize racism. It gives people
who have racist ideology more confidence to put it in the open." So has the rise
of a new conservative party in the Canadian West, Reform, that has called for
drastically reduced immigration levels.

Peries, who is from Sri Lanka and went to high school in Bethesda, Md., said
there has been a rise in racially motivated hate crimes, a "systemic" race
problem in the Ontario criminal justice system and a failure on the part of news
media to chronicle immigrant life outside of crime, sports, and multicultural
exotica such as ethnic film festivals.

Recent research, however, suggests that Canada's 5 million foreign-born
residents are no more responsible for Canada's troubles than the 24 million
native-born ones, and even somewhat less so. Ather H. Akbari of St. Mary's
University in Halifax concluded in 1994 that immigrant households in Canada paid
more in taxes than the value of the tax-financed public services they used. An
Alberta study found that the foreign-born are less dependent on unemployment and
social assistance than non-immigrants of their age group.

In any case, there is more than nobility behind Canada's embrace of newcomers.
Immigrants and refugees keep this vast, thinly populated country from losing
population. Immigrants contribute to the tax base and the job pool, and open
lucrative commercial lines to their home countries.

In recent years, Canada has more sharply tailored its recruitment to attract
moneyed investors -- what critics call a "visa for sale" scheme -- and to lure
engineers and other well-educated people with specialized labor skills.

Vancouver's boom in Asian immigration in the last decade has made that western
city not just a hub of Asian immigration and culture but a financial player on
the Pacific Rim -- notably as an economic and political haven for nervous
families in Hong Kong facing the transfer next year of the British protectorate
to China.

Toronto's Asian community is even larger. Victor Oh, who immigrated from
Singapore in 1979, recently developed a 150,000-square-foot shopping mall in the
Toronto suburb where Applewood Heights students live. Most of the investors were
Asian, as are almost all of its customers.

Balancing Two Worlds

No challenge is greater to Canada's immigrants, said Ryerson Polytechnic
University Prof. Kenise Murphy Kilbride, an early-childhood education
specialist, than maintaining the integrity of the family, the last bastion of
cultural preservation and transmission.

"One of the saddest laments I hear from first-generation immigrant parents is
not the sacrifices they made to come here -- leaving their families and culture
and status behind. Over and over they say their biggest sacrifice is that they
lose their children to the culture," said Kilbride, an immigrant from New York
City.

At Applewood Heights, that tension is evident to school administrators.

They described students seeking advice about an impending and unwanted arranged
marriage.

Children of some South Asian families are not supposed to be dating at all,
which makes the local library a popular weeknight destination and regular
multicultural conclave.

Principal Susan Both cited a couple who have been together for three years: "The
parents don't have a clue."

Both cited another sad ethnic moment recently, an indication in her view of
where racism is sown. A girl of German extraction endured an excruciating hour
watching a classroom film on World War II while the boy behind her, the son of
Serb immigrants, hissed at her and whispered, "Nazi. Nazi. Nazi."

Such incidents are exceptions, school officials said.

Recent scholarly studies confirm their observation that socializing and dating
outside one's cultural group are common. The norm is an easygoing atmosphere in
which ethnicity and color are elements of lifestyle -- what another vice
principal, Pierre LeFebvre, called "a global way of living."

The people who run Applewood Heights say Canada's multicultural philosophy makes
that general harmony possible because it honors differences rather than trying
to subsume them. "The melting pot," Both said, "doesn't spend enough time
celebrating who you are and where you're from."

On the other hand: Mike DeAngelis, one of the vice principals, said he collared
one East Indian boy who slapped his sister in the school hallway. "In my culture
I can do that," the kid defiantly protested. "In this culture," DeAngelis said
he replied, "you can't."


LOAD-DATE: May 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, jeff chevrier; Illustration, The Washington Post, CANADA'S
MOSAIC OF PEOPLE Applewood Heights, a Toronto suburb, was virtually all white
two decades ago. Now it is a mix of many cultures, reflected in a survey of
students at Applewood Heights Secondary School, which has an enrollment of
1,500: Were you born in Canada?  Yes 65.3% No 34.7% If not, where were you born?
Hong Kong 11.0% Vietnam 10.7 India 9.0 Sri Lanka 7.9 Poland 5.7 Korea 5.5
Britain 4.3 Jamaica 3.8 Phillipines 3.1 Trinidad/Tobago 2.9 Taiwan 2.9 Guyana
2.6 U.S.  2.4 Former Yugoslavia 2.1 China 1.9 Other 24.2 Ethnic makeup of Canada
Population: 29 million Answers to census questions: Multiple origins 28.8%
French 22.7 British 20.7 East and Southeast Asian 3.5 German 3.3 Canada 2.8
Italian 2.8 Aboriginal (Indian and Inuit) 1.7 South Asian 1.5 Ukrainian 1.5
Dutch 1.3 Other origins 9.4 Ethnic makeup of the Toronto metropolitan area:
Total population: 3.9 million Answers to census questions: British 27.3% East
and Southeast Asian 9.6 Italian 8.1 Canadian* 6.9 Multiple origins 5.9 South
Asian 5.2 Black* 3.6 Portuguese 3.2 Jewish 3.0 All others 27.2 SOURCE: 1991
Census/Statistics Canada*NOTE: "Canadian" was offered as a census option for the
first time in 1991. "Black" means African but not Caribbean Patrick Nolan,
Candace McGrath, Connie Tse and Neemat Najjar attend Applewood Heights Secondary
School.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              262 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 12, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Lolita Belandres Dies of Cancer Weeks After Spouse

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 834 words


Lolita Belandres, 46, a Filipino immigrant, medical assistant and mother of four
whose life and terminal illness have been chronicled in several Washington Post
stories in the last year, died of cancer May 11 at her home in Sterling.

In November 1994, Mrs. Belandres, who was working for Kaiser Permanente, was
diagnosed as having pharyngeal cancer, which later spread to her spine and
bones. Three weeks later, her husband of 19 years, Eduardo, was diagnosed as
having small-cell carcinoma, which spread to his liver and bones.

By the fall of 1995, the couple was told that each had six to 12 months to live.
Mr. Belandres, a postal worker, died of cancer March 27 at Fairfax Hospital. Two
days before his death, in a special ceremony at the hospital, both Belandreses
were administered the U.S. oath of citizenship by William J. Carroll, the
Washington district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The life and plight of the dying couple were told in a March 17 front-page story
in The Post. The story told of the couple praying for miracles, not for
themselves so much as for their four children, who ranged in age from 8 to 17
years.

Mrs. Belandres told Post reporter Peter Finn, "I pray, 'Please give us our
lives, please give us one life, so that one of us is here to guide our
children.' "

The couple both grew up in Kalinga, a mountainous area north of Manila, and
married Feb. 21, 1977, just three weeks after meeting at a medical clinic where
Mrs. Belandres worked as a pediatrician. She was a physician in the Philippines
for 18 years before she and her husband came to the United States and settled in
Northern Virginia in 1988. Her husband, who operated a government-owned rice
mill, had been shot in the face in 1987 by communist guerrillas, and left the
Philippines after further threats.

After settling in Northern Virginia, Mr. Belandres worked in the maintenance
department at Fair Oaks Mall, then in 1994, became a mail-sorter at Dulles
International Airport's general mail facility. Mrs. Belandres, who, along with
her husband, was raising four children, joined Kaiser Permanente, a health
maintenance organization. She said she did not have the time or money to
requalify as a physician in the United States. Virginia requires foreign-trained
physicians to have three years of post-graduate training in the United States or
Canada and pass approved U.S. medical exams and an English proficiency test.

By the time the first Post article about them appeared, the family's dreams of
becoming homeowners and American citizens appeared in jeopardy. They both had
lost their jobs, were living on food stamps and $ 600 a month in disability
payments and were told their health insurance was to run out in 12 months. They
had applied for Medicaid. Subsequent stories told of neighbors, family friends
and even strangers who had read about the couple and donated time, work and
money to the family.

In mid-March, Mr. Belandres's sister, Margaret Todas, of Clifton, and her
husband completed paperwork for transferring legal guardianship of the four
children to them.

Mrs. Belandres's survivors include the four children, Christian, William, Lance
and Candice Belandres, all of Sterling.

CHARLES A. McINTYRE

Postal Official

Charles A. McIntyre, 86, who retired in 1971 as deputy assistant postmaster
general with the U.S. Post Office, died of cancer May 10 at his home in
Arlington.

Mr. McIntyre, who was born in Jonesboro, Tenn., graduated from Kansas Wesleyan
University.

He joined the U.S. Post Office in 1940 as a railway postal clerk in Kansas. He
received work assignments in the Washington area in the early 1950s and then was
transferred permanently in 1954.

After his retirement in 1971 he was a consultant to the post office for a year
and then moved to Sarasota, Fla., where he became a public service officer for
the local chapter of the National Association of Retired Federal Employees and
an elder of the Pine Shores Presbyterian Church.

He returned to the Washington area in 1988 and settled in Arlington.

His first wife, Iona Fallis McIntyre, died in 1987.

Survivors include his wife, SaraMae McIntyre of Arlington; a daughter from his
first marriage, Joy McIntyre of Boston; two sisters, Marjorie Pickering of
Kansas City, Kan., and Lenora Mortimer of Gypsum, Kan.; and two brothers, N.J.
McIntyre of Ocala, Fla., and Virgil McIntyre of Prescott, Ariz.

CATHERINE T. DeANNA

Navy Department Clerk

Catherine T. DeAnna, 82, who retired in the mid-1960s after 30 years as a Navy
Department clerk, died of congestive heart failure May 9 at George Washington
University Medical Center.

Ms. DeAnna, who lived in Washington, was born in Cardale, Pa. She moved to the
Washington area in the 1930s and was a member of Holy Rosary Catholic Church in
Washington.

Her hobbies included reading and following the standings of her favorite
baseball team, the Pittsburgh Pirates.

She leaves no immediate survivors.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              263 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 14, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

A 1st Generation's 2nd Language; Immigrants' U.S.-Born Children Fill Special
English Classes

Ellen Nakashima, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1480 words


Walking home from kindergarten, Yoana Vanegas passes neighbors who greet her in
Spanish. In her family's small apartment, she watches Spanish-language
television. At the grocery store, the clerks speak Spanish as they ring up
platanos, leche and frijoles.

Yoana's neighborhood could almost be in Latin America, but it's in central
Arlington. And for all her six years, Yoana has lived only in Arlington
neighborhoods such as this, raised by Salvadoran immigrants whose world is
Spanish. So when she entered kindergarten in the fall, she spoke not a word of
English.

Her case is far from unusual. In public schools throughout the Washington area,
children born in the United States now make up a majority of the pupils enrolled
in English-as-a-second-language classes in the early grades. Although those
youngsters in kindergarten, first and second grades have lived in the United
States all their lives, they have not learned English at home or in their
communities.

"To me, it's amazing," said Yoana's ESL teacher, Yolanda Smingler, "especially
with some of the children I've worked with, who totally, totally have not one
word of English. I thought that they just arrived in this country. No, they've
been here for five, six years."

The sons and daughters of immigrants who arrived here in the 1980s, some of the
children also lack basic skills in the language spoken at home, which makes it
more difficult to teach them English in school, educators say.

The trend of U.S.-born children filling language classes that were created
primarily for recent immigrants is troubling to some, especially because ESL is
one of the fastest-growing areas of spending in tight school budgets.

"Do you continue to watch . . . the ESL budget skyrocket while services are
being cut in other areas?" asked Rosemary Jenks, senior analyst with the Center
for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based research organization that favors
cuts in legal immigration. "You're putting at a disadvantage the other students,
who speak English. You've got limited resources for education, and a larger and
larger share of them is going toward English classes."

Throughout this century, many children born in the United States to immigrants
have not known English when they entered school, historians say, but most of
them were placed in regular classrooms. In the late 1960s, school districts
began offering ESL classes, which are conducted in English and provide basic
instruction in grammar and vocabulary.

Some critics question why children like Yoana are receiving special language
training when previous generations of children did not get such help. But
educators say the earlier students could easily find manufacturing jobs that did
not require fluency in English, whereas the good jobs in today's economy require
a college diploma and sophisticated communication skills.

"When people talk about, 'Well, so-and-so learned English the old way,' they're
talking about a time when schooling was not that important," said Virginia P.
Collier, a professor of ESL and bilingual education at George Mason University
in Fairfax. "You could still be successful professionally without completing
your schooling. We're not in an industrial age anymore. We're in a
technology-driven, information-driven age."

On average, ESL teachers say, it will be two to three years before students like
Yoana are ready for regular classes, and five to seven years before they are as
proficient in reading and writing English as their peers.

Yoana, like many of the young Latino children now being placed in ESL classes,
has no firm foundation in English or Spanish. Only eight months ago, she did not
know "red" or "blue" in either language.

In class last week at Barrett Elementary School, she worked on vocabulary and
phonics by responding to her teacher's questions as she planted seeds in milk
cartons, colored animal pictures and discussed a zoo trip. She still mixes her
tenses, confuses her colors, misinterprets simple instructions. But she is
progressing, her teacher said.

Yoana's father, Pedro Vanegas, a 33-year-old construction worker, said his
family speaks only Spanish at home. "Basically, we don't go out much," he said
in Spanish. "And we don't let her go out much because it's dangerous."

He never worried about his daughter's lack of English. "It's her first year in
school, and I thought she would learn it there," he said. "They are taking care
of her. They're teaching her a lot. She will learn."

Leaning back into his rocking chair, Vanegas watched his daughter and his
3-year-old son, Leonide, scamper about the dark apartment.

"I'd like to live in a place where they speak only English," he said. That way,
he said, his children would probably pick up the language from other children.
But these "casas grandes," he said, are expensive. The Vanegases cannot even pay
their $ 700 monthly rent alone and have invited a young Honduran couple to share
their two-bedroom apartment.

Both Vanegas and his wife, Sara Ventura, did not go beyond grade school.
Ventura, who is Yoana's mother, is illiterate. Vanegas can read and write a
little in Spanish. Neither speaks English.

School officials say the parents of U.S.-born ESL students typically have a
limited education, work long hours and have little time to read or converse with
their children. This delays a child's progress in the family's first language,
educators say -- and without that foundation, exposure to English-language
television, radio and books will not help a child learn English.

"A lot of the supports that would have been available to these children in the
home country are not here," said Maria Malagon, director of ESL and bilingual
programs in Montgomery County schools. "They would have an extended family . . .
lots of other people to talk to."

In fact, students who come from other countries often are more fluent in their
native language than the children of immigrants born here, she said. "Some of
the kids who were from very rural areas may not be able to talk to you about
cars and computers, but they would be able to tell you everything about planting
corn," Malagon said. "We don't see that linguistic ability with a lot of the
kids who are born here."

Washington area school officials estimate that one-half to three-fourths of the
U.S.-born youngsters in English language classes are Latino, although they do
not keep such statistics. The rest are of Asian, African, Middle Eastern or
European descent.

Sokphal Sy, 7, a second-grader at Baileys Elementary School in Fairfax County,
is an ESL student. The oldest of four children, Sokphal was born in Falls Church
but knew no English until he entered kindergarten. His mother, Phally Sy, a
30-year-old single parent who is a native of Cambodia, knows little English and
speaks to her children in Khmer, her native language.

The Khmer Rouge cut short her education at kindergarten, Sy said, and her only
schooling came in a Thai refugee camp before she immigrated to the United States
in 1983.

"In the future, [my] children will speak more English than Cambodian," she said
with conviction. But she also feels some regret. "The more they grow, the more
they start to forget Khmer. . . . If the parents are Cambodian, the children
should speak both languages."

In the Fairfax school system, the number of U.S.-born students taking ESL in
first and second grade has more than doubled in three years, increasing from 601
to 1,325. Most Fairfax schools do not offer ESL in kindergarten.

The growth has been almost as rapid in Arlington, where U.S.-born children now
account for 67 percent of ESL enrollment in kindergarten through second grade.
Such children also represent a majority of ESL enrollment in those grades in
Montgomery, Alexandria and District public schools.

In response to the trend, school officials have created new programs. In
Montgomery, Arlington and Fairfax, teachers now run workshops to coach parents
on developing their children's verbal skills. Arlington offers a "first-language
support" class to help Latino children become proficient in Spanish so they can
learn English more readily.

Some residents argue that such programs are replacing what should be a parental
responsibility. "You would expect that these parents would be raising their
children to speak English," said Tim Wise, president of the Arlington County
Taxpayers Association. "This is a burden on the taxpayer."

Ronny Menendez, a Guatemala native whose two youngest daughters are in ESL
classes in Montgomery County, said he resents the perception that they are not
entitled to that help.

"My daughters were born here. They are citizens!" said Menendez, who lives in
Silver Spring and is a cook in the District. "We don't live on food stamps.
We're not on Medicaid. We're fighting to educate our kids."


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1996May 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, bill o'leary; keith jenkins, Yoana Vanegas, 6, seems baffled by
a lesson in the English-as-a-second-language class taught at Barrett Elementary
by Yolanda Smingler. Yoana has lived in Arlington all her life.  Sokphal Sy, 7,
center, reads a book in English with his sister Sophorn, 6, at their Falls
Church home after school. Their brother, Kim Seng, 2, is at left.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              264 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 19, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

License for a Witch Hunt

David Cole

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C09

LENGTH: 813 words


Last month, President Clinton signed into law the Anti-Terrorism and Effective
Death Penalty Act of 1996. Among other things, that law makes it a crime,
punishable by 10 years in prison, to support the lawful activities of any
foreign organization the secretary of state designates as terrorist. A decision
issued recently by a federal judge in Los Angeles illustrates what we can expect
when the federal government begins to enforce this law.

In the Los Angeles case, U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson, appointed to the
bench by President Reagan, enjoined the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from deporting Khader Hamide and Michel Shehad eh, two Palestinian immigrants,
for their support of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP).
The United States has consistently labeled the PFLP a terrorist group, although
it concedes that the PFLP, the second-largest faction of the Palestine
Liberation Organization, also engages in a wide range of lawful political and
social welfare activities.

Judge Wilson found that the government had targeted Hamide and Shehadeh not for
committing or supporting any terrorist acts but solely for their support of the
PFLP's lawful activities. Relying on established Supreme Court precedent, he
held that such treatment violates the First Amendment freedom of association.

The FBI and the INS submitted 10,000 pages of evidence in the case, in what the
judge characterized as a "scattershot, guilt by association approach." What that
evidence says about our government is far more troubling than what it says about
Hamide and Shehadeh. For three years, the country's leading law enforcement
agency taped political speeches, photographed demonstrations and attended
political meetings, all to demonstrate that Hamide and Shehadeh supported the
PFLP. To establish that they had distributed PFLP magazines, for example, the
FBI collected Customs air-bill numbers from magazine shipments, analyzed
signatures of those who picked up boxes of the magazines, weighed the boxes to
estimate the number of magazines in each box, trailed people who picked up the
boxes and seized notes from one immigrant's home about distribution problems.
This kind of investigation would make sense for trafficking in cocaine, but
political magazines?

The government's evidence, much of it in the form of FBI surveillance reports,
includes hundreds of photographs of attendees at political events, seemingly
endless translations of seemingly endless political speeches and repeated
references to the fact that participants carried "anti-U.S., anti-Israel,
anti-Jordan" signs, made "anti-U.S." speeches and handed out "anti-U.S."
pamphlets. The First Amendment, of course, protects one's right to carry an
"anti-U.S." sign, but the FBI accounts report on this activity as if it were a
crime.

The purpose of the principal FBI report, according to its own summary, was "to
identify key PFLP people in Southern California so that law enforcement agencies
capable of disrupting the PFLP's activities through legal action can do so." The
FBI specifically urged the INS to target Hamide because he was "intelligent,
aggressive, dedicated, and shows great leadership ability." "By removing Hamide
through criminal or deportation proceedings," the FBI reasoned, "the PFLP will
be severely hampered in Southern California."

This is the language of the 1960s program COINTELPRO, in which the FBI sought to
"disrupt" organizations with disfavored political agendas, and targeted the
leaders of such groups for harassment. But as Judge Wilson wrote, "there is
nothing unlawful in distributing literature, recruiting new members, collecting
money, or organizing dinner events, even if others find such literature or
events alarming."

This kind of FBI activity is unfortunately precisely what we have to look
forward to under the new anti-terrorism law. That law makes it a federal crime
to support the lawful activities of any group the government labels as
terrorist, and it will therefore unleash the FBI on an untold number of witch
hunts like its investigation of Hamide and Shehadeh. It will spend more and more
of its scarce resources weighing boxes of magazines, photographing
demonstrations and reading pamphlets to determine whether they are "anti-U.S."

One of the FBI reports submitted in the Los Angeles case concluded, after
summarizing more than 1,000 pages of evidence of lawful political activities,
with a quote from Thomas Jefferson: "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."
When the FBI appropriates that dictum, we're in trouble. Jefferson, of course,
was not referring to "eternal surveillance." But that may well be the cost of
the new anti-terrorism law.

The writer, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, represents Khader
Hamide and Michel Shehadeh for the Center for Constitutional Rights.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1996May 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              265 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 19, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

For Volunteers, Accent Is on Ancestry; Established Area Latinos Help Newcomers
Put Down New Roots

Louie Estrada, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1583 words


Written at the top of the board is the objective: $ 600,000. That's how much is
needed to help four Latino immigrant children fighting leukemia. Below that is
the amount that had been collected: $ 6,413.16.

"Attention, please, attention," Ileana Mayorga says in Spanish as skeptical
murmuring breaks out from the group. "We can make significant gains in the next
few weeks, but it will depend on our participation and, as always, the kindness
of others."

Mayorga and about 30 others meet every Thursday at St. Anthony's Catholic Church
in Falls Church in a brightly lighted conference room where a foot-tall ceramic
Virgin Mary stares down from a bookshelf. They discuss bone-marrow matches for
the children and raising the money to pay for the transplants and other medical
expenses.

Many are church members and volunteers with Fundacion Marcelino Pan y Vino, one
of several local charities drawing support from Washington's growing pool of
Latino immigrants who have moved into the middle class.

Fifteen years after a wave of immigration began from Latin America to the
Washington area, Latinos who have made good here are giving their time and money
to help ease the problems faced by recent arrivals from their homelands.

"As immigrants, we encountered the same problems years ago that many Latinos are
still facing now. We have the knowledge and experience to guide them so they
don't walk into the same kind of problems," said Mayorga, the foundation's vice
president, who emigrated from Nicaragua in 1979.

The foundation was named after a boy in Spanish folklore who said he saw Jesus;
literally translated, its name means the Marcelino Bread and Wine Foundation. It
coordinates efforts with other Washington area groups -- some well established
and others brand new -- including the League of United Latin American Citizens,
Barrios Unidos, the Coalition of Latino Professionals and Organizations, the
Hispanic Committee of Virginia, the Hispanic Bar Association and Ganas, whose
name reflects a desire to do something, with gusto.

The groups provide a mixture of services to new immigrants. Some gather job
leads for unskilled seasonal workers and help them fill out documents while
offering language translation for those who don't speak English. They organize
food drives and link people who need legal and medical help with sympathetic
lawyers and doctors. They provide mentors to teenagers in trouble. They help
immigrants with the process of becoming U.S. citizens and teach them how to
participate in local government.

Their members offer a variety of motives for volunteering. Some Latinos remember
the challenges they faced as newcomers. Others want to help young people in
trouble. Some said they volunteered to help fight the unfair stereotype that
identifies Latinos with crime, unemployment and illegal immigration. Others just
want to offer immigrants hope for a better life.

The Rev. J. Eugenio Hoyos, who was born and raised in Colombia, has watched the
ranks of middle-class parishioners and the number of families volunteering
increase steadily at St. Anthony's during the 5 1/2 years he's been in Northern
Virginia.

"These families feel very connected to the newcomers," Hoyos said. "They
understand what it's like to arrive in a new country with few places to turn for
help. They appreciate the difficulties of the first few years but also know the
rewards that come from education and hard work."

Although Latino support groups attract volunteers of many ethnic backgrounds and
a broad range of incomes, the Latino middle class provides the bulk of
volunteers for groups such as the Spanish Catholic Center in Washington. The
Rev. Mark Poletunow, the center's executive director, said that among more than
300 volunteers with his organization, most are Latino professionals -- doctors,
lawyers and health-care workers. They volunteer for altruistic reasons but also
because of cultural and ethnic ties to recent immigrants, he said.

"I think there is a sense that the earlier waves of immigrants have dealt with a
new culture and society so different from where they were born, and they want to
pass some of that knowledge along," Poletunow said.

The members of Washington's expanding Latino middle class mostly arrived since
1980. Those who came with an education or a nest egg had the easiest climb.
Others came with little money or schooling but persevered to build families,
homes and businesses.

About 44 percent of Latino adults (not all of them immigrants) in the region
make $ 35,000 to $ 75,000 a year, the same percentage as the general population,
according to a 1995 marketing report from Scarborough Research in New York.

But the median household income of the estimated 185,000 Latino adults in the
Washington area was $ 40,800, lower than the median of $ 53,000 for all
Washington area adults. About 37 percent of Hispanic adults make less than $
35,000, according to the report, a number that may be understated because of
language difficulties in conducting telephone surveys and traditional problems
of counting the working poor.

Although the U.S. Census Bureau only recently began keeping statistics that
would show whether the local Latino middle class is growing, Washington area
activists point to anecdotal evidence that many Latinos who arrived at the start
of the immigration surge have moved into the middle class.

"Look at the Salvadoran restaurants, the small businesses in Adams-Morgan and in
the suburbs. You'll see dozens of Latinos who run their own stores and have good
careers," said Pedro Aviles, executive director of the Latino Civil Rights Task
Force in Washington. "But the underlying causes of poverty are so great [that]
we need more volunteers, regardless of their socioeconomic backgrounds."

Those volunteers are people such as Mayorga, an Arlington libraries employee.
She has taken a lead role in raising money for the four immigrant children with
leukemia; an additional $ 5,000 has come in since that night at the church.
Bone-marrow matches have been found for three children, but the cost of medical
treatment led their families to turn to the Marcelino foundation for help.

For the last several weeks, foundation volunteers have concentrated on finding a
match for the fourth child, 4-year-old Ronald Fuentes, whose mother is from El
Salvador.

Most of Mayorga's evenings are spent on the phone arranging and attending
meetings to set up fund-raising events, she said. She spends about 20 hours a
week volunteering.

"The rewards of volunteering are very personal," Mayorga said. "This is a
grass-roots effort to find solutions within the community. We know we can't
solve all the problems, but we have an opportunity to make life a little
better."

Another volunteer is Brandon Mitchell, who was born in Puerto Rico and is a
legislative assistant to Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.). He joined Ganas, which
was founded in 1993 by young Latino professionals working on Capitol Hill, to
become a mentor to troubled Hispanic youths. Ganas has about 50 active members
who coordinate workshops that encourage immigrants to become U.S. citizens and
who have raised money for the Latin American Youth Center in Washington.

Armed with an understanding of how government works, Spanish-language skills and
concerns about the problems that mar Hispanic neighborhoods, Ganas volunteers
want to raise the hopes and expectations of Latinos struggling for a better
life, Mitchell said.

"We were all immigrants at some point in our ancestry," he said. "What we are
trying to do is give them a little support when they need it the most."

Salvador Velez, a librarian at the Inter-American Development Bank, used his
professional experience to help organize a small library of books in Spanish at
the Lorton Correctional Complex. He volunteers through his church, Our Lady
Queen of the Americas in Washington.

"I help out because of the good feeling you get when you're connected to your
community," Velez said.

Emma Sanchez, an Arlington County social worker, said she volunteers with the
foundation and other groups because she feels a sense of responsibility for
recent Latino immigrants as well as anger over "continued discrimination"
against them.

"We look upon those who need help as if they could be a blood relation, could be
your father, mother or sister," Sanchez said. "You can't turn your back on them
once you become successful yourself."

Sanchez said she also wants to fight negative stereotypes of Latinos. "Some of
us feel an obligation to help because as [middle-class Hispanics] we are
probably identified often with the problems of the Hispanic community," Sanchez
said. "The problems are so visible that I think there is a temptation to paint
us all with the broad brush."

Despite the successes, the groups all say they need more volunteers. The number
of middle-class Latinos who volunteer is still relatively modest compared with
their total numbers in the population.

Meanwhile, nonprofit groups and churches increasingly are becoming the primary
sources of help for immigrants at a time when local governments, faced with
tight budgets, are curbing funding for Hispanic agencies.

"Volunteerism is very big in our community, but we need more people to help a
core group of volunteers and activists who take part in naturalization
workshops, distribute food and volunteer in local English as a Second Language
programs," Aviles said.


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1996May 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, The Rev. J. Eugenio Hoyos spends time with leukemia
patients Douglas Tovar, left, and Luis Andres Hernandez. Latino volunteers,
whose numbers are growing, are raising money to help four young patients.
Douglas Tovar, 9, who has leukemia, keeps busy during a meeting at St. Anthony's
Catholic Church, in Falls Church, of Latino volunteers trying to help children
with the disease. Douglas needs a bone-marrow transplant.  The Rev. J. Eugenio
Hoyos speaks during a meeting at St. Anthony's. Hoyos, who was born in Colombia,
says more Latinos are volunteering.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              266 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 20, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Stem the Flow of Immigration

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 232 words


Sen. Spencer Abraham's May 5 letter "The Wrong Number on Immigration" is
eloquent, but it glosses over the facts about the amendment he sponsored to the
recent immigration bill.

It is estimated that legal immigration will increase by 100,000 per year because
of the "Kennedy-Abraham" amendment. Sen. Abraham fought tooth and nail for every
provision in the bill that addressed legal immigration, including that which
would have helped protect the American worker. Whose side is he on? The American
worker gets little, if any, protection from the immigration bill that he helped
to craft.

He further states that "family reunification" is the process by which to run our
immigration system. This is just a veiled term for continued chain immigration.
The immigration system is about numbers, namely one million or more immigrants
per year. In the 1960s, when the immigration laws were changed, no one
anticipated the volume of people we would be admitting in the name of
reunification, diversity, humanity, whatever.

The number of legal immigrants is simply too high; percentages mean nothing.
Absolute numbers are the gauge of what is really happening. We have to start
thinking about ourselves and our children's future. We are headed toward a
future that will be crowded like India. We must reduce all immigration before it
is too late.

DOUGLAS CURRY

Silver Spring


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1996May 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, margaret scott

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              267 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 25, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Competing Cultures and the Generation Gap; Latino Community Congress Focuses on
Relationships Between Immigrants and Their Children

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 683 words


"Don't hold your children down; hold them up!"

It was a both a sober and impassioned appeal to Latino parents from a well-known
District educator, and it set the tone yesterday morning for a two-day Latino
Community Congress, being sponsored by the Latino Civil Rights Task Force on the
law school campus at American University.

Beatriz Otero, director of a multicultural education center in Columbia Heights,
said that many Latino parents, especially new immigrants, have low self-esteem
and expectations, which they can pass on to their children. She also said the
generation gap can be exacerbated when parents speak only Spanish and their
teenagers speak mostly English.

"I see mothers and fathers who are still in the old language and culture,
raising kids who are dealing with a new language and culture," said Otero, who
spoke at a panel discussion. "The kids get the sense that their parents are
inferior, and that's an extremely dangerous message."

Ana Sol Gutierrez, a member of the Montgomery County Board of Education, echoed
that theme in opening the fourth annual congress, which is focusing on family
themes. Latino newcomers who have not been educated need to become more involved
in their children's education, she said, warning that unless the younger
generation of Latinos makes more progress, its members face a bleak future in
this country.

"Talk to your son as an astronaut, a doctor and engineer. Let him know education
can lead anywhere," she urged. "Unfortunately in the Latino community, we are
often happy if our kids make it through with a high school diploma. But that's
not good enough."

About 150 people attended yesterday's day-long session, which included workshops
on Latino women's issues, anti-immigrant legislation, youth leadership and
progress by local organizations since the disturbances five years ago in the
Latino community of Mount Pleasant.

The Latino task force, based in Adams-Morgan, is a nonprofit advocacy group that
was formed in the wake of the disturbances. It promotes immigrant rights,
citizenship and grass-roots community involvement in public issues.

Today's segment will include a voter registration drive, a workshop on immigrant
rights, and discussions on domestic violence, parental roles in education,
after-school and counseling programs for teenagers, home ownership and AIDS. The
law school campus is in the 4800 block of Massachusetts Avenue NW.

Several dozen young Latinos who participate in youth groups attended yesterday,
and some spoke at the sessions. They talked about the difficulties of growing up
in American society without support from parents who work round-the-clock, and
who often don't have the time or understanding to cope with their problems.

"There is a huge gap. We don't need to talk more about it; we need to do
something concrete," said Omar Zavala, 21. "Young people adapt more easily to
American culture, while their parents are still strongly tied to their old
roots. They see our dress, our music, and they panic. Differences occur, and the
kid ends up on the street, running away or getting pregnant."

But Lori Kaplan, who directs the Latin American Youth Center, in Mount Pleasant,
put a more positive spin on the Latino family, which she called the cornerstone
of stability and progress for immigrants as they settle into American society.
Her agency provides counseling, recreation and job training for Latino
teenagers.

"The energy and resilience you need to move away from dependency and into the
mainstream, that all emanates from the family," she said. In the 1980s, many
families from Central America arrived in this area, facing the stresses of new
jobs, immigration problems and long separations from relatives who remained
behind.

"Now, they are entering a new phase, with fewer unknowns. They are starting to
look at homeownership, stability, making a contribution," Kaplan said. Often
there are strains between reunited parents and children. "But if families can
remain strong and united, they have the best chance of reaching the American
dream."


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1996May 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, margaret thomas, Tangram puzzle solvers at the fourth annual
Latino Community Congress are, from left, Marleny Flores, Blanca Romero, Monica
Nillen and Albania Del Orbe.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              268 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 29, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigrants: My Family

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 415 words


Douglas Curry's May 20 letter "Stem the Flow of Immigration" warns us to start
"thinking about ourselves and our children's future." He may be thinking about
himself, but he is not thinking about my children's future.

In the two years since I brought my wife and her children to this country, they
have been excelling in work and school, with bright and productive futures ahead
of them. My wife's employers have recognized her efforts with awards, promotions
and increased responsibility. Yet Mr. Curry says my family doesn't belong here.
He implies, moreover, that my wife and other immigrants take jobs away from more
deserving Americans; but my wife did not "take" her job from anyone. She won it
fair and square in competition with hundreds of other applicants.

Nativists wants us to believe that my wife and thousands of other hard-working
legal immigrants are some sort of threat -- a threat that Mr. Curry can only
articulate in vague, unsubstantiated rhetoric. We are, he states, headed to a
future as "crowded as India." But where are the demographics to prove it? "The
number of immigrants is simply too high," he says. "We must reduce immigration
before it is too late."

Too late for what? Mr. Curry presents no facts, no statistics, just his own
fears, echoing the paranoia of former generations. They, too, worried about the
loss of jobs, the loss of language, the loss of cultural heritage. But after
more than a century of immigration, what did we end up with? Our grandparents.

Legal immigrants, by definition, have a right to live and work in this country.
A notable roster of immigrants put this nation into the atomic age and on the
moon, and contributed to the way of life we now treasure as "American." I work
with the children of immigrants, American citizens, who are keeping the United
States competitively high-tech in an industry that keeps Americans free and
prosperous. Does their presence at my company mean an "American" lost his job?
Nobody here seems to think so. Here, we work together -- the children of
immigrants and the children of the children of immigrants.

Nativists worry about the numbers. I worry about painting all our immigrants
with the same broad brush of discrimination. Legal immigration has never been a
threat to this country. It continues to be a vast resource of capable, committed
human beings, wanting only to participate in, and contribute to, this experiment
of American diversity.

PAUL W. MARVEL

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996May 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              269 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 14, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Boot People

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE; IN THE LOOP

LENGTH: 886 words


Most folks think smooth sailing means good news. Not Joseph G. Sullivan, our man
in Havana and head of the U.S. interests section there. Warming weather and calm
seas, Sullivan warns, mean "the rafting season is fast upon us."

That's prime time for Cubans fleeing the Castro regime to make their move,
Sullivan said in a secret cable last week to the State Department.

Sullivan wants to make sure State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
are working from the same playbook in deciding which "migrants" -- they used to
be called refugees and immediately admitted -- are given asylum and which are
not. And he warned the department and the INS that most rafters should not be
let in.

". . . Migrants who take to sea will exaggerate claims of activism or act
distressed," Sullivan said, "when confronted with a possible repatriation if
such acts maximize the possibility of their transfer to Guantanamo [naval
station], a steppingstone, in their view, to the United States." The INS will be
stunned to learn this.

"Given the opportunity, these migrants will also manipulate the media to
publicize alleged claims," he said. We are shocked.

"A good number of migrants interdicted thus far are long on multiple attempts at
illegal exit and short on specific incidents of persecution for political or
religious reasons," Sullivan noted.

Beware buying any of the many ploys the Cubans might use, he said, because "the
method which works for one illegal migrant to successfully reach Guantanamo will
spread quickly through the community of Cubans" not eligible for refugee status
"and encourage hundreds or thousands more to take to rafts."

Sullivan said his section has "worked diligently" to process refugee claims
in-country and make sure that rafters returned are not subject to reprisals by
the Cuban government.

"However, as calm waters and good weather descend upon us," he said, the United
States "depends on the [Cuban government] to use all possible persuasive means
to prevent illegal migration. To reward migrants with a history of illegal
migration attempts with a stay at Guantanamo dangerously undermines this
delicate balance."

Maybe we can have the Germans send the Cubans old sections of the Berlin Wall?

The Word on the Street and in the House

Hearing moment of the week. . . . Rep. Joe Barton (R-Tex.), chairman of the
House Commerce subcommittee on oversight and investigations, is looking into
Energy Secretary Hazel R. O'Leary's travel proclivities.

"Word on the street was that some in Congress wanted to take me out by [last]
Christmas," O'Leary said during her testimony yesterday.

"I think there are numerous male members that are unmarried that would be
delighted to take you out before Christmas," Barton opined.

Faircloth's Fish Kill

The Republicans have Whitewater to work on. Now some Democrats say they've got
"Yamscam." They're talking about a spill from a cattle farm owned by Sen. Lauch
Faircloth (R-N.C.) that killed large numbers of fish over a 20-mile stretch of
the Black River.

The Raleigh News & Observer reports that state regulators say about 250,000
gallons of partially liquefied sweet potato scraps -- used as cattle feed --
seeped out of a feed bin on his farm into the river, depleting oxygen for miles
downstream, turning the river orange and killing the fish.

Unlike Whitewater, there's no mystery here. Faircloth acknowledged his farm's
fault -- someone apparently forgot to shut a valve, even though state officials
said they had warned farm managers last year that this could happen -- and he's
facing a state fine of up to $ 10,000 for the spill.

Faircloth apologized "to the people who use the streams, the environmental
people who protect them, and everyone else who was affected," the paper
reported.

Even so, Senate Democrats no doubt will demand hearings into prior anti-fish
statements by Faircloth, then subpoenas for farm employees, then inquiries into
why a different valve maker wasn't contacted. . . .

A Lott Could Happen After November

The carpet swatches are out in the Senate, staffers are moving about, and
there's a bit of angst among Republican aides wondering about what's going to
happen with new Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) in charge.

Though some may be Krazy Glue-ing themselves to their chairs, Lott, who by the
way has claimed a coveted seat on the Senate Finance Committee, has emphasized
he's not planning huge changes and apparently has let it be known to cloakroom,
floor staff and other employees that everyone's fine at least until November.

Not that there won't be some changes. For example, Lott's staff director, David
Hoppe, moves into the job of secretary of the Senate, a job held by Kelly D.
Johnston, who's is line to be a member of the Federal Election Commission. But
the scuttlebutt among the worker bees is that they'll be okay.

Lyman Was Not Confirmed

Correction: A wire service report Wednesday incorrectly included Princeton N.
Lyman, up for assistant secretary of state for international organizations, on a
list of nominees confirmed by the Senate. Someone still has a hold on it.

And that was Stephen Gaskill, last name with an "i," not an "e," who's going to
be chief flack at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996June 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              270 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 18, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Latino Activist, Wife Go on Trial; Couple Charged With Stealing Thousands Meant
for Immigrants' Class

Brian Mooar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 564 words


The leader of one of Montgomery County's largest Latino organizations went on
trial with his wife yesterday on charges that they stole thousands of dollars
from a nonprofit agency that hired them to teach auto mechanics to immigrants.

Galo Arturo Correa Sr. and his wife, Maria Cristina Correa, are accused of
taking money from a $ 33,000 grant from the Private Industry Council, a
nonprofit county agency that arranges and helps fund employment and job-training
programs.

Defense lawyers told the Circuit Court jury that the couple had fulfilled their
contractual obligations for the course. They said the Correas were being
targeted for prosecution because of a power struggle between Galo Correa and his
two brothers, Wilson and Luiz, who were once his business partners in the
family's Rockville auto repair business.

Each defendant faces a count of felony theft and a count of conspiracy to commit
theft, charges that carry a maximum prison term of 15 years and a $ 1,000 fine.

Deputy State's Attorney I. Matthew Campbell told jurors that the Correas took
nearly $ 6,000 intended for instructors teaching a 17-week auto mechanic course
in 1994 and that they misled the Private Industry Council about the structure
and effectiveness of the classes. Campbell said the Correas claimed that two of
their 15 students were placed in jobs, when in fact both had been working at the
same jobs before taking the course.

Campbell said the couple filed questionable requests for reimbursement,
including expenses for their family auto repair shop that were unrelated to the
course.

"This is a theft that is the result of careful planning and considerationgiven
to it before it occurred," Campbell said in his opening statement.

Attorneys for Galo Correa, chief executive and co-founder of Hispanics United
for Rockville, and his wife said that the two worked hard to make the night
course a success and that, if anything, the case should have been heard as a
contract dispute in civil court.

Cristina Correa's attorney, Leonard R. Stamm, described the case as the fallout
of "a very, very bitter family feud. Bitter enough that one brother would go to
the state's attorney and make up allegations about [Correa] and involve this
jury in deciding which brother is telling the truth."

The attorneys vigorously disputed statements by Wilson Correa, who told
investigators that he never taught a single class even though two checks for
more than $ 3,500 were issued in his name. Wilson Correa said that he once spoke
to the students briefly but that he was in South America on a two-month business
trip while the classes were being taught.

Wilson Correa told investigators that Galo Correa had him endorse a $ 2,600
check, which Galo cashed without ever giving any of the money to Wilson.

The lawyers conceded that the money ended up in Galo Correa's personal bank
account, but they said the cash was paid out to a substitute teacher.

Galo Correa's attorney, Robert L. Koven, said the Private Industry Council's
goal of getting 80 percent of the students in the course jobs in the auto
mechanics field at $ 6.50 an hour was unrealistic. Nevertheless, he said that
the Correas did not take any money to which they were not entitled and that Galo
Correa invested more than 400 hours of his own time in the course without taking
any compensation for himself.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              271 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 20, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Where Foreigners Learned to Feel at Home; Outpouring of Grief Over Closing of
Rosario Center

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - DISTRICT; Pg. J01

LENGTH: 1409 words


To passersby, the Carlos Rosario Adult Education Center has been a run-down,
somewhat mysterious building at Wisconsin Avenue and S Street NW, where the
lights always burned late and people in foreign dress always seemed to be
waiting for the bus.

To thousands of immigrants who studied at Rosario over the years, it has been a
sanctuary in a bewildering and often hostile new world, a first foothold in the
slippery ascent out of poverty, a place of learning that also made them feel
they had something to offer American society.

Now that Rosario is shutting its doors as a public school -- a victim of
District budget cuts and, some Latino activists suggest, anti-immigrant
sentiment -- students, staff and graduates are mourning the end of an
institution they fought to save and failed to save through months of hearings,
protests and fund-raisers.

Rosario was one of three adult education centers ordered closed by D.C.
officials last month, but it was the only one that was dedicated to the teaching
of English to immigrants, at little or no cost to them. The last day of classes
was Tuesday.

"If I hadn't come here I would still be cleaning toilets in offices," said Andre
Carranza, 29, who left El Salvador in 1986, learned English at Rosario and has
been working there part time while studying criminology at Northern Virginia
Community College. "This school is not just for language. It opens doors of many
kinds. It gives you roots. It brings all kinds of people together."

Farid Smail, 25, an engineer from Algeria who has been studying at Rosario
during the day and delivering pizzas until midnight, said he felt lost at sea
when he arrived in Washington last fall until someone told him about Rosario.

"This place has given me a big family. It feels friendly and secure," Farid said
last week. "I have met people from 40 countries, and I even learned a little
Spanish. Hola, bonita mamacita -- Hi, pretty mama," he demonstrated with a
giggle. Then his face sobered. "I would do anything to keep this school open. We
all would. I feel terrible for those who come after us, because they will never
find a school like it."

About 2,000 students were attending day and evening classes at Rosario when it
closed. Next fall, its English courses will be reduced by half and scattered
among District high schools, and its "survival" services, from job counseling to
income tax preparation, will be eliminated. Sonia Gutierrez, who has been
principal since 1972, said she plans to start a charter school for adult
immigrants, but that will take time and money.

Teachers at Rosario, many of whom have taught there for more than a decade, are
devastated. Most said that they expect to find new positions but that they
feared nothing could replace the spirit of Rosario, where many formed close and
lasting friendships with their adult students.

"I'll find a another job, but this place is so special. It has had such an
impact on my whole family," said Jennifer Leverdy, 37, who stood sobbing in a
school hallway one day last week. She started as an intern in 1979 and met her
husband, an immigrant from Ecuador, while he was studying there in the 1980s.
Later, his brothers and sisters followed him to the United States and to
Rosario; now all are U.S. citizens and professionals.

What made Rosario exceptional, Leverdy and others said, was the compassion and
cooperation it fostered among people of many cultures and classes. It was a
place where Salvadoran busboys and Brazilian embassy wives, French nannies and
former Vietnamese army officers studied and struggled together to find their way
in a new country, learning about one another's worlds in the process.

"People who come here from a privileged life meet others who live with four kids
in a one-room apartment," she said. "People who never left their village before
are suddenly interacting with all kinds of others. They learn about each other's
difficulties, but they meet as peers, and they realize how much we are all
alike."

Rosario's 48 teachers, most hand-picked by Gutierrez, took on roles that went
far beyond explaining relative clauses and compound verbs. They translated
parking tickets and immigration documents, conducted mock job interviews and
encouraged students to share their cultures and talents, from Mexican pinatas to
Chinese calligraphy.

During the last few days of class, they crammed as much as they could into each
session, urging students not to lose heart. Some students said they planned to
transfer to English classes at Roosevelt or Bell Multicultural senior high
schools in the fall, but others said they were afraid to travel to other parts
of the city, especially at night. Most said they could never afford private
classes.

"Don't let yourself get rusty; keep brushing and polishing your English like a
shoe," Kuo-Ging He, a teacher from China, pleaded with his advanced class.
"Watch TV with a purpose, don't become a couch potato," he admonished. "I feel
your feelings very strongly, but I hope somehow the school can be born again."

The loyalty of Rosario graduates was evident all last week, as dozens dropped by
to commiserate. More than 60,000 immigrants have studied at Rosario or its
predecessor, a nonprofit program founded in 1970. Many have gone on to college
or professional jobs, and some have returned to the school as staff members or
volunteers.

Benjamin Velasquez, 33, rose from Salvadoran refugee to U.S. citizen, from
dishwasher to executive hotel chef after learning English at Rosario. In recent
years, he has taught culinary arts there on his days off. Like many of this
year's students, he expressed anger at the D.C. government for closing the
school.

"When I came to this country, my mind was so small. This school opened me up. It
gave me the skills to survive and the motivation to succeed," he said. "I come
from a country where if you speak up, you are killed. Here if you don't speak
up, you drown. They teach you to respect the law and civil rights, but they
break people's hopes when they shut down a place like this."

Gutierrez, 56, veered between rage and grief as she presided over the final days
of the institution she has headed and personified for 24 years. A native of
Puerto Rico, she was inspired and guided by Carlos Rosario, a Puerto Rican-born
educator and Latino political leader in the District during the 1960s and 1970s.
The school became part of the D.C. system in 1974, and it was named for Rosario
four years after his death in 1987.

"I always kept his picture on my desk, and when things got really tough I would
talk to him and ask his advice," Gutierrez said as she packed up her office.
"The system never made it easy for us; every dollar and teaching position was a
struggle. But everywhere I go in Washington, I see people who graduated from my
school, and I know it was all worth it."

During the last year, Gutierrez fought a fierce and fruitless crusade to save
Rosario as its annual D.C. budget was slashed from $ 2.5 million to $ 1.5
million, then finally wiped out. She organized student demonstrations and
testified at countless hearings. She offered to charge fees for advanced
English, but that proposal failed because charging students would have meant
losing its large federal subsidy.

Monday, at the final graduation ceremony, Gutierrez wept repeatedly as she
handed out scholarships and awards.

"We fought a good fight and we lost. But we will rebuild Rosario," she vowed
from the stage. "I know the mood of the country is bad for immigrants, but stay
firm and believe you can achieve whatever you want. Thank you for all the
wonderful years. I know this is not the last time we will meet."

After the ceremony, students crammed into the cafeteria for a lunch party. Some
wore traditional dress from Islamic or Asian cultures; many brought their small
children. They piled homemade international dishes on the tables, posed for
pictures, exchanged addresses and danced -- with much awkwardness and laughter
-- to tapes of Latino merengue and salsa music.

"We are all feeling joyful but sad too," said Hugo Palma, 23, the student
president and a cook from El Salvador. His teacher stood on a chair and
distributed diplomas, shouting out names over the musical din. "We struggled for
a good cause, to keep the doors open for those who come after us," he said. "Now
it's over, but we have all become united. We won't forget."


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, tom allen, Sonia Gutierrez, principal of Carlos Rosario Adult
Education Center, holds up a gift from students during the school's last
graduation ceremony.  Hugo Palma, 23, shows off his certificate during
graduation party; his teacher, Allison Rohrer, seeks other students so she can
give them theirs.  For the last time, people from many parts of the world gather
in the auditorium at the Carlos Rosario Adult Education Center to receive their
certificates.  At a Rosario center assembly, students react to Principal Sonia
Gutierrez's farewell speech. The school is closing.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              272 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 29, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Inspector General Details INS Shell Game in Miami; Detainees Shuffled for Sake
of Appearances

Guy Gugliotta, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 755 words


The idea was to create a mirage in the Everglades, so seven congressmen would
hail the Immigration and Naturalization Service for its expertise in managing
South Florida's tide of undocumented foreigners.

So just before the delegation arrived, Miami INS officials, with an assist from
the regional director's office, got rid of more than 100 detainees from an
overcrowded detention center by releasing 59, including nine criminals, shipping
61 more off to different facilities and warehousing 19 in distant jails.

Then they laid on overtime help at Miami International Airport to keep the usual
logjam at Customs flowing freely, and took criminal aliens out of holding cells
and let them sit in the waiting room until the delegation finished its tour.

But the INS employees' union blew the whistle, and yesterday the INS inspector
general issued a 200-page report documenting the deception in exhaustive detail
and recommending firings or suspensions of 13 INS officials, including the INS
eastern regional director, the Miami district director and the Washington-based
director of congressional affairs.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner last week relieved eastern regional director
Carol D. Chasse and Miami district director Walter D. Cadman pending further
action by the Justice Department.

The report, a follow-up to a summary released last week, shows that INS
officials early last year were worried about the planned visit June 10, 1995, by
seven members of the House Task Force on Immigration.

In an e-mail message to key staff cited in the report, Cadman relayed Meissner's
concern that "it would take very little to put the kiss of death on their [the
delegation's] views toward INS." Meissner "wants a sharp-looking, heads-up group
of employees doing their jobs," it said.

To translate this wish into action, the report said, the INS had to contend with
chronic overcrowding at the Krome Service Processing Center in the Everglades
about 23 miles southwest of Miami and snail's pace processing at the airport.

From the beginning, the report suggests, INS officials decided to mask these
problems. "Employees who are doing the best job under adverse conditions send
the message we want to send," said a May 23, 1995, e-mail message from Chasse
reprinted in the report.

A few days later INS director of congressional affairs Pamela A. Barry met with
Miami officials to caution them that "no one should discuss [the airport's]
staffing problems with" the delegation.

On June 9, Miami deputy district director Valerie Blake notified eastern
regional headquarters about overcrowding at Krome, and received permission to
"move some people out before the delegation came," the report said.

That afternoon, the report said, Krome Camp administrator Kathy Weiss notified
Blake in an e-mail that there were 377 people in the detention center and
described plans to ship some elsewhere, including a "group to be stashed out of
sight for cosmetic purposes."

"Please advise whether Cubans can be included," the Weiss e-mail continued,
"bearing in mind the fact that moving them will probably cause the remainder to
complain, both to relatives and the congressional delegation."

Blake replied within the hour. "Thanks for your prompt response," her e-mail
said.

The report said INS sent one batch of detainees to Jackson County jail near
Tampa and another group to Key West to await deportation. Fifty-nine detainees
were released, including 35 who had not been medically cleared and nine held for
criminal offenses such as burglary and drug trafficking.

At the airport, the INS nearly doubled the staff June 10 to keep the traffic
moving through Customs and create a false impression of efficiency, the report
said. Airport holding cells were emptied and detainees there allowed to sit in
an anteroom.

The visit went off as planned. But union officials, belatedly told of the
delegation's arrival and threatened with arrest if they tried to attend a closed
airport briefing, decided to send a letter to the task force chairman, Rep.
Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), who initiated the investigation.

INS officials told investigators they were in a no-win situation. "If we moved
them [the Krome detainees], we would be construed as having done something
wrong," Blake said. "If we left them there . . . we [would be] accused of not
being able to handle our workload.

"It was a 50-50 and we were going to lose either way," Blake said. The inspector
general recommended she be fired.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 3, 1996

CORRECTION:

An article Saturday incorrectly identified the source of a investigatory report
on the Immigration and Naturalization Service's activities in South Florida. It
was the Justice Department inspector general.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              273 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 12, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Administration, U.N. Agree on Haitian Refugee Process

James L. Rowe Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 404 words


The Clinton administration and the United Nations have settled on procedures the
United States will follow in processing asylum claims from Haitian refugees
aboard a ship anchored off Jamaica, administration sources said last night.

The agreement with the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees gives the United
States an important measure of international credibility for its controversial
plan to deal with refugees fleeing Haiti's military dictatorship in shipboard
processing centers. The United States also plans to establish a processing
center on ships anchored in the Turks and Caicos Islands.

President Clinton, under heavy pressure from refugee advocates and liberal
political allies, last month decided to abandon the U.S. policy of intercepting
Haitian refugees and forcibly returning them to their nation to apply for asylum
at the U.S. Embassy there.

The United States has said it hopes to process most shipboard claims within 48
hours.

But the State Department assured the UNHCR that under the new policy, which will
begin shortly, the Haitians will be granted a full and fair hearing and that if
an asylum claim is denied -- as U.S. officials predict most will be --
representatives of the U.N. agency can counsel the refugee and, if they see fit,
ask U.S. immigration officials to reconsider the claim.

Brunson McKinley, acting director of the State Department's Bureau of
Population, Refugees and Migration, yesterday wrote Kofi Asomani, the UNHCR
special envoy for Haiti, that some of those fleeing Haiti could be sick and that
the United States will ensure they receive "adequate opportunity for medical
attention and rest" before the asylum application process begins.

Asomani responded that the U.N. agency, which will observe the shipboard
processing and have access to all refugees, "is in agreement" with the U.S.
approach.

The administration and the UNHCR had been negotiating for the past several days
over the procedures, with the refugee agency concerned that the tight schedule
envisioned by the White House would not give fleeing Haitians time to rest and
prepare their claims or assure an adequate appeals process.

In their exchange of correspondence, McKinley and Asomani agreed that a
land-based processing center is preferable to dealing with refugees aboard
ships. But so far the United States has been unable to find a country willing to
allow such centers on its soil.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              274 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 16, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Concedes Time Limits to Get Haitian Refugee Deal

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A34

LENGTH: 614 words


The Clinton administration made several major last-minute concessions to the
United Nations refugee agency to secure a joint agreement for handling Haitian
boat people seeking sanctuary in the United States, officials said yesterday.

Eager to enjoy the respectability of a partnership with the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the administration agreed to offer the
Haitians more time and more opportunities to present their claims for refugee
status at a new processing center about to begin operations aboard a hospital
ship anchored off Kingston, Jamaica.

Previously, the administration had considered it essential to make quick
decisions on individual Haitians in order to deter a mass exodus, and last week
officials said most refugees would go through processing in just a day or two.
But those plans have become much less firm since the administration reached an
agreement with UNHCR last weekend.

"We are now fully conscious that we can't have artificial time limits," said T.
Alexander Aleinikoff, general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. "No time line is guiding the process. It will take the time it will
take."

Under the new agreement Haitians picked up at sea by the Coast Guard will be
greeted by representatives of volunteer agencies when they arrive at the
hospital ship Comfort. They will be given the opportunity to rest, recuperate
and receive medical attention before they go before U.S. officials to seek entry
as refugees fleeing political repression by the military government in the
Caribbean island nation.

The volunteer agencies, which will be working under UNHCR auspices, will also
offer the boat people counseling about the application process for refugee
status and may even offer advice on their individual situations, administration
officials said yesterday in congressional testimony describing the details of
the processing arrangement.

If at the end of the process the Haitians face denial of U.S. entry, they will
have opportunities to provide new information and seek review of the decision
before they face an obligatory trip back to Haiti, the officials said.

While refugee advocates remain critical of many aspects of President Clinton's
policy toward Haiti, they saw progress yesterday in the agreement with UNHCR.
Jocelyn McCalla, executive director of the National Coalition for Haitian
Refugees, told a hearing of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and
refugee affairs "both the U.S. and the UNHCR have gone a long way toward trying
to shield the processing from political interference. That effort is to be
commended."

Ever since Clinton announced May 8 that the United States would start hearing
refugee claims by Haitian boat people instead of automatically sending them
home, administration officials have been deeply concerned about creating a
process that moves quickly. Their worry is that a sudden exodus could overwhelm
a processing facility, and they hope to discourage frivolous claimants by
quickly returning those rejected to Haiti.

"When we sat down with UNHCR we recognized that some people would be arriving in
Jamaica exhausted, disoriented or sick, and so at their suggestion we willingly
undertook to recognize this factor in our planning," said a senior
administration official involved in developing the plans.

The negotiations appear to have been more complex on how to handle an applicant
whose refugee claim is denied, with the UNHCR pressing for some form of appeal
process. However, the administration stopped short of that, and agreed only to
give such an applicant a chance to cite additional information before a denial
becomes final.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, LARRY FOGEL

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              275 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 18, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

6 Haitian Boat People Clear U.S. Screening;
But New U.S. Policy Denies 29 Others Refugee Status and They Have to Go Home

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 827 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica, June 17, 1994


Six Haitian refugees screened today aboard the Navy hospital ship Comfort,
anchored in Kingston harbor, won the immigrant's version of the lottery by being
deemed eligible for refugee status in the United States.

But 29 lost. They were denied entry and will be returned to Haiti.

The Clinton administration began the shipboard hearings today in response to
criticism of its previous policy of interdicting Haitian boat people at sea and
summarily sending them back to their country. As part of the new policy, the
process is monitored by representatives of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees (UNHCR).

But Haitian advocates today criticized the new process as unfair and cursory,
and argued that the small percentage of Haitians who make it through the
hearings still will represent only a fraction of those who should be allowed to
enter the United States.

"This kind of factory-style operation does not protect people. It is fatally
flawed, both in its conception and execution," Steven Forester, supervising
attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, said in a telephone interview.

U.S. officials defended the process, saying that the screening interviews were
thorough and that they had taken pains to elicit detailed accounts from the
Haitians of their claims that they would be persecuted if they returned home.

The officials also said they had tried to make the Haitians feel as comfortable
as possible during the interviews. Plastic identification bracelets were put on
the Haitians by military personnel in civilian clothes, they said, and the
interviews were "more like conversations than interrogations," said Arthur
Nieto, the Immigration and Naturalization Service officer in charge.

The first group of 35 Haitians, intercepted at sea Wednesday by U.S. Coast Guard
cutters as they tried to flee Haiti in three small sailboats, arrived aboard the
Comfort Thursday morning. The interview with an immigration officer, in many
cases a hastily trained U.S. Border Patrol agent, took an average of one hour
and 45 minutes, according to Nieto.

The Haitians were not represented or advised by attorneys or other advocates.
Instead, they spoke briefly with one of 11 UNHCR representatives before the
interviews.

One UNHCR worker on the Comfort stressed that his job was not to be an advocate
for the Haitians or to advise them on how to make the best claim for political
asylum. The worker said he helped get the Haitians ready to answer questions,
advising them to tell the truth and look the INS officers in the eyes when they
spoke.

The six men deemed to have credible claims for asylum were taken from the ship
early this morning.

Clutching plastic bags with their meager belongings, they were shuttled by boat
to waiting vans on shore and then to Kingston Airport. They then were loaded
onto a U.S. Navy C-130 aircraft for the short flight to the Guantanamo Bay Naval
Base in Cuba, where they will undergo further medical screening and interviews
before being flown to the United States or another country that has agreed to
accept them.

What the six Haitians said to win refugee status is not known. U.S. officials
refused to allow the media to interview the six or the 29 who were denied asylum
and will be taken by Coast Guard cutter back to Haiti in a few days.

Reporters allowed aboard the Comfort today were admonished not to photograph any
of the Haitian nationals working as translators aboard the ship "because they
fear persecution of their families back home," a Marine spokesman said.

The operation aboard the Comfort may have seemed otherwordly to the Haitians,
who come from the poorest country in the hemisphere.

The first group was brought into the hold of the ship, a converted oil tanker
that now is a white floating fortress of medicine, and led up a winding ramp.
After having black plastic ID bracelets placed on their wrists, they were
brought into a room lined with computers, a system the military calls DMPITS,
for Deployable Mass Population Identification Tracking System. They were asked
their names and dates and places of birth.

In an empty hospital ward they were briefed by the UNHCR representatives, who
tried to explain what was happening to them. The walls were lined with cartoon
drawings, with writing in Haitian Creole warning them not to smoke or fight or
carry weapons.

Creole-speaking members of the International Organization for Migration helped
them fill out brief biographical questionnaires. As they waited for their INS
interviews, U.N. representatives mingled among them.

"What we saw is that this is workable with this small number of refugees," said
UNHRC spokesperson Barbara Francis in Kingston. But Francis said her
organization worries what will happen if the Comfort must process not 35
Haitians, but hundreds or thousands.

"It is really important that they be given enough time," Francis said. "For
some, this is really a life or death situation."



LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SOME OF THE SIX HAITIANS WHO WERE DEEMED ELIGIBLE FOR REFUGEE
STATUS IN THE UNITED STATES AFTER A SHIPBOARD HEARING IN JAMAICA ENTER A
MILITARY CARGO PLANE FOR A FLIGHT TO THE NAVAL BASE AT GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, FOR
FURTHER SCREENING. AFP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              276 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 21, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Coast Guard Seizes Immigrants

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A5; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 103 words


U.S. authorities intercepted a Philadelphia-based fishing boat attempting to
smuggle 126 undocumented Chinese to the United States, the Coast Guard said.
Personnel from the Coast Guard cutter Reliance and Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents boarded the vessel, identified as the Captain
Denny, on Saturday about 350 miles east of Virginia, a statement said.

Eighteen of the 126, believed to be "enforcers," were transferred from the
Reliance to the cutter Aquidneck, along with the Captain Denny's six crew
members, the Coast Guard said. The remaining Chinese remain at sea on board the
Reliance.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              277 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 29, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Haitians' Plight Illuminates Volatile Nature of U.S. Policy

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8

LENGTH: 1490 words


Throughout several changes in U.S. policy toward Haiti and three successive
administrations one constant has endured: Since 1981 a cordon of Coast Guard
cutters has tried to keep Haitian boat people from reaching the United States.

Haitians are the only nationality of asylum seekers who are intercepted that way
as a matter of long-standing U.S. policy. Over the years maintaining this cordon
has required a variety of extraordinary measures, the latest of which is the
Clinton administration's use of a hospital ship anchored off Kingston, Jamaica,
as a processing center.

But although the immediate circumstances of the Haitian drama are unique, the
surging numbers of boat people seeking sanctuary this week reflect the volatile
nature of U.S. asylum and refugee policy, which in many places and at many times
has fueled foreign crises, aroused domestic interest groups and instigated a
long series of civil rights lawsuits.

"Even though it is treated differently than all other countries, Haiti is not a
unique case," said Lawrence H. Fuchs, a prominent historian of immigration at
Brandeis University. "It just presents some of the basic problems in more urgent
terms."

Chief among those problems, Fuchs and other experts say, is the fact that the
United States does not apply a single standard to identify refugees who merit
protection. Instead, it uses different means to judge people in different
situations. There are so many exceptions now that it is sometimes difficult to
distinguish the rule, some scholars say.

Since the end of World War II, a simple principle has guided the refugee
policies of most Western nations: It is wrong to return people to places where
they are likely to suffer persecution. This principle is known by a French term,
non-refoulement -- the right not to be returned.

The 1951 Geneva Convention uses a mere 22 words to define who is covered by this
principle. To merit protection a person should be able to prove "a well-founded
fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership
of a particular social group or political opinion."

U.S. law applies this standard to grant two kinds of admission for people
fleeing persecution. Refugee status goes to people overseas, while political
asylum goes to people already in the United States.

David A. Martin, professor of law at the University of Virginia, said the Geneva
standard "envisions judgments based on an individual's credibility and their
specific circumstances."

Over time, however, Congress and various administrations have stretched and
shrunk that standard in dealing with entire groups of people, even whole
nationalities, "either out of sympathy for their cause or because there was some
political or diplomatic advantage to it," Martin said.

During the Cold War, for example, the United States welcomed defectors from the
East Bloc as a matter of national pride. After the Vietnam War former allies
were welcomed as a matter of national obligation.

As a matter of domestic politics, a welter of U.S. interest groups have become
advocates for particular types of refugees. Cuban Americans and Jewish Americans
have been at it the longest. Opponents of Reagan administration policy in
Central America stood up for Salvadorans, and African Americans have adopted the
Haitians' cause.

"Our refugee policy is simply 'gimmicked' to death," said Sen. Alan K. Simpson
(R-Wyo.) in a speech last month.

Insisting that U.S. law is simple on its face, Simpson complained about the many
special categories that have been created. For example, citizens of the former
Soviet Union who are either Jews or evangelical Christians, as well as some
Vietnamese, can win refugee status by showing a "credible" fear of persecution,
a lower standard than the "well-founded" fear that others must demonstrate. As a
result, these two groups account for about half of all refugee admissions.

The starkest contrasts are closer to home, however.

All Cubans who manage to reach the United States are admitted automatically. At
the other extreme are Haitians.

From 1981 to 1991, nearly 23,000 Haitians were intercepted and processed aboard
Coast Guard cutters. Only 28 of them were granted entry to the United States.

After the September 1991 military coup that overthrew President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, 5,000 a week fled and the Bush administration set up a processing
center at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Utilizing the lower
"credible fear" standard, about 30 percent of the Haitians were allowed into the
United States to pursue asylum claims here.

Then in May 1992 Bush shut down the Guantanamo operation and ordered boat people
sent back without any chance even to ask for sanctuary. As an alternative, the
United States established processing centers in Haiti for those seeking refugee
status. Bill Clinton, then a presidential candidate, denounced the policy as
immoral, but once in office he continued it.

In June 1993, the Supreme Court upheld the policy, ruling that protection from a
forced return applies only to people who have reached U.S. territory.

Protests over the automatic return of boat people without a hearing prompted the
most recent changes in the policy. On May 8, President Clinton announced that
the cordon would stay in place but boat people picked up by the Coast Guard
would get a chance to apply for refugee status. Since June 16 processing has
taken place aboard the Navy hospital ship Comfort in Jamaican waters.

The overall problem with asylum and refugee status "is millions more people
around the world qualify under the Geneva standard than we can possibly
accommodate, and so the government needs a method to ration the tickets," said
Brandeis's Fuchs. "All the back and forth over Haiti over the years shows what
happens when there is no clear foreign policy or domestic political basis for
the rationing."

The current Haitian crisis reflects two worldwide developments that have made it
much more difficult for the United States to handle refugees in recent years,
according to experts in the field.

First, the numbers are growing fast. According to United Nations estimates, in
1963 about 1.3 million persons were living outside their native countries
because of fear of persecution. By 1993 the number had reached 18.2 million and
was growing at a rate of nearly 10,000 a day.

Second, the problem is getting closer to home. Until recently most people
seeking resettlement in the United States applied from refugee camps abroad like
the "Displaced Persons" granted admission after World War II. But in the 1980s
Haitians, Central Americans, Chinese and others began showing up in U.S.
territory, often entering this country illegally and then seeking asylum.

"Distance matters," said Martin. "It is much easier to make group decisions
based on policy goals when people are abroad. Once they are in the country you
need quick, efficient decision-making based very strictly on an individual's
circumstances, but that has proved very difficult to accomplish."

Even as they grapple with the Haitian crisis this summer, immigration officials
are overhauling the asylum system in an effort to halt the growth of a backlog
in applications -- people who already are in this country -- now totaling about
400,000. Critics say the backlog is an open invitation to abuse because
applicants can live and work here until their cases are settled. For deserving
candidates, it means years in limbo.

"The exposure of fraud in the asylum system has produced a loss of innocence,"
Martin said. "Political leaders and the public start out being suspicious rather
than welcoming towards people claiming to suffer persecution."

Meanwhile, a widespread network of civil rights and immigration attorneys has
scored repeated successes with lawsuits attacking the handling of asylum cases
and the special means used to deal with Haitians.

In one 1993 case, a court invalidated some 30,000 asylum interviews conducted in
Los Angeles because of the examiners' biases and incompetence. The government
settled another suit in 1991 that alleged all Salvadoran and Guatemalan
applicants had suffered unfavorable treatment because they were fleeing
right-wing rather than Communist regimes. More than 200,000 people were
potentially affected by that case, which is still contributing to the asylum
backlog.

When Haitians with the AIDS virus were detained in Guantanamo for nearly two
years, a federal judge in 1993 termed their plight "a tragedy of immense
proportion" and ordered they be brought from "squalid prison-like camps" to the
United States.

"The courts have transformed both procedures and policies by repeatedly finding
that the treatment of Haitians and Central Americans falls far below the
standards of fundamental fairness," said Deborah Anker, a professor at Harvard
Law School. These cases, she said, have provoked crises that shape overall
policy.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, SEEKING SANCTUARY: WHO IS ALLOWED IN (GRAPHIC IS NOT
AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              278 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 1, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Haitians Fleeing at Sea Swamp Processing Ship ;
 On Copter Deck, Boat People Live in Tent City

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica, June 30, 1994


The gleaming white hospital ship at anchor here is acting as a powerful magnet
to Haitians who are taking to the sea to flee their military-ruled nation.

The thousands of Haitians setting forth to seek sanctuary in the United States
are supposed to have their refugee claims processed aboard the ship, the USNS
Comfort. But the sudden spurt in their numbers has gone beyond the ship's
capacity, causing Clinton administration officials to fear that the United
States is headed toward a full-blown refugee crisis, military intervention in
Haiti, or both.

"Given the numbers of the past few days it is clear now that until we address
the fundamental cause of the boat flight, the wretched political situation in
Haiti -- and we are addressing it -- this is at best a problem we are going to
manage, not solve," a senior administration official said.

Since the United States began hearing refugee claims on June 16, more than 4,000
Haitians have been taken off their little boats by the U.S. Coast Guard. The
exodus obliged the Clinton administration to hurriedly open a refugee camp at
the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba Wednesday, a step that it had long
resisted.

With more than 1,000 Haitians on board the Comfort today, a tent city has
sprouted on what was once a helicopter landing pad. Hundreds sit sprawled on
plastic sheets and packing crates under green canvas, playing cards and
dominoes, sleeping and chatting as they wait to be taken to processing stations
below.

Americans aboard the ship have nicknamed the deck "Steel Beach."

In recent days a little more than 100 people a day have gone through the
screening process in which they are questioned by officials of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service about whether they suffer the "well-founded fear of
persecution" that is the international standard for obtaining refugee status. In
the busiest day of processing so far, 86 Haitians were approved and 116 were
rejected. When the processing began, immigration service officials said they
expected to handle as many as 300 Haitians a day.

The administration had hoped to deter an exodus by setting up a processing
system that would quickly decide who qualified for refugee status and return
those that did not. But processing is taking much longer than expected, days
instead of hours, according to U.S. officials.

"Time is on the alien's side and it works against the government," an
immigration service official said.

"Unless you are sending back large numbers of people quickly, you send out a
signal that the door is open," the official said. "That means more people head
out, and that further slows down the system, and so still more people get on
boats until the system is overwhelmed. Then, if you cannot process people at all
and you are just letting them sit, you might as well wave a green flag."

After President Clinton announced May 8 that Haitian boat people would be given
a chance to seek refugee status instead of being automatically sent back to
Haiti, the administration undertook a huge logistical and diplomatic effort to
set up the floating processing facility here and a land-based facility due to
open on Grand Turk Island in a few days.

But the rush of boat people that began last weekend has upset those plans. In
the last 24 hours, more than 1,000 Haitians have been sent to Guantanamo Bay. A
skeleton crew of U.S. personnel is due to begin processing refugee claims at the
naval base on the southeastern end of Cuba within a few days. Administration
officials in Washington acknowledged that they are scrambling to determine not
just where they will process Haitians, but also where they will house them if
the numbers remain high.

Few options are available. The Comfort and the processing facility on Grand Turk
will not be able to handle the kind of flow seen this week. A large refugee camp
at Guantanamo Bay could become another magnet, as it did when more than 35,000
Haitians were processed there between September 1991 and May 1992. Bringing
Haitians to the United States for processing raises a host of political and
legal difficulties. Undertaking military action against the regime in Haiti is
even more risky.

Interviews with five young men approved for refugee status indicated that a mix
of causes underlies the current surge in boat people.

They spoke of Haiti's poverty and of repression by the military regime, and U.S.
officials said both have grown worse in recent weeks.

When asked by an interpreter if they were supporters of deposed Haitian
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the young men answered in unison, "Oui."

But they were equally unanimous in saying that when they left Haiti at different
times and from different places they all knew that a new U.S. policy was in
place and that if they were picked up by the Coast Guard they would be taken to
Jamaica and given a chance to seek refugee status.

Only a few hundred of the several thousand people intercepted by the Coast Guard
have been returned to Haiti, immigration officials said, and about 30 percent of
those interviewed have been approved for refugee status.

Immigration officials cite several reasons for the slowdown in processing on the
Comfort.

First, it is more burdensome and requires more personnel to handle the larger
numbers. Also, more Haitians than expected show symptoms of active tuberculosis
or other illnesses. All coming aboard the Comfort now get chest X-rays and many
need rest or medical treatment before they can go through processing.

Also, based on experience U.S. officials expected many of the Haitians to arrive
in family groups and interviewers would only deal with the one person in the
family who had the strongest claim to refugee status.

Instead, many more people have arrived alone, meaning that each has to be
interviewed individually.



LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, U.S. NAVY PERSONNEL, LEFT, PLACE IDENTIFICATION TAGS ON HAITIANS
AWAITINGPROCESSING TO DETERMINE REFUGEE STATUS. WHILE WAITING FOR INTERVIEWS ON
THECOMFORT AND DECISIONS ON STATUS, THEY ARE HOUSED IN A TENT CITY ON HOSPITAL
SHIP'S HELICOPTER DECK, WHICH SOME AMERICANS HAVE DUBBED "STEEL BEACH.", AP;
MAP, BRAD WYE

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              279 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 2, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

'Tasked to the Max' Again;
As in Bush Era, Haitians Flood U.S. Naval Base

John F. Harris, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 970 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba, July 1, 1994


The human flood is underway, and no one here is expecting it to end any time
soon.

The U.S. military has been back in the tent city business for only three days,
and already Haitian refugees threaten to swamp this U.S. naval installation.
There are now almost 2,000 Haitians awaiting their fate -- political asylum or a
trip back home -- and the commanding officer of the processing operation said
today he expects soon to be playing host to a population many times larger.

"I'm ramping up for 12,500," said Army Col. Mike Pearson. "Everybody is going to
be tasked to the max."

The last time Guantanamo housed 12,500 Haitians, its maximum capacity, was two
years ago, when the swollen and barely manageable encampment became the most
visible manifestation of the Bush administration's inability to contain the
Haitian refugee crisis.

For months, Clinton's policy has been directed at avoiding his predecessor's
frustrations. But worsening conditions in Haiti, where tightened economic
sanctions were imposed last month, and an easing of the U.S. policy of
automatically returning intercepted Haitian boat people, have encouraged more
Haitians to flee. At Guantanamo Bay, history now is repeating itself.

Outside the migrant processing center this morning, Haitians just off the boats
stood behind a barbed-wire fence in a long, single-file line, their faces gaunt
and their shoulders stooped from exhaustion.

Inside, they underwent preliminary questioning and fingerprinting. They were
issued wrist bracelets containing computer chips so that authorities can
instantly call up personal information about them as they move through
processing.

Not far away, military crews were working around the clock in the oppressive
heat, erecting row upon row of tan-colored tents where the refugees will live
while they are waiting for immigration officials to decide their status. Pearson
said he had to restrict the number of new arrivals at Guantanamo today to give
the work crews time to catch up with the rush from earlier this week.

On one structure, graffiti left over from two years ago read "This place is for
animals, not for Haitians."

Some refugees remained here for as long as 22 months last time, and there were
outbreaks of rioting. Pearson said he is confident he can improve on the 1992
record. One change he cited is separate sleeping quarters for single men and
women, to guard against assaults. Also, there is a quarantine area for people
with communicable diseases, including HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

But he said the most critical factor determining whether Guantanamo will descend
into chaos is the flow of refugees through the facility. Haitians must be able
to see that steady progress is being made in processing people and deciding
their status rather than leaving them in limbo.

"We're going to do what we can to make people comfortable," Pearson said.
"Everyone above me understands that if we're going to make this work in a
humanitarian way we've got to keep people moving."

Defense officials said that at first the Clinton administration was eager to
avoid turning Guantanamo into a large processing facility because of the echoes
that would have to the Bush policy. Military officers, however, argued that the
policy of trying to process all the refugees on ships was proving impractical as
the numbers soared in recent days.

Military authorities today allowed a large contingent of news reporters visiting
Guantanamo to interview Haitians who have won admission to the United States.
Most told tales of deprivation and physical terror in the land they left.

"They killed my daddy, they killed my brother," said Mittial Louis, 26, whose
family is a supporter of overthrown President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. He said
military authorities "kicked me and beat me" not long before he set sail four
days ago and was plucked from the water by the U.S. Coast Guard.

Asmine Pierre, 23, said she was elated to be at Guantanamo. "We were in hiding
in Haiti," she said through a Creole translator. "Here we are more or less
free." Pierre said she had no idea what she will do in the United States.

These people will leave once the State Department arranges "sponsors" -- usually
civic groups, churches, or individuals who have agreed to facilitate the arrival
of Haitians into U.S. communities.

When the Haitians arrive at Guantanamo they are presented with a bucket for
their belongings, a toothbrush and other personal items, and a change of
clothes. Many of the Haitians, however, were remaining in their own clothes.

These included a surprising array of T-Shirts that obviously had been imported
from the United States. One woman's shirt advertised the "Annual Wartsboro
Center Road-Kill Supper." A young man had a T-shirt for a surfing shop in Fort
Lauderdale.

Military officers said the Haitians pass the time playing soccer or dominos.
Officials said there have been no serious incidents of violence or unruliness at
Guantanamo so far.

Guantanamo Bay has been a 45-square mile naval base for the United States since
1903. Since Fidel Castro took power in Cuba in 1959, it has been the only U.S.
military installation in a communist country. Although the air is hot and humid,
the hilly terrain is desert-like and dotted with cactus.

Although military personnel on the ground at Guanatanamo are being taxed
heavily, perhaps the greatest burden in the Haiti refugee operation is being
handled at sea.  Cmdr. Richard Kelly, the skipper of the Coast Guard cutter
Tampa, said his crew of 100 picked up 300 Haitians in one 24-hour period this
week. On Thursday alone, Coast Guard and Navy ships rescued 1,081 Haitians from
39 sailboats. More than 5,000 Haitians were pulled from the water during June.

"My crew is very happy," Kelly said. "They are saving lives at sea."


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, TWO HAITIAN MIGRANTS, ABOVE, TALK TO JOURNALISTS AT GUANTANAMO
BAY. U.S.PERSONNEL, BELOW, STAND GUARD AS HAITIAN CHILDREN LOOK THROUGH A FENCE.
CAROL GUZY

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              280 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 6, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Clinton Buys Time -- and More Pressure;
New Policy May Raise Expectation of Haitian Rulers' Ouster

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 947 words


President Clinton's new Haitian refugee policy solves the immediate problem of
what to do with the current flood of boat people. But it is likely to increase
pressure to restore exiled President Jean Bertrand-Aristide to power -- by U.S.
military intervention if necessary.

As the administration itself recognizes, time is running out no matter what the
impact of its practice, announced yesterday, of diverting refugees to temporary
havens in Panama and other countries.

If the new havens fill up rapidly, then Panama and the other host countries will
agitate to quickly oust the military junta in Haiti. That's because none of the
host countries will want to be saddled with the refugees indefinitely.

Even if the Haitians stop fleeing, as the administration hopes, pro-Aristide
activists and liberal members of Congress may become disgruntled. They probably
will complain that it is unfair to deny Haitians entry to the United States
while the military government of Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras hangs on.

The administration faces this quandary because it is trapped between two
conflicting domestic political pressures: reluctance in Florida and other states
to allow immigration of large numbers of Haitians; and unhappiness in the
Congressional Black Caucus and elsewhere over any special restrictions on
Haitian refugees.

The Black Caucus and others also argue that Washington should be doing more to
support Aristide as the Caribbean island nation's democratically elected leader.

The current roller-coaster ride of Haitian policy was set off when Clinton, in
response to pressure from the pro-Aristide faction this spring, stopped
returning all boat people directly to Haiti. Instead they were first interviewed
aboard U.S. ships and, if deemed to qualify for political asylum, they could
immigrate to the United States. At the time, administration officials recognized
that lowering barriers might trigger an exodus, in turn complicating
Washington's gradual approach to forcing out Cedras and others.

Under the new policy, even Haitians who qualify for political asylum do not have
a chance of going to the United States. They go to the safe havens, to be
returned to Haiti when Aristide is restored to power.

In what could be an early sign of pressure to come, some Aristide supporters
yesterday immediately voiced dissatisfaction with the new policy. "To the extent
that people are not being returned to Haiti, it's an improvement. To the extent
that they are not being able to apply for asylum under normal immigration rules,
it's a significant step backwards," said Michael Barnes, a former Maryland
congressman and now a paid consultant to Aristide.

Amnesty International, a human rights monitoring organization, criticized the
new policy for setting a different standard for Haitians than for other refugee
groups, such as Vietnamese and Cubans. "The policy betrays a continuing fear of
Haitian refugees," a statement said.

Administration officials say that the safe havens approach fulfills the basic
needs of the Haitians: to be safe until Aristide returns. The administration is
still counting on stiff economic sanctions to loosen the Haitian army's grip on
power. But these take time and may not work, and Washington has put added
pressure on itself with the safe havens decision, a senior official said.

He pointed out that the life span of safe havens is not open ended. The
agreement with Panama and the Caribbean nation of Antigua and Barbuda covers six
months.

In a tactic apparently designed to raise the heat on Cedras, the Pentagon
dispatched Navy ships carrying 2,000 Marines to Haitian waters.

Yesterday, as he did on television Sunday, special envoy William H. Gray III
issued a rationale for possible intervention that is commonly used by the United
States in the Caribbean -- to protect American lives. About 4,000 Haitian
Americans live in the country. They have not been targeted for violence, a State
Department official said, and there is no official call for them to flee.

The decision to establish refuges in the Caribbean, in which Haitian boat people
would be interned, grew from three White House meetings convened for a total of
six hours on Friday. Clinton attended all the gatherings.

Officials were alarmed by two facts: More Haitians were leaving, and more were
presenting viable cases for gaining political asylum. Some came with cards,
identifying themselves as members of Aristide political groupings, that
virtually assured them of gaining refuge.

At the White House meetings, the refugee question was framed by the need to
"demagnetize" the asylum procedure. Haitians were fleeing, attracted by the
better chance of winning refuge in the United States, officials said.

Caribbean countries are wary that the Haitians might later seek permanent refuge
in any country that takes them in now. Two governments pressed Washington to
ensure that the Haitians would, in effect, be quarantined.

Panama won a commitment from the United States to build an internment camp on
the island of San Jose in the Pacific Ocean, if the refugees linger for long.

Antigua and Barbuda agreed to host a camp for 2,000 Haitians after Clinton spoke
with Prime Minister Lester Bird yesterday morning, the islands' ambassador here,
Patrick A. Lewis, said, on the promise that the refugees would not have direct
contact with the rest of the population.

The administration would like the havens to be anything but long term. Instead,
Washington hopes the economic sanctions, the threat of military intervention,
and the lure of a comfortable exile for the generals will combine to topple the
regime peacefully and end the crisis soon.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: ANALYSIS, NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              281 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 8, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Official's Asylum Request Could Complicate Saudi-U.S. Diplomacy

John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 1345 words


Mohammed Khilewi knew nothing would be the same for him after May 17, when he
told top Saudi officials by cable of his bitter opposition to the Saudi
government's human rights policies. Khilewi, a Saudi diplomat at the United
Nations, recalls that associates urged him over the next day not to go public
with his criticisms and to come to Washington to meet the Saudi ambassador,
Prince Bandar Bin Sultan.

Then, Khilewi says, a man he knew to be a Saudi intelligence official came to
his Manhattan apartment. The agent, who works as a Saudi diplomat, he said,
offered him money to keep quiet, and then told Khilewi to see Bandar
immediately. "You have to go today or your life, your wife and kids' lives will
be in danger," Khilewi said the man told him in Arabic. "Don't destroy this
opportunity."

A tape that Khilewi says he made of the conversation -- using a recorder hidden
under his bed -- is now a prop in an international drama that could prove
embarrassing to the Saudi regime and has created a diplomatic dilemma for
Washington.

Khilewi, 31, who was a first secretary at the Saudis' U.N. mission, has asked
the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to grant him political asylum.
He said in his application to the INS that he has a "well-founded fear of
persecution" if he returns to his country, adding that he didn't visit Bandar
here because he feared being kidnapped.

Khilewi has gone into hiding with his wife and three children and has gone
public with his criticisms of the Saudi government.

If the INS grants Khilewi asylum, it would insult the closest U.S. ally in the
Persian Gulf. Khilewi, the highest-ranking Saudi official to criticize the
regime openly, wants King Fahd to abdicate. He also wants the Saudi government
to give its citizens civil rights and to end what Khilewi calls the royal
family's corruption. In the past, U.S. officials have not made a public issue of
Saudi human rights abuses.

The FBI is investigating the alleged threat against Khilewi and other claims by
him, his lawyer said. The FBI declined to comment.

Khilewi said in a telephone interview that he has collected 14,000 pages of
Saudi documents that illustrate government wrongdoing. Some of the documents, he
said, show that Saudi Arabia finances Islamic terrorists, spies on Jewish
activists in the United States and smuggles bombs and firearms across
international borders.

The Saudi Embassy strenuously denies his allegations and points out that Khilewi
has shown only a few pages to reporters.

On ABC's "20/20," when Bandar was shown one of Khilewi's documents purporting to
describe the Saudis' electronic monitoring of militant U.S. Jewish groups, the
ambassador said it was forged by "someone who has access to a pad" of paper with
Saudi government letterhead. The Saudi government wishes no harm to Khilewi,
Bandar said. "We're not after him," he said. "We want to help this guy... . He
can come back to his job if he drops this nonsense."

Publicly the Saudis brush off Khilewi as a minor nuisance. "I don't think this
young man could lead eight ducks across the street," Bandar said. Added Saudi
Embassy spokesman Osama Nugali: "This is not a big deal to our government."

Saudi representatives say privately that Khilewi is unstable and point to his
theory -- apparently lacking any evidence -- that King Fahd was involved in the
murder of his half-brother, King Faisal, in 1975. Khilewi also has stoked some
reporters' suspicions by demanding money for security guards as a condition for
face-to-face interviews.

Aziz Abu Hamad, associate director of the New York-based Human Rights
Watch/Middle East, a private group, said he does not think Khilewi is
unbalanced. "He's passionate, but reasonable and cautious, careful in what he
says," Hamad said. But mostly, Hamad said, Khilewi is brave.

"Considering the persecution of Saudi people who voice the mildest dissent,"
Hamad said, "it takes a lot of courage to say half the things Khilewi says...
.The royal family is deeply concerned about his dissent." Several princes have
arranged telephone calls and visits to Khilewi in New York by at least six of
his relatives, who failed to persuade him to return home, Hamad and another
source said.

Khilewi said Abdulrahman Rassi, the Saudi man who supposedly threatened him, is
an intelligence agent who had moved into his apartment building to monitor his
activities after Saudi officials came to suspect his loyalty. Khilewi said in an
affidavit to the INS that during their talk Khilewi gave Rassi, as a sign of
good faith, his 9mm pistol and "the security file," not otherwise described.

Rassi did not return telephone messages left for him at the U.N. mission; the
Wall Street Journal has quoted him as saying he worked only as a diplomat.

Last month another Saudi diplomat joined Khilewi. Ahmed Zahrani, vice consul at
the Saudi consulate in Houston, applied for political asylum in London and also
is denouncing the Saudi regime.

Khilewi said his distaste for Saudi abuses grew as he gained access to more
documents while at the United Nations. Four of his cousins had been jailed for
activities in an underground movement protesting the royal family's policies,
and another was jailed in 1991 for being one of the first Saudi women to drive a
car, a violation of Saudi law.

Khilewi, while not religious, said he was impressed by a group of Saudi Islamic
scholars who set up a group in London to protest the Saudi government's civil
rights record. He also disagreed with the Saudis' signing of the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1988 -- thinking it precludes Third World nations
like Saudi Arabia from developing weapons the great powers have.

His lawyers, the father-son team of Leon and Michael Wildes, who filed his
asylum application on June 14, said the United States rarely grants asylum to
citizens of U.S. allies. In the 1980s, they said, Washington granted asylum to
about 3 percent of those requesting it from U.S.-allied El Salvador, while
granting asylum to 30 percent of those from Nicaragua, whose leftist government
the United States opposed.

"U.S. relations with Saudi Arabia aside, we hope the U.S. government will look
to the merits of this case, particularly because our client has corroborated the
threats against his and his family's lives," Michael Wildes said.

Wildes, a former federal prosecutor, said he is concerned that U.S. officials
may not aggressively investigate Khilewi's claims. Wildes said he met twice with
FBI agents a month ago and told the agents about his client's allegations of
Saudi complicity in spying and terrorism -- including possible assassination
attempts against foreign diplomats in the United States, and allegations that
some U.S. officials knowingly allowed terrorists to enter this country.

Yet Wildes said the FBI agents expressed little interest in the information and
did not keep any of Khilewi's documents. The bureau reversed itself and started
the probe, Wildes said, only after news reports on the case.

For years groups such as Amnesty International have charged the Saudis with a
wide array of abuses, including arrest of dissidents, torture of criminals and
political prisoners, and a ban on political parties and unions. The State
Department has acknowledged Saudi abuses in annual reports to Congress, but U.S.
policymakers avoid public discussion of the issue because of the Saudis' oil and
their strategic importance.

A State Department official said, "We have no credible evidence of Saudi
government support for terrorism." The department declined to comment on
Khilewi's asylum request.

A 1994 State Department report on terrorism said that "some private Saudi
citizens probably provide private funds to Hamas and other radical Palestinian
groups throughout the region, as well as to extremist elements in Somalia, Sudan
and Yemen. Saudi benefactors also sponsor paramilitary training for radical
Muslims from many countries in camps in Afghanistan, Yemen and Sudan."

Special correspondent Yasmine Bahrani contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              282 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 3, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Haitians Cleared for U.S., but Stranded;
Cutoff of Flights Leaves 515 Still at Home, and at Risk;
Another 937 Face Same Limbo

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 1059 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Aug. 2, 1994


Over and over again for months, the intense young pastor -- never sleeping in
the same house, always on the run -- went on the radio to denounce by name
Haiti's most powerful military leaders.

But now he is trapped.

After months of interviews with U.S. immigration authorities, the 34-year-old
was awarded political asylum in the United States in June. But with the halt of
commercial flights in and out of Haiti this week, filling a last gap in the
U.N.-imposed blockade of Haiti, the pastor now is stranded.

The pastor, his wife and their four children are among 515 Haitians cleared to
travel to the United States but awaiting a plane that may never come.

Another 937 have been approved for refugee status but await final clearance to
leave, meaning they must still pass medical tests and gather paperwork for their
families proving kinship.

But U.S. officials -- constrained by the same blockade they fostered as a means
of driving out the military who seized power here -- now have no way to get the
refugees to the United States, or any other country. Nor do they have any way to
protect them in Haiti.

"It's of serious, urgent concern to us," U.S. Embassy spokesman Stan Schrager
said today.

U.S. officials, through intermediaries at the International Organization for
Migration, are trying to get permission from Haiti's military-dominated
government to land charter flights to rescue the refugees.

"But it's dicey," Schrager said. "We're having difficulty getting approval from
the de facto regime... . We've picked up the signals they're reluctant to
cooperate and grant approval at this time."

The difficulties only increased with de facto President Emile Jonassaint's
decree early Monday of a state of siege and transfer of civilian powers to the
military.

The situation, say Haitians, is particularly critical because the Clinton
administration refuses to allow those who flee to apply for asylum in the United
States once they have left Haiti. Only those who dare attend interviews at
well-known processing centers here are eligible to go the United States -- and
then, only after lengthy interrogations, medical exams and paperwork.

"The protection they're being offered is meaningless," said Cheryl Little, an
attorney who helps Haitian asylum-seekers at Florida Rural Services in Miami.

The situation is becoming tense, with the government threatening to arrest any
Haitians collaborating with "foreign interventionists." Six armed men, two in
police uniforms, attacked a group of refugee applicants Monday morning as they
gathered before dawn at the old Rex Theater downtown.

Early each morning, as many as 250 people gather there in angry lines, fingering
creased identification papers and four passport-size photos, to seek
appointments for interviews with U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
officers. The process can take weeks.

On Monday, as security guards looked on, the armed men held several refugee
applicants on the ground, a boot on their back, and beat them, according to U.S.
officials. They said three applicants were taken away by police, their fate
unknown.

"We don't know what this symbolizes," Schrager said, who promised more security
at the theater today.

There were 170 political refugees scheduled to leave on an Air France flight
last Wednesday, but more than half of them -- all with confirmed seats -- were
bumped from the flight by French citizens and others with enough money or clout
to get on the plane, including some journalists.

Refugees awaiting flights say they were often approached by Haitian nationals
working for the U.S. immigration officers and asked for bribes, often described
as rewards, of up to $ 500 for promises of help in getting on a plane.

Haitians standing in line at the Rex Theater trying to get interviews also said
security guards there often asked for $ 5 or $ 10 to get them inside the
building. Last year, the American Consulate closed for weeks after revelations
that Haitian employees were taking bribes.

A U.S. official said at least six security guards were fired recently, as well
as one Haitian American who was collecting bribes from asylum-seekers.

While there have been no confirmed deaths of Haitian activists awaiting
departure, the refugees speak of constant danger.

"They're looking for us even as we are speaking," the pastor said in an
interview at a supposed safe house. He asked that his name not be published,
lest he be further endangered. "I say to President Clinton, 'Please do not play
games with us. We are in very serious trouble.' "

The pastor said he dares not walk in his old neighborhood even at night. He and
his wife sleep in separate houses provided by religious workers and friends.
Unlike the diplomats, journalists, military and elite here, he has no two-way
radio and goes weeks without seeing his wife or children.

Another Haitian at the house said of the pastor: "I know this man. The military
would give anything to get him, anything. A car. Thousands of dollars. Whatever.
He is a hero."

After the army ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1991, the pastor's
church in his neighborhood was burned. Armed men came to his house, found his
wife and beat her, said the pastor.

Included in the 937 approved for refugee status are at least 70 who U.S.
officials say have good reason to fear they may be killed because of the
political activities but who cannot go to the United States because they are
infected with the HIV virus and cannot find U.S. sponsors to pay for their
medical care.

Not a single political refugee infected with the virus has been cleared to
leave, U.S. officials said.

One HIV-infected man approved for refugee status said in an interview that he
worked alongside Antoine Izmery, a wealthy Aristide supporter, and was with him
when Izmery was dragged from a church last year and shot dead in front of U.N.
observers.

"The big shots with money all left, but I am stuck here," he said.

If U.S. officials fail to win approval for charter flights to rescue the growing
number of refugees, they are considering taking them out of Port-au-Prince
aboard U.S. Coast Guard cutters that dock here to return other Haitians caught
at sea.

But the officials say they do not want to jeopardize the repatriation program,
one of the cornerstones of Clinton's policy toward Haiti.



LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, A YOUNG HAITIAN WAITS FOR FOOD DISTRIBUTION AT ST. MICHEL CHURCH
IN PORT-AU-PRINCE. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              283 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 12, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Coast Guard to Stop Vessels Bound for Cuba;
 Reno Issues Warning to Head Off Exodus After Refugee Boat Is Reported in
Florida Straits

Daniel Williams, Ann Devroy, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A34

LENGTH: 846 words


Alarmed that at least one boat left Florida for Cuba and brought back refugees
this week, Attorney General Janet Reno warned yesterday that the Coast Guard
will stop, inspect and impound boats in the Florida Straits that appear headed
for the island.

The warning, issued in an unusual evening news conference, highlighted the
importance placed by the Clinton administration on preventive measures to head
off a potential massive boatlift of Cubans to Florida. Cuban President Fidel
Castro recently threatened to let citizens of his country flee by sea and to
open his coasts to exiles from the United States who want to pick up relatives
and friends.

"We want to take all steps that are prudent, that are consistent with our
policy, to ensure that that does not happen," Reno said.

The prospect of an exodus of the magnitude of the 1980 Mariel boatlift, in which
125,000 Cubans crossed the straits separating Cuba from Florida, has set off a
series of administration steps to nip any movement in the bud. Most of the
Cubans who migrated during the Mariel incident were picked up by exiles from
Florida and brought back.

A senior administration official said the Reno announcement was meant to be a
"preemptive message" aimed at persuading Cuban Americans not to head to Cuba to
pick up relatives.

A few hours after Reno's announcement in Washington, Castro held an equally
unusual late-night news conference in Havana. In remarks apparently directed
toward an international audience, he denounced U.S. immigration policy he says
denies Cubans the right to come legally to the United States and instead
encourages them to take to the seas in unseaworthy rafts and hijacked boats. But
he did not directly threaten another Mariel boatlift.

Castro also said a Cuban navy boat whose 26 passengers arrived in Key West
Wednesday was hijacked, and that Leonel Macias Gonzalez, a Cuban soldier being
detained by U.S. immigration officials, shot and killed a Cuban navy lieutenant
during the hijacking at the port of Mariel in Cuba.

Castro said that the dead lieutenant's body, shot in the head and abdomen, was
recovered from the waters, although the body has not been publicly shown in
Cuba. He called Gonzalez "an assassin."

"Macias Gonzalez takes a revolver from a bag, shooting the officer twice by
surprise, and at the rear of the ship, he fell into the water, mortally wounded,
according to the statements of the crew," Castro said. "He was hit in the
abdomen and head in a traitorous way, by surprise."

Macias Gonzalez's fellow refugees said Wednesday that there was an exchange of
gunfire and that he shot in self-defense. They called him a hero.

During a long, mostly calm speech in front of a handful of journalists in
Havana, Castro also attacked the long-running U.S. economic blockade against
Cuba, which Castro said was the cause of his island's troubles and behind the
current wave of illegal immigration.

A U.S. official said that Customs officials in Florida had discovered one boat
that had left Florida, picked up refugees in Cuba and returned. Customs officers
arrested three men who docked their speedboat at Ocean Resort in Key Largo,
after receiving a tip that the boat had smuggled 20 refugees into the country.
The refugees were being held at a Coast Guard station before transfer to Miami.

Another boat also was reported to have made the crossing, although that report
remained unconfirmed. In any event, the administration "decided we needed to
send a clear message that we were serious" about stopping it, a senior official
said.

Administration officials held discussions yesterday with Cuban American leaders
and remain convinced that Cuban exiles support the policy of resisting crossings
to Cuba. The one or two boats were an aberration, an official added, but "we
believed it was prudent" to both seize the one boat and to issue a warning in
Washington.

In Miami, Cuban American leaders continued to call for calm, urging their
constituents not to leap into boats for a ride to Cuba to rescue family or
friends.

One U.S. official said Reno's news conference was scheduled before Castro's news
conference plans were known, although another said that the expected Castro
speech did play a role.

"We thought it wise to lay down a marker," an administration official said.

Cuba is pressing the United States to stop granting automatic asylum to boat
people and to let more refugees into the country legally, noting that the
maximum 20,000 annual U.S. immigration quota is rarely, if ever, filled.

At a news conference on Monday, Alfonso Fraga, Cuba's top diplomat in
Washington, repeated Castro's charge that Washington's policy of granting the
refugees automatic political asylum encourages the exodus.

U.S. immigration officials concede that far fewer Cubans migrate through the
legal channels available at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana than could
under the 20,000 annual ceiling. Only about 5,000 Cubans are granted visas
there, a U.S. official said.


Staff writer William Booth in Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JANET RENO

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              284 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 18, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Mixed Signals at Sea;
U.S. Opening Lures Desperate Cubans to Boats

William Booth, Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1094 words


The growing wave of Cuban rafters fleeing their island illustrates the
fundamental conflict at the heart of the Clinton administration's Cuba policy:
It professes to discourage the refugee flow even while in practice it lures
rafters into the deadly waters.

Washington repeatedly has warned Fidel Castro not to unleash a mass exodus and
threatened to seize boats from Florida that attempt to pick up refugees in Cuba.
But the administration is powerless to stem the flow as long as Castro is
willing to let them go and there are Cuban vessels -- rafts, inner tubes,
fishing boats -- to carry them.

Only an unprecedented decision to return refugees forcibly might discourage
Cubans from making the dangerous crossing, but such a move would be politically
explosive, administration officials acknowledge. Without it, they concede, the
United States faces a slow-motion version of the 1980 Mariel boatlift.

The U.S. Coast Guard yesterday reported rescuing a record-breaking 537 more
refugees from 60 rafts and boats drifting along the rapid currents of the
dangerous Florida Straits, and state officials appealed for release of emergency
funds to aid in dealing with the refugees. There was one reported death and
several rafters were hospitalized. Each day since the weekend has brought a
record number of refugees in what has become the largest exodus since Mariel,
when about 125,000 Cubans arrived in Florida.

State Department officials say they see no sign that Castro has yet opened his
coastline to unrestricted exits, as he has threatened to do in two recent
speeches. But the officials report that Castro's coastal and land police are
letting small groups leave unharassed.

Officials at the Cuban Interests Section in Washington deny that Castro is
opening the floodgates. "The United States is simply reaping what it sows by its
own policy," said spokesman Rafael Dausa.

The Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966 grants refugee status to any Cuban who makes it
to the United States. The unique law serves as a powerful draw to set sail for
Florida.

Many Cubans apparently believe that a trip across the straits is a surer road to
Florida than applying for a visa at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana.
Although the U.S. quota for legal immigration from Cuba is 20,000 per year,
barely a quarter of those people routinely receive visas, because of
bureaucratic slowness and the unwillingness of many Cubans to risk reprisals
from their government for applying. Already this year, more Cubans have arrived
by sea -- about 5,000 -- than arrive annually through legal immigration.

Another magnet is the Coast Guard cutters and other rescuers who prowl the
straits and locate many -- but not all -- of the boats. By policy of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, Cubans found at sea are granted asylum
just as are those who make it to shore.

Administration officials hint that they might order Coast Guard cutters to turn
around able-bodied vessels and send them back to Cuba. But when pressed, they
admit the politics of such a move would be hazardous. It is one thing to
prohibit Cuban Americans in Miami from ferrying refugees to Florida but another
to forcibly return desperate refugees to communist rule after they have braved a
treacherous sea to get here.

Rafters interviewed in Miami and Key West said they know that if they make it
the United States, they will be welcomed and they said word is spreading in Cuba
that the gate is open.

But many do not survive the trip. Arturo Cobo, director of the Transit Center
for Cuban Refugees in Key West, estimated that only four of every 10 who leave
the island survive to make it to the United States.

Cobo and others here say that -- like the Clinton administration, they feel
trapped in a painful dilemma. For humanitarian and political reasons, they
refuse to turn the Cubans away. But they know their rescue efforts and the
liberal refugee law are luring rafters into the sea.

He and other Cuban exile leaders, along with U.S. officials, are constantly
broadcasting warnings against the trip on Spanish-language radio stations,
including U.S.-sponsored Radio Marti.

"But you know what I heard," Cobo said. "When they hear that only four of every
10 make the trip, they say that gives them hope. They think a 40 percent chance
at freedom is better than no chance in Cuba, no chance to eat, no chance to
work, no chance to live."

Warnings to Cubans not to hijack vessels also lack teeth. Despite tough talk
from Attorney General Janet Reno that her prosecutors will vigorously pursue
cases against Cuban boat hijackers and smugglers, in reality few cases have ever
been tried.

Prosecutors are stymied by the fact that there is no federal statute against
hijacking a sea-going vessel, in contrast to bans on air piracy. Indeed, a
federal anti-hijacking law that would apply is trapped in the stalled crime
bill. Moreover, prosecuting Cuban smugglers is extremely difficult because many
smugglers are seen here -- both by the passengers and by Miami juries -- as
heroes. Most often, smugglers tell officials they simply picked up the refugees
at sea.

Settling the issue directly with Castro seems not to be an option. President
Clinton, who is on a long-term mission to woo Cuban American voters, seems
unwilling to take the political risk of opening talks on issues such as food
deliveries that might make life under the dictatorship more tolerable.
Anti-Castro activists would fiercely oppose such a move and could readily damage
Clinton's electoral chances in Florida in 1996.

The administration's Haitian refugee policy stands in marked contrast. Haitians
fleeing their chaotic country in boats are interdicted by Coast Guard cutters
and either returned immediately to Port-au-Prince or offered "safe haven" at the
U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

About 14,716 Haitians linger at the base, which was the site of a violent melee
and escape attempt by Haitians on Saturday. More than 750 broke out of the camp,
and 100 tried to swim across the waters bordering the camp believing they were
heading for Cuban territory. From there, Haitian advocates in Miami say, they
had hoped to reach the United States -- becoming, in effect, Cuban boat people.

Haitian Americans in Miami point to the double standard repeatedly. "Cubans can
come, get a nice house, lots of help. But my countrymen can't come. They go to a
military camp and rot in the sun," said Jacques St. Clair, a Haitian American
businessman in Miami.

Booth reported from Miami and Williams from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              285 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 19, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. to Send Cubans Rescued at Sea to Guantanamo;
Clinton Decision Upends Three-Decade-Old Policy

Daniel Williams, Ann Devroy, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1269 words


Faced with a growing influx of Cuban refugees, President Clinton last night
decided Cubans rescued at sea will be sent to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo
Bay rather than to the United States, administration officials said.

The plan ends nearly three decades of granting automatic U.S. political asylum
to virtually all Cubans who flee Fidel Castro's leftist government. Clinton is
to announce the decision at a news conference this afternoon, officials said.

As a first step in making public the change, Attorney General Janet Reno
announced last night that Cubans picked up at sea will be detained indefinitely
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, effective immediately.

Speaking at a hastily called news conference at 10:30 p.m., just hours after she
and other top officials had emphasized the refugee situation was under control,
Reno said the Cubans would be held until a "determination" is made on how they
will be processed for entry.

She declined to say where they would be held, but other officials said the
Cubans would be sent to the naval base at Guantanamo Bay on Cuba's southeastern
end. There they would join nearly 15,000 Haitian refugees who have been there
since a refugee camp was opened at the base seven weeks ago in response to a
crisis over persons fleeing Haiti's military government.

If Guantanamo Bay fills up, the Cubans would be taken to third countries, if
havens elsewhere can be found for them, officials said. Currently there is room
for at least 6,000 Cubans at Guantanamo Bay.

Clinton made the decision on the Cubans after two lengthy meetings of foreign
policy advisers and representatives from the Justice Department. He was
responding to an upsurge in arrivals of Cubans in Florida resulting from Cuban
leader Castro's recent decision to loosen controls over citizens willing to set
off across the Florida Straits in rafts or other makeshift vessels.

The inflow of more than 2,000 Cubans in the past week, highest rate since 1980,
led Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles (D) to proclaim a state of emergency and accuse
the Clinton administration during the day of being in "denial" over the
seriousness of the situation.

Statements by Reno and White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers had initially
played down Chiles's concerns. But the administration changed course later in
the day, spurred in part by Chiles's pressure and in part by reports that
hundreds or thousands of Cubans were lining the shores preparing to flee.

Last night Chiles's criticism turned to praise in response to Reno's
announcement. The governor said he was delighted by the change, which he said
"keeps Castro from being able to call the shots" on U.S. immigration policy, the
Associated Press reported.

Under the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, Cubans who reach U.S. shores are
effectively granted immediate political asylum. By custom, automatic asylum also
was extended to Cubans rescued at sea.

Under the new policy, officials said, Cubans taken to Guantanamo Bay might have
to apply for asylum under normal procedures. That means they would have to show
they have a well-founded fear of persecution if returned to Cuba.

The refugees might also be able to apply for routine immigration, by virtue of
family ties or other criteria. The precise procedures could not be ascertained
last night.

Administration officials said potential refugees must understand they will not
be "coming to the United States in three days," a senior administration official
said.

"This is a deterrent measure," he added.

Reno said the new policy of detention applies only to Cubans picked up at sea,
implying Cubans who somehow make the crossing to U.S. shores still would be
eligible for immediate asylum under the 1966 act.

The deterrent aspect of the proposed policy is similar to policy toward Haitian
refugees, although Haitians still would be less privileged than Cubans. Haitian
boat people are also ferried to Guantanamo Bay, but are offered no chance at
asylum in the United States. Currently numbering more than 14,000, they are to
be held there until the ouster of the Haitian military regime, which Clinton has
pledged to carry out by force if necessary.

Yesterday's recommendation is designed to rob Castro of the safety valve
represented by the steady stream out of his country of boat people disgruntled
with his rule, senior officials said.

So far, Castro has allowed persons to leave in small boats but has not unleashed
an uncontrolled flow by permitting larger vessels to flee. Administration
officials calculated Castro would not risk launching a major exodus that might
overwhelm the Guantanamo Bay safe haven.

At the same time, however, the new policy would respond to Castro's complaint
that automatic asylum given boat people acts as a magnet for Cubans to flee the
island.

Castro also has complained the American economic embargo of his island
encourages Cubans to flee. Administration officials emphatically insist no
loosening of the embargo is on the way.

Officials said the numbers of U.S. Coast Guard vessels in the Florida Straits
would be increased. Means of streamlining immigration and political asylum
procedures through the U.S. Interests Section in Havana were under study, they
added.

Administration officials said they would consult with leaders of the Cuban exile
community and were confident of support. They noted Cuban Americans had not
launched a flotilla toward Cuba to pick up refugees, as they did in 1980. In a
dramatic exodus then known as the Mariel boatlift, 125,000 Cubans came to the
United States.

In recent days, however, Cuban Americans have expressed a desire to spare Miami
another major influx and also to deprive Castro of a means of shifting domestic
problems to the United States.

Some U.S. officials said the recommendations were in effect preemptive, since
the current influx from Cuba had not reached crisis proportions. They noted 9 of
10 new arrivals had found shelter with friends and relatives. No large scale
emergency housing had been necessary.

At a news briefing earlier yesterday, Reno emphasized the Cuban refugee
situation was under control. But she also appealed to Cubans in Cuba not to take
the seas for the risky crossing to Florida. "Putting a boat or raft to sea means
putting life and limb at risk," she said.

The appeal seemed to foreshadow one of Clinton's selling points for the new
policy toward Cuban refugees: humanitarian concerns over safety of boat people,
of whom scores if not hundreds have died at sea trying to cross the Florida
Straits. "The humanitarian aspect is a big part of all this," a senior official
said.

In a separate development, the Pentagon said four U.S. military police were
injured in a disturbance set off when they broke up a fight between two Haitian
refugees at Guantanamo Bay. It was the second violent incident there in a week.

Pentagon spokesman Dennis Boxx said no force was used to quell the disturbance,
which began just before midnight Wednesday night and lasted about an hour, the
Associated Press reported. No Haitians were injured.

"It was a minor incident," Boxx said of the event, which began when the MPs
intervened in a fight between a male and a female refugee. Boxx said the male
feigned injury from the peacemaking, and that incited others nearby to throw
objects at the military police.

Two of the injured MPs returned to duty and the two others were placed in their
quarters to recover, Boxx said. He said one had a twisted knee and the other a
twisted ankle.

On Saturday, 20 U.S. military police and 45 Haitians were injured in a four-hour
melee.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              286 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 19, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Florida Governor Reverses Criticism of U.S.

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 18, 1994


Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles (D), who today declared "a state of immigration
emergency" to deal with the growing new wave of Cuban refugees, tonight
expressed delight with the Clinton administration's decision to detain the
rafters.

Chiles said President Clinton's reversal puts the United States back in control
of its immigration policy. "It also allows us to make sure these people get the
proper health screening, that other screening is done," Chiles said tonight.

The governor earlier had been sharply critical of the administration, suggesting
that it get out of "denial" and stop the armada of Cubans in rickety boats
pouring into the hazardous Florida Straits.

Responding to the record numbers of Cubans who have taken to the seas in recent
days, Chiles called on Clinton to immediately declare a federal emergency and to
begin high-profile naval patrols off the Cuban coast.

As of tonight, the Coast Guard reported rescuing 527 refugees from rickety boats
and rafts, bringing to 2,066 the total for the past week. It was the largest
one-week surge since the 1980 Mariel boatlift.

Chiles said Clinton's decision to transport Cuban refugees to the U.S. naval
base at Guantanamo Bay on Cuba's southeastern tip or other "safe havens," will
enable the United States to screen the refugees. "Right now, we don't know who
is coming in. Castro could be sending agents," Chiles said of Cuba's communist
president, Fidel Castro.

Before Attorney General Janet Reno tonight announced the reversal of
long-standing policy to grant nearly immediate asylum to virtually any Cuban who
made it ashore or was picked up at sea, administration officials had resisted
calls for immediate action, saying they believed the situation was under
control. "I think clearly we've been able to handle the surge in Cuban migrants
in an orderly fashion, and we'll continue to do that," White House press
secretary Dee Dee Myers said.

Reno had ordered an additional 86 immigration officers to Key West to handle the
increased flow, Justice Department spokeswoman Julie Anbender said earlier
today.

"Janet Reno is on the case," Anbender said. "She knows South Florida. She knows
the players, and she know the challenges, and she knows South Florida's
relationship with the federal government in the past."

Nonetheless, at a briefing here today, anxious county and city officials -- some
of them Cuban Americans -- said the administration rapidly was losing control of
the situation.

The plea from the area's officials -- remarkable for a heavily Hispanic region
of recent immigrants -- illustrates South Florida's fear of a repeat of Mariel.
It brought 125,000 Cubans to the region, overwhelming schools and social
services, while sparking a tourism-busting crime wave. So far this year, more
than 7,000 Cubans have fled in boats to the United States.

"This has got to come to a stop," said Dade County Commissioner Natacha Millan,
who is of Cuban origin.

"My phone has been ringing off the hook," said state Rep. Larcenia Bullard (D)
of south Dade County. She said many of her black, working-class constituents
feared for their jobs, schools and health care, all of which they say could
suffer under another wave of refugees.

Chiles, who faces a tough reelection bid against Republican front-runner Jeb
Bush, said he was frustrated by the federal government's limited efforts. The
governor said it seemed as if the handling of Cuban refugees was being done more
by local volunteers than federal authorities.

Before Reno announced the immediate policy change tonight, Cubans who arrived in
rafts or were rescued by the U.S. Coast Guard underwent only a cursory interview
by immigration officers in Key West. Within hours, they were turned over to
private charity organizations. It was possible for a Cuban rescued at sea to be
at large in Miami within 24 hours even without evidence of financial sponsorship
or medical fitness.

"I think this thing is getting away from us," said Chiles. "If the federal
government wants to stay in denial," that's one thing, he said. "But we're not
going to."

Chiles's call for a state of emergency followed a long-running battle he has
waged against the federal government to recoup the state and local costs of
illegal immigration. Earlier this year, Chiles sued the federal government for
millions of dollars he says state and local governments have spent on social
services and law enforcement for illegal immigrants.

The recent outpouring of refugees follows a violent melee in Havana and signals
by Castro that his coastal patrols no longer will stop boats and rafts
attempting to go the United States. Castro repeatedly has warned that the
Clinton administration has lured rafters to sea by refusing to issue legal visas
in Cuba while welcoming as political refugees anyone who makes it across the
straits illegally.

So far, Chiles's state of emergency is more bark than bite. He has activated
emergency operations centers and sent an additional 30 state police to the
Florida Keys to help round up refugees who make it to land.

But he warned that he was prepared to call out the National Guard to help with
the overflow. He also said the state was prepared to set up a temporary holding
and screening center at the Monroe County jail in the keys. If the numbers
continue to grow, additional centers would be located at Homestead Air Force
Reserve Base and Boca Chica Naval Air Station there.

"Hundreds of people, maybe thousands, are lined up on Cuban shores, waiting to
leave," Chiles said. "There is no effort by Castro to stop them. In fact, it
looks like every effort is being made to encourage them."



LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, A MOTHER AND HER CHILDREN WATCH AS A RAFT LEAVES COJIMAR, EAST
OF HAVANA. THE RAFT CARRIED ANOTHER OF HER CHILDREN AND THREE OF HIS FRIENDS.
AFP; PHOTO, CANADIAN PRESS; CHART, TWP; PHOTO, REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              287 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 25, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Saudi Diplomat Who Criticized Royals Wins U.S. Asylum;
Envoy to U.N. Sent Cable Opposing His Country's Human Rights Record

John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A28

LENGTH: 574 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has granted political asylum to
Mohammed Khilewi, a Saudi Arabian diplomat who criticized the Saudi royal family
and then went underground because he feared retribution, his lawyers said
yesterday.

In a letter to Khilewi, the INS said it was granting him the political asylum he
requested June 14 because he had established a "well-founded fear of persecution
upon return to your homeland."

The question of whether to grant political asylum to Khilewi, 31, was a
diplomatic quandary for the U.S. government because Saudi Arabia is the United
States' closest ally in the Persian Gulf. Saudi government officials may be
embarrassed by the U.S. government action, which implicitly acknowledges that
they can be heavy-handed with dissidents, foreign policy specialists said.

INS and State Department officials declined to comment on the matter.

A spokesman for the Saudi Embassy also declined to comment, except to reiterate
past Saudi government statements that it doesn't want to harm Khilewi.

Khilewi, who had been a first secretary at the Saudis' United Nations mission,
said in an interview yesterday that he still fears that he, his wife and two
children could be harmed.

Khilewi told the INS that a Saudi intelligence official had threatened his and
his family's lives May 17, the day he informed Saudi officials by cable of his
opposition to the Saudi government's human rights record. Khilewi secretly taped
the conversation and included the tape in his INS application.

On the tape, the Saudi intelligence official told Khilewi in Arabic that he must
travel to Washington immediately to speak with the Saudi ambassador to the
United States, Prince Bandar bin Sultan. "You have to go today or your life,
your wife and your kids' lives will be in danger," the man told Khilewi,
according to his INS application. "Don't destroy this opportunity."

Daniel Pipes, a specialist in Arab affairs and editor of Middle East Quarterly,
said the INS decision is likely to be "an acute embarrassment for the Saudis."

Saudi officials may be especially concerned, Pipes said, because the U.S. action
may confer some legitimacy on Khilewi's allegations that the Saudis have
financed Palestinian and other terrorist groups, have electronically
eavesdropped on Jewish groups in the United States and spent billions of dollars
in the 1980s to help Iraq develop nuclear weapons.

Khilewi said he has 14,000 pages of Saudi documents supporting these and other
claims and has presented some to news organizations. The Saudis deny the
allegations and say his papers are forged.

Some Mideast experts said the Khilewi affair likely will be no more than a blip
in the U.S. relationship with the Saudis.

"So many people [in Saudi Arabia and the United States] will want to minimize
this that I can't believe it'll have much effect on U.S.-Saudi relations," said
William Quandt, a Washington-based Mideast expert.

Leon Wildes, Khilewi's main immigration lawyer, said the INS decision was "a
triumph of justice over politics. In 35 years of immigration practice, I have
seldom seen as strong a case, but I was still concerned about the outcome,
because of our government's close ties with the Saudi government."

In rare instances in the past, the U.S. has granted political asylum to citizens
of countries with which the United States has relatively friendly ties, such as
El Salvador and Algeria.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MOHAMMED KHILEWI

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              288 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 25, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Policy on Cuba Awash in Contradictions;
Clinton Administration Now Finds Itself at the Mercy of Castro and Refugees

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 923 words


Clinton administration policy toward Cuba is adrift, and rescue for Washington
is up to the unpredictable Fidel Castro and thousands of potential refugees.

The administration's radical shift on the treatment of boat people, undertaken
largely to calm domestic immigration fears, has overturned policies toward Cuba
built up over decades.

But the refugees keep coming, and the White House has outlined no clear strategy
for where to head next. Its best bet is to persuade Castro himself to block the
boat people from leaving, but the United States has little leverage to pressure
him to do so.

In the meantime, the administration says it will hold out, even if it means
keeping refugees locked up indefinitely. "We can manage the crisis for as long
as necessary," said Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff.

Washington is unwilling to meet Castro's key demand for talks. In fact, ignoring
the longstanding advice of liberals in his own party, President Clinton has
adopted a more confrontational posture toward Cuba than his Republican
predecessor.

Talks await democratization, the political equivalent of asking Castro to commit
suicide. "Talks are not useful because this is not a problem to be resolved
between the United States and Cuba," Tarnoff said in an interview. "Castro must
listen to what his own people are saying."

The new policy on fleeing Cubans is burdened with contradictions. Proclaiming
loudly that Castro would not be allowed to set U.S. immigration policy, the
administration has let him do just that.

The current crisis was triggered when Castro told local authorities to allow
Cubans to set off on makeshift rafts and small boats across the 90-mile Florida
Straits. The resulting surge in refugees led the administration to halt
admittance of boat people.

In one sense, that represented a victory for Castro. He has long regarded easy
entry for Cuban exiles into the United States as a source of instability in
Cuba: People always were trying to leave. By letting boat people flee, Castro
basically told Washington that if it wants to accept Cubans indiscriminately, he
can send over more than the United States can handle. Refugees now are being
diverted to a rapidly swelling camp at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in
southeastern Cuba.

Castro also has demanded that the United States accept higher numbers of legal
immigrants through its office in Havana. Attorney General Janet Reno said
yesterday she was looking into ways of doing so.

For those who flee, however, there was only negative news: They will be detained
in Guantanamo indefinitely. "I will not parole them," Reno said vociferously
yesterday. In the same breath, she pleaded with them to stay home -- but if they
do, her only offer was "access to process" for gaining entry to the United
States.

Meanwhile, the turnabout in immigration policy unleashed political waves in
Florida that led to a ratcheting up of economic and diplomatic pressure on
Castro's government. Stung by complaints from right-wing Cuban exile leaders in
Miami that it was unfair to punish just the boat people and not the government
they fled, the administration eliminated exile visits to the island and banned
gifts of money sent from the United States. Both steps were meant to stem the
flow of hard currency into Cuba's economy.

The measures represented a rejection of recommendations that have been coming
for months from middle-level State Department officials and some Democrats. They
urged that Washington engage Castro, to avert either chaos surrounding his
possible downfall or just the kind of crisis that is now under way.

But Clinton, timid in the face of congressional hardliners and still harboring
hopes of electoral gain in Florida, set aside such proposals. Instead, he
effectively prolonged the policy of President George Bush, holding that Castro
eventually would fall like rotten fruit.

All this puts Clinton in the uncomfortable position of depending on the kindness
of strangers. Either Castro or the refugees must change their mind. Lacking
incentives from Washington, neither has given indications of doing so.

The question of time is pressing because Washington has decided to lock up
Cubans at Guantanamo until they can be repatriated to Cuba. For some, that could
be a life sentence. U.S. diplomats also are trying to persuade other countries
to accept Cubans for internment and these countries want to know for how long.
The Turks and Caicos Islands, a British possession near the Bahamas, wants to
set a six-month limit.

No policy review toward Cuba is under way. Secretary of State Warren Christopher
has remained on vacation during the crisis. The lead spokesmen are Attorney
General Reno, a former Florida prosecutor -- who is credited by administration
officials with being savvy about Miami's Cuban exile community -- and Defense
Secretary William J. Perry, who has delayed his vacation.

Clinton's policy has not been driven by a contemplation of what to do about
Cuba, officials said, but rather was propelled by a desire to avoid a repeat of
the 1980 Mariel influx of refugees, in which 125,000 Cubans came to Florida in
five months.

When making his decision to reverse refugee policy, Clinton reminisced to aides
about his experience as governor of Arkansas, when thousands of Cubans were held
at Fort Chafee, Ark., and some escaped into nearby neighborhoods. The incident
helped cost Clinton his reelection.

The memory makes him averse to putting any Cubans on U.S. territory anywhere,
officials say.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: ANALYSIS, NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              289 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 30, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Upcoming Talks With Cuba on Immigration Issues Could Foster Deeper Dialogue

Daniel Williams, Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 1113 words


The Clinton administration and Fidel Castro have cautiously entered a
tit-for-tat negotiation over the exodus of Cuban boat people, with Washington
offering tantalizing hints that talks on immigration could open the way for
progress on broader issues.

The first trade-off was consummated over the weekend. President Clinton on
Friday offered Castro talks on means of directing migrants through legal
channels in Havana, and Castro accepted on Saturday.

Then, on Sunday, Castro scaled back his carte blanche permission for rafters to
take to sea, barring children and teenagers from the dangerous makeshift
vessels. That order was welcomed yesterday by U.S. officials.

It was difficult to tell how potential Cuban rafters will respond. Yesterday was
the first day of calm weather after several squally days in the Florida Straits,
and news service reports from Havana said dozens of rafts were taking to sea. It
was not immediately clear, however, whether rafters were setting out in anything
like the numbers of early last week, when U.S. Coast Guard and Navy ships picked
up more than 2,300 people a day, on average, over a five-day period.

If the exodus resumes in force, it would be a setback for Clinton's effort to
deter the rafters by refusing them entry to the United States. Many Cubans have
said they are motivated to make the dangerous journey now out of fear that
Washington and Havana will soon be shutting the door.

The talks on migration will take place in New York this week, possibly on
Thursday. A deal that could be struck would include a U.S. move to increase
legal immigration from Cuba to the United States in exchange for Cuban action to
resume the past policy of obstructing illegal emigration by rafters,
administration officials said.

Officials have said that the talks will be limited to migration issues, and the
participants will be at the relatively low level of deputy assistant secretaries
of state. Last week the administration repeatedly emphasized it would not enter
broad, high-level talks, as Castro wants.

On Sunday, however, Secretary of State Warren Christopher began to look beyond
issues of migration. He said that in response to steps toward democracy in Cuba,
the United States would take "carefully calibrated" steps of its own toward
easing relations. He did not spell out what the United States might do, but
based his position on a 1992 law that provides for Washington to ease sanctions
against Cuba, such as the trade embargo, as the island democratizes.

Yesterday, State Department spokesman Michael McCurry listed some steps by Cuba
that would be considered positive. "Allow opposition to develop. Allow a debate
to occur within your country. Allow people to enjoy freedom to sell produce at
markets," he said. Under further questioning, however, he said any change must
come within the context of free elections in Cuba.

Getting anywhere near progress on broad issues depends first on success in the
New York talks on immigration, U.S. officials say, where the tit-for-tat
approach is likely to continue. Christopher and others already have offered
Castro the enticement of allowing greater legal immigration to the United
States. Now officials are trying to determine how to achieve this without steps
that require new legislation.

The easiest avenue to open up would involve greater admission of refugees. For
the last several years fewer than 3,000 Cubans a year have been admitted to the
United States as refugees out of a total from all countries of about 115,000.

It would be a fairly simple matter to increase the allotment for Cuba in the
upcoming fiscal year, officials and immigration experts said. Expanding
facilities in Cuba for refugee processing and ensuring the Cuban government's
cooperation would be more complicated. Also, the United States could demand that
church and voluntary organizations from outside Cuba be allowed to help screen
potential refugees.

The administration also could change the way it judges whether people deserve
refugee status.

Administration officials emphasize, however, that an expanded refugee program
would not be available to the Cubans now held on the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where boat people are being sent.

Touchier and more difficult options involve expanding ways to facilitate
immigration by Cubans who have close relatives in the United States,
administration officials said. Because changing the qualifications for visas or
the procedures for acquiring them would require legislation, discussions have
focused on the possible use of Attorney General Janet Reno's broad powers to let
people enter the country outside the visa process.

Most visa categories for relatives are subject to long worldwide waiting lists
that can take a decade to clear. Currently some 19,000 Cubans are on different
lists or have applications for family visas in various stages of processing.

Under one proposal now under consideration, Reno would "parole" large numbers of
Cubans into the country who already have been approved as family immigrants but
are stuck on waiting lists. Much of the discussion on this proposal has focused
on how the governments and potential immigrants in other nations would react to
seeing Cubans jump to the head of the line, officials said.

In this area too, the Cubans at Guantanamo will be excluded from consideration.

None of these measures will be taken by the United States without some kind of
reciprocal action taken by the Cubans. These could include a commitment to
discourage raft people, the repatriation of refugees who want to go home from
Guantanamo and return of 1,200 criminals who came to the United States in the
1980 Mariel boatlift and who are in detention for crimes committed in this
country.

In his remarks on Sunday, Christopher began to moderate recent positions taken
by administration officials.

Just last week, Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff insisted that political
talks with Cuba were unnecessary. The only dialogue needed was between Castro
and the Cuban people, he said.

Taking a softer approach, Christopher appeared to outline a road map for eased
tensions.

The secretary of state based his position on talks on a clause in the 1992 Cuban
Democracy Act, a piece of legislation that circumscribes U.S. actions toward
Cuba pending moves toward democracy.

Under the act, the United States must keep economic sanctions in place, so long
as Castro refuses "to move toward democratization and greater respect for human
rights."

Conversely, Washington is "to be prepared to reduce the sanctions in carefully
calibrated ways in response to positive developments in Cuba."


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, CUBAN BOAT PEOPLE: DAILY TOTALS (CHART NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              290 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 31, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

White House Goal Is to Coax Cubans Home

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1127 words


As the exodus of Cuban raft people gained force after a three-day lull, the
Clinton administration prepared a plan to coax thousands of Cuban refugees
interned at Guantanamo Bay to return to Cuba and apply to move to the United
States under a program that would sharply increase legal immigration.

The plan, to be presented at talks with Cuban officials beginning in New York on
Thursday, was outlined by U.S. officials as administration policy faced a
setback with a sharp increase in the number of Cuban refugees picked up in the
Florida Straits.

Coast Guard and Navy ships yesterday had picked up 1,375 by 9:15 p.m., up from
an average of 170 a day from Saturday through Monday, when stormy weather
sharply reduced the number of departures. Yesterday, U.S. and foreign officials
said Washington had lined up three governments to take an overflow from
Guantanamo Bay if necessary: Panama, whose new government pledged to take 10,000
people; Honduras, 5,000; and the Turks and Caicos Islands -- a British
possession -- 2,500.

The rise in numbers of intercepted refugees suggested that Cubans were leaving
despite the U.S. effort to discourage the exodus by sending rafters to the U.S.
Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, rather than admitting them to the United
States. Reports from Cuba said that scores more rafts were setting sail.

Implementing the new U.S. plan to empty Guantanamo Bay depends on the
willingness of the Cuban government to accept the refugees, even temporarily,
and of the refugees to return home in hope of immigrating legally to the United
States.

The proposal reflects a conclusion reached by the administration in recent days
that potential raft people in Cuba are unconvinced by U.S. statements that
Guantanamo Bay is a dead end, offering no hope of ultimately reaching the United
States. Only the spectacle of Cubans being returned to Cuba from the base -- to
go through procedures like other would-be immigrants -- will convince Cubans
that the dangerous raft trip is a waste of time, officials said.

The new plan is designed to solve with one strokethe questions of what to do
with the refugees at Guantanamo Bay -- already more than 15,000 strong -- and of
how to deal with Cuban refugees over the long term. The proposed answer is to
vastly increase the number of Cubans who migrate legally by applying at the
American Interests Section in Havana.

If adopted, the new policy would mark a back-down from U.S. policies forcefully
enunciated less than two weeks ago. Since President Clinton announced the
decision Aug. 19 to shuttle boat people to Guantanamo Bay, officials had
suggested they would remain in indefinite limbo. Attorney General Janet Reno had
said refugees at Guantanamo Bay "will not be processed -- not be processed --
for admission to the United States."

Now, without yet giving details, administration officials are hinting that by
returning to Cuba, the refugees at Guantanamo Bay not only would be processed
but also would get preferential treatment in being accepted as immigrants.

Clinton decided in principle last week to increase legal migration through
Havana, with procedures being finalized last night.

A comment Sunday by Secretary of State Warren Christopher suggested that changes
to increase legal immigration would be adopted only in exchange for help from
Cuban leader Fidel Castro in stemming the departure of raft people. "We're quite
prepared to consider lawful migration, perhaps enhanced lawful migration if
they're prepared to stop the unlawful migration," Christopher said.

If Castro refuses, the administration would seem to have no immediate way of
stopping the flow of boat people. The base at Guantanamo Bay still has a
capacity for about 30,000 more Cubans. If it overflows, the Turks and Caicos
Islands would be used as a transit point for Cubans being sent elsewhere, a
British official said.

The government of Turks and Caicos Islands north of Hispaniola said it would
house the Cubans at a camp at Grand Turk. The camp was built by the U.S.
military for Haitian refugees but none was brought there, the Associated Press
reported.

Panama is willing to keep them for six months. It is not clear how long Honduras
would allow the refugees to stay. Venezuela also said Sunday that it might
accept some Cuban refugees for some period of time but said they would have to
be related to Cubans already living there.

U.S. officials were hopeful that if events led to an overflow, the refugees at
some point would begin to trickle back to Cuba, seeing that in no case were they
being allowed into the United States. In any case, the three nations'
willingness to take the refugees gives the United States a sense of Caribbean
solidarity for its policy of turning away Cubans.

A senior U.S. official was hopeful that Cuba was prepared to stop rafters from
leaving. Castro's decision Sunday to ban the exit of children and teenagers "was
at least an admission they have some responsibility," the official said.

"The Cubans could handle it a couple of ways. They could come and take a tough
line, or they could say to themselves, 'We can reach an understanding on
migration, we have made the issue of Cuba policy of greater American interest,'
and count on the issue remaining on the public domain, feeling that their
chances are greater for better relations if they act responsibly," the official
said.

Cuba's official press is setting a mood of cooperation for the trip of Cuban
negotiators to New York, but also is clamoring for negotiations to cover issues
of Cuban-U.S. relations. Castro has insisted that the true cause of emigration
is economic hardship because of the 35-year-old U.S. ban on trade with the
island.

The Cuban delegation is headed by Ricardo Alarcon, a former foreign minister and
United Nations ambassador who has overseen a decade of Cuban-U.S. talks about
migration matters. The American delegation, which will include immigration
officials, will be headed by Michael Skol, a deputy assistant secretary of
state.

A group of 225 refugees at Guantanamo Bay is available to take part in the new
policy, U.S. officials said. They have expressed a desire to return to Cuba, and
U.S. authorities have told them they can apply for visas in Havana. Cuba has not
responded to U.S. queries about repatriation. A response is expected in New
York.

The proposal to expand immigration via Havana is meant to answer Castro's
complaint that a 1984 migration agreement between Cuba and the United States was
undermined by later U.S. policies. The agreement set a 20,000 ceiling on Cuban
immigration to the United States; Castro assumed 20,000 would go yearly. Only
between 2,000 and 3,000 have done so, however, while the ceiling is up to about
27,000.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CUBANS IN MAKESHIFT VESSEL ROW AWAY FROM LAND'S END AT COJIMAR,
CUBA, AS THE NUMBER OF RAFTERS STARTED RISING AGAIN YESTERDAY. REUTER; CHART,
TWP; PHOTO, AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              291 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 1, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Ripple in Florida Straits Overturned U.S. Policy;
Reno and Chiles Were Catalysts in Getting Administration to Slam the Door on
Cuban Rafters

Walter Pincus, Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A31

LENGTH: 2114 words


In the late afternoon of Aug. 17, as the White House focused on resurrecting the
crime bill, an urgent message arrived at the Justice Department from a top aide
to Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles (D).

The governor, who was contending with fast-growing numbers of Cuban rafters
arriving at Key West, warned Attorney General Janet Reno that he had a plan to
circumvent more than 30 years of U.S. policy that welcomed all Cubans arriving
in the United States as refugees. Using his executive powers, Chiles was going
to declare an emergency the next morning and put incoming Cubans in quarantine
at a state facility rather than allow them to be released into the streets of
Miami.

Reno convinced national security adviser Anthony Lake that the administration
had to move fast on the rafters, and by the evening of Aug. 18 President Clinton
had changed the policy himself rather than risk a confrontation with the Florida
governor.

Chiles and Reno usually are not major players in foreign policy. But a
reconstruction of how the Clinton administration handled the current crisis
shows that they served as catalysts for a series of fast-paced responses and
paved the way for the Cuban-American talks that begin today in New York City.

Domestic politics have always influenced foreign policy, but in this case
widespread fears of uncontrolled immigration powerfully and overtly shaped the
administration's decision making. With no overarching national goal like the
fight against communism to enforce consistency, the events this summer show how
long-standing policies are now subject to drastic change to meet the demands of
the moment.

Early in August Clinton determined that "no new Mariel" -- referring to the 1980
boatlift in which 125,000 Cubans arrived in Florida -- would serve as the
guiding principle. Then on Aug. 13 a CIA report landed in the Oval Office that
predicted a slow-motion Mariel in which the same number of rafters would arrive
this year. Since then Clinton has remained bedeviled by the specter of Jimmy
Carter, and the damning image of a president incapable of controlling the
nation's borders.

The migration issue -- how to keep the rafters out of Florida -- immediately
took precedence over the long-standing foreign policy question of how to deal
with Cuban President Fidel Castro. And success until now has been measured by
the results of policies in South Florida more than in Havana.

When Clinton ended the preferential treatment of Cuban refugees on Aug. 18, the
new strategy flowed from the gambits that succeeded in halting the tide of
Haitian boat people earlier this summer rather than any plans to hasten Castro's
departure. And when he decided last weekend to negotiate with Castro, Clinton
set an agenda that attempts to use immigration policy as a way to end the
rafters' exodus.

Finally, although the administration developed its decisions step by step along
a course that seems logical in retrospect, its public announcements attempted to
send varied messages to several different audiences. These included the Cuban
American community in Florida, the Cubans in Cuba, and only lastly the American
public in general. As a result, the administration sometimes acted hastily in
presenting its positions and created the impression of contradictory
policy-making.

Clinton's simple call to prevent a new Mariel was translated for public
consumption into a defiant statement repeated time and again that "Castro will
not be allowed to dictate U.S. immigration policies."

Some administration officials came to regret that formulation when it became
apparent that the only way to prevent an uncontrolled, Mariel-style exodus in
fact was to drastically alter U.S. policies.

And, when the change was made Aug. 18, Reno rushed to announce the decision
because she hoped to head off as many rafters as possible. Instead, she caught
many members of the administration by surprise, going before the cameras
unbeknown to most State Department officials and before any detailed explanation
of the policy change could be developed.

"I was stunned to hear it when I woke up the next morning," said a key State
Department expert who had not completed tasks associated with implementation of
the policy. "It is hard to see how she talked the president into letting her
make that statement."

In extensive interviews conducted over the past week, officials of the White
House and several agencies offered the following depiction of how the
administration handled the events as they unfolded:

By early August, 5,200 Cuban refugees had arrived in Florida since the start of
the year compared with the 3,600 for all of 1993. Administration officials
understood that it was becoming a serious problem for Castro because during the
course of the summer armed hijackers had seized several ferry boats.

On Aug. 5 there was the first antigovernment riot since Castro took power in
1959, but in Washington the significance of these events in Cuba was read
primarily in terms of the growing numbers of Cubans arriving in South Florida.

The intelligence assessments available to U.S. policy-makers that day portrayed
Castro as a leader under mounting pressure from the dissatisfaction, disorder
and violence he faced at home. But U.S. analysts did not believe he faced an
imminent threat to his own survival. Under such circumstances in the past Castro
had encouraged flight to the United States as an outlet for dissent.

As reports of the Aug. 5 rioting arrived from Havana, administration officials
decided they needed to prepare a response. News of the disturbances had
galvanized the Cuban American community in Florida with hopes that at last
Castro's end was near. This aroused concern in Washington that the exiles in
Miami again might take to their boats as they did in 1980.

At an interagency meeting convened that afternoon at the White House, officials
from the Coast Guard, the Pentagon, and the State and Justice departments agreed
to activate long-standing contingency plans to preempt any repeat of Mariel. For
the most part the plans involved an aggressive public relations campaign to
convince the Cuban American community not to set off in boats from Florida to
rescue loved ones in Cuba.

Meanwhile in Havana, Castro boldly marched through the riot scene late that
afternoon and blamed U.S. policies for both the disturbance and the growing
numbers of people fleeing Cuba illegally. He then delivered a warning to the
Clinton administration, "they either set things in order or we will stop
guarding the U.S. coasts."

Clinton responded with a demand that resonated throughout the federal
government: "No new Mariel." But, by early in the second week of August it
became apparent that a Cuban American boatlift was not underway but rather it
was the exodus of Cubans heading to the United States in rafts and other
makeshift vessels.

Another interagency meeting was called for Aug. 11 to discuss options. Officials
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service offered an idea that had been
percolating around their agency since the exodus of Haitian boat people had been
successfully halted in early July. The Haitians had very quickly stopped when
the administration announced that they would be protected as refugees in "safe
havens," such as the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but that they
would be denied any opportunity to reach the United States.

If it worked with the Haitians, why not the Cubans?

In the Haitian case, safe haven actually represented a more generous policy
compared to the forced repatriations that had preceded it. But, State Department
officials argued that in the Cuban case, safe haven would mean reversing 35
years of policy that had welcomed virtually all who fled Castro's regime.

Whatever special status the Cubans had enjoyed before, the number of rafters
seem to grow inexorably to the point that welcoming them all was becoming
politically untenable. And so, at the staff level a consensus developed around
the idea of applying the safe haven concept to Cubans.

Unbeknown to U.S. officials meetings also were taking place in Havana that
afternoon. The next day, Aug. 12, Castro secretly ordered Cuban authorities not
to interfere with people trying to leave the island. The floodgates were open.

In Florida, the pressure on Chiles was growing. He recalled in an interview that
he had considered announcing emergency measures Aug. 17 but decided against it
for fear of catching the Clinton administration "flat-footed." Instead he had an
aide call Washington and pass the word that Chiles planned to act the next day.

On the morning of Aug. 18, Chiles protested that the administration was in
"denial" over the rafters and declared a state of emergency in Florida. However,
he stopped short of implementing his plan to call out the Florida National Guard
and put the Cubans in camps of his own.

Almost immediately, White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers and Reno herself,
in response to reporters' questions, said in Washington that Chiles was
overreacting. The two did so, responding defensively, even though they knew a
White House "principals meeting" to discuss Chiles's concerns was already on the
schedule.

Hours later the meeting was convened with Lake as chairman and included Reno,
Defense Secretary William J. Perry, Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff, Adm.
William A. Owens, representing the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and
White House Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta.

The switch to a safe haven policy quickly gained a consensus among the
officials. As one participant recalled recently, "the change was necessary to
protect a basic fundamental policy of no massive influx that looked like
Mariel."

The administration's senior policy-makers had crossed a line. Immigration policy
had become foreign policy.

Clinton approved the switch to a safe haven approach at about 7 p.m. with the
understanding that he would disclose it the next day at a news conference.
Officials then began the process of informing congressional leaders, drumming up
support in the Cuban American community and developing plans to implement the
decision.

Reno, however, became concerned that in the course of the next 12 hours, amid
rumors of a changed U.S. policy, a flood of people might set off from Cuba. She
sought and got White House permission to push up the announcement.

At 10:30 p.m., at a hurriedly prepared news conference in the White House
briefing room, Reno announced that Cubans no longer would be accepted
automatically into the United States, but instead would be detained. She offered
few other details.

Having already begun a process of accommodation with the Cuban American
community with its initial "no new Mariel" policy, the administration continued
on this course when the harsher treatment of Cuban refugees prompted protests in
Miami. Congressional Republicans and most Florida Democrats also demanded that
the new refugee policy had to be paired with further measures against the Cuban
dictator.

Some of those measures had been cleared by top officials, and implementing
procedures were being developed even as the president prepared for a 1:30 p.m.
news conference. But once again the process of public announcement preceded the
full development of policy.

At his news conference, Clinton reiterated the decision to halt the flow of
Cubans and send them initially to the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. But he ducked
questions about taking stronger steps to overthrow Castro.

It was not until the next day, Saturday, Aug. 20, after an evening meeting at
the White House between Clinton and Chiles accompanied by a delegation of Cuban
American leaders, that the administration announced that it would tighten the
economic embargo on Cuba with measures such as a limit on the dollars that U.S.
residents can send relatives in Cuba. The new measures were announced the
following morning in what was to be the third major policy pronouncement on Cuba
in less than 40 hours.

Despite the policy change, the following week the number of rafters mounted
until foul weather interrupted the exodus. Amid signs that the rafters were
about to head to sea again on clearing skies, the administration last weekend
agreed to enter talks with Cuba as long as the subject was limited to
immigration.

For the Clinton administration, the negotiations that begin in New York today
have one goal: to end the influx of rafters. Indeed, the administration
repeatedly has said it has no intention of discussing the trade embargo or any
of the other political and economic issues that have been the principal focus of
foreign policy toward Cuba for the past 35 years.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, HOW THE CUBAN REFUGEE CRISIS UNFOLDED (GRAPHIC IS
UNAVAILABLE.), TWP; PHOTO

TYPE: CHRONOLOGY, NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              292 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 2, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Proposes 'Floor' Of Legal Migration In Talks With Cuba

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A29

LENGTH: 842 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 1, 1994


U.S. negotiators proposed to Cuba today to let a minimum number of Cubans
migrate legally to the United States each year, asking in return that Havana
stem the "chaotic and dangerous" flow of boat people, U.S. officials said.

The U.S. proposal came on the first day of talks -- at the offices of the U.S.
mission to the United Nations -- called in response to the recent massive exodus
of Cuban refugees by sea to Florida. The negotiations were to resume Friday at
Cuba's U.N. mission.

The first round was dominated by explanations of a proposed new U.S. policy,
which would guarantee a large yearly migration of Cubans in a variety of ways.
"We gave the Cubans something to chew on," a State Department official said.

Setting a minimum -- or floor, in the language used in the negotiations -- is a
departure for U.S. immigration policy for Cubans. Since 1984, a maximum of
between 20,000 and about 27,000 visas were available through the American
Interests Section in Havana. However, in any year, rarely more than 2,000 or
3,000 Cubans qualified. That led to complaints from Havana that Washington was
blocking immigration to stimulate the image-damaging departures by sea.

U.S. officials declined to give the number of visas at stake, saying the subject
was still being negotiated with the Cubans. Just how the Cubans would return the
favor was yet unclear. U.S. negotiators are reluctant to request explicitly that
Cuban leader Fidel Castro throw would-be exiles in jail; Castro "knows how to do
it," a U.S. official said.

The U.S. offer was described as a special program, consistent with U.S. law, to
increase the number of Cubans who emigrate legally, U.S. officials said. Today's
talks provided "details of how the United States can channel the desire to
emigrate into a safe, orderly, legal, predictable and dependable process," said
David Johnson, a State Department spokesman.

During the morning session, Ricardo Alarcon, a veteran Cuban diplomat who led
his delegation, made an appeal for the United States to reopen trade with Cuba,
banned for 33 years, but then dropped the subject, U.S. officials said. The
Cuban government argues that the trade ban encourages immigration by helping to
impoverish Cubans.

"By making life more difficult down there, [the United States] is encouraging
people to leave," Alarcon said in one of several interviews with U.S. television
networks.

Technically, these talks are but one in a series that have been held on
migration issues since 1984; most have dealt with the fate of exiled Cuban
felons whom the United States wants to repatriate. But the flood of refugees in
the Florida Straits and Cuba's express desire to improve relations with the
United States made today's negotiations a high-profile event.

A clutch of reporters was squeezed by police onto a spare parcel of sidewalk and
struggled to hear the periodic pronouncements of U.S. officials above the roar
of sirens and trucks. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Michael Skol, who
headed the U.S. delegation, took pains to portray both sides as equally in need
of a solution.

"We know it is in their interest, as well as in the interest of the United
States, to establish a firm system of legal, safe and orderly migration," he
told reporters.

Skol said he would not go beyond the issue of immigration, as Cuba would like.
"I've got a briefing book," he said. "There's nothing here about embargo,
economics or anything else. Tabs A through M: all migration."

Besides giving details on how U.S. immigration officials will increase the
numbers of legal immigrants, Skol explained the U.S. policy of keeping Cubans
from reaching American shores by ferrying them to the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, on Cuba's southeastern tip, for indefinite detention. This is
meant to assure the Cubans that Washington is not trying to stimulate the exodus
of raft people.

Skol also laid out the expectations that Castro cut off the flow, as well as the
need to reach agreement on the return of convicted Cuban felons to Cuba.

About 1,400 convicts who came to the United States during the 1980 boatlift from
Mariel, Cuba, are in jail. The United States wants to repatriate these
"excludables."

While Skol stuck to the narrow issue at hand, other U.S. officials felt free to
discuss a future broadening of U.S.-Cuban diplomacy -- if the migration talks go
well. On television and to newspaper reporters, administration officials
operating behind the mask of anonymity threw out ideas about possible future
talks on political issues that separate Cuba and the United States.

Should Castro want an end to propaganda broadcasts, a loosening of economic
sanctions and relief from other forms of U.S. pressure, he would need to take
such steps as releasing political prisoners, permitting free political
discussion and other action leading toward democracy.

Papers outlining potential steps Castro could take and possible responses by
Washington have circulated in Washington but are not yet administration policy,
officials said.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, CUBAN NEGOTIATOR RICARDO ALARCON ARRIVES FOR TALKS IN NEW YORK,
WHERE HE DISCUSSED MORE OPEN TRADE BUT LATER DROPPED THE SUBJECT. TWP; PHOTO,
REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              293 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 2, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Stealing Castro's Hole Card

Stephen S. Rosenfeld

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 848 words


The Clinton administration may yet stumble to a success in dealing with Cuba.
The problem isn't that hard, and Fidel Castro is helping in his fashion.

The first requirement of policy is to keep faith with refugees fleeing
communism. This was a standard Cold War policy -- and the right one for a
country like ours that speaks for liberty. It brought a million Cubans to Miami
over a period of 30 years. The end of the Cold War was bound to dim the urgency
of rescue and to give a sharper profile to, for instance, Florida's carrying
capacity. But in Cuba the Cold War survives in the form of an anomalous and
discredited but still live Communist tyranny. This imposes a continuing
obligation on the United States to care for Cuban refugees.

Not gracefully but effectively, President Clinton is meeting this obligation by
offering Cuban refugees "safe haven" in Guantanamo. Safe haven is denigrated in
some quarters as an immoral reversal of the traditional automatic asylum. But
the recipients of safe haven are not being thrown back to Cuba, and they are
living under an American flag. It is an adequate expedient to buy a bit of time.

The question is how to use that time. Here Clinton has had difficulty in moving
past mindless nationalist assertions to the effect that "Castro will not be
allowed to dictate American immigration policies." Someone should have told him
that Castro, by generating refugees in the first place through repression and by
his openings and closings of the emigration tap, has been dictating American
immigration policies practically since his revolution took power in 1959. Until
Soviet communism went under, most Americans regarded the flow as a burden they
were proud to sustain.

But never mind. Castro is saving Clinton from his slogans by offering to
negotiate out emigration. This is the focus of the talks that opened in New York
yesterday. A deal sits waiting to be confirmed. Cuba would discreetly pen up the
illegals who are now setting out dangerously on rafts to Florida. The United
States would agree to increase numbers of legals.

There is a strained quality to Clinton's approach to Havana. Even as he enters
talks that offer a promise of personal relief to some thousands of Cubans, he
tightens the embargo pressures that inflict further suffering on some millions
of Cubans. This is an inconsistency and, considering the human costs, a pity. It
is due, as far as anyone can tell, to Clinton's kowtowing to the Cuban
emigration's right wing, a faction he started courting during his campaign for
the White House. Cuba, of course, is no longer any sort of security threat.

In any event, the talks begun in New York are eventually more likely to go
Castro's way into broad political discussions than to stay tightly focused on
technical emigration matters, as Clinton says he prefers. This seems to me the
logic of events. Castro seems to understand it better than Clinton does.

Castro is not out to embrace the United States and its ways. Better than anyone,
however, he understands that his regime is failing now that Moscow no longer
supports it. This is what has led him to take the huge risk of starting to
bargain for a lifting of the American embargo. His release of some of his
citizens to the rafts put one of his few still-available cards in play.

Strangely, Clinton evidently fears that Castro will outsmart him in political
talks and that the Cuban leader will end up replacing Soviet subsidies with
American subsidies for his otherwise sinking enterprise. Some of Clinton's
domestic critics share this apprehension. But almost everyone else realizes
there is a second, broadly political deal that Clinton is in a position to
offer. The United States would phase out the embargo. Cuba would introduce
democratic elections. End of the Cuba problem.

Why would Castro accept an approach that puts him on the slippery slope of
negotiations that may cost him power? There is a whole industry of people who
try to get inside Castro's head. Some believe him to be obsessed if not by power
than by rage at the United States, and hence an unlikely candidate for a
political compromise. But having come this far, how can a U.S. president shy
away from supporting a plan that satisfies the two fundamental considerations of
American democratic principle and Cuban national pride?

The Clinton administration regularly asserts that it favors a peaceful
transition to democracy in Cuba. But its actual policy of unrelieved pressure
and isolation shows a glint of the old American premise that in the right
circumstances the Cuban people will revolt and throw Castro out. This is the
belief that led President Kennedy to launch a disastrous invasion of Cuban
exiles at the Bay of Pigs in 1961.

No invasion is imaginable now. But a trace of an underlying American resentment
at an upstart Cuba may remain from the earlier period of American colonial
hegemony. The trace is faint to us, but perhaps not so faint to some number of
Cubans whose nationalism Castro shrewdly stirs. With respect, the United States
can steal that card.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              294 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 3, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Offers to Increase Cuban Immigration

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 2, 1994


U.S. and Cuban negotiators worked overtime today to bridge differences over a
deal that would stem the flood of boat people from Cuba's shores, and scheduled
another round of talks for Sunday, U.S. officials said.

The U.S. delegation gave Cuban negotiators a proposal in writing for increasing
legal immigration from Cuba to the United States. In return, Washington wants
Cuban President Fidel Castro to restore his government's ban on Cubans leaving
the island without permission.

The Cuban negotiators were to consult with Havana about the proposal on
Saturday. The Cubans seemed agreeable about the plan, U.S. officials said,
adding that delivery of the written proposal indicated the talks were entering
the crucial, final stage.

"The document reflects the progress we made this afternoon," a U.S. official
said. The Cubans declined to comment.

Today's talks, at the Cuban mission to the United Nations, lasted about eight
hours and broke up about 7 p.m. The negotiations began Thursday, triggered by a
surge last month in numbers of Cubans fleeing to the United States on rafts and
other makeshift vessels.

The Cubans had long wanted the United States to grant more U.S. visas, thus
channeling uncontrolled migration by sea into a bureaucratic process. Such a
procedure also would give the Cuban government notice of who wants to leave and,
because of Havana's control of exit documents, a veto over departures.

It was not clear how the Cuban side would in turn restrict the exodus of boat
people. Until last month the prohibition was enforced by jail terms and fines.
The U.S. delegation also discussed with the Cubans how to persuade the 20,000
boat people being held at the U.S.-leased naval base at Guantanamo Bay on Cuba's
southeastern tip to return to Cuba to apply to emigrate legally.

Cuban officials indicated publicly that they had a larger agenda than just
immigration. At some point in the future, they said, they want the Clinton
administration to begin talks on ending the U.S. trade ban on the island
country.

However, a U.S. official said that in the talks, Cuban negotiators brought up
the issue only in a "pro forma" manner.

The U.S. delegation, led by Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Michael Skol,
met with the Cuban delegation led by veteran senior diplomat Ricardo Alarcon.

The continued exodus of Cubans by raft into the Straits of Florida contributed
to a sense of urgency in the proceedings. The Coast Guard said it had picked up
1,271 Cubans by 10 p.m. today, after rescuing 1,921 Thursday.

The Coast Guard is intercepting the raft people before they can reach Florida
and ferrying them to Guantanamo.

Cuban officials denied they were sprinkling the population of rafters with
hardened criminals. "We have received assurances that the Cuban authorities have
not and would not knowingly permit dangerous criminals to be released for
purposes of leaving the country," State Department spokesperson Christine D.
Shelly said.

Some of the 100 convicts reportedly found at Guantanamo may have been jailed in
the past for trying to leave the island, U.S. officials said.

Skol in effect brought proposals that would commit the United States to alter a
1984 agreement in which Cubans could qualify for a maximum of 20,000 immigrant
visas annually. Rarely more than a tenth that number qualify as immigrants in
any year, although thousands of Cubans enter as refugees.

Washington is offering now to let in a minimum number of immigrants, with the
possibility for reaching the 20,000 ceiling. That would answer Cuban complaints
that low rates of granting visas encourage Cubans to leave by sea, head straight
for Florida and be greeted as freedom seekers.

For most of the day, spokesmen for the U.S. delegation ducked reporters'
questions as they entered and departed the Cuban mission to the United Nations.
That left a gaggle of television and newspaper reporters on a nearby sidewalk to
be entertained mainly by a brief scuffle between pro-Castro demonstrators and an
apparent ill-wisher.

Alarcon had appeared on television Thursday night, openly noting the difference
in agendas, but suggesting a way to overcome it. Speaking on the ABC television
program "Nightline," Alarcon indicated that Cuba would cooperate on easing the
refugee crisis, putting off broad political talks to the future.

"I do believe that we may come out with some decisions that, if not solving the
problem forever, at least would help each side to get out of this situation," he
said. "I would not predict big, big successes immediately, but I still hope that
being faced with the real problem ... we should try to proceed in a more serious
manner, and maybe at a later stage we could have more substantial results."

Alarcon came to New York armed with statements meant to bring U.S. business to
Cuba's side, and appeal to President Clinton's desire to create jobs. In his
comments, he perhaps unintentionally depicted the decay of the Marxist
revolution in Cuba: He was practically begging Yanqui imperialists to come
invest in his country.

Noting that entrepreneurs from Britain, Mexico, Venezuela, Brazil and other
countries are active in Cuba, he warned, "They are competing with the possible
U.S. interest in our island.

"We are 90 miles away from each other ... the proximity will always give both of
us a special advantage that others cannot enjoy," he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CUBAN REFUGEES OCCUPY THE DECK OF THE USS ASHLAND IN THE STRAITS
OF FLORIDA AS THEY AWAIT TRANSPORT TO THE U.S. NAVAL BASE AT GUANTANAMO BAY. AP;
CHART, TWP; PHOTO, REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              295 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 4, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Cuban Envoy Distrusts U.S. On Refugees;
Diplomat Encourages Talk About Embargo

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A44

LENGTH: 935 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 3, 1994


Cuba's top delegate to talks with the United States about ending the outpouring
of Cuban refugees said he distrusts American promises to increase legal
migration from Cuba and to stop welcoming boat people with open arms.

Ricardo Alarcon, a veteran diplomat and former foreign minister, said in an
interview that Cuba is willing to reach agreement on narrow migration issues,
but that uncontrolled migration -- with thousands of Cubans fleeing the island
in boats or rafts -- would not disappear without wider political talks.

He declined to predict success in the talks, which resume here Sunday, saying
the negotiations were still riddled with complications.

He indicated that in any event Cuba is unlikely to agree to the return of
thousands of Cuban refugees intercepted at sea by U.S. forces and interned at
the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He said he expects that pressure
from Miami-based relatives of many of those refugees would force President
Clinton to admit them to the United States once there is no more threat of mass
migration from Cuba.

"It is not correct to create exaggerated expectations. I am convinced it will
not be easy," Alarcon said of the talks. "We will try, despite our convictions,
see how to find an arrangement in migration. But the other side lacks a similar
flexibility in taking on things other than pure migration."

After two days of talks on the refugee issue U.S. and Cuban negotiators took
today off.

Washington wants Fidel Castro's government to reinstate a policy of arresting
and fining people who try to flee by sea. In return, U.S. negotiators have
pledged to channel increased immigration through Havana, where the Cuban
government can monitor who leaves and veto departures by refusing to grant exit
permits.

Alarcon confirmed that State Department negotiator Michael Skol offered to
guarantee a minimum number of visas through the U.S. Interests Section in Cuba
for those who want to migrate legally. Currently, under a 1984 agreement, there
is a ceiling on the number of visas that the United States will give Cubans.
Although between 20,000 and 27,000 visas have been available annually, rarely
more than 10 percent of that number were distributed in any year.

Under liberalized rules for refugee and immigrant visas, U.S. officials are
trying to assure Cuba that upwards of 20,000 Cubans would be allowed to migrate
legally each year.

Alarcon spoke at the Cuban mission to the United Nations in Manhattan, the site
of Friday's talks. Puffing on a big Havana cigar, he occasionally betrayed
irritation about the strict limits set by Washington on these talks --
essentially the refusal to take up the 33-year-old U.S. embargo on trade with
Cuba. He said the limitations placed on the talks reinforced his suspicion that
Clinton is beholden to anti-Castro Cubans in Miami.

Cuba insists that the economic problems created by the embargo encourage Cubans
to flee. "They talk about floors and ceilings," Alarcon said, "But not the
foundation of the problem."

Alarcon has been negotiating migration issues with the Untied States since 1980.
He was formerly Cuba's ambassador to the United Nations and speaks English well.
In the current talks, each side speaks its own language, and the use of
interpreters has slowed the negotiations, Alarcon said.

He signaled that Cuba would have more confidence in the promises on migration if
the Clinton administration took steps to prosecute boat hijackers and refugees
who use force to flee Cuba. This would be a sign, he said, that Washington had
firmly changed its refugee policy, which until recently provided for automatic
asylum for Cuban refugees. "What happens if someone tomorrow kills someone,
takes a boat and gets to Miami? What will the Untied States do with him?" asked
Alarcon.

Alarcon said Washington could somehow curb anti-Castro radio stations in Miami
from broadcasting negative reports about Cuba.

He complained that the Castro government is being asked to restore laws
prohibiting its citizens from fleeing -- laws that had been condemned
internationally as repressive -- while the United States took no steps to
improve relations. "What they ask is that we take measures to stop our people
from exercising a right," he said. "It's impossible really to resolve this if
you don't adopt an attitude of cooperation between the governments.

"Frankly, I am not convinced by the promises [on migration]. It should be part
of a strategic change, a foreign policy change," he continued.

Alarcon is a longtime communist who is suddenly singing the praises of
capitalist investment in Cuba. He apparently hopes to rouse U.S. business to his
side, stirring them to influence Clinton to open trade with Cuba much as
business pushed him to relax restraints on trade with Vietnam and to put human
rights preoccupations aside in pursuing trade with China.

"It would be a beautiful end to this picture if some of the companies that were
here before, who are victims of the problems of the '60s, could now obtain
benefits in Cuba, in the context of helping the economy," he said.

The trade embargo, he added, cripples the effort to attract foreign investment,
because it isolates Cuba from its closest and potentially most lucrative trade
partner.

In Washington, the Pentagon announced that Defense Secretary William J. Perry
will cancel part of an overseas trip so he can deal with the Haitian and Cuban
situations. Perry is to leave for Germany on Wednesday, but instead of traveling
to Russia, as planned, he will return to Washington next Saturday, the statement
said.


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, FLOW OF PEOPLE (CHART IS UNAVAILABLE.), TWP; PHOTO, REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              296 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 7, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Officials Warn Talks Could Collapse

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 6


U.S. officials said they received a disappointing proposal from Cuba today on
ending the exodus of raft people from the island, and warned that six-day-old
talks here on the subject could collapse soon.

"Things are coming to a head. It's crunch time," said one U.S. official.

He termed the latest Cuban proposal "less outlandish" than one received Sunday,
in which the Cubans demanded that a backlog of more than 100,000 potential
immigrants be admitted into the United States. But he cautioned that the Cuban
proposal still contained "deal-breakers" in demands on migration and other
subjects.

For the first time, the Cubans demanded that President Clinton cancel steps he
took last month to tighten the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba, U.S. and Cuban
officials said. The Cuban side also reiterated a proposal, unacceptable to
Washington, for talks on what Havana views as the embargo's central role in
causing the refugees' flight.

In Washington, a senior administration official characterized the Cuban proposal
as "a bit better, but not significantly better" than the earlier one, but said
the administration has not yet concluded that the talks are futile and should be
stopped. Clinton's advisers want to keep up the give-and-take "a bit longer"
before concluding no progress can be made, the official said.

Clinton is to return to the White House Wednesday for the first time in 12 days,
and officials said the president wanted a full-scale briefing on the Cuba
situation before deciding what route the administration will pursue.

The talks began last Thursday in response to Cuban President Fidel Castro's
decision last month to permit a surge in departures of Cubans on rafts and other
makeshift vessels across the 90-mile Straits of Florida.

The United States has offered to allow an increase in legal immigration from
Cuba -- but at much lower levels than Havana is seeking -- in exchange for a
clampdown by Castro on the illegal migration.

Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Michael Skol has offered to let in a minimum
of 20,000 Cubans annually, and perhaps more, depending on conditions. Cuban
diplomat Ricardo Alarcon handed Skol Cuba's latest response during a 45-minute
meeting held at the Cuban mission to the United Nations.

The next round is scheduled for Wednesday at the U.S. mission.

U.S. officials said the Cuban demand for revoking last month's economic steps is
beyond the scope of these talks, which Clinton has limited to migration issues.
Clinton banned the sending of cash gifts to the island and reduced travel by
about 90 percent. He imposed the restrictions as a hard-line gesture aimed at
ensuring support from anti-Castro Cuban exiles in Miami for his policy of
denying political asylum to Cuban refugees.

Failure of the talks would leave the administration with the problem of managing
a potential continuation of the exodus of raft people. The refugees are now
being interned at the U.S.-leased naval base at Guantanamo Bay on Cuba's
southeastern tip, although some are being transferred to a U.S. base in Panama.
Even if the outflow slows or evaporates, the United States would be left with
more than 20,000 Cubans, who could become restless.

At Guantanamo this afternoon, two military security people were hit by rocks and
received minor injuries during a disturbance by Cuban refugees, Pentagon
officials said. Although Haitian refugees at Guantanamo have rioted on several
occasions, the incident was apparently the first among Cubans.

If Castro forcibly stops the exodus, he risks a resurgence of violent hijackings
and other disturbances connected with the urge to leave. If the current flow
dries up without an agreement, he risks loss of leverage with Washington.

U.S. officials, having rejected Sunday's Cuban demands not only for vastly
higher numbers of legal immigrants, but also for making a connection between the
U.S. trade ban and migration in a final communique, concluded that the Cubans
have been playing for time. They warned that unless the American offer is
accepted largely as it is, the United States could walk away from the talks.

"This is not a negotiation where we are going to bid up, where they say 100,000
and we say 30,000 and they say 60,000 and so on," a U.S. official said. He
described the Cuban offer as serious, but with parts "we clearly can't accept."

The official argued that the Cuban position on clearing up the backlog reflects
a misunderstanding of a 1984 agreement. The agreement set a maximum of 20,000
possible visas for Cuban immigrants, but did not guarantee all would be issued,
he said.

Carlos Fernandez de Cossio, a member of Cuba's delegation, said Cuba is pressing
for Washington to make up for a backlog of migration requests and expand
categories of Cubans who can travel to the United States. "We have to dispose of
the accumulated demand," he said.

Although Cuba continues to insist on mention of the trade ban as a factor in
migration, Fernandez said he could imagine an agreement without it, as long as
future talks on the subject were assured.

The new restrictions on cash gifts and travel, he said, were part and parcel of
the migration problem and must be discussed.

The Cuban delegation is "disposed to keep negotiating," he added.


Staff writers Ann Devroy and John F. Harris in Washington contributed to this
report.



LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DAVID JOHNSON, SPOKESMAN FOR THE U.S. DELEGATION, THIRD FROM
RIGHT, EMERGESFROM A BRIEF MEETING WITH CUBAN DELEGATION IN NEW YORK. AP; CHART,
TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              297 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 8, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S., Cuba Interrupt Migration Discussion;
Negotiator to Consult Castro on Limits of Talks

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A32

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 7


The United States and Cuba today suspended talks over the refugee exodus from
the island as Washington insisted that Havana give up its demand for an easing
of the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba.

Top Cuban negotiator Ricardo Alarcon returned to Havana to consult with
President Fidel Castro. The State Department said the talks could resume as
early as Friday, but U.S. officials warned that divisions remain over
significant issues.

Two major sticking points are Cuba's demands that Washington cancel recent
measures to tighten the U.S. trade embargo against the island, and that it
muzzle anti-Castro radio broadcasts from Miami to Cuba, a U.S. official said.

At a 45-minute meeting this morning before the talks were adjourned, U.S. chief
negotiator Michael Skol asked Alarcon to drop those two demands from the latest
Cuban proposal received Tuesday.

Alarcon told Skol he would have to consult directly in Havana to see if
negotiations could continue on that basis, a U.S. official said.

Secretary of State Warren Christopher said the interruption in the talks was
"not by any means a breakdown." Instead, he told reporters in Washington, the
suspension "is part of the useful talks that are taking place."

The trade measures and radio broadcasts are problems because the United States
has insisted that the talks, which began last Thursday, focus only on migration
issues and not on the trade ban and other topics the Cubans would like to
discuss.

Even if Cuba drops those two demands, the two sides would have to work out
precise agreements on details of a deal in which the United States would
increase legal immigration from Cuba. In exchange, Castro's government would
take steps to stem the exodus of illegal migrants setting out on rafts and other
makeshift vessels from Cuba to Florida.

Agreement would have to be reached on the number of U.S. visas to be granted to
Cuban migrants, and on what categories of people would be eligible as relatives
of U.S. residents and as candidates for political asylum.

However, the gap between the sides has narrowed in one important respect. Cuba
has dropped a demand that Washington find a way to let in a backlog of about
140,000 Cubans who Havana insists have been unfairly denied visas to the United
States during the past 10 years, a U.S. official said.

That number was far too high for the United States to accept. In the meeting
today, Skol gave Alarcon the latest version of a U.S. proposal to guarantee a
minimum of 20,000 visas for Cuban migrants yearly, if Castro turns back rafters
trying to float to Florida.

Skol, who returned to Washington, also told Alarcon "what's possible to get in
the talks and what's not possible," a U.S. official said.

The pace of the continuing Cuban exodus was uncertain, as the Coast Guard
reported that it had picked up 990 rafters by 10 p.m. today and officials
predicted that the number for the day would exceed 1,000 -- an increase from
Tuesday's total of 689, which was down significantly from the preceding day even
though weather was clear.

President Clinton has kept most of the refugees from reaching the United States
by ordering the Coast Guard to intercept them and take them to the U.S.-leased
naval base at Guantanamo Bay in southeastern Cuba.

The possibility of a continuing stream of refugees could make the policy
unmanageable, although Clinton has won agreement from Panama and other countries
to provide refuge for the Cubans for periods of up to six months.

The U.S. negotiators came to New York last week armed with unprecedented
concessions on immigration: They would guarantee a minimum number of visas for
Cubans yearly. It was an answer to a longtime complaint from Castro that the
United States owed the visas, because of Washington's hostile attitude toward
his regime and enticements for Cubans to migrate by granting them political
asylum.

But the Cuban negotiators are asking not only for concessions on migration, but
also for political advantage on other issues in dealings with the United States.
In effect, the missions of Skol and Alarcon are conflicting. Skol was ordered to
talk about nothing other than migration, and Alarcon to talk about everything in
addition to migration.

According to a member of the Cuban delegation, Alarcon has called on Washington
to reverse a recent decision to ban cash gifts from exiles to relatives in Cuba,
and to severely restrict travel. He also has proposed that the United States
restrict anti-Castro radio broadcasts that reach Cuba and, in Havana's view,
incite rafters to leave the island. Cuba is demanding that Washington muzzle
both the U.S. government's Radio Marti and commercial broadcasters.

Any concession by the Clinton administration on either of those issues would be
certain to draw harsh criticism from Florida's Cuban American community.

Havana has called for prosecution and conviction of Cubans who use force to
hijack boats to leave Cuba. It also has proposed that a final communique mention
the trade ban as a factor in migration pressures and provide a signal that talks
on the embargo would take place later.

In recent days, Carlos Fernanez de Cossio, a member of the delegation, has said
that Cuba is flexible and could "imagine" a migration agreement in which the
embargo issue was deferred for later talks. However, it seems clear that the
U.S. side misread Alarcon's early insistence on talking about trade, which it
characterized as pro forma rather than central to his presentations.

Clinton's concessions on immigration already are substantial; no such guarantee
of migration has been offered to any other nationality. Castro, on the other
hand, has problems beyond the pressure of Cubans to leave. His program of
attracting foreign investors is crippled by Cuba's lack of access to U.S.
markets and tourist dollars. To settle simply for a migration accord, however
generous, leaves his economic problems unresolved.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, U.S. SPOKESMAN DAVID JOHNSON RESPONDS TO REPORTERS OUTSIDE THE
U.S. MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK. REUTER; CHART, TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              298 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 9, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Crackdown on Cuban Dissidents Accompanies Exodus

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1051 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Sept. 8


President Fidel Castro's decision last month to open Cuban shores to
unrestricted emigration has been accompanied by new repression against the
country's leading dissidents, according to a human rights group and a diplomat
in Havana.

At least 30 prominent dissidents and human rights activists have been detained
for various periods in apparent retaliation for an Aug. 5 riot in downtown
Havana, the Cuban Commission of Human Rights and National Reconciliation said in
a statement. The incident, which followed two other violent confrontations
between police and civilians, helped prompt Castro's decision to open the
emigration floodgates, leading to the exodus of thousands of rafters from Cuban
shores.

Among those arrested were three lawyers, two physicians and two human rights
activists, the commission said. The detainees have been thrown in jail or
sporadically placed under house arrest.

One of those arrested, actor Rene del Pozo, said today he continues to receive
threats from members of Castro's feared interior police. He said he spent five
days in a squalid jail in early August after police ransacked his house and has
been detained twice since then, the most recent arrest occurring last week.

He and others said the arrests appeared directly related to the Aug. 5
demonstration although police initially charged him for "illegal possession of
three cases of beer." He said he was later formally charged with spreading
"enemy propaganda," an offense that carries a prison sentence of two to 10
years.

A Western diplomat confirmed independently that the arrest of dissidents had
occurred, although the Cuban government has said nothing about them.

Elizardo Sanchez Santa Cruz, president of the independent human rights
commission, said he fears Castro is planning to use a U.S. request for a
crackdown on departures of Cuban raft people as a "pretext for massive
repression" against Cubans who have taken advantage of the crisis to denounce
the government.

The United States and Cuba are negotiating an accord to halt the seaborne exodus
of Cubans, at least 20,000 of whom have been intercepted by U.S. Coast Guard
ships and taken to detention camps at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station on Cuba's
southeastern tip.

After years of appeals by Washington for Cuba to ease restrictions on emigration
and to halt oppression of dissidents, the Clinton administration is asking
Castro to cut off the flow of rafters. In exchange, Washington is offering to
increase the limit on immigration visas that the United States grants every
year.

"This is exactly what Castro wants -- to blame somebody else for something he
has always planned to do," Sanchez said. "You can be sure that as soon as he
closes the door, the arrests and repression will begin."

The heavy presence of police and neighborhood security units known as
Revolutionary Defense Committees historically has made average Cubans cautious
about their public behavior.

But the recent influx of U.S. journalists and television cameras has spurred
some Cubans to criticize the government, often giving their full names. They
will be the government's primary targets once Castro begins his crackdown,
Sanchez warned.

Sanchez has spent eight of the past 12 years in various Cuban prisons and has
been listed by the London-based human rights organization Amnesty International
as one of the country's main targets of political oppression.

Sanchez said he received two telephone threats today warning him that he would
be arrested if he talked to journalists or diplomats about the arrest campaign.
Six plainclothes policemen stood outside his Havana home today closely observing
his movements.

As Sanchez reported receiving threats in Havana, Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto
Robaina held talks today and Wednesday in Madrid with a representative of
Sanchez's human rights commission and two other self-described moderate members
of the Cuban opposition in exile.

"This is a very contradictory government. On one hand they hold talks with the
opposition, while on the other hand they arrest them," actor del Pozo said.
"Nobody knows why they do this. We're the ones asking for dialogue with Fidel
Castro. We're the moderates."

Robaina held two separate meetings Wednesday, one with Ramon Cernuda, a
Miami-based opponent, and another with Alfredo Duran, a Cuban-American
opposition representative and a Republican Party leader in southern Florida's
Dade County, Cernuda said by telephone. Today, the foreign minister met with
Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, who fought alongside Castro in the 1959 communist
revolution, then spent more than 20 years in jail here after attempting to
organize Castro's ouster.

Despite what Cernuda described as "frank, sincere and respectful conversations"
in Madrid, signs of the more repressive activities of Castro's government remain
visible here in Havana.

There have been three violent confrontations related to the exodus. In the Aug.
5 riot, protesters seized weapons from police when the officers tried to prevent
a group of emigrants from launching a raft. Two policemen were killed and a
third gravely injured when his neck was broken by a blow from a rifle butt.

The following day Castro announced a new policy of unrestricted emigration,
although few here say they believe the policy will remain in effect much longer.
Swarms of reporters observe new raft launchings, which occur daily across Cuba's
northern shores. At one such launching in northeastern Havana Tuesday night,
nearly 200 civilians stood on the shoreline applauding.

Crowd members said the show of support was intended not only to wish the rafters
a good voyage but also as a measure of security in case police attempted to halt
them. About a dozen armed police mingled among the crowd during the launching.
Sanchez insisted that such public assemblies are spontaneous, although Castro
claimed in a speech last month that they are the result of agitation by
"counterrevolutionaries."

At the same time that Castro announced his new emigration policy Aug. 6, Sanchez
said, the Cuban president ordered the arrest of at least 25 leading dissidents,
some of whom remain in jail. Another five government critics were thrown in jail
later in August. Sanchez said the original 25 were accused of organizing the
Aug. 5 riot.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, CUBAN RAFTERS INTERCEPTED(CHART IS NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              299 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 10, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S., Cuba Agree on Stemming Raft Tide

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1224 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 9


The United States and Cuba signed an agreement today in which Washington pledged
to accept a minimum of 20,000 legal immigrants a year from Cuba, and Havana
promised in exchange to use every means possible to prevent its citizens from
leaving its shores on rafts.

The deal was reached after eight days of negotiations sought by the Clinton
administration to end a surge last month in the uncontrolled flight of thousands
of Cubans seeking to reach Florida in makeshift vessels.

Without spelling out how Cuba would stop the exodus, the accord says Havana will
use "mainly persuasive methods."

In Cuba after the accord was announced, government patrol boats were deployed
near the coast of Havana, apparently to discourage rafters from departing,
Washington Post correspondent Tod Robberson reported.

But in the resort of Cojimar east of the capital, hundreds of Cubans rushed to
launch hastily constructed rafts in advance of the anticipated government
crackdown on such departures. Police stayed far away from launch sites, and no
patrol boats were seen off the shore in the evening. [Details on Page A18.]

The agreement marked the first time in 10 years that the United States and Cuba
have successfully negotiated a substantial diplomatic accord. The U.S. side said
the talks were strictly limited to migration issues, as Washington had wanted,
and that there were no plans to undertake further discussions on the broad range
of economic and political disputes between the nations.

At a news conference in Washington, Undersecretary of State for Political
Affairs Peter Tarnoff said, "the United States continues to believe, as it has
over the past three decades, that there should be a peaceful transition to
democracy in Cuba. We will continue to work to that end."

But it is up to Cuban President Fidel Castro to take the first steps, Tarnoff
said: "It will not hasten political and economic reform in Cuba for the United
States to negotiate the terms and conditions of change in that country with its
unelected government over the heads of the Cuban people."

U.S. action to implement the agreement, by increasing legal immigration from
Cuba, will depend on the human traffic across the Straits of Florida, according
to Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Michael Skol, the chief U.S. negotiator.

[In Havana tonight, the Cuban government issued a statement urging people to
stop setting out to sea, Reuter reported. The statement gave rafters 72 hours
from midday Saturday to clear beaches of rafts and other material gathered for
departure. During this period no arrests would be made of rafters, nor would
their their vessels or boat material be confiscated, the statement said.]

In announcing the agreement at a news conference in New York this afternoon,
Skol said, "The credibility of this commitment on the part of the Cuban
government will be judged on its willingness to take effective action to prevent
irregular departures and on the actual number of migrants in the weeks and
months ahead."

The joint communique states, "The Republic of Cuba will take effective measures
in every way it possibly can to prevent unsafe departures using mainly
persuasive methods."

Skol said there was no discussion with the Cubans on what specific measures they
would take to stop the rafters, but he added, "we expect and assume that these
people will be treated in a humane manner."

So far this year the Coast Guard has picked up almost 35,000 Cuban rafters,
including 9,000 this month. With bad weather closing in on Cuba, only 168
rafters were picked up as of 10 p.m. today, the U.S. Coast Guard said.

Under today's agreement the United States will continue to take rafters picked
up at sea to the U.S.-leased naval base at Guantanamo Bay in southeastern Cuba,
and to other safe havens, with no prospect that they may directly apply for
admission to the United States.

They will be offered the opportunity to return to Cuba and apply for legal
immigration there. Nearly 25,000 Cubans are already housed at Guantanamo Bay.

The pact promises to greatly increase the number of Cubans allowed to enter the
United States legally through the use of the attorney general's sweeping powers
to "parole" people into the country. According to Immigration and Naturalization
Commissioner Doris Meissner, 9,000 to 10,000 Cubans a year would benefit from
the parole program even though they might not otherwise qualify for admission
under existing immigration and refugee programs.

According to a senior State Department official, the breakthrough that produced
the agreement occurred this morning when the chief Cuban negotiator, Ricardo
Alarcon, dropped two demands: that the United States rescind measures tightening
the economic embargo on Cuba announced by President Clinton Aug. 20, and that
the U.S. government restrict "hostile" radio broadcasts beamed at Cuba from
Florida.

The two demands had been formally presented by Cuba on Tuesday, leading U.S.
officials to warn that the talks could collapse if Cuba insisted on discussing
the issues. The United States refused to put them on the agenda for the talks at
Wednesday's negotiating session, which ended when Alarcon announced that he
needed to return to Havana for consultations, the U.S. official said.

When Alarcon returned to the New York talks today, presumably after discussions
with Castro, the demand to broaden the negotiations beyond issues strictly
related to the migration crisis had been dropped from the Cuban position, the
U.S. official said.

The bargain reached today involved concessions from both sides.

Castro repeatedly had insisted that there could be no solution to the problem of
illegal migration from Cuba unless the United States agreed to discuss an
eventual end to its economic embargo of more than three decades against the
island. Accepting an agreement strictly limited to migration issues represents a
concession on a major principle for Castro.

"They are banking on the fact that within the United States there is a
substantial body of opinion favoring a more flexible policy with Cuba," a senior
State Department official said. "The Cubans apparently feel they will earn some
good will with this, plus Castro may have decided that it no longer benefits him
to have daily television pictures of people so desperate to leave his country
that they will risk their lives on rafts."

Also, Castro now will have to rescind orders issued to the Cuban authorities
Aug. 12 instructing them not to interfere with people seeking to leave the
island illegally.

The United States gave in to Castro's insistence that Washington had failed to
live up to a migration agreement signed in 1984 that was supposed to produce a
substantial movement of legal immigrants from Cuba. The agreement projected a
maximum of 20,000 legal migrants a year, but the actual number has rarely
exceeded 2,000.

Today's agreement marks the first time that the United States has ever
guaranteed any nation that it would take a minimum number of immigrants even if
the applicants did not qualify under standards set by Congress. It was also the
first time that the prospect of increased legal immigration was exchanged for
efforts to cut an illegal flow of people to the United States.


Staff writer Guy Gugliotta in Washington contributed to this report.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, EBB AND FLOW OF CUBAN RAFTERS (CHART IS NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              300 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 11, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. Dangles Carrot to Cuba on Immigration, but Will Castro Bite?

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A30

LENGTH: 969 words


Although the agreement to regulate the flow of Cuban rafters represents a
tactical victory for the Clinton administration at Cuba's expense, it is not
clear whether the accord will translate into a long-term success that reduces
the potential for future uncontrolled migrations and moves Cuba closer to
democracy.

The uncertainty stems from the fact that both the Cuban and U.S. governments are
divided profoundly between officials who favor conciliation and others who
reject compromise. Indeed, some policymakers in Washington and Havana seem to
embrace both views at different times.

The accord signed Friday by Washington and Havana in New York reflects this
ambivalence.

The United States offered Cuba increased legal immigration, with a guaranteed
minimum of 20,000 new Cuban entrants to the United States each year. In
exchange, Cuba promised to use every means possible to shut off the flow of
illegal voyagers across the Straits of Florida.

That simple bargain means the two governments will work closely together on the
management of an ongoing human migration. The United States is not as deeply
involved on this delicate issue with any other nation, including neighbors and
friends that have much larger migrations underway such as Mexico, the
Philippines and the Dominican Republic.

But otherwise, Cuba and the United States are barely on speaking terms.

Even as it spent eight days negotiating the agreement, the Clinton
administration reinforced its refusal to discuss the U.S. economic embargo or
other nonmigration issues until Cuba takes concrete steps toward reform.

And, while Cuban President Fidel Castro left no doubt he fancies happier
dealings with the United States, he offered no signal that he would undertake
any steps that might bring that about, such as endorsing real multiple-candidate
elections for Cuba's legislative bodies.

Still, even though there are strict limits on the conversation, these two old
adversaries are, in fact, talking. And the mere fact that an exchange is taking
place now is important because of the rapidly changing context in which
U.S.-Cuban relations are being played out.

Struggling to recoup the economic and political losses it suffered with the
collapse of its Soviet and Eastern European allies, Cuba has a greater need for
constructive relations with the United States than at any time since Castro took
power in 1959.

And since the fall of the Berlin Wall almost five years ago, numerous proposals
for economic and political reform have circulated widely and with increasing
openness in Havana. Although Castro has rejected almost all of the suggestions
on the political side, he has promoted some reform-minded officials like Foreign
Minister Roberto Robaina, who traveled around Latin America and Europe almost
continuously this summer proclaiming Cuba's commitment to a course of measured
change.

In Washington, too, the atmosphere has been changing.

A growing number of voices within the foreign policy establishment and in
Congress have called for a policy of engagement with Havana that would
eventually lead to a lifting of the 32-year-old U.S. economic embargo against
Cuba. For Democratic leaders like Sen. Claiborne Pell (R.I.) and Rep. Lee H.
Hamilton (Ind.), who endorsed a gradual policy change last week in an Op-Ed
article in The Washington Post, this is no longer considered politically
dangerous. But on this point the White House has chosen to identify itself with
the opposite camp -- Cuban Americans who favor an all-out effort to depose
Castro.

Neither President Clinton nor Castro paid much attention to their relationship
until this summer, and then they both responded in crisis mode on the basis of
domestic political concerns. Both feared the scenes of chaos that can readily
translate into political weakness. Castro got a taste of it when the hijackings
of several ferries and tugboats built up to a riot on Havana's waterfront Aug.
5. Clinton faced an uncontrolled influx of Cubans resembling the 1980 Mariel
boat lift, which profoundly damaged President Jimmy Carter's standing.

This brush with mutual disaster and the diplomatic agreement meant to defuse it
reshuffled the deck and left the United States holding a strong hand.

In last week's talks, U.S. negotiators refused to discuss a Cuban demand that it
rescind new economic sanctions announced Aug. 20 to punish Castro for allowing
uncontrolled exit from the country. But the possibility of lifting those
measures has now become a U.S. carrot that could be dangled in front of the
Cubans as a potential reward for good behavior.

Moreover, migration to the United States has always been a kind of escape valve
for Castro to rid his revolution of its dissatisfied citizens. The new agreement
gives the United States more control than ever over the flow of people
northward.

The opportunities this summer's events have created for the United States could
prove short-lived, however.

No one can say when or if the discontent so evident in the rafters' exodus will
reach critical mass and produce a kind of turbulence in Cuba that defies
negotiated solutions. In the immediate future the crackdown on rafters mandated
by the New York agreement could spark civil disturbances or other unpredictable
results that fundamentally change the situation. Also, the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba will remain a potential flash point so long as thousands of
Cubans are interned there.

Finally, Castro has repeatedly swung from an attitude of reconciliation with the
United States to renewed confrontation and he might again.

Mired in ambivalence and exploiting a crisis, the Clinton administration has
inadvertently created opportunities for itself in dealing with Cuba this summer,
but it may not have very much time to exploit them.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS, ANALYSIS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              301 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 11, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Cuban Refugees At Guantanamo Protest Pact

Laurie Goodstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A30

LENGTH: 268 words


About 2,500 Cuban refugees housed at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, breached the barbed wire fences around their tent camps yesterday and set
off on a march to protest the agreement between Havana and Washington signed
Friday, a military spokesman said.

The agreement requires that the refugees return to Cuba to apply for immigrant
visas if they wish to come to the United States. The Cubans heard news of the
agreement over radios provided earlier by the U.S. military.

The demonstrators marched to the Navy exchange and nearby restaurants before
military police could "escort" nearly 2,000 protesters back to their tent camps,
said Maj. Rick Thomas, director of information for the U.S. military task force
that runs the camps. Two Cubans were injured in scuffles with military police
armed with bayonets, and one Cuban was hospitalized with a shoulder wound,
Thomas said.

Earlier episodes of rock-throwing by refugees at the naval base have resulted in
injuries to refugees and military police.

The remaining 500 protesters met in a chapel near the Navy exchange with Marine
Brig. Gen. Mike Williams. He told them that five representatives of the State
Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service would arrive today to
brief the Cuban refugees on the agreement. After meeting with Williams, the 500
protesters also agreed to return to their tent camps, Thomas said.

The base at Guantanamo Bay now houses 29,000 Cubans and 14,149 Haitians. About
2,500 more Cubans rescued from makeshift boats and rafts arrived yesterday on
the USS Whidbey Island, Thomas said.


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              302 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 11, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Cuban Rafters Rush to Beat Deadline -- at a Cost

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A29

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: COJIMAR, Cuba, Sept. 10, 1994


A hard-edged capitalism burst into life all along the Cuban seashore today as
scalpers selling precious supplies took advantage of rafters seeking to make
last-minute repairs before heading out to sea.

Hundreds of rafters rushed to finish foam plastic, rubber and steel boats as the
Cuban government threatened to crack down on seaborne departures following
Friday's immigration accord with the United States. Although the accord was set
to take effect immediately, state television announced that rafters will be
prevented from leaving as of 6 a.m. Sunday.

Judging from the activity apparent between this beach resort and Havana, 11
miles to the west, the U.S. Coast Guard could face one of its heaviest weeks yet
in trying to intercept rafters and transfer them to Guantanamo Bay Naval
Station.

The threat of a potentially long stay at Guantanamo, a U.S. base on Cuba's
southeastern tip, or at a similar detention center in Panama received a mixed
reaction among Cubans involved in today's preparations. Some said they did not
care how long they remained in detention because the wait was worth the chance
to escape Cuban hardship.

Others, however, said the dangers of heading out to sea, combined with
conditions in U.S. detention centers, made the idea of staying here far more
palatable. By noon today at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, nearly 2,500
Cubans had placed their names on lists to emigrate legally to the United States
after Washington agreed Friday to take in 20,000 legal immigrants annually. The
total allowed in recent years has been about 2,700.

"Who wants to sit around in Guantanamo while your family has no idea whether
you're dead or alive?" asked Brandel, 20, a university student observing the
rafters here. He pointed to a raft carrying 12 people that had just embarked.
"Look at them, they're going to row all the way out there. That's how desperate
these people are."

Carlos, 51, a metal worker who offered only his first name, wheeled out a raft
newly built of 55-gallon oil drums and painted red, which he was selling for $
500. One week ago, an almost identical raft was on sale on the same beach for $
25.

"I don't plan to go. Well, I might," Carlos said. "It seems like you're just
leaving one problem to pick up another problem over there. If they don't know
how to work and make money here, how do you think they're going to get jobs in
Miami?"

Other vendors were selling pontoons, inner tubes, rope and plastic foam. One
woman raked in precious dollars by selling cold Coca-Cola, canned in Venezuela,
to the swarm of foreign journalists who came to interview the rafters.

Juan Molina, 55, a naval engineer, said he attempted to leave by boat in May
1992 but was captured by Cuban authorities before reaching international waters.
He was thrown in jail for 126 days.

"I still want to leave and, believe me, I could do it easily. I could design and
build a yacht," he said. "But you lose everything if you go, for what? So you
can get bitten by iguanas and mosquitoes in Panama?"

Molina was passing among the rafters, offering advice on how to strengthen their
craft and make them more seaworthy. "From now until Tuesday, you will see
thousands of people trying to leave from here," he said. "There will be people
launching rafts that have no business being in the water. For some, it will end
in disaster."

Mayito, a fisherman who said he spent two days in jail for trying to escape Cuba
last November, said he was disgusted with the spectacle of scalpers taking
advantage of the rafters' desperation.

"That raft Carlos is selling, maybe he will sell it for $ 2,000 in a few days,"
Mayito said.


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, RAFTERS ATTACH LAST BIT OF TWINE BEFORE SETTING OUT FROM BRISAS
DEL MAR, CUBA. AP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              303 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 12, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Cuban Police Try to Dissuade Rafters;
Crowds Desert Beaches as Deadline and Rough Weather Approach

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: COJIMAR, Cuba, Sept. 11, 1994


Cuban police began cracking down today on would-be emigrants working furiously
to launch rafts ahead of a Tuesday government deadline after which no departures
by sea will be allowed.

An Interior Ministry police captain patroling this popular beachfront this
morning said he was under orders to "persuade" rafters not to leave. He added,
however, that police were not instructed to interfere with the departures of any
rafts already waiting at the beach.

Cuba is acting under terms of an accord signed Friday with the United States
calling on President Fidel Castro to halt an exodus of rafters that has flooded
U.S. detention centers with 30,000 migrants. In exchange, Washington agreed to
permit the number of legal Cuban migrants to rise from the current 2,700 per
year to 20,000.

State-run television said that in compliance with the accord, police would
immediately begin confiscating any vehicles used to transport rafts to the coast
and that drivers would be arrested.

Scores of police officers were visible patroling Havana's seafront Malecon
boulevard, while checkpoints were established on key highways leading to
beaches.

At several of the most popular launching points here in Cojimar, about 11 miles
east of Havana, activity had significantly diminished today in comparison with a
packed beachfront Friday and Saturday.

Police officers in olive-green uniforms, carrying sidearms and clubs, stood at
various points observing the activity. Onlookers, tourists and beach vendors
stayed away, in contrast to the scene here a week ago when hundreds of observers
crowded the beaches and cheered each launch.

"The Gestapo passed through here early this morning," said Ramon, a Cojimar
resident who sold an inner-tube raft for $ 200. "They told everyone they would
have better chances [applying for immigrant visas] at the U.S. Interests
Section."

On Saturday, residents here said, the Cuban government dispatched students,
factory workers and other government employees to circulate among rafters at the
beach to urge them not to leave.

Whereas on previous days anti-government rhetoric was heard everywhere, the
small gathering of onlookers and rafters today seemed reticent in the presence
of police.

"The rocks have ears. The rafts have ears. Today is not a good day to believe
what you hear," cautioned a man who would identify himself only as Carlos.

The police captain, who would not give his name, said his officers have been
told to fire on anyone who makes threatening moves toward police enforcing the
ban on rafters. Previously, rafters have warned of violence if police attempted
to interfere.

"We are not supposed to shoot anybody ever. Warning shots are allowed, but if
you try to attack me, yes, I will shoot you," the captain said. "We will enforce
the law by any means necessary, and the law says no more rafts can be
transported to the beach."

Nature was poised to offer a helping hand late today as a tropical depression
approached southeastern Cuba. Weather forecasters predict high winds, rain and
rough seas tonight through Tuesday, threatening to make raft launchings after
today a dangerous prospect.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, EBB AND FLOW OF CUBAN RAFTERS (CHART NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              304 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 12, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Cuban Police Try to Dissuade Rafters;
Crowds Desert Beaches as Deadline and Rough Weather Approach

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: COJIMAR, Cuba, Sept. 11, 1994


Cuban police began cracking down today on would-be emigrants working furiously
to launch rafts ahead of a Tuesday government deadline after which no departures
by sea will be allowed.

An Interior Ministry police captain patroling this popular beachfront this
morning said he was under orders to "persuade" rafters not to leave. He added,
however, that police were not instructed to interfere with the departures of any
rafts already waiting at the beach.

Cuba is acting under terms of an accord signed Friday with the United States
calling on President Fidel Castro to halt an exodus of rafters that has flooded
U.S. detention centers with 30,000 migrants. In exchange, Washington agreed to
permit the number of legal Cuban migrants to rise from the current 2,700 per
year to 20,000.

State-run television said that in compliance with the accord, police would
immediately begin confiscating any vehicles used to transport rafts to the coast
and that drivers would be arrested.

Scores of police officers were visible patroling Havana's seafront Malecon
boulevard, while checkpoints were established on key highways leading to
beaches.

At several of the most popular launching points here in Cojimar, about 11 miles
east of Havana, activity had significantly diminished today in comparison with a
packed beachfront Friday and Saturday.

Police officers in olive-green uniforms, carrying sidearms and clubs, stood at
various points observing the activity. Onlookers, tourists and beach vendors
stayed away, in contrast to the scene here a week ago when hundreds of observers
crowded the beaches and cheered each launch.

"The Gestapo passed through here early this morning," said Ramon, a Cojimar
resident who sold an inner-tube raft for $ 200. "They told everyone they would
have better chances [applying for immigrant visas] at the U.S. Interests
Section."

On Saturday, residents here said, the Cuban government dispatched students,
factory workers and other government employees to circulate among rafters at the
beach to urge them not to leave.

Whereas on previous days anti-government rhetoric was heard everywhere, the
small gathering of onlookers and rafters today seemed reticent in the presence
of police.

"The rocks have ears. The rafts have ears. Today is not a good day to believe
what you hear," cautioned a man who would identify himself only as Carlos.

The police captain, who would not give his name, said his officers have been
told to fire on anyone who makes threatening moves toward police enforcing the
ban on rafters. Previously, rafters have warned of violence if police attempted
to interfere.

"We are not supposed to shoot anybody ever. Warning shots are allowed, but if
you try to attack me, yes, I will shoot you," the captain said. "We will enforce
the law by any means necessary, and the law says no more rafts can be
transported to the beach."

Nature was poised to offer a helping hand late today as a tropical depression
approached southeastern Cuba. Weather forecasters predict high winds, rain and
rough seas tonight through Tuesday, threatening to make raft launchings after
today a dangerous prospect.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, EBB AND FLOW OF CUBAN RAFTERS (CHART NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              305 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 13, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Cairo Delegates Come to Terms;
Abortion Text Approved;
U.S. Immigration Policy Faulted

John Lancaster, Boyce Rensberger, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 12, 1994


Delegates to the U.N. population conference today settled their last differences
on abortion, reproductive rights and other culturally sensitive matters, ending
an unprecedented contest of moral values between modern secular societies and
two of the world's major religions.

The approval this afternoon of the last remaining sticking points in a 113-page
U.N. plan to stabilize human numbers at sustainable levels cleared the way for
formal adoption by the 180 countries represented here in closing ceremonies
Tuesday.

The next-to-last day of the International Conference on Population and
Development was not entirely without controversy, however. U.S. delegates
rejected a policy sought by Third World nations that would grant refugees and
immigrants an automatic right of reunification with family members in the United
States and other wealthy countries.

Agreement on the overall document came after the Vatican, which had strongly
opposed portions of it, accepted significant concessions by the United States
and other Western nations, who had warned that the Holy See's focus on abortion
threatened to "hijack" the broader goals of the conference.

In the end, the document that will emerge following eight days of difficult
closed-door negotiations will not differ greatly from the one drafted by
participants before the meeting opened Sept. 5. Agreement was obtained on its
most sensitive portions by using ambiguous language that allows every side to
impute the meaning it prefers.

"The negotiation is over," said a weary Nicolaas H. Biegman, a Dutch delegate
who led much of the negotiating session. "The result, all in all, is pretty
good. The gist of the text is still pretty much what it was... . The feminist
movement could give this document pretty high marks."

On the role of the Holy See, Biegman said, "If I were the Vatican, I would think
twice next time about being a full participant... . They are a sovereign
country, but on the other hand they are a church. The two things are difficult
to combine. I have had a lot of personal admiration for the diplomats of the
Vatican. They are very good. They got all the concessions they could get."

The Cairo document represents a striking departure from the last 20 years of
global population efforts, which have focused largely on promoting birth
control. It gives primacy to meeting the needs of women, not only in family
planning but also in educational, economic and political opportunities.

The chapter setting forth a new international right to reproductive health care
was approved after changes were made to make its language more palatable to the
Vatican and Muslim countries, which had interpreted portions of the text as
condoning abortion and promiscuity.

The Vatican had objected to language asserting that women should have the right
to "fertility regulation," a category defined by the World Health Organization
as including abortion. The compromise text grants women the right to "methods of
their choice for regulation of fertility," phrasing not directly tied to the WHO
definition and therefore more acceptable to the Vatican.

Similarly, over the objections of Scandinavian countries and Brazil, the Vatican
and Muslim countries succeeded in purging most though not all references to the
rights of individuals to "sexual health," which some had interpreted as
endorsing promiscuity.

Despite the changes, Western delegates and women's rights groups called the text
an important advance because it amounts to formal recognition by the world
governments that delivery of reproductive health-care services, especially to
women, is inadequate and needs to be improved.

The Vatican was said by delegates to be satisfied with the compromise language.
But few delegates here expect the Holy See to give its full support to the
document in Tuesday's closing session.

Conferees do not actually vote on the document, which is nonbinding, and U.N.
officials emphasized today that the goal of the meeting is "general agreement."
Countries may register overall support for the document while expressing
reservations on specific aspects they find unacceptable. Conference organizers
said today they are confident the document will be accepted by the vast majority
of participating countries.

In that regard, the conference has already achieved its main goal of winning
wide acceptance among the world's nations for the basic principles of family
planning and the need to curb population growth, notwithstanding religious
differences over abortion and other matters. Many delegates remarked on the fact
that the Vatican never brought up its moral opposition to artificial
contraception.

A dispute over family reunification struck an especially discordant note for the
lead U.S. negotiator, Undersecretary of State Timothy E. Wirth, who until now
has cast himself in the role of conciliator among various factions.

Delegates from developing countries had sought language stipulating that
wealthier countries must "recognize the right to family reunification." But the
United States, Canada and many European countries -- described in the text as
"receiving countries" -- objected, fearing that could mean opening the door to
greater numbers of poor immigrants.

U.S. officials said that while American immigration law is heavily tilted in
favor of reuniting families, it also requires that each case be addressed
separately.

"As the country that takes more immigrants than any other in the world, we are
sensitive about this," one U.S. delegate said. "But we feel there is no
international right to family unification. We don't want to be put in the
position where countries come back and say, 'You agreed to this -- now live up
to it.' "

The Americans and their allies succeeded in changing the text so that it urges
countries to "promote" family reunification without enshrining it as an absolute
right.

The U.S. stand angered delegates from developing countries, especially Central
American nations that rely on remittances from their citizens who work in the
United States to help shore up faltering economies. "We're speaking about
documented migrants, not illegals," said Gracia de Villeda, a member of the
Honduran delegation, in an interview. "They have the right to be with their
families."


Special correspondent Kimberly Dozier contributed to this report.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, U.S. DELEGATION HEAD TIMOTHY WIRTH BRIEFS REPORTERS AT CAIRO
CONFERENCE, WHICH IS TO END TODAY. AP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              306 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 14, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cubans, Off Beach, Return to Frustrating Quest for Food

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 1308 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Sept. 13, 1994


Beaches were empty today as Cuba's month-long experiment with unrestricted
migration by raft ended and those who chose to stay resigned themselves to an
uncertain future under President Fidel Castro's communist rule.

The rafts were gone at some of the most popular launching points along a 30-mile
stretch of coast near Havana as police began enforcing a U.S.-Cuban accord to
halt all seaborne departures of migrants. Only a few swimmers and fishermen were
visible.

Few police were on hand and fewer were needed this morning, although skies were
clear and seas calm. Weather was more threatening this afternoon, but the
government's deadline for enforcing the U.S. pact seemed to be the main factor
in turning away the rafters. In exchange for Cuba deterring the exodus, the
United States has agreed to facilitate legal immigration of at least 20,000
Cuban annually.

With the rafting spectacle no longer providing an entertaining diversion, Havana
residents returned to the arduous task of daily survival. The difficulty of that
chore had served as perhaps the primary stimulus for an estimated 30,000 Cubans
to flee for the United States.

Barbara, a Cuban housewife, made her twice-weekly trip to the state-run El
Mayabeque supermarket in downtown Havana to purchase a one-quart ration of fresh
milk for her infant daughter. Like diabetics and ulcer patients, Barbara, as the
mother of a newborn, is allowed to purchase fresh milk. Others receive a
rationed bag of powdered milk, when it is available.

Because fresh milk is so scarce, Barbara said she resells it on the street for a
500 percent profit and uses the extra money to purchase other essential items
for her family. Whatever she needs, however, chances are she will not find it in
El Mayabeque.

At the supermarket's meat counter, the butcher did not even show up because,
like every day for the last week, he had nothing to sell -- not even a pig's
foot or an ounce of fat. The supermarket was able to offer customers only a bag
of sugar, some flour, two Cuban cigars, three packs of unfiltered cigarettes and
assorted dry goods. Combined, the goods would not fill the shelves of a typical
vending stand on a downtown Washington street.

On the other side of Havana, at the state-run dollars-only Supermarket 7016 --
across the street from the old Soviet Embassy and near the Karl Marx Theater --
shelves were packed as customers chose from foreign products including
Coca-Cola, Gerber's baby food and other American-made goods smuggled here in
violation of a U.S. economic embargo.

But the prices after government markups are prohibitive for the vast majority of
Cubans, whose salaries average slightly more than $ 2 per month, at the street
exchange rate for dollars. A 16-ounce can of Hormel corned beef, for example,
costs $ 4.20. A six-pound bag of rice carries a $ 9 price tag. A box of 10
scouring pads sells for $ 3.85.

"The fact is that in 1994 the currency of Cuba is the American dollar. The Cuban
peso is dead," said a Western diplomat. "It's not worth the paper it's printed
on."

At Supermarket 7016, the father of a 3-year-old boy cradled two frozen chickens
at a packed checkout line where a modern laser bar-code reader tallied his
purchase. "I can't do anything with pesos. Everyone hustles on the street to get
dollars, then you come here to buy what you need," said the man, who is a kidney
dialysis specialist at a Havana hospital.

He added that he would have to spend six months' salary to purchase the chickens
with pesos. Instead, he earns 10 to 20 times the value of his salary in his
spare time selling Cuban cigars, rum and bootleg gasoline to tourists for
dollars.

Like many other Cubans, he said he has coordinated a network of informal
neighborhood cells to pool information on potential sources of dollars. If he
meets a tourist with a rental car, for example, he refers the tourist to a
neighbor with access to gasoline purchased cheaply with ration coupons. It can
sell for 30 percent below the price charged tourists at the pump. The referral
earns him a commission on the sale.

If the tourist is looking for a good restaurant, the man refers him to a former
hotel chef who runs a "clandestine restaurant" in her house. The chef purchases
ingredients for her meals from clandestine meat, poultry and seafood vendors,
who smuggle their goods through the streets in car trunks.

Possession of meat or seafood obtained without a stamped government ration
coupon is illegal, carrying roughly the equivalent punishment of cocaine
possession in the United States. Police can be seen searching vehicles near
beach resorts in hopes of uncovering smuggling networks.

Police are aided by neighborhood Committees for the Defense of the Revolution,
whose current function is to catch black-market dealers.

Departing rafters have cited the police-state atmosphere and severe economic
hardship as their main reasons for fleeing Cuba. Many have said they would
rather go to U.S. detention centers than live here under such conditions.

Since the 1959 revolution, "Cuba has gone from being the eighth most-prosperous
country in the world in per capita income to one of the world's poorest. Today,
Havana is the 17th most-expensive city in the world," said a diplomat from a
former Soviet Bloc country.

"We used to have a saying that socialism was the dictatorship of the
proletariat," he added. "But in Cuba, the proletariat just jumped on a raft and
rode out to sea."

A Havana college professor who later set sail for Florida, Jorge Alarcon,
described his salary as equal to $ 3.50 per month. Alarcon insisted it was
Castro's economic mismanagement and dogmatic adherence to socialism -- not the
U.S. embargo -- that was making life so miserable for Cubans.

"I'm finished with this place until he's gone," Alarcon said, shortly before
mounting a raft last week. "This country is a fallacy."

Government barber Francisco Lemus, 22, said he had been torn about whether to
stay or leave as he watched dozens of friends and neighbors set out to sea over
the last month. His father had fought for Castro in the revolution but later was
jailed for criticizing him.

"I believe in this country, but it hurts me to be here. I need a government
permit to do everything," he said.

The Western diplomat said he was unable to obtain reliable economic data. Ever
since the collapse of the Soviet empire in 1989 and the end of its aid to Cuba,
"they've been trying to convert their economic indicators to where they actually
mean something. But they still have a long way to go," he said.

Like everything else in the Cuban economy, the best place to find hard data is
on the street. If the exchange rate for the dollar goes up, a huckster said, it
means Castro is trying to gather up dollars for a big state purchase. If the
dollar drops, it means he is trying to stimulate dollar circulation. Currently a
dollar buys about 120 pesos, although officially the peso is worth $ 1.

Unemployment rates are impossible to determine, and no official figures are
available. Lemus estimated 70 percent of residents in his apartment complex are
unemployed. The hospital technician guessed that at least half of the people on
his block are out of work.

"I haven't had a job in three years, and I really have to ask myself whether it
matters," said Lazaro Marquez, a Havana resident who unsuccessfully tried to
hitch a ride on a raft last week. "It costs a month's salary just to buy a liter
of cooking oil. I can't remember the last time I ate meat. If you can't buy
anything with your salary, why work?"

Marquez said Castro has even made unemployment a crime. "It's called the Law of
Danger. He can throw you into jail if you haven't had a job for three years
because you pose a danger to the state. Half the country should be in prison
right now," he said.



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CUBAN SOLDIERS COVER THE WATERFRONT AT COJIMAR, EAST OF HAVANA,
TO ENFORCE CUTOFF OF RAFTERS FROM TAKING TO THE SEA. JOSE GOITIA-CANADIAN PRESS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              307 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 22, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Seeks to Deport Immigrant, 87, For Role in Deaths of Lithuanian Jews

Pierre Thomas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 974 words


Justice Department officials yesterday moved to deport a Lithuanian immigrant
who they claim led a Gestapo-style unit involved in the systematic mass murder
of thousands of Jews during World War II.

A complaint filed against Aleksandras Lileikis, 87, of Norwood, Mass., charges
that he was the chief of Saugumas, a unit whose primary responsibility was the
"physical destruction of Jews." Lileikis was head of the Nazi-backed Lithuanian
Security Police for the province of Vilnius, where at least 55,000 of the area's
60,000 Jews were killed from 1941 to 1943, Justice officials said.

The proceedings to revoke Lileikis's citizenship and to deport him represent
"one of the most important Nazi cases brought anywhere in the world in recent
history," said Eli M. Rosenbaum, acting director of the Justice Department
Office of Special Investigations (OSI). They would have been impossible before
the fall of the Soviet Union and recent access to archives of former communist
states, he said.

Lileikis, a retired employee of the Lithuanian Encyclopedia Press in South
Boston who has been in the United States since 1955, responded with a gruff "no
comment" when reporters went to his home in Norwood, about 12 miles southwest of
Boston, early yesterday. The videotape of the encounter showed a stooped elderly
man with thick glasses.

He was not well known among his neighbors, some of whom described him as a quiet
man who kept to himself. They said Lileikis and his wife, who is believed to be
ill, never drew attention and were never in trouble.

Now his life has been placed under scrutiny by charges that he is one of the
most notorious Nazi war criminals ever uncovered. Justice officials said they
had long suspected Lileikis, but could not find enough evidence to detail his
activity and tie him to specific acts. Sources say they are confident they can
match his signature to orders he allegedly signed sending Jews to death squads.

"This individual is at least as significant as Klaus Barbie," the "Butcher of
Lyon" and former German intelligence chief who participated in the deaths of
4,000 Jews and French resistance fighters, said Neal M. Sher, who headed OSI
from 1983 to 1994. "He was a significant part of the nightmarish machinery... .
His involvement was suspected. It was frustrating not being able to get access
to the information that was needed to build a case against him. He was a
beneficiary of the Cold War."

The complaint, based in part on Lithuanian archives, chronicles Lileikis's
alleged role in condemning Jews to firing squads and concentration camps. A
larger proportion of the Jewish population was killed in Lithuania than in any
other European country, Efraim Zuroff, director of the Israel office of the
Simon Wiesenthal Center, said in a telephone interview. Ninety-six percent of
the Jews perished, he said, most of them in Vilnius, a Jewish cultural,
political and religious center equal to Warsaw.

"In a series of extermination actions conducted from June to December 1941, the
Nazis and their collaborators murdered approximately 33,000 Jewish men, women
and children from Vilnius city and its environs," the complaint said. "Most of
the victims were forcibly transported, often on foot, to the wooded hamlet of
Paneriai, approximately six miles outside of Vilnius... . There, the Jews were
shot to death." Others were later exploited as slaves, according to the
complaint.

Justice officials charge that Lileikis repeatedly personally signed and issued
orders directing that arrested Jews be held in prison and at hard labor and then
turned over to the Ypatingas Burys (Special Detachment) killing squad.

Among them, according to the complaint, were a 6-year-old girl and her mother.

On Dec. 1, 1941, Gita Kaplan and her daughter, Fruma, were arrested for having
fled from the Jewish ghetto, the complaint says. "On or about Dec. 2, 1941, with
full knowledge that Jews transferred to the German Security Police were almost
invariably taken to Paneriai for execution, defendant signed and issued an
order" commanding they be turned over to the police. Records show that they were
immediately executed.

In 1944, following the German retreat from Vilnius, Lileikis fled to Nazi
Germany and remained there until the 1950s. In 1950 he sought to enter the
United States, claiming that he was a displaced person. He was rejected because
of allegations that he was a member or participated in a movement that was
hostile to the United States. A similar attempt in 1953 also failed.

But in 1955, even though a U.S. Army Counterintelligence Corps report found that
he had been the director of security in Vilnius and "was possibly involved with
the shooting of Jews," Lileikis was admitted. He told immigration officials his
duties with the police were "innocuous," involving checking public opinion,
screening personnel and prevention of sabotage.

On Nov. 22, 1955, he entered the United States through New York and in July 1976
became a naturalized citizen.

In 1980, the OSI was established to deport Nazis living in the United States.
Lileikis became one of the OSI's top suspects. They knew he had been in Vilnius,
but had no way of proving what he did, Sher said.

Rosenbaum said the government was able to document Lileikis's alleged Nazi
collaboration through the opening of Lithuania's national archives following the
withdrawal of Soviet forces.

He said Michael McQueen, the agency's senior investigative historian, had found
incriminating evidence against Lileikis and others in files that had been closed
to Americans during the Cold War. Rosenbaum said other cases will soon be filed.

"This year, I expect we will file more cases in court than any other year in our
history," Rosenbaum said.

Special correspondent Christopher B. Daly in Boston contributed to this report.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ALEKSANDRAS LILEIKIS TURNS AWAY REPORTERS AT THE DOOR OF HIS
HOME IN THIS FRAME FROM A TV VIDEOTAPE. WHDH-TV VIA AP; PHOTO, JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT FILE PHOTO

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              308 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 26, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Cuban Rafters Now Seek Fish, Not Florida

Julia Preston, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A16

LENGTH: 898 words

DATELINE: COJIMAR, Cuba, Sept. 25, 1994


Two bone-thin, barefoot fishermen trudged down the rock jetty, balancing an
inner-tube raft on their heads.

Not far behind came two strangers, watching the fishermen slide the raft into
the sea. The second pair's T-shirts and shorts were commonplace, but by their
foreign-made running shoes and stiff manner bystanders guessed immediately that
they were policemen.

There was no incident, and the strangers left as quietly as they came. The
fishermen were only going to fish, not to escape to the United States.

The frantic exodus of Cuban rafters stopped within days of the Sept. 9 signing
in New York of an immigration accord between Cuba and the United States, and it
remains halted. Cubans seem to have calculated that it is not worth risking
arrest in Cuba or death by drowning to end up in overcrowded refugee barracks at
the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, or in Panama, rather than in the
United States.

Fishermen, sunbathers and youngsters now loll in the inner-tube rafts on the
smooth ocean at Cojimar, which was the busiest beach during the days of flight.

The government appears to have stopped people from leaving without resorting to
violence, demonstrating that President Fidel Castro's regime still can impose
tight political control. But by most accounts, the number of Cubans who want to
get out is large. Cuban officials complain that the United States, which agreed
to accelerate legal immigration of Cubans, is processing visas slowly. The
grass-roots tension over severe economic conditions, which powered the mass
flight, has not dissipated.

In the Sept. 9 accord, the United States agreed to issue a minimum of 20,000
visas for Cubans, and Cuba agreed to stop the rafters. Cuban authorities say the
flow of migrants has reversed direction. According to an Interior Ministry
communique, 59 Cubans fled the Guantanamo base in the first three weeks of
September, most by crossing minefields that separate it from Cuban territory.

One man died on Sept. 16 in a mine explosion, and another lost a leg, the
communique said. Cuban border police were dispatched to rescue refugees caught
among the mines, the government said. Some refugees also succeeded in swimming
back to Cuban shores.

The government said it detained the returnees to identify them and would
"gradually" send them to their homes. It appealed to Cubans at the base to wait
to return through legal channels.

In Cojimar and neighboring beachside communities east of Havana, residents say
they have not heard of any arrests of rafters trying to put to sea since Sept.
11, when the government announced that anyone trying to build a raft on the
beach or set sail would be detained. Plainclothesmen patrol the area constantly.

"This was a game between Fidel and [President] Clinton. Then one day the two
directors blew their whistles and said, 'Everybody off the court. The game's
over,' " said a man named Rene, 53, an electrician who was out for a nostalgic
look at the empty, litter-strewn beach.

Silence has fallen back over these towns, and Cubans who freely detailed their
woes to reporters during the exodus now ask to withhold their full names.

Cubans say they know that most emigrants ended up at Guantanamo or in a similar
camp in Panama, although they still have no direct communication with relatives
there. Margo Gonzalez learned that her son Osvaldo is at Guantanamo from her
Communist block committee, which acknowledged getting its information from the
Miami Herald.

"We know he's there, but we don't know if he has achieved what he wanted,"
Gonzalez said.

Although Cubans are widely convinced of the pitfalls of leaving illegally now,
many also contend that refugees already in camps one day will reach the United
States. U.S. officials have insisted that none will be allowed in without
applying for a visa through normal channels.

Cuban officials have encouraged the hope that the United States will change its
mind. Ricardo Alarcon, the chief Cuban negotiator in the immigration talks, said
in Cuban press interviews that the U.S. refusal to take any rafters from the
camps is "understandable" but not a "fair solution."

"Perhaps, once we have travel to the United States going normally and legally,
this matter can be revisited in a different context," Alarcon said.

Those returning home from the camps face a host of new problems. Many had
distributed precious household goods among their neighbors, thinking they would
never come back. Block committees speedily canvassed houses for names of those
who left to take them off lists for food rations.

In some places, neighbors occupied homes left empty. In nearby Alamar, police
expelled squatters and put seals on the doors of abandoned apartments.

"My apartment leaks, and my little girl has a chronic lung infection because of
it," said 22-year-old Aleida, explaining why she shifted to a lower-floor
apartment after its occupant departed. Police expelled her and made her pay a $
2 fine. But rather than hold such dwellings for returning refugees, block
committee leaders began to allocate them to people who had waited for years on
official housing lists, residents said.

Town governments have explained how to approach the U.S. Interests Section for a
visa. But authorities have given no indication of change in a policy of cutting
off government benefits to would-be emigrants in the interim.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              309 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 29, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Nicaraguans Lobbying for Citizenship;
Grass-Roots Effort Hopes To Sell Bill to Congress

Ann O'Hanlon, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: DISTRICT WEEKLY; PAGE J1

LENGTH: 805 words


Like many other lobbyists in the Washington area, their goal is to push a bill
through Congress. Like most people with the same goal, their chances are slim.

But a small group of immigrants, which has dubbed itself the Nicaraguan
Fraternity, is undaunted by the bleak prospect for the legislation it is
championing. The legislation would grant U.S. citizenship to Nicaraguans living
here since Jan. 1, 1993.

Cecilia Munoz, an immigration policy analyst with the National Council of La
Raza, calls the effort "a long shot" at best. "These are hard times to move any
legislation that is pro-immigrant," she said. "The country's in a very
xenophobic mood."

But Manuel Monterrey, one of the fraternity's directors, said he is "very
optimistic. Because we're gonna work it up. We're gonna lobby very hard."

Professional lobbyists who roam the corridors of Congress are different from
those Nicaraguan neophytes in more ways than one -- beginning with the fact that
they have money to spend. The Nicaraguans point out that they cannot even afford
snacks at their meetings, which are held in an Arlington church basement or at a
member's home. Lobbyists are all too familiar with the statistics: About 6
percent of all bills introduced in Congress become law.

Although the group collected 1,500 signatures of thanks to Rep. Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) when she introduced the legislation last July, recent
meetings are attended by 20 or 30 people.

The members open meetings with prayer, redistribute a list of targeted members
of Congress and then settle down to sharing lobbying techniques. "Take a child
with you when you go to meet with members of Congress; it gives us a face,"
advised coordinator Onofre Gutierrez. He explained that nuclear families should
lobby Capitol Hill together, because such a sight in this country of commonplace
divorce "is news."

News it was on Capitol Hill, but not of the sort that Gutierrez had predicted.
"They brought kids with them, which was kind of annoying," a staff member for
Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) said after an August visit from several group
members.

Gutierrez said he was not surprised to learn of the misfire. "Most politicians
like to kiss babies. Maybe only when they're running for office. It depends on
the sincerity of the politician," he said.

Although the representative's reaction might not have been ideal, the Nicaraguan
lobbyists had gotten themselves on the his radar screen. None of the other nine
targeted representatives -- members of the Subcommittee on International Law,
Immigration and Refugees -- was aware that the bill existed or that a
grass-roots campaign was in the works.

"We haven't been contacted at all regarding this. Nothing at all," said a member
of Rep. Bill McCollum's (R-Fla.) office.

Gutierrez also encouraged the group to memorize a lobbying slogan, which he
compared to General Electric's corporate jingle: "Mr. Congressman, legalize
Nicaraguans. Please support H.R. 4749. Thank you."

Among those on the group's target list was Rep. Robert G. Torricelli (D-N.J.),
not because of any particular committee membership or any involvement in
immigration issues, but because he dates Bianca Jagger, a Nicaraguan. But
Torricelli's staff said he had not been approached.

Oliver L. North, a Republican Senate candidate from Virginia, also is viewed as
a potential ally because he helped support the Nicaraguan contras in their war
against the Sandinistas. Although North has made no statement to the effect,
most of the group believes he would support Nicaraguans in their bid for
citizenship.

"He's way to the right. So we assume that he would be a friend of the Nicaraguan
exile community," Gutierrez said.

The legal status of many Nicaraguans is secure for now. In 1987, then-Attorney
General Edwin Meese III signed an order allowing Nicaraguans who were in the
United States illegally and had "a well-founded fear of persecution" under the
Sandinista regime to remain here indefinitely. The election of Violeta Chamorro
in 1990 ended Sandinista rule but not the desire of many Nicaraguans to remain
in the United States. Nicaraguans say that desire is based not only on the more
comfortable lives they have made in this country, but also on persistent fear.

Murders and robberies by Sandinistas against opponents continue, said Yessenia
Barillas, a fraternity member who left Nicaragua in 1991 after completing high
school. She said she is working for passage of the legislation because she would
be afraid to return.

Gutierrez said the Sandinistas still have significant power, including control
of the military and the banks. He said that although many local Nicaraguans
oppose the Sandinistas, they opposed Chamorro in 1990. "Many even hoped she
wouldn't win, because then we could still say we were in danger," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              310 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 9, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Out of Africa -- Into America;
Immigrant Entrepreneurs Are Remaking Georgia Avenue

Joel Millman

SECTION: OUTLOOK; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 1844 words


MAKING IT in America has been a dream for many of the world's poor for a
century. But only recently has the gospel reached Africa. Thanks to modern
communication systems, cheap airfares and plenty of low-paying service jobs
awaiting those who make the trek, a trickle of African emigration that began in
the 1970s has become a flood. Anywhere from 100,000 to a half-million African
emigrants have entered the United States this decade. The beneficial effects are
already visible on Georgia Avenue in Northwest Washington.

Chris Chidueme, the 40-year-old founder of Bamboo End Restaurant at Georgia
Avenue and Kennedy Street, started in 1989 with an $ 8,000 loan from a local
bank. Having managed a McDonald's while earning a business degree from American
University, Chidueme thought he could make it with a West African bistro. But
with no credit history of his own, he needed someone to co-sign the loan. A
friend from Nigeria, from Chidueme's hometown, was happy to comply. The
restaurant was a hit, and Chidueme branched into grocery stores, a logical move,
he says, because more Nigerians eat at home than in restaurants. He owns two
stores now, and is moving into the wholesale business.  With annual revenues
around $ 1 million, Chidueme paid over $ 200,000 in state and local taxes last
year, and another $ 600,000 in employee salaries. He expects to become a U.S.
citizen next year.

What's new about today's African emigration is that it no longer consists of
elites coming from oil-rich Nigeria or Gabon to matriculate at U.S.
universities. This new wave is lumpen, what sociologists call an "authentic"
immigration wave.

"These are different from all these other African groups who came before," says
Sulayman Niang, a professor of African Studies at Howard University, himself a
Gambian emigrant. "They have a religious discipline, and they are hard workers."

Africans whose parents would have been encouraged to emigrate to London or
Paris, now leave for Harlem, Atlanta, Washington and Chicago. Ironically, while
antipathy toward African Americans is one of the few traits held in common by
many new emigrants, the African emigrants are drawn to black America. Indeed,
many say, it was the image of black heroes -- Muhammad Ali, James Brown, Jesse
Jackson, even Marion Barry -- that first stirred the longing to emigrate. Once
they get here, they find, in the black community, not only camouflage but a
market for their wares and skills.

The first wave of Senegalese, for example, came to the United States as
peddlers, appearing on New York City's streets in the mid-1980s with briefcases
filled with counterfeit designer watches, or canvas sacks filled with knock-off
handbags. They had a reputation for sleeping eight to a room in fleabag hotels
off Broadway and for being first on the corner with $ 3 made-in-Taiwan umbrellas
seconds after the first raindrops fell.

The peddlers who spent the work-week hawking goods to office workers in midtown
Manhattan spent the weekends on the road. Like the peddlers of the 1800s, they
went deep into the provinces, to what many Americans would consider hostile
territory -- the ghettos of Detroit, Cleveland, St. Louis and New Orleans. They
sold African imports to the African Americans: cloth from Ghana, carvings from
Zaire, even gold from the Gold Coast. The peddlers' network spawned the first
African stores, which spawned further immigration. "They are following in the
footsteps of the Jewish peddler," says Howard University's professor Niang.

The critical mass of lumpen emigrants is being joined quickly by
university-educated elites, who are setting themselves up as real estate agents,
wholesalers, shopkeepers and accountants serving fellow emigrants. With time,
prosperous enclaves have sprouted amid the devastation of some of this country's
worst ghettos. Last summer, there was one African-owned business on Harlem's
116th Street, Makhtar Ndoye's Horizon 96 insurance agency. Since 1993, Ndoye has
been joined by nearly a dozen entrepreneurs: four hair-braiding boutiques, two
restaurants, two groceries, a halal (kosher for Muslims) butcher, a travel
agency and an African crafts store. "New York," Ndoye smiles, "is the promised
land for Senegalese."

This neighborhood, New York City's Little Senegal, boasts between 10,000 and
15,000 residents, many of whom arrived only since 1990. Senegalese, Gambians and
Guineans drive most of the gypsy cabs in Harlem and the South Bronx. Teenage
Africans hold many of the supermarket delivery jobs in Manhattan; part-time
students work as security guards, cashiers and clerks. With 30 listings,
"Gueye," a popular Senegalese surname (pronounced "Gway") has tied "Guevara" in
the Manhattan phone book; Senegalese family names like Diop and Niang are even
more numerous.

Like the waves of emigrants who preceded them, Africans tend to be hard-working
and family-oriented. Like the Mexicans and Dominicans, they usually come to New
York after raising money for their passage from family members and thus are
willing to work several jobs to pay off their loans. Like the Koreans and Irish,
they tend to be ridiculously over-educated for the first jobs they find, but
then tend to climb rapidly. Makhtar Ndoye drove gypsy cabs to put himself
through New York University. Selle Gueye, a Greenwich Village shopkeeper, speaks
four European languages fluently, the legacy of university training in Dakar.
His sister Fatou has risen from supermarket cashier to restaurant hostess, while
carrying a full course load at City College.

Mohammad Diop, a Senegalese entrepreneur in New York, founded his own African
clothing company, Homeland Fashions, which does about $ 6 million a year in
sales through catalogue marketing and a new Black Entertainment Television home
shopping program. Importing raw cloth from West African weavers, Diop employs
hundreds throughout New York, many of them fellow emigrants working at piecemeal
rates just like the garment workers of a century ago.

Commmunity savings groups, called isusus in Nigeria and Ghana, tontine among
Senegalese and Guineans, are a cheap source of credit for African entrepreneurs.
Five or 10 members of a tontine circle agree to contribute $ 100 each for five
or 10 weeks, each member taking home the pot until everyone has received his
share. Tontine pays for a livery cab license or bolts of Ghanaian cloth to
fashion into clothing to peddle on the road. Bigger circles finance restaurants,
grocery stores and beauty salons.

There are dozens of these African savings clubs in Washington, after New York
probably the most popular destination for African emigrants. The many students,
taxi drivers and embassy employees here form social organizations -- first by
nationality, then by ethnic affiliation, finally by village or clan. One linking
dozens of Washington-area Ibo from Nigeria is called the Onye Aghalanwaneya
Mbaise.

"It means, Let Nobody Leave His Brother Behind Association," explains Bina
Avery, a member of Nigeria's Izon group who works with the People's Involvement
Corporation, a nonprofit community development association on Georgia Avenue.
Avery counts nearly a hundred businesses opened by African-born entrepreneurs
along the strip over the past five years, making Georgia Avenue one of the few
commercial strips in the city where Korean businessmen are actually a minority.

"We need some risk-takers to bring the money close home to the community," Avery
says. "The average African who leaves his mom and dad and leaves his continent
-- that is a risk-taker. They are our Christopher Columbuses. They come here
with a suitcase, and they end up with a home. They make life from nothing."

"They're here and they're thriving," agrees Donna Younger, president of the
Upper Georgia Avenue Business and Professional Association, of the African
entrepreneurs. "They bring fashion and cuisine from the homeland, things you
can't find anywhere else in Washington." Twelve of the 46 members of her
organization are African-born.

Younger cringes at the description of her neighborhood presented in a lengthy
Washington Post feature last spring. A declining "city seam that's fraying,"
Georgia Avenue was portrayed as a crime-ridden district where entrepreneurs felt
besieged, more inclined to flee than to invest. The article ignored the African
presence.

Yet up and down Georgia Avenue, from the Howard University campus to the
District's border with Silver Spring, there are African or Caribbean businesses
on almost every block, the greatest number founded by Nigerians.

Working south from the Masjid Madrassa, a mosque on the 5900 block of Georgia
Avenue, you'll pass the Kendejah West African restaurant, then, around at the
corner of Missouri Avenue, the Soukous Club. Amina's Tailoring, run by an
immigrant from Sierra Leone, is on the 5600 block.

Working north, you'll pass Homeland Travel, then Pro Bono Tropical Food ("a
division of Pro Bono Enterprises," says a sign on the door) and Ghigis Afrikan
Fashion & Textile Gallery, all owned and run by Ibos from Nigeria.

"We consider ourselves African-American too and our clientele is 90 percent
African-American," says Ghigi, a former student of Niang's at Howard. "We're
Ibos, first. They call us the Jews of Africa."

The prospects for repeating these immigrant success stories are promising. This
spring, in what was called the country's first "diversity lottery," the State
Department assigned more than a third of the 55,000 immigrant visas it offers
each year to applicants from Africa, the most visas offered to any region of the
world after Europe. While the lottery sharply cut back the number of would-be
citizens from Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, the invitation to 20,000
African strivers has the potential to work wonders for urban economies.

Naturally, not everyone agrees. Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform attacks the diversity lottery as unnecessary.
Africans, he says, have shown little inclination to emigrate, and he wonders why
the U.S. taxpayer should subsidize an overseas marketing campaign to promote
African immigration. "We have never promoted free emigration from Africa, and
black Americans couldn't care less if any more immigrants come to America," he
says. "And most don't care if more come from Africa."

The 20,000 newcomers will eventually send for their relatives, Stein warns. The
diversity lottery, he claims, establishes a beachhead for new national groups
and eventually will create the same strain on cities' social services other
emigrants have brought.

Or they will revive those cities. "There is a new mentality that has made them
want to come to the inner city as the place to make them flourish," says Bina
Avery of his fellow emigres. "You won't see African grocery stores in white
neighborhoods. This is where we live."

The first green card winners were notified last week.

Joel Millman, an editor for Forbes magazine, is writing a book on Third World
immigration to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, JOSEPH DANIEL FIELDER FOR TWP

TYPE: FEATURE, DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              311 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 26, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Federal Court Grounds U.S. Flights Returning Refugees to Cuba

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 542 words


A federal judge in Miami cut short an effort yesterday by the United States to
return Cuban refugees to their communist-ruled country from the U.S. naval base
at Guantanamo Bay.

The decision forced U.S. officials to cancel a flight of 23 refugees just a
minute before it was to take off for Havana from Guantanamo, which is located in
eastern Cuba.

An official from the Immigration and Naturalization Service used a pay phone to
halt the takeoff right after U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins issued his
order to stop the flights, the Associated Press reported from Miami. Another
hearing on the issue is scheduled today.

Cuban American lawyers sued Monday to force the U.S. government to free more
than 30,000 Cuban boat people being held indefinitely at Guantanamo and in
Panama. President Clinton barred them from the United States, saying the only
way they can win entry is to return home and apply through newly created U.S.
immigration procedures.

The United States has guaranteed Cuba that it will grant entry visas to at least
20,000 Cuban citizens annually. The stranded boat people are being urged to
return to Cuba and use the new channel to get into the United States.

The United States promised to provide the visas in return for a pledge from
Cuban President Fidel Castro to stop Cuban boat people from taking to the sea,
using force if necessary. Human rights groups criticized the deal with Castro on
the grounds that it encourages Cuban authorities to restrict the freedom to
travel.

In any event, the agreement effectively stopped an exodus of Cubans across the
Florida Straits. Clinton ended a 30-year policy of granting Cuban refugees
automatic political asylum. State Department official Dennis Hays is in Cuba
explaining the details of the program to the Cuban government.

Cuba has been slow in accepting Cubans who voluntarily agree to leave
Guantanamo, State Department spokeswoman Christine Shelly said. About 1,000 have
indicated a desire to return, but only 42 have been accepted by the Cubans and
have left Guantanamo by plane, she said. The Cuban bureaucracy is demanding lots
of paperwork from those seeking reentry to the island nation, Shelly added.

The Cubans also may be trying to use the issue of refugees at Guantanamo -- as
well as some in Panama -- as leverage to get the United States to discuss
opening trade with the island, she concluded.

Clinton is under pressure from Cuban Americans to let the refugees enter the
country. But he is unlikely to act for two reasons: one, any move to let in the
Cubans might unleash an electoral backlash in Florida and other states over
immigration; and, second, the administration fears that letting the boat people
now in Guantanamo and Panama into the United States will encourage Cubans to
take to the sea again.

Attorneys for the refugees in Miami argued that the Cubans in Guantanamo are in
effect being forcibly repatriated. The suit demands hearings for the 23,000
Cubans at Guantanamo and an additional 8,000 who have been transferred to a U.S.
base in Panama because of crowding at Guantanamo, which is also being used to
house Haitians who fled the military regime before President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide was returned to power this month.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CUBAN REFUGEES SWELLED CAMPS AT GUANTANAMO NAVAL BASE LAST
SUMMER. FIDEL CASTRO'S GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN SLOW TO ACCEPT BACK THOSE WHO FLED.
AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              312 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 20, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Too Many People in America

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C6; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 373 words


Roberto Suro and Ana Radelat [Outlook, Nov. 6] paint a picture of "Fortress
America" that emphasizes racial and anti-immigrant motivation as the cause of
the trend away from a liberal immigration policy. Mr. Suro used words like
"potentially intrusive measures ... to fight illegal immigration," "age-old
anxieties about race," "the nation's identity, direction and future," "will the
restrictionist impulse carry over into legal immigration?" and "super-heated
atmosphere." Ana Radelat used such words as "the wave of xenophobia that is
sweeping the country," and "Cubans are facing the overt hostility that others
have fought for years."

These terms portray the reconsideration of our immigration policy as an
unreasoned assault on Latin Americans. But the basic numerical facts are what
has given rise to American concern. The question is not "who?" The question is
"how many?" And the answer is "too many."

The United States would be better off with a population of 150 million rather
than the 256 million we had at last count. We have a population density of about
70 people per square mile while world population density is about 95 per square
mile; Cuba's is 235, China's is 325 and Haiti's is almost 600. But do we want to
become a Third World country? We have the power to determine our destiny, but if
we keep on importing the world's excess population, we will soon lose the power
to choose.

We can opt to continue our current immigration policies and reduce our birth
rate or increase our death rate to stop population growth. We could even kick
some Americans out to make room for immigrants. But do we want to make the
choice that China has made, or the choice that Castro's Cuba has made?


This is not to say that we should ignore the world's problems. But we cannot
solve them by accepting a small part of countries' excess population. We need to
set a population goal and suspend immigration -- legal and illegal -- until we
reach that goal. We should encourage other nations to do the same. If we start
now we can make population-reduction programs a first priority in our foreign
aid programs, and we can provide the leadership that will save the world from
Armageddon.

RANDOLPH W. LEE

Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              313 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 3, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Sets Entry Limits For Cuban Refugees;
'Extraordinary Hardship' Is Required

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 580 words


Rejecting entreaties from the Cuban American community, the Clinton
administration announced yesterday that only families suffering "extraordinary
hardship" will be allowed to enter the United States from refugee camps in
Panama and the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

"It is a disaster," said Frank Calzon, Washington representative of Freedom
House and a prominent advocate on Cuban American issues. "People were expecting
them all to come out and now they have to face the fact that hundreds, perhaps
thousands of Cuban children will spend Christmas behind barbed wire."

About 3,000 children under 18 are among the more than 30,000 Cuban rafters being
held in the camps, and influential Cuban American groups had pressed for a
wholesale release of all the children and their families. That would have
dropped the camps' population by one-third.

But the administration's announced policy means a much slower and smaller
release of Cubans. Attorney General Janet Reno said in a written statement that
at President Clinton's direction she will begin considering admitting children
from the camps on a case-by-case basis, along with "such immediate family
members as humanitarian needs require."

Only children "for whom long-term presence in the safe havens at Guantanamo and
Panama would constitute extraordinary hardship" will be allowed into the United
States, the statement said.

In explaining what would constitute such hardship, Doris Meissner, commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, cited illnesses or other forms of
disability so severe that they could not be treated at the military hospitals
located near the camps.

Speaking at a news conference yesterday afternoon, Meissner said that she could
not predict how many Cubans would qualify for the humanitarian program but that
it would only apply to exceptional cases.

Although the children have been living in tents for more than three months and
are not attending school, Meissner said, "The fact of being in a camp in and of
itself does not constitute an extraordinary hardship for the sake of this
program."

Some senior administration officials had promoted a much broader release program
a few weeks ago, but the proposals were rejected in favor of a more limited
effort out of concern that the release of thousands of people from Guantanamo
might provoke a new exodus of Cuban rafters.

"This is indicative of the debate within the administration over how to deal
with the situation," said Jose Cardenas, Washington representative of the
Cuban-American National Foundation, which aggressively promoted a more extensive
release.

"Our overall objective is to get everyone out of there, and we see this as a
step in the right direction," he said. "We are also well aware of the
anti-immigrant mood that prevails around the country, but this remains a very
important matter for our community."

A group of Cuban American lawyers in Miami has sued the administration over the
detention policy, and many individuals and community groups have prepared to act
as financial sponsors for the families in detention.

Manuel Vazquez, one of the lawyers involved with the lawsuit, said, "I do not
necessarily view the administration's decision as limiting because once they
start looking at these children on a case-by-case basis, they will all qualify."
He said the children's physical and mental health was declining in ways that
clearly demonstrated the hardships of camp life.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              314 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 10, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Latin Leaders Criticize Growing U.S. Nativism;
Trend Is Said to Threaten Improving Relations

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 700 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 9


Like a dark cloud hovering above the sunny picnic of the Summit of the Americas,
Latin American leaders say California's Proposition 187 and the growing nativism
of U.S. voters and politicians threatens to spoil prospects for improved
relations within the hemisphere.

Guatemalan President Ramiro de Leon Carpio had barely exited his airplane here
today when he attacked Proposition 187, calling it "a flagrant and massive
violation of human rights, especially to children."

Likewise, El Salvador President Armando Calderon Sol criticized the measure upon
his arrival, saying, "it is inconceivable in the United States that a state
could vote for something which violates ... international children's rights ...
which violates all international law. It must be annulled."

The issue is an extremely powerful and sensitive one -- both economically and
culturally -- particularly for Mexico and Central American nations. Their
citizens are most directly affected by measures such as California's Proposition
187, which would deny services such as education and nonemergency medical care
to illegal immigrants.

For the president of Guatemala, the country with one of the worst human rights
records in the hemisphere, to attack Proposition 187 on humanitarian grounds may
be brassy, but it also speaks to the emotion of the issue.

Not even the friendly afterglow of the North American Free Trade Agreement
apparently is going to stop newly elected Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo
Ponce de Leon from again raising the issue of Proposition 187. He already has
publicly criticized it, and could go so far as to seek a public condemnation
here by fellow Latin leaders.

Luis Ortiz Monasterio, Mexico's consul in Florida, said the measure was not only
unfair to the children of immigrants, but downright insulting.

"Perhaps the worst part, is this does not take into account the huge historical
contribution of Mexicans in the southern United States," Monasterio said. "I
tell you, this kind of thing touches on all kinds of other fibers in the
relationship between our countries."

The issue threatens to put a strain on what is shaping up to be a friendly trade
gala of 34 heads of government. Clinton himself opposed Proposition 187, but the
new Republican congressional leadership is considering expanding federal
measures against illegal immigrants, and so it may be the wave of the future.

Yet many Latin leaders say the issue of immigration is far more complicated than
California's just-say-no approach. To stop northward immigration, say the
presidents of Central America, help us improve our economies.

"The issue is of great importance to us," said Antonio Lacayo, Nicaragua's
minister of the presidency. "Not only in the summit, but in the relationship
that Latin America has been building with the United States."

Lacayo said years of internal warfare and a left-wing regime in Nicaragua drove
hundreds of thousands of Nicaraguans into exile, both legal and not. The economy
of the country is still in something of a state of shock, smaller than it was 15
years ago, while its population has grown 40 percent.

Central American countries in particular rely on emigration to relieve
destabilizing pressures at home, while aiding their economies through
remittances sent from the United States. In El Salvador, for example, it is
estimated that some $ 600 million in U.S. dollars is sent home by immigrants in
the United States, a cash flow that outstrips coffee sales.

"There are people in this country who do not want to see a united hemisphere,"
said Lacayo of Nicaragua. "For the first time, we are the only continent not at
war, with 34 freely elected governments. We are the continent of the next
century and we need to respect each other in all regards."

The issue is likely to be addressed -- in informal discussion and at the round
table -- by more countries than Mexico. Even Bolivia is threatening to make it a
mettlesome topic.

"The Mexican government recognizes each state to regulate immigration," said
Monasterio. "What we don't understand is that the neighbors were not even
consulted ... We don't think denying education to immigrants is the way to do
this."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              315 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 25, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Bosnian Runner Receives Most Meaningful Gift

From News Services

SECTION: SPORTS; PAGE D2; FANFARE

LENGTH: 268 words


Christmas came early for former Bosnian Olympic runner Mirsada Buric-Adam after
months of fighting to get her family out of Croatia.

Buric-Adam learned this month that her relatives have finally received
permission to enter the United States. Her 8-year-old nephew, Adi, called Dec.
12 from Zagreb, where the family ended up after fleeing Sarajevo.

"He was screaming on the phone: 'Aunt! We're coming to America!' " Buric-Adam
said.

Buric-Adam sent her sister money to survive and negotiated with U.S. immigration
officials. Majda Jarovic, her husband and their two children are due to arrive
in January.

Buric-Adam, who dodged bullets on the streets of Sarajevo while training for the
1992 Olympics, married Eric Adam, an audio-visual specialist at the Veterans
Administration hospital in Prescott, Ariz.

Jarovic fled Sarajevo with Adi and 3-year-old Irma, traveling by night to reach
Zagreb. Once there, she was interviewed by a U.S. immigration official, who told
her they were not eligible for a refugee resettlement program for Bosnian
Muslims.

The family survived on money from Buric-Adam and her husband, who launched a
letter-writing campaign. The turning point came soon after Rep. Jon Kyl
(R-Ariz.) wrote to U.S. immigration officials on their behalf, asking to have
the case reconsidered.

Jarovic told immigration officials her family had been receiving threatening
telephone calls since early 1992. The callers threatened to kill Jarovic and her
children because Buric-Adam was a member of the Bosnian Olympic team. It wasn't
clear why immigration officials changed their minds.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              316 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 5, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

For the Record

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A28; FOR THE RECORD

LENGTH: 296 words


From "Immigration and the American Future" by Nathan Glazer in the Winter 1995
issue of the Public Interest:


When one reviews the various categories of immigrants -- illegal, asylees and
refugees, family-related, responding to national needs -- it is hard to see any
easy way to reduce immigration. The political fallout from trying to reduce the
present scale of immigration may be so great that the path of prudence may be to
accept more or less the present scale of immigration, hoping to reduce it
somewhat with better (and more costly) regulation of illegal immigration and
claims to asylum, and accepting a level of nearly one million immigrants a year
as far as the eye can see.

Perhaps the conclusion should be that immigration is something like inflation:
It would be better if there were less, but it is too costly to take the measures
that would reduce it. Yet I am concerned that if we do not attack these
difficult problems, matters will become worse. We live in a much more turbulent
society than we once did. That was once a cliche and a truism, but in this age
in which real income does not rise, in which corporation downsizing affects the
stable middle class, and in which the icons of American capitalism tumble, it
has become a truth. At such a time, one wonders why additional strains should be
placed on the American social fabric.

I think one of the great yearnings of Americans today is for more stability. One
thing that immigration inevitably brings is a degree of instability. Can we
reduce this instability while acknowledging the moral claims to which the
world's greatest and richest nation must be open, and responding to our fellow
citizens with relatives in other countries? This is the way I see the
immigration issue today.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: TRANSCRIPT

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              317 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     January 8, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

Reentering the U.S.: A Better Way?

William E. Holland, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: SUNDAY TRAVEL; PAGE E2; BUSINESS TRAVELER

LENGTH: 1310 words


I have always been captivated by the phrase "citizen of the world," but
international travel is a constant reminder that there is no such thing.

A true citizen of the world would be able to travel anywhere without hindrance,
just as a resident of Virginia can fly off for the weekend to Miami, say, or Las
Vegas, without asking any government's permission.

But with an American passport and a limited list of destination countries, you
can come close to maintaining the illusion of being a citizen of the world. In
Germany and other West European countries, for example, the immigration
inspectors look at the cover of your passport and wave you through. At least you
can maintain the illusion until you come back to the United States. Then you
stand in line for passport inspection like everyone else.

Until recently. Now the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, according
to its literature, "has developed an automated system to expedite certain
frequent travelers through the immigration inspections process: INSPASS (INS
Passenger Accelerated Service System)."

Enrollment in INSPASS gets you a credit-card size, machine-readable ID card
that, together with your right hand, qualifies you to go though a special
INSPASS line at certain ports of entry to the United States (currently, John F.
Kennedy International Airport and Newark International Airport).

Being in favor of expedited anything, I enrolled myself in INSPASS before my
most recent trip to foreign parts.

Several things are worth knowing about INSPASS before you try to enroll. First,
who's eligible? Business travelers only. (Officials check your previous entries
to make sure you described your travel purpose as "business," and also to
determine how frequently you travel.) To enroll you also must be a citizen of
one of 25 countries, including the United States, most of Europe, Canada,
Bermuda, Japan, New Zealand (but not Australia -- sorry, mate), Iceland and
Brunei. You must also travel to (or reenter) the United States three times or
more a year on business. And if you are not a citizen of the United States,
Canada or Bermuda, you must hold an appropriate U.S. visa.

Second, INSPASS isn't a substitute for a valid passport and visa, it's just a
quicker method of inspection. You must have a passport (and, if required, a
visa).

Third, INSPASS doesn't work everywhere. This is a pilot program, currently
operating only at JFK and Newark airports in the United States and at the INS
preflight inspection facility in Toronto. You can enroll by mail -- at least in
theory. The INS information says that for an application you may call
212-206-6500 or 201-645-4400. I've never gotten an answer by calling those
numbers, however. In any event, you must show up in person at an enrollment
center for final processing. Enrollment centers are located in various terminals
at JFK Airport and in Terminal B at Newark Airport, and adjacent to the
preflight inspection facility in Toronto.

If my experience is any guide, you should count on showing up more than once at
an enrollment center for final processing. On my first try, at the British
Airways/United Airlines Terminal at JFK, the computer was down. The friendly INS
official on duty advised me to fill out and leave an application, and I'd be
ready for full enrollment on my next visit.

Fast forward a month. Scene: the INSPASS office at the British Airways/United
Airlines Terminal at JFK. Enter W. Holland, world traveler, ready to complete
his INSPASS enrollment. Ahead of him in line is a weary-looking woman, being
told by the friendly INS officer on duty, "Our computer is down right now, but
if you'll fill out and leave an application ..."

This does not look hopeful. On being told that I have an application on file,
however, the friendly officer takes my name, finds my application and offers to
see what he can do. He sits down at his computer. His first attempt fails. He
reboots and tries again, with the same result. I have a flight in 20 minutes and
am about to give up when, on the third try, the computer recognizes my name.

Step two -- recognition. How do we know the name in the system goes with the
body that shows up to enter these United States? Answer: the Hand Reader. (Plus
your current passport, or other identification, to certify your hand to the
Reader.)

The Hand Reader takes "biometric measurements of your hand" (to quote the INS
again). It consists of a flat plate with four pegs around which you arrange your
fingers and squeeze. Somewhere, someone apparently is convinced that this is
enough to distinguish one person from anyone else in the world. And for all I
know, it may be. Anyway, you do this three times and if the machine is satisfied
that it can now recognize you, you qualify for INSPASS. (I was sorely tempted to
try substituting my left hand, or the hand of the guy in line behind me, on the
second or third measurement, just to see what would happen; but I did have a
flight in a few minutes, and there are limits to what I am willing to do in the
interest of science.)

I don't know what happens to people with no right hand, although I suspect that
if the system won't accommodate them, it has a problem under the Americans With
Disabilities Act.

In any event, once you are known to the Hand Reader, you are still at the mercy
of one last device, the Card Maker. This makes your ID card, bearing your name,
your passport number and a lot of other information best known to the INS
computers. It is good for a year.

So off you go, ready to reenter the United States without the bother of standing
in line.

Does it work? Well ...

Fast forward 10 days. The scene: entry to the passport inspection hall at JFK.
Three 747s have just landed, and I was on the third. What's more, the 300-plus
passengers on each of the 747s are almost all Americans. So we all go on the
"U.S. Citizens" side of immigration inspection. I approach the passport
inspection hall to find the doorway blocked by a thousand homebound American
travelers, passports in hand. They have overflowed the rope maze that leads to
the passport inspection stations. The line extends far up the corridor leading
from the airplane.

I edge along the line, cautiously, so as not to stir resentment, and ask the
woman directing traffic to the passport inspection stations at the head of the
line, "Is there an INSPASS machine here?"

She points to the machine station with its friendly red, white and blue
markings, standing all alone and unused, and lets me cross the rope barriers to
get to it.

What fun!

I place my card in the Card Reader. A moment's pause. The Card Reader reports,
"Identity not recognized."

Wait. This is not the way it's supposed to be. Is it?

Try again.

More of the same.

An INS supervisor, seeing the trouble, wanders over. He can't make the blasted
thing recognize my card either.

He sighs. "Come with me."

We go to his desk, where he checks my passport, stamps it and sends me on my
way. But not until I've asked him a few questions.

Do they have much trouble with the INSPASS system? Yes. The software doesn't
seem to be quite right. A replacement system is on order.

I have never believed much in palmistry, and I supposed that problems with the
system would come from the Hand Reader. Not so. The Hand Reader works fine, the
officer tells me. It's the Card Reader that gives everyone fits. As with me.

Still, even if the electronics didn't work, the system did. What INSPASS is
intended to provide is "accelerated service," and that's what I got. I skipped a
line of a thousand people and was on my way in three minutes.

So, should you enroll in INSPASS? Definitely. But don't forget to carry your
passport.


William E. Holland is a lawyer with the firm of Chadbourne & Parke in New York
and the author of the novel "Moscow Twilight" (Pocket Books).

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              318 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 11, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.N. Refugee Agency Says U.S. Violates Standards in Repatriating Haitians

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 704 words


In an unusual public rebuff, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR) yesterday criticized the Clinton administration for failing to meet
international standards for processing refugees in its handling of Haitian boat
people at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The U.N. agency has worked closely with the administration since it began its
efforts to create a safe haven for the Haitians last May, but yesterday Rene van
Rooyen, the UNHCR's representative to the United States, said, "We have
disassociated ourselves from the process of screening Haitians at Guantanamo
because it does not permit us to fulfill our mandate to protect people under
internationally accepted procedures."

State Department spokeswoman Christine D. Shelly said in a statement, "We
disagree strongly with any implication that our interviews do not comply with
international or U.S. law."

Having the world's foremost refugee agency as a partner lent the administration
considerable credibility as it struggled last spring and summer to forge a new
policy toward Haitian boat people that offered them protection from persecution
without setting off an uncontrolled migration to the United States.

The downgrading of UNHCR's relationship with the effort could limit the ability
of the United States to use the same model to handle future migration
emergencies, refugee advocates said.

The UNHCR agreed to work as a monitor, adviser and diplomatic representative for
the United States only after President Clinton on May 8 reversed a politically
controversial policy of forcibly returning the boat people to Haiti, and it was
on this issue that UNHCR broke ranks yesterday.

More than 16,000 Haitians voluntarily left Guantanamo for home after President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide was returned to power in Haiti under the protection of
the U.S. military in October. But 4,468 Haitians remained in the camp at the end
of December and were refusing to return.

After offering them one last chance for voluntary return, which was accepted by
only about 600 people, the administration began forcibly repatriating the
Haitians last week. Interviews with Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials were arranged for those who claimed they still feared going back to
Haiti.

But the senior spokesman at UNHCR headquarters in Geneva, Sylvana Foa, said at a
news conference yesterday, "We're not very happy with the way things are being
done... . We feel the questioning they are being given is rather cursory,"
according to news service reports.

According to news reports and the allegations of human rights groups, some
Haitians claim their relatives were killed by paramilitary gangs, and they
contend these marauders continue to commit violent acts in areas not frequently
patrolled by U.S. forces.

So far this month nearly 1,800 Haitians have left Guantanamo, according to the
State Department. After initial interviewing, 40 cases have been held back for
further examination.

Foa said the UNHCR had tried to persuade the administration to grant the
Haitians the kind of screening defined in a 1951 U.N. agreement that sets "a
well founded fear of persecution" as the basic test for granting sanctuary.

By law the United States applies the 1951 standard to potential refugees and
asylum seekers and has often demanded that other nations comply with it. But the
Clinton administration argues that neither U.S. law nor U.N. standards apply to
the Haitians at Guantanamo.

A senior State Department official said the UNHCR view was rejected "not so much
because we believe a different standard should be applied but because refugee
screening implies resettlement in the United States and that implies we are
opening the door."

Disagreeing, van Rooyen said, "Such a small number of people will be involved
that we believe other alternatives are possible."

Refugee advocates argue that this is not a small distinction. "The United States
has sent a signal to nations around the world that when it faces a crisis in its
own back yard it will not ... adhere to the one internationally accepted
standard for refugee screening," said Bill Frelick, a senior policy analyst at
the private U.S. Committee for Refugees.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              319 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 03, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Area Population Is Growing, But Pace Slower Than in '80s; Immigrants Are Driving
Force Inside Beltway

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1028 words


Foreign immigration has become the major new factor sustaining population growth
in an increasing number of Washington's inner suburbs.

Though the pace of growth has slowed significantly inside the Capital Beltway,
the area's outer counties are growing rapidly with new residents from the
close-in suburbs and elsewhere in the United States. The slack growth in the
inner suburbs and an escalating exodus from the District are dampening local
population increases. Based on newly released Census Bureau estimates for
1990-94, the Washington area is headed for a 15 percent population increase this
decade, compared with 20 percent in the 1980s.

"Even during the 1980s, there were people moving out as well as people moving
in," said Stephen Fuller, who tracks the regional economy at the Institute of
Public Policy at George Mason University. "Clearly now, that's become less
balanced."

Fuller and other specialists say the local economy is the major factor in
reconfiguring and braking growth. Fewer jobs are being created than in the
1980s, and jobs are the reason most people move to a new area. Although the
District still is the area's largest employment center, most new jobs are in the
suburbs. So the people who take those jobs can move farther out and still have a
reasonable commute.

At the same time, thousands of people took advantage of low interest rates
earlier in the decade to buy bigger houses further out, in the American
tradition of seeking more space for less money.

Richard and Pam Reilly, who moved to Ashburn Village in Loudoun County, are part
of the growth in the outer suburbs. The couple arrived from Richmond late last
year when she was transferred to Bethesda by AT&T. Richard Reilly said they
wanted a "family atmosphere" for their newborn son, a reasonable commute for Pam
and a Virginia location for his sales job, which takes him around the state.

The changes in the area's growth pattern have broad implications. They create
pressure for new roads in growing communities, make demands on increasingly
diverse school systems in the inner suburbs and raise the stakes for local
jurisdictions competing to attract jobs in a tight economy.

One of the most noteworthy changes of the last four years has been migration
from abroad. Most communities are growing, in part because of births, but the
other factors affecting growth have changed significantly. Although Montgomery,
Prince George's, Fairfax, Arlington and Alexandria all have lost more U.S.
residents than they gained since 1990, more immigrants are arriving from foreign
countries.

About 74,000 legal immigrants moved to the area in the last three years of the
1980s, a decade when Washington was among the nation's magnets for foreign
arrivals. From 1990-93, 91,500 immigrants came to the area, according to the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Most went to Fairfax County,
Montgomery County, the District and Prince George's County, in that order.

"Forty percent of Montgomery County's net population growth [in the] last decade
was from immigration," said Drew Dedrick, chief of research for the county's
Planning Department. "This decade, I expect that it will be 60 percent or more."

The immigrants come from dozens of countries, led by El Salvador, Vietnam and
India. Dedrick said that although many immigrants move into crowded
neighborhoods and take low-skilled jobs, the county also draws well-off
immigrants.

Sixty percent of Montgomery's immigrants settle outside the Beltway. "A good
number of our immigration is going to Potomac," Dedrick said. The county's
consulting firms, high-technology businesses and federal offices are magnets for
skilled immigrants, he said.

Patricia Cortazar is one. She and her husband, both physicians, moved to the
county from Colombia a decade ago, after she won a fellowship at the National
Institutes of Health. They're still here -- he at the Food and Drug
Administration, she in an oncology training program. They live in Rockville with
their four daughters. "There are wonderful opportunities," Cortazar said. "This
is kind of an international place where you have scientists from all over the
world."

The new growth patterns in Montgomery and Fairfax, where development was a hot
political issue in the 1980s, resemble those of other inner suburbs that have
depended on immigration to fuel growth for years.

During the 1980s, foreign-born residents accounted for 80 percent of the
population growth in Arlington and Alexandria, according to demographer Kenneth
Billingsley, of the Northern Virginia Planning District Commission.

And Prince George's County -- despite attracting tens of thousands of residents
from the District -- also saw more residents leave for other U.S. communities
than move in during the 1980s, a trend that has continued. The leading
destinations for Prince George's residents are other local suburbs -- Anne
Arundel, Howard and Montgomery counties and Southern Maryland, according to
Internal Revenue Service data compiled by the Maryland Office of Planning.

Those same data show that the most popular place to go from Montgomery is
Frederick County, where yesterday's farmland is today's newly landscaped town
house. Other top destinations are Howard, Carroll and Anne Arundel counties.

For people leaving Fairfax County, the No. 1 destination is Prince William
County, according to IRS figures. Fairfax also is the top source of new
residents for Loudoun County, where more than 20,000 new residents have moved in
since 1990.

For some, the outer suburbs aren't far enough. Lawyer Mary Flood left Silver
Spring for Houston last year because she was fed up with life in a "town of
people trying to get on an A-list." Not only is Texas more relaxed, but it's
less expensive to live well, she said.

"I went from one bedroom to two bedrooms," she said. "I went from not enough
light, to being able to grow orchids. I moved to the nice part of Houston, like
an apartment on Foxhall [Road]. . . . And parking is four dollars a day here,
downtown. Yikes!"

@CAPTION: POPULATION SHIFTS IN THE WASHINGTON AREA (This chart is not available)


LOAD-DATE: February 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: TWP

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              320 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 05, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. Policy Changed With Guantanamo Safe Havens; Providing Haitian Refugees
Temporary Shelter Offered Protection Without Promise of Permanent Resettlement

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 1150 words


Now that all but a handful of Haitians have left the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, administration officials and immigration experts agree
that the solution to this refugee crisis marked an important change in U.S.
policy for at least one reason: It was temporary.

In the past, U.S. leaders usually had to choose between two unattractive
alternatives when faced with a swarm of people seeking shelter from political
harm. The government could either welcome them all into the country forever or
coldly turn them all away.

In response to the exodus of Haitian boat people last summer, Clinton
administration officials devised a new set of legal principles and policy
concepts for a "safe haven" alternative that allowed the United States to offer
protection to a large number of people -- but only for as long as they needed
it.

More than 20,000 Haitians ended up at the tent city in Guantanamo last summer,
and about 16,000 voluntarily returned home after the U.S. military intervention
returned Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power in October. Almost
all of the remaining 4,000 were forcibly returned to Haiti in January in a
controversial ending for the program.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees publicly criticized the
administration for conducting "cursory" screening of the Haitians who did not
want to go home, and the U.N. office complained that the internationally
accepted standards for determining refugee status had not been observed.

"Our interviewers were instructed to go beyond the international standard in
deciding who we still needed to protect," said Alex Aleinikoff, general counsel
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).

Some 82 Haitians have been allowed to remain at Guantanamo pending further
review of their cases. They include women who were gang-raped by paramilitary
thugs and people who witnessed the murder or torture of relatives, Aleinikoff
said.

"Overall, I think many people see safe haven as a laudable achievement despite
some concerns about how it was ended," said Peter H. Schuck, a professor at Yale
Law School. "Temporary protection and repatriation to safe conditions is always
the best solution to a refugee crisis."

Administration officials are confident that for the first time they have a model
for just such an operation.

"We are moving toward a law of safe haven that sets a very low standard for
people coming in and protects them until conditions change and even then ensures
that people are not returned to face harm," Aleinikoff said.

Now the question is whether the safe haven solution can ever be duplicated.

"Every situation is unique, but when we face another crisis in the future, safe
haven will be immediately considered as an option," INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner said.

And another crisis seems inevitable. Political turmoil somewhere in Mexico,
Central America or the Caribbean readily could produce an outpouring of people.

"The administration deserves credit for finding a new way of dealing with this
kind of episode because there will be more of them," said David A. Martin, an
expert on refugee policy at the University of Virginia Law School. "The problem
is there may not be many other episodes that lend themselves to this approach.
The key is knowing that you are dealing with a short-term situation."

Safe haven for the Haitians proved to be short only because the United States
used its armed forces to end the cause of the exodus. If there had been no
intervention, an even greater number of Haitians might still be at Guantanamo.

"In Haiti, a solution was on the horizon from the time the safe haven program
started," Martin said. "Cuba shows you what happens when there is no certainty
of a solution."

Within weeks of setting up the safe haven camp for Haitians at Guantanamo last
summer, the administration decided it would send the growing number of Cuban
rafters there under similar legal circumstances. Like the Haitians, the Cubans
were told they would have no chance to seek admission to the United States from
Guantanamo.

But the administration has no publicly stated commitment to changing the
political situation in Cuba as it did in Haiti. About 30,000 Cubans have spent
nearly five months in the camps at Guantanamo and in Panama with no end in
sight.

"Safe haven becomes indefinite detention if there is no plan to deal with the
causes of their flight, and, as with the Cubans, that can become an explosive
situation," said Harold Koh, a professor at Yale Law School.

Both the Cuban and Haitian crises last summer presented the Clinton
administration with similar domestic political problems that propelled the
search for a new policy that would not involve a highly visible surge of new
immigrants.

"A major problem with permanent resettlement of refugees during a crisis is that
you run the risk of being overwhelmed and losing your public support, and then
you are forced to shut down the operation entirely," Meissner said.

Safe haven, Aleinikoff said, "is a move from resettlement to rescue," offering
protection to more people than would have been possible with permanent
resettlement.

It was a change that has been developing over time, Meissner noted. "By
tradition, we are a nation of permanent resettlement, but in practice we have
become a nation of first asylum," she said. Instead of identifying fugitives
from tyranny far away, the United States now faces a constant flow of people
arriving at its shores or borders seeking sanctuary.

The process of screening refugees for permanent resettlement proved an
"inappropriate tool" for the flows that have come northward from Central America
and Haiti in recent years, Meissner said, adding, "In a changing world, you need
new models."

In 1990 Congress created a new model by allowing illegal immigrants from El
Salvador to remain here under temporary protected status until the war in their
homeland ended. But the measure was extended repeatedly even after the fighting
stopped. Even when the Clinton administration formally ended the program at the
start of this year, it acknowledged that those who stayed on would not be
forcibly removed.

The safe haven concept avoids some of those problems because the havens are
outside the United States and beyond the jurisdiction of American courts with
their lengthy appeal processes. But that also poses a major limitation.

"This idea would work best if other nations in the region permitted substantial
safe haven establishments on their territory," said Schuck of Yale University.

Despite extensive diplomatic efforts, however, the United States was unable to
win commitments from any of its neighbors to establish large safe haven camps.
Panama was the only exception in agreeing to take up to 10,000 Cubans, but it
put a six-month limit on its welcome.

@CAPTION: DORIS MEISSNER


LOAD-DATE: February 05, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              321 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  February 15, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Forty Cubans Reach Florida's West Coast

SECTION: A Section; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 201 words


Forty Cuban refugees swam ashore to a west Florida beach and were headed for a
detention center in Miami yesterday, while U.S. officials decided what to do
with 17 others being held aboard a Coast Guard cutter after they were plucked
from a boat a half-mile off the coast.

One other Cuban, suffering from exposure, was being held overnight in a Venice,
Fla., hospital, said Cpl. Mike Bessette of the Sarasota County Sheriff's
Department.

The landing at Manasota Key 20 miles south of Sarasota on Florida's west coast,
rather than in the Keys or in the Miami area, was a rarity.

Immigration officials said the migrants paid smugglers to bring them to the
United States from a refugee camp in the Cayman Islands south of Cuba. They left
Grand Cayman on Friday in two powerboats, officials said.

On the way to the United States, the Cubans told U.S. Border Patrol agents, one
of the powerboats sank and the other developed mechanical problems. The Cubans
said that the group abandoned the boat and climbed into a smaller boat and a
raft that were being towed.

The 58 men, women and children represent the largest number of Cubans to seek
asylum since the refugee crisis of last summer.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              322 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 24, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

INS Delays Date For Exchanging Green Cards

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 193 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is extending its deadline until
March 20, 1996, for legal permanent residents to replace permanent residence
cards issued before 1979 with new, counterfeit-resistant models, an INS
spokesman said.

The cards, commonly known as green cards, allow legal permanent residents to
live and work in the United States indefinitely. The INS had previously set
Monday as the deadline.

But of the estimated 1.5 million legal permanent residents in the country who
needed to replace their green cards, only about 500,000 had done so by late last
week, said spokesman Rudy Bre wington.

Many INS offices across the country, including in the Washington area, have been
swamped by permanent residents applying to replace their cards at the last
minute.

"If you were to apply today, it might take up to six or eight months to get your
new card," Brewington said.

The INS will continue to honor the old cards until March 20, 1996, to avoid
confusion over employment rights, entitlement benefits and eligibility for
reentry into the United States.

The new cards bear the holder's photograph and fingerprints.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              323 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 02, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

TEACHING AMERICA'S NEWCOMERS; Cracks in the Melting Pot

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. R01

LENGTH: 1593 words


WHILE the country debates such matters as whether various public services and
benefits, among them education, should be limited to legal immigrants, the flow
of immigrants into the United States continues at about a million a year
(four-fifths of them legal), with an awesome impact on schools in the major
cities to which immigrants flow. Consider that the 1990 census reports that 73
percent of Miamians, 50 percent of Los Angelenos, 41 percent of New Yorkers, 30
percent of Chicagoans and Houstonians, do not speak English at home. Many of
their children will enter schools without an adequate knowledge of English. The
schools will not only have to deal with additional numbers, but with children
who know little or no English.

One authority has asserted that Dade County, Florida, should be building a
school a week to accommodate the immigrant inflow. Another asserts that to keep
up with the increase in high school graduates, largely driven by the immigrant
inflow, California should be building one new community college a week! It is
understandable that California, which absorbed 44 percent of all United States
immigrants in the 1980's, and with one-third of its population not speaking
English at home, should have been the first state to pass a proposition
restricting education benefits to illegal immigrants. But even if Proposition
187 passes a test of constitutionality, it will not do much to reduce the number
of children immigration is adding to schools. The Constitution guarantees that
any child born in the United States is a citizen.

But haven't we been through all this before? The schools of New York City, which
I attended in the 1930s, were almost entirely filled with the children of
immigrants, and so were the schools of many other large Northeastern cities.
Those children, and their children, now make up a good part of the American
population, and are not less successful, by any measure, whether of education or
income or prominence, than other Americans. What is different now, if anything?

One thing that is different is that 85 percent or more of the new immigrants are
not Europeans, or are, as we judge these things in the United States,
"minorities." They are Asian, or Hispanic, or black. Are they any more
"minority" than were the Italians, Jews, Poles, Greeks of the earlier mass
European immigration? Indeed they are, in two senses. First, they are different
in the eyes of white Americans, who look upon non-white Americans (among which
they include many Mexican and other Hispanic Americans) as different from the
normative "American," despite the efforts of college catalogs and public service
advertisements to present a rainbow image of America. New black immigrants do
face discrimination, just as our native black minority does. (Caribbean, Haitian
and Spanish-speaking immigrants all think it probably helps them to distinguish
themselves from native African Americans.) Asian immigrants are the
best-educated of the immigrant groups, often the best students in school. But
they still sense their "minority" status. Third-generation Asians will report,
with anger, annoyance or resignation, that they are often asked, "and when did
you come to this country?" The assumption behind the question is that Asians are
not quite Americans, even if they have been here as many generations as other
Americans.

But second, the new immigrants are "minority" in law and regulation, which
entangles them in the whole gamut of requirements we have built up in education
to assist minorities. They have a right to "bilingual education," which in
practice means education in their own language, often from teachers of their own
native group (who else would know the language as well?). They may have been
required to take bilingual classes whether they want to or not. They get
entangled in desegregation requirements, devised to deal with our own native
minority, blacks. So Chinese parents are now suing the school system in San
Francisco: They want to send their children to the nearby school but they can't
because a court order, part of the effort to desegregate blacks, also limits the
number of Chinese (and eight other racial-ethnic groups) that may be allowed in
any one school.

Ironically, the measures we have developed to aid our own native minorities
(leaving aside the question of whether they have really helped or not) may make
schooling less effective for new immigrants. But in addition, big-city schools
are in deep trouble, politically and educationally. New York City and other
big-city school superintendents used to serve until retirement or death. They
are now lucky if they last three years, and each new appointment means a
struggle over whether the new leader should be black, Hispanic or neither. We
seem to have enormous difficulties in building new schools, maintaining old
schools, getting teachers of good quality, getting them to stay in big-city
schools, and getting as much money for big-city schools as we normally seem to
find for suburban schools.

Further, our demands on schools, whether for minorities or for immigrants or for
children who are neither, are now greater. We do not tolerate the large classes
in which earlier immigrants were taught. We do not expect their parents to
provide them with lunch. We expect the students to go further in school, at
least through high school, and we know that they will not be effective in the
labor market if they do not.

Despite all this, immigrants are not the worst-off students in American schools:
On the whole, they do better than native African-Americans. We are all familiar
with the newspaper stories about Vietnamese or Korean or Chinese valedictorians
and science-prizewinners, some of whom may have known no English just a few
years before. Asians in general (the great majority of Asians are immigrants or
children of immigrants) do as well as American-born children on Scholastic
Achievement verbal tests, better on mathematics tests, and enroll in selective
colleges at a rate far above their percentage in the population. So immigrants
provide many good students for American schools as well as problems. In one key
area of higher education, mathematics and science, we depend heavily on visiting
foreign graduate students, many of whom stay after completing their studies and
thus become immigrants.

Hispanic immigrants, among whom the largest group is Mexican, do poorly on
average. But not all groups of Asians do well, and not all groups of Hispanics
do poorly. Language difficulties seem to weigh more heavily on Hispanics than
Asians, though one would think that speakers of languages distant from English,
such as Asian languages, should have more problems than speakers of Spanish. One
reason Hispanics do poorly is that they come with lower levels of educational
achievement, and fewer of them have professional or college education. The
influence of parental background on educational achievement is great, and it is
understandable that children from groups where parents have had more education
will do better.

Of course children who come to school speaking little or no English need special
help, but it is unfortunate that the question of how to provide this special
help has become embroiled in political and ethnic conflicts. More education in
children's native tongues means fewer jobs for teachers who don't know the
language, and more for teachers and administrators who know the language
natively. Who gets the jobs may weigh more heavily on decisions over bilingual
education than the judgement of the value of this education.

The content of bilingual education also has become a subject of conflict. Should
Mexican immigrant children be taught Mexican history, instructed in Mexican
culture? Should the children from scores of other countries be taught about the
culture of their parents' homelands? At a time of wide discontent over the
quality of American schooling, teaching immigrant children about their native
cultures seems to many an unnecessary burden on schools, and perhaps harmful to
American unity. American schools were once unabashedly assimilationist. They
wanted to make loyal Americans, and thought one way of doing this was to glorify
American history and heroes. Perhaps many American schools still do this, but
the conflicts over bilingual education and multiculturalism show that the older
approach to teaching immigrant children is not popular now among educators. Most
of them seem to believe a "multicultural" approach is truer to history, and
better for the students, immigrant or native.

Americans have been discontented with their schools, in particular big-city
schools, for decades. The reform movement that was launched by the report of
1983, "A Nation at Risk," was not inspired by problems with immigrant children,
but by this general discontent. The growing number of immigrant children are
unfortunately coming into schools over whose directions there is a great deal of
conflict and with which many parents are already unhappy. The big-city schools
will need all the help they can get in dealing with the new waves of immigrant
children, because we no longer approach this task with single-mindedness about
what education should achieve, or with any great confidence in our schools. This
is one reason schools are having a harder time with the present immigrant waves
than they had with earlier ones.

Nathan Glazer is professor of education and sociology emeritus, Harvard
University, and co-editor of the Public Interest.


LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, gary viskupic for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              324 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 12, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cuba Warns of Refugees If Embargo Is Tightened

Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 890 words


Cuba is threatening to unleash another exodus of sea-borne refugees if Congress
enacts legislation toughening the three-decade-old ban on trade with the
Communist-ruled island, administration officials said yesterday.

The veiled warning puts Cuban President Fidel Castro up against an old-time
nemesis, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Jesse Helms (R-N.C.). Helms
has proposed legislation to tighten the embargo against Cuba by punishing
companies abroad that do business with the country.

Cuba has told the State Department, through diplomatic channels, that a refugee
outflow would be "difficult to control" if the measure were passed, an
administration official said. Cuba warned it would not be able to live up to its
promise, negotiated last autumn, to prevent refugees from heading for the United
States in makeshift rafts and other vessels across the Florida Straits, the
official said.

Castro's government pledged to rein in migration after President Clinton agreed
to guarantee Cubans 20,000 immigration visas yearly to soak up the demand of
disgruntled citizens to leave the island. The tit-for-tat deal was worked out
after 32,000 raft and boat people fled Cuba for the United States during a
dramatic exodus last summer; about 22,000 of them remain in detention at the
U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  The Castro government argues that the
trade embargo stimulates Cubans to leave the island, and therefore the United
States is to blame for periodic upsurges in efforts to flee. In the past, Havana
has telegraphed its intention to relax coastal controls by announcing that
pressure is building beyond its capacity to detain and arrest would-be refugees.
Talks between Cuba and the United States on migration issues are scheduled to
convene in New York next week. Cuba asked for the talks to be held more than a
month early to make the point about "dire consequences" that would result from
any toughening of the commercial bans, an administration official said.  "Our
best guess, is that the Cubans will want to establish they are reliable partners
in the migration agreement, and at the same time, lay down a marker that if the
trade ban is toughened, they will find it difficult to live up to commitments,"
the official said.

Helms's proposal has not yet been formally introduced in Congress but has
sponsors in the House as well as the Senate. It is meant to undermine Cuba's
drive to attract foreign investment to help pull the economy out of a deep
tailspin. Cuba's economy all but collapsed following the demise in 1991 of its
patron and subsidizer, the Soviet Union.

Helms also brandished the measure to deter Clinton from approving a recent
recommendation from top foreign policy advisers that he ease bans imposed last
August on travel and cash transfers to Cuba. Clinton has let the recommendation
languish.

"The Cuban argument is that, if the Helms measure passes, migration would be
nearly impossible to control," an administration official said.  A State
Department official said that the U.S. representative to next week's talks,
Cuban Affairs Director Dennis Hays, will not discuss the issue of the embargo.
Rather, he will stick to narrow migration issues, including the repatriation to
Cuba of refugees at Guantanamo, the flow of legal migration, and the return of
Cuban convicts from the United States to Cuba.

Quietly, the Clinton Administration has been doing something it vehemently
pledged it would never do: permit Cuban families interned at the Guantanamo Bay
naval base to enter the United States as refugees. The decision has resulted in
the arrival of about 8,800 parents and children to American shores since
December, with another 2,000 to 4,000 likely to be given refuge in the United
States during the coming weeks, a State Department official said.

In December, the Justice Department announced that families could be admitted
for reasons of "extraordinary hardship," but officials made the point that just
being detained in Guantanamo did not meet that definition. The hardship
exceptions represented a retreat from Attorney General Janet Reno's pledge that
none of the Cubans would ever be let in.  Since then, the attitude softened
further, with the State Department pressing that families be admitted on
humanitarian grounds.

When the remaining families are ferried to the United States, Guantanamo will
still house between 18,000 and 20,000 of the original 32,000 Cubans who fled the
island, mostly single males. Some officials believe that segregated community
will be explosive. "This will be a very tough crowd to maintain discipline
with," a State Department official warned.

About 950 Cubans have sneaked back into Cuba across the barriers surrounding the
base, with another 504 having chosen voluntarily to return with permission from
the Cuban government. Some 121 refugees have been given asylum in other
countries, including Spain and Venezuela.  In the meantime, a lottery to fulfill
the 20,000 annual visa quota was completed in Havana, with 180,000 Cubans vying
for 7,000 slots available after previous applications were fulfilled. The United
States is directing the new refugees to leave through Mexico in order to evade a
surcharge placed on them by Cuban government tour operators to go directly to
Miami.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              325 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 15, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Agent Shoots Cuban Fugitive

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 207 words


A Cuban man who had escaped from federal custody in a Mississippi jail was shot
and wounded in Northwest Washington yesterday by an agent of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, police reported.

A spokesman for the INS said the shooting occurred as agents from the agency's
Baltimore district were trying to arrest the man, identified as Damian
Vasquez-Torres, 39, in the 1400 block of Chapin Street NW.

Vasquez-Torres was wounded in the torso.

He was being treated at Howard University Hospital.

Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman, said Vasquez-Torres escaped with three other
men April 2 from the Hancock County jail in Bay St. Louis, Miss. The others were
soon apprehended.

Vasquez-Torres, who was being held in Mississippi pending deportation, had
entered the United States in the 1980 Mariel boatlift and had a long list of
convictions in the United States, including battery on a police office and drug
convictions, Bergeron said.

Bergeron said the INS investigation led to a house in the 1400 block of Chapin
Street NW.

When agents arrived, Vasquez-Torres fled in a car and was wounded when he tried
to run over an agent, Bergeron said.

The incident is under investigation by the INS and D.C. police.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              326 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 20, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Progress Reported As U.S., Cuba End Immigration Talks

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 222 words


U.S. and Cuban negotiators ended two days of talks in New York yesterday, making
progress on immigration issues despite Cuban concerns over calls for a tougher
economic embargo against Havana, a U.S. official said.

The talks were the third round of negotiations since an agreement between the
two nations in September halted an exodus of 35,000 boat people heading toward
the United States.

"The accord we signed last September is working," said Dennis Hays, head of the
U.S. delegation, after the talks concluded. "We both expressed commitment to
maintain it, to continue it so that it works."

During the meetings, the head of the Cuban delegation, Parliamentary President
and former foreign minister Ricardo Alarcon, mentioned recent Republican
proposals for a tougher economic embargo that Cuba officials said could spur
more people to leave illegally for the United States, Hays said.

In a separate development, a man accused by Cuban President Fidel Castro of
hijacking a government boat and killing a naval officer was granted political
asylum in the United States.

Leonel Macias Gonzalez, 19, was released Monday from a detention center after an
Immigration and Naturalization Service appeals board ruled in his favor. Macias
had been granted political asylum in February, but the government appealed.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              327 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 03, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cuban Americans Decry U.S. Decision to Turn Back Future Boat People

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 564 words


The Clinton administration's decision to return to Cuba any future rafters
fleeing the island has enraged influential Cuban American exiles here, who
compared the historic change in policy to an act of betrayal.

Yet many others including Florida's Democratic governor supported the move,
saying it will save the state from an onslaught of desperate and needy boat
people.

The reactions underscore the seemingly schizophrenic politics of the Cuban
refugee situation here: Even the exile community has contradictory views.

Many of the Cuban exiles do not want to see another mass exodus of their
countrymen to Miami, feeling that the area already is overcrowded with new
arrivals.

Nor do they want the Cubans detained in the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay.

Nor do they want them returned to Cuba.

In a major, two-pronged decision, the administration said it will allow into the
United States most of the 21,000 exiles now at Guantanamo Bay, but will forcibly
repatriate to Cuba anybody setting out for Florida in makeshift vessels as
thousands did last summer.

The latter decision, which completes a reversal begun last summer of more than
35 years of preferential treatment for Cuban refugees, was decried by exile
leaders.

"We feel as if the rug has been pulled from under us," said Jorge Mas Canosa,
leader of the Cuban American National Foundation, a lobbying group that has been
instrumental in U.S. policy toward Cuba for the last decade.

"This is a black day for the Cuban people, the worst day for the Cuban people,"
said Rebecca Cobo, a leader of the Key West Cuban refugee center, which has been
processing boat people.

Other Cuban exiles here said they suspected a new surge in smuggling efforts.
The leader of a group of volunteer pilots who fly over the Florida Straits
searching for rafters wondered aloud how he could inform the U.S. Coast Guard of
their locations -- if the result was only that they were going to be returned to
Cuba.

The rafters will be stopped at sea by the U.S. Coast Guard, which last summer
occasionally played cat-and-mouse with Cuban gun boats.

"We're dusting off our charts of the Havana harbor," said Lt. Cmdr. Jim Howe of
the U.S. Coast Guard. Howe said details of how the rafters will be returned are
being worked out.

Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles (D), whose aides say he was only briefed Monday night
on the new policy, supported the forced repatriations.

"This new policy announcement is a further indication of Washington's
responsiveness to Florida's concerns and needs," Chiles said.

Many Floridans constantly tell pollsters that they feel the state is overrun
with immigrants.

For years, the U.S. government made heroes of rafters fleeing the Castro regime,
who came to America for both economic opportunity and political freedom. U.S.
officials had repeatedly stated that they could not return Cuban refugees for
fear of persecution.

The administration said the Cuban government has given assurances that those
returned will not be punished. But Mas Canosa said he considers that promisee
"totally worthless."

The Cuban exile lobby went further, stating that it was withdrawing its promise
to help sponsor and support Cuban refugees released from Guantanamo. Speaking of
the federal government, Mas Canosa said, "Let them pay for their own actions.
They will have to foot the bill."

LOAD-DATE: May 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              328 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 05, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

The Cuban-Immigration Accord

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 381 words


IS IT RIGHT to join Fidel Castro in a new immigration scheme that stops
welcoming Cuban rafters as anti-Communists and instead treats them as illegal
aliens? Cuba is, after all, still Communist-run and still a police state. The
risks are diminished, however, by the opening of a 20,000-a-year quota for legal
Cuban immigrants, by recommitting the U.S. government to a policy of safe, legal
and orderly immigration and by mooting the high physical peril of illegal
escape. Florida's feeling of being swamped also had to be weighed.

What about those who, undeterred by the certainty of being sent back, take to
the sea, avoid the Cuban net but are caught in the American net? The numbers are
expected to be small, but their fate touches the moral quick. The U.S.
government intends by shipboard screening to protect those whose lives might be
in jeopardy. The others will be met at the Havana dock by American diplomats and
accorded normal immigration processing.

Will Cuba respect its assurances to let these procedures unfold? It badly wants
that 20,000 safety valve, and its fidelity to its word is on the line. Its good
faith has been under test since the foundation agreement on emigration was
signed last September. Of the 20,000-plus rafters the United States had parked
in highly volatile limbo at its base at Guantanamo, 995 have jumped the fence or
otherwise returned to Cuba on their own, and another 530 went back through
official channels. U.S. officials and contacts have monitored both sets.
Washington finds no evidence they have been persecuted.

President Clinton, to disabuse Cubans of the idea they could raft past American
immigration barriers, had barred the Guantanamo 20,000. Now, having repackaged
the Cuban immigration issue, he's allowing a one-time entry of the 15,000
eligibles. "Undesirables" go back to Cuba, like it or not.

The United States is shifting from a Cold War policy to a less generous but
sustainable policy of control and still-considerable openness. Fidel Castro is
yielding the "Mariel option" -- the threat of flooding Florida with prisoners
and the like -- and otherwise dealing pragmatically. Still, his whole
performance, especially his pledge not to punish Cubans repatriated against
their will, needs close scrutiny.

LOAD-DATE: May 05, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              329 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 07, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

Bride's Appeal Fulfills Wedding Dream of Family Reunion 9500000669:

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 660 words


Lynne Powell could not understand the telephone operator speaking in Spanish
last week, but she knew it must be important and passed the phone to her fiance,
Efrain Vargas. He immediately became concerned that something was terribly
wrong.

Vargas had not seen his family since leaving El Salvador 11 years ago, and his
parents had never called collect. But soon Vargas was smiling, broadly. His
parents had done the impossible -- secured tourist visas only eight days before
the couple's wedding.

Powell's letter to U.S. Embassy officials in San Salvador had worked. She wrote
that her father had died two years ago in a plane crash and that she wanted her
fiance's father to walk her down the aisle. Last night at United Potomac
Methodist Church, with her uncle on one side and Salvador Vargas on the other,
that's exactly what was scheduled to happen.

"When they saw the letter, they said it was okay," Salvador Vargas said in
Spanish. "This is like a dream. I never expected to be here."

Since the family's reunion at Dulles International Airport late Tuesday night,
it's been a whirlwind of dinners, shopping, preparations and late-night
conversations. There's a lot to catch up on after 11 years apart. The family's
home town of Ilobasco, about 40 miles northeast of San Salvador, has nicer
streets and more houses now. Efrain's sister is pregnant. Many neighbors and old
friends have died or married.

Efrain Vargas is just one of thousands of Salvadorans in the Washington area who
have been separated from family for years. Many Salvadoran immigrants arrived
illegally during their country's bitter civil war and stayed here under
temporary protected status. They have not gone home out of fear that they might
not be able to return to the United States.

Vargas entered the United States under cover of darkness, walking several hours
across the desert near San Diego. He joined three brothers in Washington,
learned English and now works as a foreman at a Potomac sprinkler system
company. He also serves on an advisory board to the Rosemary Hills Community
School in Silver Spring, where he earned his general equivalency diploma. His
marriage to Powell makes him eligible for permanent residency or citizenship.

Powell, who works as an administrative assistant for Lerner Corp., met Vargas
when she was dating his roommate. The two ended up watching an episode of the "X
Files" together in September. He kissed her. The rest, as Powell puts it, is
history.

The couple decided they wanted a big church wedding with all the trimmings. It
would be complete only with family.

Paul Fitzgerald, a U.S. consul in El Salvador, said in a telephone interview
that Powell's letter was very persuasive. Many visa applicants either cannot
explain their story clearly or cannot prove they will return, he said.

"People often come to us with emotional stories, sometimes situations where
medical care is very important or situations like this," Fitzgerald said. "We do
try to be helpful."

Fitzgerald stressed that the visas were issued under immigration guidelines. "I
wouldn't want anyone to think that we issued a visa because we got caught up in
sentimentality or emotion," he said.

Salvador and Maria Vargas will visit the White House, Washington National
Cathedral and a farm in Pennsylvania while they're in the country.

Salvador Vargas was fitted for a tuxedo for the wedding, and Maria Echeverria de
Vargas found just the right dress at Hecht's department store.

She also spent yesterday at the Noelle Day Spa in Bethesda, getting her hair
done. After about an hour under the hair dryer, a few touches with the curling
iron and a comb-out, the mother of the groom stared at her reflection, offering
up a tentative smile.

"I feel different," she said in Spanish. "It takes off a few years. This is like
a story."

She walked over to show off her new hairdo to her soon-to-be daughter-in-law,
and the two hugged.


LOAD-DATE: May 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Maria Echeverria de Vargas, left, holds the bridal
veil of future daughter-in-law Lynne Powell as Nicolas Molina fixes her
headpiece.  Hairstylist Nicolas Molina gets a kiss from Lynne Powell at the
Noelle Day Spa as Powell prepares for her wedding.  The bride, right, chats with
her future mother-in-law, Maria Echeverria de Vargas, of El Salvador.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              330 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 10, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

13 Refugees Returned as Policy Shifts; Cuban Americans Protest in Florida

Anne Day, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 934 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 9


The Clinton administration today began implementing its policy of forcibly
returning to Cuba refugees fleeing the island by sea, setting off small protests
among the Cuban American community here.

The U.S. Coast Guard cutter Durable at noon returned 13 Cuban men to a remote
dock about 40 miles west of Havana at Bahia de Cabanas. The men had been picked
up Thursday by the cruise ship Majesty of the Seas, which found them floating in
two small wooden boats south of Little Cayman Islands.

The 13 Cubans were met on shore by U.S. Interests Section Consul Sandra Salmon
and Vice Consul Ted O'Connor, and by Communist Party ideology department head
Rolando Alfonso, Reuter reported. It appeared to be the first time in decades
that a U.S. official vessel had docked in the communist-ruled island.

The repatriation marked the start of enforcement of a new U.S. policy, announced
May 2, under which for the first time in 35 years Cubans setting off for Florida
in rafts and other makeshift vessels will be forcibly returned to Cuba. All
Cubans seeking to come to the United States now have to apply at the U.S.
Interests Section in Havana.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials advised the 13 about procedures
for applying in Cuba, and told them the Cuban government "had made a commitment
to the United States that there would be no reprisals against the refugees," INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron said.

"None of them indicated any need for protection that could not be satisfied by
the U.S. Interests Section in Havana," so the 13 were not formally interviewed
about whether they qualified for political asylum, he said. According to
administration guidelines, political asylum can be granted only to refugees who
have a "genuine fear" for their safety and can demonstrate a need for American
protection.

Reaction among Cuban immigrants in Miami was angry.

"These are innocent refugees. They are being returned to a dangerous situation.
Under whose guarantee will they be protected? The guarantee of the same
government that was denounced by the United States as a violator of human
rights?" asked Pepe Hernandez, president of the Cuban American National
Foundation. "How can the Clinton administration guarantee that the lives of
these 13 men will be safeguarded by the same government that only eight months
ago sank a tugboat killing 60 people including 20 children?"

A lunch-hour protest on the steps of the Dade County courthouse was punctuated
by anti-Clinton and anti-Castro speeches, honking car horns, Cuban flag-waving
and singing of the Cuban national anthem, the Associated Press reported.

A Cuban-born congressman, Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), was arrested during
a protest outside the White House. "An agreement with Castro to punish innocent
refugees . . . is unconscionable, morally repugnant and must be systematically
denounced and condemned," Diaz-Balart said in a statement.

On Monday, Cuban exiles parked their cars across 10 lanes of traffic, blocking
the tollbooths on a heavily traveled road and causing a huge midday traffic jam
for more than half an hour. Fernando Rojas, spokesperson for the Cuban American
National Foundation, said, "This is just a sign of things to come; you have only
seen the tip of the iceberg here."

On Sunday, several hundred Cuban American protesters attempted to block, with
their bodies, the entrance to the Port of Miami. Although several arrests were
made, there was no violence.

The 13 men who were returned to Cuba were reported to be in good condition.

They were taken aboard the U.S. cutter Northland on Friday. Then, while the
Cuban border guard and a U.S. Coast Guard officer sent to Havana on Friday
coordinated the logistics of repatriating the men, they were transferred to the
Durable on Sunday morning.

State Department spokeswoman Christine D. Shelly said in Washington that an INS
asylum officer had spoken with the rafters on three separate occasions. She said
there were two group sessions, but on the third occasion, the representative met
individually with each of the rafters.

Shelly added that the findings of "the trained INS asylum officer aboard the
ship" were reviewed by the INS and other agencies, which determined that the 13
were not eligible for asylum. "Everybody wanted to be scrupulous that their
rights were respected," she added.

Bergeron said that under the new procedures, an INS official will be made
available to Cubans intercepted at sea to advise them of the asylum application
process.

Under guidelines provided for the INS from the Justice Department, no person who
is found at sea will be granted an interview about political asylum before
repatriation "unless he claims a genuine need for protection which can't be
satisfied by the consular office in Havana," he said. Bergeron said this genuine
need for protection would have to include "a threat of bodily harm, or an
allegation that their right to file for refugee status would be hindered in
Cuba."

Although for many years, Cubans intercepted at sea have been brought by the
Coast Guard to Miami, Bergeron said, "That was a discretionary practice. It was
not statutory; there was never a law that stated that Cubans found at sea should
be brought to the United States."

"The Cubans are now receiving the same treatment under the law as individuals of
any other nationality receive. Up until now, the law has not been prejudicial
against other nationalities; it was prejudicial in favor of Cubans," Bergeron
said.

Staff writer Michael Dobbs in Washington contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, reuter , Three Cuban refugees, right, are escorted on Cuban
shore from a U.S. Coast Guard ship after they were picked up at sea.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              331 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 13, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Haitian Paramilitary Leader Arrested by INS in New York

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 392 words


Emmanuel "Toto" Constant, leader of the paramilitary group that allegedly used
murder and terror to support Haiti's military rulers before the U.S.
intervention last September, has been arrested in New York and is being held for
deportation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday.

He was apprehended by INS agents Wednesday evening in the Springfield Gardens
section of Queens, where he had been secretly living, Rudolph Brewington, an INS
spokesman said.

He now is being detained without bond at an INS holding facility in Wicomico on
Maryland's Eastern Shore.

Constant founded the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti (FRAPH), a
group of gunmen and strong-arm toughs that was blamed by human rights groups for
killing hundreds of Haitians after the military seized power from civilian
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in September 1991.

The Aristide government, now restored to office, wants him on murder charges,
but he managed to get to this country last December and dropped from sight.

His departure from Haiti caused a brief flurry of speculation about possible
American complicity because of earlier media reports that he had been paid by
the CIA to provide information to U.S. intelligence officers while FRAPH was
pursuing its terror campaign against Aristide supporters.

Some U.S. government sources said these reports were true and added that the CIA
dropped Constant in the spring of 1994 after deciding he no longer was
trustworthy. But, then-CIA Director R. James Woolsey and other top intelligence
officials denied the United States had ever funded or worked with FRAPH.

The denials, however, did not address the question of ties to Constant.

Constant entered U.S. territory at San Juan, Puerto Rico, last Dec. 24 on a
valid visitor's visa issued to him in 1991.

The Haitian government subsequently made a formal request for his extradition,
but U.S. officials said they were unable to locate him after his arrival in
Puerto Rico.

In an interview with The Washington Post last March, Aristide hinted that he
believed the United States was dragging its feet. On March 29, Secretary of
State Warren Christopher revoked Constant's visa on grounds that his presence in
this country "would have potentially serious and adverse foreign policy
consequences for the United States."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              332 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 31, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

For the Record

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; FOR THE RECORD

LENGTH: 302 words


From a discussion on "Think Tank," broadcast on WETA May 27:

Ben Wattenberg: America takes in more immigrants than the rest of the world
combined, but legal immigration is now under serious attack.  An old argument .
. . is surfacing, and it says that the new immigrants are smothering American
culture. . . . These days, immigrants hail less from Europe and more from Asia
and Latin America. . . . [And] if current trends continue . . . , by the year
2050, just over half of America will be so-called Anglos.

Peter Brimelow . . . , you have written that the United States will become "a
freak among nations because of the demographic mutation it is undergoing." . . .

Peter Brimelow: . . . Immigration in the past has never worked without pauses.
There was a 40-year pause in the middle of this century, and that allowed
assimilation to take place. . . . [Of] the last great wave of immigrants . . .
40 percent of them went back . . . basically because they failed in the work
force.  Now we have immigration and the welfare state.  We've never seen the two
together. We have net immigration very high. . . . Only 10 percent of legal
immigrants seem to go back, and the result is that immigrants are
disproportionately on welfare. . . .

Linda Chavez: . . . The demographic argument . . . presumes . . . that Hispanics
are going to continue to marry Hispanics and stay in a separate enclave living
these ethnically separate lives.  In fact, the data show that about a third of
young Hispanics who are born here . . . are marrying non-Hispanic whites; about
half of all of the Asians . . . marry whites. . . . When you cite those numbers
from the year 2050, it presumes that one ounce of Asian or Hispanic blood does
an Asian or Hispanic forever make, and I don't buy that argument.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              333 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 03, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: METRO; Pg.  B07; NEWS IN BRIEF; RELIGION

LENGTH: 490 words


Immigration Bill Opposed

The world ministry boards of the United Church of Christ and the Christian
Church (Disciples of Christ) are opposing a bill, sponsored by Sen. Alan K.
Simpson (R-Wyo.), pictured below, that would cut substantially the number of
immigrants allowed into the United States each year.

"Congress is moving swiftly and severely to curtail its commitment to responding
to the plight of some of the world's most vulnerable refugees," the two church
groups said.

Passage of the legislation, they said, would "signal that we are closing our
doors to refugees and that other countries can, too, leaving refugees without
hope. As churches, we cannot allow this happen."

In a related development, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) World Service
Advisory Committee announced that it has earmarked $ 20,000 to help fight state
and local anti-immigrant ballot measures.

The grants, ranging from $ 2,000 to $ 3,000 each, will go to local church
coalitions that fight ballot initiatives such as Proposition 187 in California.
That measure, which was passed last year and is being challenged in the courts,
denied certain welfare and education benefits to undocumented immigrants.

Groups Back Religion Rights

Sixty religious and secular groups, often at odds on issues such as school
prayer and abortion, have joined to protect a landmark religious-liberty law
that many of them spent three years seeking to enact.

In a brief filed with the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit,
which covers Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi, the Coalition for the Free
Exercise of Religion said U.S. District Judge Lucius Bunton erred in March when
he ruled the two-year-old Religious Freedom Restoration Act unconstitutional.

The coalition includes mainstream groups such as the American Jewish Congress,
the National Council of Churches, the U.S. Catholic Conference and the American
Civil Liberties Union, as well as minority religious bodies such as the American
Muslim Council, the Church of Scientology, the National Sikh Center and the
Native American Church of North America.

The Religious Freedom Restoration Act was crafted to give people latitude in
religious expression.

California Cathedral Closed

Cardinal Roger Mahony has closed the 119-year-old St. Vibiana's Cathedral
because damage from the Northridge, Calif., earthquake left its 83-foot bell
tower in danger of collapsing, the Archdiocese of Los Angeles said.

The cardinal announced in January that St. Vibiana's would be replaced by a $ 45
million cathedral complex. He ordered the old building closed after receiving a
new evaluation of the damage done by the 1994 quake.

The cathedral was completed in 1876 and is modeled after the Church of San
Miguel del Mar in Barcelona. Pope John Paul II stayed there in 1987, and
President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton attended Palm Sunday Mass at St.
Vibiana's two months ago.


LOAD-DATE: June 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo, rick meyer/lat, Cardinal Mahony announces decision to
replace earthquake-damaged cathedral.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              334 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 28, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

A Swell of Fear as Salvadoran Amnesty Wanes; Immigrants Seeking Legal Help to
Handle Rush of Paperwork Before Sept. 30 Deadline

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg.  D01

LENGTH: 1354 words


Five years ago, a farmer in El Salvador named Jaime Orellana, scared and tired
of being whipsawed between the army and the guerrilla rebels, fled illegally to
the United States. Landing in Washington, he applied for political asylum.

"If I refused to cooperate with the guerrillas, they threatened me with death,"
he wrote in his application. "I was afraid the military would find out I was
helping them, and I would be killed or placed in jail. The authorities cannot
protect me."

Orellana never pursued his asylum claim because in 1990 the federal government
offered temporary amnesty to all illegal Salvadorans who applied for it. As time
passed, he settled into life in Silver Spring, rising from dishwasher to manager
at a fast-food restaurant.

Now, like at least 10,000 other Salvadorans in the Washington area and nearly
200,000 across the country, Orellana must dredge up the details of his past and
file new immigration papers if he wants to continue living and working legally
in this country after Sept. 30.

Last week, he was one of hundreds of Salvadorans who sought help at legal aid
offices in Adams-Morgan, bewildered by confusing information about deadlines and
requirements and panicked by Spanish-language media reports warning that they
will be deported in October.  "The situation is still so ugly in El Salvador.
There are gangs of criminals everywhere," said Orellana, 26, clutching a
wrinkled copy of his old asylum claim as he waited Thursday for an appointment
at Ayuda, a legal clinic on Columbia Road NW. "I know they signed a peace
treaty, but no one is safe there yet."

Three blocks away, more than 80 Salvadorans crammed into a meeting at Carecen, a
refugee aid center on Mount Pleasant Street, peppering workers with questions
about where to file their papers, how much to pay a lawyer, what to tell their
bosses and whether they might be separated from their children.  "I have five
children here. How could I ever support them on what I would make back in El
Salvador? How would I support my parents if I couldn't send money home? I would
have to go out and steal," said Maria, 36, as she waited on the steps outside
Carecen with an infant in her arms. She did not want to give her last name.

Over the last five years, temporary amnesty has been extended three times. But
last fall the Clinton administration decided that, with the civil war over in El
Salvador and public concern rising about illegal immigration, there was no
reason to prolong it.  Temporary amnesty officially ended Dec. 31, but to ease
the transition, immigration authorities extended those Salvadorans' work permits
nine months. Technically, any Salvadoran living here under temporary amnesty can
be deported after Sept. 30 unless he or she applies for political asylum and
requests a new work permit by then.

But immigration officials stress that there will be no mass deportations and
that they are sensitive to the plight of people who have put down roots in the
United States. They are urging all Salvadorans with amnesty to apply for asylum
under the settlement terms of a 1990 court case, which was brought to protest
unfair treatment of Central American asylum-seekers.

"There is a true humanitarian concern here. The fear of large-scale or immediate
deportations is not justified," said Dan Kane, a spokesman for the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "But they are deportable if they don't
do their paperwork, and we are encouraging everyone to file as soon as
possible." Many families have waited until the last minute to seek legal help.
Faced with a crush of inquiries as the deadline approaches, agencies such as
Ayuda and Carecen are making no new appointments, and they are looking for
volunteer lawyers who can speak Spanish. Salvadorans who need help and cannot
get clinic appointments must find private lawyers, who often charge $ 500 or
more.

The uncertainty has been compounded by confused or changing information from
immigration authorities. Deadlines for requesting new work permits have been
changed several times, and officials still have not sent notices to Salvadorans
with amnesty saying they have 90 days to apply for asylum. Kane said it still is
not clear when the notices will be sent.

Few Salvadorans who apply for asylum are likely to obtain it, now that the civil
war has ended. But exercising their right to seek asylum under the court
settlement gives them more time in the United States, possibly even several
years, while their claims are decided.  "We tell them if they're hoping for
asylum, forget it, only one in a few hundred will get it," said Anya Sykes, an
immigration lawyer at Ayuda. "All we can promise them is that this will gain
them time and the right to work while waiting for other avenues of immigration."

Eventually, most of those who do not win asylum will be scheduled for
deportation hearings, where they must convince an immigration judge that being
sent back to El Salvador would cause "extreme hardship" for them and their
families.  The decision to suspend deportation permanently is entirely up to the
judge. Immigration courts have ruled that neither poor economic conditions in
the home country nor having children born as citizens in the United States is a
sufficient argument, unless there are other circumstances such as sick or
elderly family members.

But because of the heavy backlog in immigration courts, officials say most
affected Salvadorans will not be called to such hearings for several years. By
that time, many will have been here long enough to become permanent residents.

At the moment, however, Salvadorans, such as Manfredo Lagos, 29, a Falls Church
resident who manages a Vietnamese restaurant, are thinking only about what will
happen in September and what they must do to remain legal after Sept. 30.

"I have worked hard, learned English, become active in my church, and I have
only two years left to wait for my residency. I would rather be sent to China
than back to El Salvador," said Lagos, who came to the United States in 1988.

"My country is not ready for this," he added, waiting outside Carecen in a sport
jacket and tie. "How can people go from a country with computers to one with no
money and no jobs? If you send all these people back now, it would be a disaster
for them and for El Salvador."

SALVADORANS WITH TEMPORARY AMNESTY

*Salvadorans who have temporary amnesty must apply for a new work authorization
permit and political asylum by Sept. 30 to live and work legally in the United
States after that date.

* This applies only to Salvadorans who received temporary amnesty in 1990 under
one of two programs: Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) or Temporary Protected
Status (TPS). It does not apply to Salvadorans who received permanent amnesty
under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.

* Immigration officials urge all affected Salvadorans to seek professional help
because the papers must be sent to several different offices. The following
nonprofit legal agencies offer informational meetings, immigration forms,
preliminaryn Salvadorans who have temporary amnesty must apply for a new work
authorization permit and political asylum by Sept. 30 to live and work legally
in the United States after that date.

* This applies only to Salvadorans who received temporary amnesty in 1990 under
one of two programs: Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) or Temporary Protected
Status (TPS). It does not apply to Salvadorans who received permanent amnesty
under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.

* Immigration officials urge all affected Salvadorans to seek professional help
because the papers must be sent to several different offices. The following
nonprofit legal agencies offer informational meetings, immigration forms,
preliminary consultations and lists of low-cost private lawyers: consultations
and lists of low-cost private lawyers:n

Ayuda, 1736 Columbia Rd. NW. 202-387-4848.

Carecen, 3112 Mount Pleasant St. NW. 202-328-9799.

Washington Lawyers' Committee, 1300 19th St. NW. 202-835-0031.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Above, Manfrado Lagos holds his work permit, which
has a wrong number. At right, Silvia Perez and her daughter, Roxana Lopez,
attend a community workshop about immigration policy at Carecen, a Central
American refugee agency.  Saul Solorzano, director of Carecen, speaks during a
community workshop about recent changes in U.S. immigration policy.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              335 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 22, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

USIA Probes Activist's Role At Radio Marti

Guy Gugliotta, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A01

LENGTH: 1385 words


An investigation by the United States Information Agency into its Radio Marti
broadcasts to Cuba documents pervasive influence by anti-Castro lobbyist Jorge
Mas Canosa in management of the station and in news coverage that deliberately
misrepresented U.S. policy toward the island.

Sources familiar with the investigation said the USIA has found that
interference by Mas Canosa in January led to broadcasts that seriously
undermined U.S. immigration initiatives, embarrassing U.S. officials and causing
several government agencies to protest the coverage.

The sources also said the investigation, begun more than a year ago by the
USIA's Office of the Inspector General, shows that Mas Canosa, president of the
powerful Miami-based Cuban American National Foundation, has been instrumental
in personnel and management decisions at Radio Marti and has arranged reprisals
against employees who defied him.

Mas Canosa did not respond to requests for an interview, but foundation
spokesman Jose Cardenas dismissed the investigation as one of many over the
years, undertaken as part of "an ongoing campaign of political harassment" by
the USIA and its inspector general.

"I think the investigation is the result of a network of people who are not fond
of Mr. Mas Canosa and his political beliefs and activities," Cardenas said. "I
think they are conducting it for political motives."

This view has struck a responsive chord among some members in Congress, led by
Florida Republican Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, who have
asked for a General Accounting Office investigation into what they described in
letters as "the politicization of the U.S. Information Agency's Office of the
Inspector General."

USIA assistant inspector general John Sinclair refused to comment on the request
or to release details of his own investigation. He acknowledged that his office
was "looking into" questions about hiring at Radio Marti, "problems in biased
news coverage" and reprisals against "a senior Radio Marti official."

Sinclair's report on his findings has been anticipated for months and may be
released within the next two weeks, according to sources. A preliminary summary
has been given to several members of Congress and to USIA Director Joseph D.
Duffey. The final report is not expected to present a list of charges, the
sources said, but will document an atmosphere of "cronyism," by which Mas Canosa
ensures that personnel sympathetic to his views control news coverage.

Still, the sources said the investigation could deal a heavy blow to Cuban-born
Mas Canosa, who arrived in this country with the first wave of exiles after
Fidel Castro took over the island in 1959. He has been the most influential
Cuban exile leader of the past 15 years and a leading advocate of hard-line
measures against Castro and his communist government.

During the early years of the Reagan administration, it was Mas Canosa who
lobbied hardest for creation of a Radio Free Europe-style surrogate radio
station broadcasting to communist Cuba. He has served as chairman of the
president's five-member Advisory Board for Cuban Broadcasting since Radio Marti
went on the air in 1985.

Staffed mostly by exiles, the station since its beginnings has reflected the
competing interests of Miami's million-strong Cuban community, where Mas Canosa
has long represented hard-liners opposed to any rapprochement with Castro.

Radio Marti and its controversial cousin, TV Marti, also have caused friction in
Congress, especially during a time of tight budgets. The Office of Cuban
Broadcasting, which oversees both stations, received $ 24.8 million for 1995, of
which $ 11.6 million went to TV Marti, which has been effectively jammed by the
Cuban government since it went on the air in 1990.

Despite the controversies, Radio Marti generally has won high marks in both the
United States and among listeners in Cuba for effectively promoting democracy,
human rights and market economics. The station, which primarily broadcasts
domestic news about Cuba, reached its peak of listenership in the late 1980s,
when U.S. government surveys reported that 95 percent of Cubans arriving in this
country said they had listened to it.

In surrogate radio stations, Duffey said, workplace disharmony comes with the
territory: "This is a case with sharp internal disputes among people who are
journalists and have deep human and social convictions that they can't check at
the front door."

As advisory board president, Mas Canosa theoretically has no voice in Radio
Marti's day-to-day operations, but one high-level government source said the
board "effectively runs the station."

Radio Marti journalists complained for years that Mas Canosa manipulated
personnel assignments and news coverage to ensure that he and his views would
have ample representation in the broadcasts, often to the detriment of opposing
voices.

The inspector general is examining several personnel matters, including the
hiring and promotion of former news director Agustin Alles, a close Mas Canosa
associate, sources familiar with the investigation said.

The investigation also has examined alleged reprisals against several employees
whose responsibilities were curtailed without explanation, among them Radio
Marti deputy director Bruce Sherman and the entire five-member staff of
analysts, the sources added.

The sources said the investigation also focused on Radio Marti's January
coverage of an agreement reached between the Department of Justice and an "ad
hoc committee" organized by Mas Canosa whereby Cuban refugees interned at the
U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay and in Panama could be brought to the United
States.

The agreement applied only to those refugees deemed by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to qualify as hardship cases, but Radio Marti broadcasts
suggested it applied to all refugees and cited Mas Canosa as the source of the
information.

Sources familiar with the investigation said the inspector general has described
how news director Alles wrote two radio spots late Friday night, Jan. 27, after
talking with Mas Canosa in Miami and after supervisory personnel in Washington
had gone home. Radio Marti broadcast the spots all weekend.

Alles could not be reached late yesterday, but a transcript of one of the spots,
dated Jan. 27 and bearing Alles's computer sign-off at 11:30 p.m., said Mas
Canosa had told Radio Marti that the committee and the Clinton administration
had "reached an agreement . . . to help refugee Cubans in Guantanamo and Panama
get permission to enter the United States."

By that Monday both the USIA and the INS had protested that the broadcasts had
seriously misrepresented U.S. policy and had created false hopes among refugees
who would not be leaving the internment camps.

Duffey said in an interview yesterday that he spoke to Radio Marti management
about the incident and ordered an independent review, which, he said, found
little beyond "questions of judgment." Now, however, the material gathered by
the inspector general suggests that the January broadcasts were "a serious lapse
and not an acceptable policy," Duffey said.

A more serious gaffe came in May when the United States reversed its January
decision by deciding to admit the 21,000 interned refugees. At the same time,
however, it also agreed not to admit future refugees, a fundamental change in a
policy that for 35 years had welcomed anyone who escaped from Cuba.

This closed-door policy was broadly denounced among Miami exiles, and their
views were emphasized to such a degree by Radio Marti that U.S. diplomats in
Havana sent a classified cable to the State Department complaining of the
coverage, sources familiar with the inspector general's investigation said.

"I called in the director [of Radio Marti, Richard M. Lobo] and others and
raised the matter," Duffey said. "There was a suggestion that other stories were
run to balance the coverage, but I did not think so."

In a follow-up memorandum to Lobo, Duffey noted that "the employees of Radio
Marti are employees of the United States government. I expect them to go out of
their way to report the official views of our government and to seek comment on
any such news items as this." Lobo soon resigned.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, JORGE MAS CANOSA

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              336 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 03, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Rejects Militant's Offer to Leave

John M. Goshko; Nancy Reckler, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A18

LENGTH: 502 words


The U.S. government said yesterday it has rejected an offer by detained
Palestinian militant Mousa Abu Marzook to leave the United States permanently,
because Marzook insisted on denying he is involved in terrorism as U.S.
authorities have alleged.

At a hearing before an Immigration and Naturalization Service judge in New York,
INS attorneys said they would continue their effort to show that Marzook is
connected to Hamas terrorists who have struck targets in Israel, and on that
basis should be declared an "excludable alien" subject to deportation. A further
hearing was set for next Tuesday.

Marzook, a native Palestinian who has lived in Northern Virginia for several
years, is head of the political department of the Islamic group Hamas, which has
staged suicide bombings against Israeli civilians. He has said he engaged only
in nonviolent activities.

Marzook was detained last week at New York's John F. Kennedy International
Airport when he sought to reenter the country from the United Arab Emirates
after a five-month absence. He was identified from an INS "watch list" of
suspected terrorists, and if the INS proves that he meets the criteria for
exclusion, he normally would be sent back to the UAE.

However, Israel has issued a warrant for Marzook's arrest on terrorism charges,
and the Israelis have requested that the United States continue to detain him
until they can submit a formal request for his extradition. It was not
immediately clear whether Israel's action, in the form of a letter to the
Justice Department, is sufficient to cause INS to set aside its exclusion
process until an extradition request is received and acted upon.

Marzook, dressed in an orange jump suit and accompanied by his wife, Nadia, and
three sons, appeared yesterday before an INS hearing examiner in a small,
maximum security room at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan.

His attorney, Stanley Cohen, revealed that he had sent a letter to INS five days
earlier proposing a deal. It called for Marzook to withdraw his application to
enter the United States, waive any future right to try to come into the country
and surrender his permanent residence visa.

In return, Marzook insisted on the right to return to the UAE or any other
country of his choice and to deny that he was involved in any terrorist acts.

INS officials said the offer had been rejected because, as one put it, "it does
not address the issue that is the basis of our request for exclusion -- namely
that of involvement in terrorism." Cohen said that because of INS's position,
Marzook was withdrawing his offer to leave voluntarily, and he later added,
"This shows that the government is more interested in putting political labels
on this than on resolving the situation."

Israel has 60 days in which to make a formal extradition request, and the letter
sent to the Justice Department indicated Israel intends to do that. A U.S.
District Court judge then would decide whether to grant the request.

LOAD-DATE: August 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              337 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 04, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

8 Arrested in L.A. on Charges They Enslaved Thai Immigrants

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A17

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 3


Federal officials today charged eight people with illegally transporting Thai
immigrants into the United States and forcing them into years of servitude as
low-paid workers in a garment factory.

A total of 56 immigrants were freed from the factory in a pre-dawn raid that
turned up $ 750,000, gold jewelry and documents showing millions of dollars in
wire transfers, according to California labor department officials.

Officials of the California Department of Industrial Relations on Wednesday
stormed the two-story, seven-unit factory complex in El Monte, a working-class
suburb east of Los Angeles.

The freed Thai nationals are being held at an Immigration and Naturalization
Service detention center here pending an investigation into their immigration
status.

The eight charged are alleged to have extorted money from the Thai immigrants
for safe passage to the United States, obtained illegal documents for them, then
placed them in the factory and forced them to work 17-hour days at $ 1.60 per
hour, state officials said.

Part of the money was withheld as payment for their transportation, and often
the workers were told if they left the fenced-off complex they would be beaten,
officials said.

LOAD-DATE: August 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              338 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 29, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Immigrant Population at Postwar High

Spencer Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A01

LENGTH: 1019 words


After a surge in immigration over the past 20 years the foreign-born population
of the United States reached 22.6 million people in 1994, making up 8.7 percent
of the total population, the highest proportion since World War II and nearly
double the percentage in 1970, the Census Bureau reported yesterday.

The report says the largest group of foreign-born came from Mexico, more than
6.2 million, with the Philippines next at 1 million. Cuba, El Salvador, Canada,
Germany, China, the Dominican Republic, Korea, Vietnam and India range from
805,000 to 494,000.

The census survey, which covers both legal and illegal immigrants, calculated
that there are 8.3 million people living in the United States who entered in the
1980s, which makes that the decade with the highest levels of immigration since
the turn of the century. The report shows that the flow increased during the
early 1990s, with 4.5 million people entering the country during the first four
years of the decade.

Long-term poverty plagues a small but significant fraction of the immigrants of
the 1980s, according to the census report. In general, immigrants improve their
economic standing the longer they live in the United States. Both in yesterday's
report, which was based on a survey taken in 1994, and in the 1990 census, about
a quarter of the immigrants of the 1980s lived below poverty level.

The problem was particularly acute among those who came from Mexico. Forty
percent of the Mexicans who came north in the 1980s lived in poverty according
to the most recent report. By comparison only 4 percent of the Filipino
immigrants of the 1980s live in poverty. About 14 percent of natives live in
poverty.

The report issued yesterday also found:

More than two-thirds of the foreign-born are white, one-fifth are Asian and
Pacific Islanders, and 7.1 percent black. More than 45 percent of the
foreign-born are Hispanics, who can be of any race.

Foreign-born women 15 to 44 had borne 1.5 children each, compared with 1.2 each
for native U.S. women.

Unemployment among the foreign-born when the survey was taken was 9.1 percent
compared with 6.8 percent for native Americans. Median income was $ 12,179 for
foreign-born persons in 1993 compared with $ 15,876 for natives.

Recent immigrants (since 1990) who are adults are better educated overall than
either natives or earlier immigrants. While 21 percent of recent immigrants have
a college degree, only about 15 percent of natives and 14 percent of earlier
immigrants have such degrees.

About 31 percent of the 22.6 million foreign-born have become naturalized U.S.
citizens, according to the census report. Under most circumstances a legal
immigrant has to live in the United States for five years before becoming
eligible for citizenship. The census survey made no distinction between legal
and illegal immigrants. According to estimates by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, about 4 million illegal immigrants reside in the United
States on a permanent basis.

The census report shows that the foreign-born remained concentrated in just a
few parts of the country, especially California, where the 7.7 million
foreign-born persons make up a quarter of the population. Other states with a
large number of foreign-born include New York (2.9 million), Florida (2.1
million) and Texas, Illinois and New Jersey, with more than 1 million each.

The sharp rise in the foreign-born population since 1970 has become a major
political issue because of allegations that immigrants are making excessive use
of public benefits and are taking job opportunities from natives.

California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) has used attacks on illegal immigration as the
foundation for his reelection campaign last year and for the presidential
campaign he formally launched yesterday. With Wilson as its chief advocate,
California voters overwhelmingly approved Proposition 187, a ballot initiative
designed to prevent illegal immigrants from receiving various state services and
benefits. However, immediately after the vote, federal and state courts halted
implementation of the initiative pending trials on its constitutionality.

This year concern expanded to encompass legal immigrants as well. In March the
House enacted and the Senate is now considering measures that would cut off
major federal welfare benefits to legal immigrants who are not citizens. In
addition Congress is set to consider and President Clinton has endorsed
proposals to greatly reduce the level of legal immigration.

Early this century, the percentage of foreign-born was far higher than now --
14.7 percent in 1910 -- following 50 years of sustained immigration primarily
from Europe. But the flow declined sharply after Congress in 1924 enacted a
system of racial and ethnic quotas that effectively barred immigration except
from Northern European countries. By 1970 the percent of foreign-born dropped to
4.8 percent of the population.

The current wave of immigration began in 1965 when Congress overhauled
immigration law to do away with racial quotas as a civil rights reform. Congress
passed another immigration reform in 1990 with broad bipartisan support that
substantially increased levels of legal immigration.

A prominent spokesman for reduced immigration, Dan Stein, executive director of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), contended that
"immigrants are driving Americans out of these high-impact areas and native
Americans are not moving into these areas such as Southern California, Miami and
New York." Stein said in those areas immigrants are "eroding jobs for native
Americans, especially the unskilled."

However, Jeffrey Passel, an immigration specialist at the Urban Institute, a
Washington think tank, said his group found that "far from being a net cost,
immigrants probably contribute more in taxes than they obtain in benefits, with
a $ 25 billion to $ 30 billion annual surplus from recent post-1970 immigrants."

THE FOREIGN-BORN POPULATION IN THE UNITED STATES

Percent of U.S. population born in a foreign country

1994 -- 8.7%


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post, (graphic not available) Foreign-born
population, by state of residence, 1994 All other states -- 40.1% Texas -- 8.0%
New York -- 8.4% Florida -- 9.2% California -- 34.3% (graphic not available)
Foreign-born population, by country of birth, 1994 Mexico -- 6,264,000
Philippines -- 1,033,000 Cuba -- 805,000 El Salvador -- 718,000 Canada --
679,000 Germany -- 625,000 China -- 565,000 Dom. Rep. -- 556,000 Korea --
533,000 Vietnam -- 496,000 India -- 494,000 SOURCE: Bureau of the Census

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              339 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 01, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

INS Unveils Plan to Speed Naturalization Process

William Branigin; Kathryn Wexler, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A01

LENGTH: 986 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday unveiled a major new
program to deal with what it called "an unprecedented upsurge in the number of
people applying for citizenship."

Called "Citizenship USA," the nationwide initiative is aimed at speeding up the
naturalization process, which takes more than a year on average in five key
cities, and at reducing a backlog of nearly 600,000 people waiting to be sworn
in as U.S. citizens.

The INS "will substantially increase its staff, expand its facilities, introduce
new technology, streamline procedures and create new and better partnerships
with community organizations," said Doris M. Meissner, the INS commissioner.

The initiative is being funded under a $ 76.6 million allocation approved by
Congress in June in response to the surge of citizenship applications, which has
been driven in part by fears among foreign-born residents of growing
anti-immigrant sentiment in the United States.

Critics have charged that although "naturalization" is the INS's middle name,
the citizenship process has been neglected in recent years in favor of
enforcement, notably the apprehension of illegal immigrants.

A study issued last week pointed out that despite a 225 percent increase in
applications for citizenship in the last five years, the money allocated by
Congress to the agency's Naturalization Division decreased by nearly 35 percent
over the same period as a percentage of the total INS budget.

Guillermo Rodriguez Jr., director of Latino Issues Forum, which issued the
study, credited Meissner for "finally putting the N back in INS," but said he
doubted that it would be enough to handle the existing backlog, much less the 1
million citizenship applications expected this year.

Meissner announced the program yesterday in Los Angeles, which she said would be
the first target of the initiative. The Los Angeles District Office of the INS
has the country's largest backlog of cases and expects about 275,000 new
citizenship applications this year, nearly double the number it received last
year.

Without the program, Meissner said, the waiting period from application to
citizenship would soon increase to two years from about one year at present.

"No one should wait two years to become a U.S. citizen," she said. "Our new
efforts will ensure that they don't."

The INS expects the program to reduce the waiting period to six months for new
applicants by the summer of next year.

In most cases foreign-born adults can can apply for citizenship after they have
had permanent immigrant status for five years and have lived in the United
States for half that time. They then have to pass examinations showing that they
can read, speak and write English and have a basic knowledge of U.S. government
and history. In addition they have to pay a $ 95 fee, and the INS has to
determine that they are of "good moral character."

Besides Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Chicago and San Francisco will be the
focus of similar efforts. Together, the five cities account for 75 percent of
all pending citizenship applications.

The Washington district of the INS this year experienced a 67 percent increase
in citizenship applications, which numbered 12,607 from October 1994 through
June 1995, compared with 7,511 for the same period a year ago. However, the
caseload is still relatively small and the waiting time for citizenship is about
five months, an INS spokesman said.

INS officials and private groups attribute the surge in citizenship applications
to a combination of factors that, as Rodriguez put it, has hit the INS "like a
tidal wave." In part, the surge stems from a 1986 immigration reform law, which
gave amnesty to about 2.6 million undocumented immigrants and allowed them to
legalize their status. The process of acquiring alien registration cards and
accumulating the required five years of legal residency has made many of them
eligible to apply for citizenship only now.

Another major factor is what many of the foreign born perceive as rising
anti-immigrant sentiment. Initiatives such as California's Proposition 187 and
proposed welfare reforms in Congress are seen as symptomatic of this sentiment.
The legislation would deny most legal immigrants access to federally funded
social programs.

At a swearing-in ceremony for new citizens in Los Angeles yesterday, immigrants
mentioned the perceived hostility toward them -- and a desire to be able to vote
-- as key reasons for their decision to seek citizenship.

"It's getting rough out there," said Manuel Garcia, a 32-year-old roofer from
Mexico and a longtime legal resident. "Pretty soon they might just say, 'Throw
this [immigrant] out.' Now they can't."

Kenneth Ahn, 49, a Korean insurance agent who has held a green card for the past
22 years, said he decided to apply for citizenship when he got his INS notice to
apply for a new card.

According to Arturo Vargas, director of the National Association of Latino
Elected Officials, immigrants "are afraid of what's going to happen in this
country." Many fear that if they do not become citizens, they will become
subject to "legal discrimination," and some are "just downright angry," he said.

By campaigning for Proposition 187 and making immigration a political issue,
Vargas said, California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) "has done more to promote
citizenship among Latinos than anyone else, in a very perverse way."

After announcing the new INS program, Meissner attended the first of two
swearing-in ceremonies in which more than 7,000 immigrants took their oaths as
new U.S. citizens. The new Americans originally came from 103 countries ranging
from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe, INS officials said.

Mexico supplied the largest share, with 2,873, followed by the Philippines with
406 and Vietnam with 367.

Wexler reported from Los Angeles and Branigan reported from Washington.


LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post, IN LINE FOR NATURALIZATION (This chart was
not available)

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              340 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 01, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

A Nation of Immigrants (Again)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg.  A22

LENGTH: 455 words


THOSE WHO say foreign immigration is a big political issue got a lot of
ammunition from the Census Bureau this week. A surge of new immigrants over the
last two decades has brought the country's foreign born to 22.6 million,
accounting for 8.7 percent of the nation's population. That's the highest
proportion since World War II; as recently as 1970, it was 4.8 percent. The
Census report answers a lot of questions, but it will not settle the fundamental
questions of what is the right level of immigration and what is its net impact.

For example, even that seemingly large 8.7 percent of the population that is
foreign born is well below the historic high of 14.7 percent reached in 1910,
after the great wave of immigration from Europe. Yet foes of immigration will
cite studies showing that on the present trends, the percentage will begin to
reach 1910 levels in the next half-century. Is that worrisome?

The study found that 5.7 percent of recent immigrants have received public
assistance. That ought to explode the idea that immigrants come here to get on
welfare. But to make the opposite point, immigration foes will point out that
only 2.9 percent of native born Americans receive public assistance. This
interpretation, in turn, is challenged by Jeffrey Passel of the Urban Institute.
He notes that refugees who arrive with virtually no resources drive up the
number, but if refugees are excluded from the calculations, immigrants receive
public assistance at about the same rate as the native born.

The back and forth will go on. Unemployment among the foreign born is higher
than among the native born, and their incomes are lower. But immigrants who have
arrived since 1990 could end up a rather affluent group: They have higher levels
of education (21 percent with a college degree) than either natives (15 percent)
or earlier immigrants (14 percent). The foreign born are disproportionately
Hispanic (at 45 percent); the biggest group comes from Mexico. But the list of
nations contributing the largest share of the foreign born is diverse: Besides
Mexico, it includes the Philippines, Cuba, El Salvador, Canada, Germany, China,
the Dominican Republic, Korea, Vietnam and India. Immigrants are concentrated in
California (25 percent of its population) and New York (16 percent), along with
Florida, Texas, Illinois and New Jersey.

The United States has always had big arguments over immigration -- whenever the
numbers went up. The danger now, as in the past, is that the debate will be
rooted less in rigorous judgments of social and economic impact than in fear and
hyperbole. How the discussion goes will be determined not by Census reports, but
by political leaders -- and by the rest of us.

LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              341 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 16, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigrants With Skills

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 423 words


THERE ARE TWO ways to view the impact on the national interest of allowing
skilled workers and professionals to come to the United States as immigrants.
One camp has it that welcoming these foreigners is an unmixed blessing. They are
highly trained, either at the professional level or with skills acquired over a
number of years. They are eminently employable, will be no drain on the welfare
system and will make a real contribution to the country. All of this is true.
Others reply that there are plenty of highly trained Americans -- many of them
college graduates -- who could and should be filling those job slots. They point
out that without foreign competition, Americans would compete for and perform
well in these jobs. This is also true. In the coming months, Congress will try
to find some middle ground.

The total number of immigrants and refugees admitted into this country (now
800,000 a year) will almost certainly be reduced by Congress. The final figure
will be somewhere between 400,000 and 550,000 a year. The mix will also shift,
with peripheral relatives such as married siblings excluded and the percentage
of available places allotted to skilled workers rising. But because the total
will be smaller, the actual number of spots for skilled workers will go down
from the present 140,000 a year to something in the 75,000 to 100,000 range.

American manufacturers are complaining. They like the system as it is: fairly
simple to get a temporary visa for a worker (permission from the Labor
Department is not needed) and five years later to get a permanent visa. The
system works so well for them, in fact, that there is no backlog of visa
applicants in this category, and the authorized 140,000 places are not filled.

Immigration of those with skills should be encouraged, and the restructuring now
being considered gives added weight to this priority. But it is also important
to put the needs of American workers first. The Commission on Immigration
Reform, chaired by former representative Barbara Jordan, has recommended, for
example, that employers bringing in foreign skilled workers be required to pay a
substantial fee -- perhaps one-third of the first year's salary -- to a
designated private-sector initiative dedicated to developing a well-trained
American work force. More to the point, they should also be required to conduct
a nationwide search for workers here, offering 105 percent of the prevailing
wage, before being allowed to hire foreigners. These suggestions are worth
exploring.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              342 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 18, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Migration Grows, Heads South as Well as North

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2646 words

DATELINE: RIO SUCHIATE CROSSING, Guatemala


Hope and despair are tangible here on the busiest bridge spanning the
Guatemalan-Mexican border, where the American Dream and the Pan American Highway
meld with the underside of Latin America.

Commerce from the north meets a flood of migrants from as far away as Peru whose
destination may be the United States or Canada but also could be Mexico.
Corruption and greed join forces with economic destitution to foment a
never-ending human stream. With the wink of an eye and a not-so-discreet passing
of cash, border agents can be persuaded to look the other way as a cargo truck
supposedly filled with bananas also carries 20 frightened Central Americans.

Here the stories unfold of the new American odyssey, where migrants in search of
employment and better living standards come head-to-head with a growing
anti-immigrant sentiment in South America as well as North America. With the
explosion of trade and dismantling of both transportation and economic barriers
among booming urban centers from Buenos Aires and Santiago to Los Angeles and
Mexico City, people are on the move as never before.

"Migration is the great phenomenon of the end of the 20th century and is going
to be the great problem of the 21st century," said Mexican Foreign Minister Jose
Angel Gurria. "Obviously, the patterns of migration in parts of Latin America
tend to be northward into Mexico as well as into the United States. . . . This
is not a new phenomenon, but the proportions are bigger than before."

Few migrants speak of the inter-American odyssey today in the same fearful terms
they might have used two decades ago. Except for parts of the heavily traveled
U.S.-Mexican frontier, the image that borders once conjured -- of formidable,
heavily patrolled barriers designed to protect national sovereignty and keep out
intruders -- has been virtually erased for migrants in this new age of
hemispheric integration.

Although the flow of migrant labor back and forth across the U.S.-Mexican border
has a long history, things are changing along borders well south of the Rio
Grande as well.

According to David Escobar, the Guatemalan consul in the Mexican riverside town
of Ciudad Hidalgo, the Suchiate River is the busiest border crossing point for
migrant traffic anywhere south of San Diego, mainly because of its proximity to
the Pan American Highway. He estimated the number of migrants crossing over or
near the Suchiate Bridge -- legally and illegally -- in the hundreds of
thousands annually.

"I'm constantly urging the Honduran, Nicaraguan, Salvadoran and Costa Rican
governments to open consulates here," Escobar said. "This is where most of their
commerce ultimately passes, but it is also the place where their citizens are
likely to have the biggest problems with [Mexican] migration authorities."

In the same sense that regional free trade accords have removed barriers to the
flow of commercial goods between nations, the constant demand for cheap labor
across the Americas has created a new psychology regarding the movement of
people.

"I don't think there's any question about it. Borders just don't mean a great
deal to migrants anymore," said San Diego resident Barbara Coe, an originator of
Proposition 187, passed by voters in California last year to limit payments to
illegal immigrants. "Just look at the numbers: from fiscal year 1991 to 1994 in
California, 281,000 illegal immigrants were captured at internal U.S.
checkpoints. These are places 20 to 40 miles from the border. Nobody knows where
the line is anymore."

Familial Networking

Well-entrenched networks among families and, in many cases, entire communities
have formed to assist migrants at every point in the process of crossing over
and assimilating, explained Lupe Moreno, an Orange County, Calif., resident
whose father worked nearly three decades as a smuggler of Mexican migrants.
While a large majority of illegal immigrants crossing into the southwestern
United States by land are Mexican, towns, villages and even whole regions of
Central America have come to depend on migration -- and earnings sent home by
migrant workers -- for economic sustenance.

Visas are less of a barrier. Central American residents en route to the north
pass freely from one country to another using special 72-hour regional visas,
according to a Guatemalan diplomat. In August at an inter-American conference in
Ecuador, Central and South American leaders began reviewing proposals to scrap
the idea of individual country passports altogether, in favor of the type of
regional passports in use within the European Union. The United States has eased
visa requirements for some Latin American nations.

For many migrants, the most important borders are the more intangible ones --
such as the growing political backlash against immigration in the United States
and Canada. "For the average immigrant, the border has shifted to an entirely
different place," said Juan Jose Gutierrez, executive director of One Stop
Immigration, a Los Angeles nonprofit organization that provides legal and
educational assistance to immigrants. "The real border is in their everyday
reality once they get to where they're going."

Latin American media and governments have closely tracked the swelling political
reaction against immigration in the United States, from the passage of
California's Proposition 187 to measures pending in Congress that would restrict
legal immigration.

Still, growing numbers of Mexican migrants are heading northward, largely
because of the deteriorating conditions prompted by their country's economic
crisis.

Depending on whose statistics are to be believed, the peso crisis has prompted a
10 to 30 percent increase in illegal border crossings to the United States. The
U.S. Border Patrol reports a roughly 10 percent increase in apprehensions, which
normally signifies an increase in illegal crossing attempts.

"Definitely, more and more people are coming. And it's not just poor people
anymore. We're seeing more people from the Mexican middle class, for example,"
migration specialist Carol Zabin said. "It's not how we normally think of brain
drain, but you now see skilled people from Mexico coming to take unskilled jobs
here [in the United States]. It's a waste for everyone."

According to the 1990 U.S. Census, more than 23 million people in the United
States claim Hispanic ancestry, a 50 percent increase over 1980 figure. Another
7 million -- mostly illegal migrants -- should be added, according to
calculations by various migration experts. A 1992 study found that incomes of
Latinos residing in the United States total $ 143 billion annually.

However, it is not only the United States that is facing an immigrant tide.
Argentina and Chile, traditionally hospitable countries to immigrants that
welcomed hundreds of thousands in the 19th century, are taking measures to close
their doors amid steadily rising unemployment. As many as 1 million Paraguayans
and Peruvians are reported to live illegally in Argentina.

For the last year, police in Buenos Aires have been raiding buildings inhabited
by illegal residents, and Peruvians in particular have been blamed for a rise in
petty crime. The Argentine government has increased surveillance at border
crossings with Bolivia and Brazil, recently initiating a campaign against "false
tourists" that requires all visitors to prove they have return tickets as well
as $ 50 a day in spending money, or an international credit card.

Mexico is also facing a growing influx. Central Americans hoping to take
advantage of the relative prosperity in Mexico since the 1994 inauguration of
the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) are opting to look for jobs
there rather than in the United States, despite the peso crisis. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) estimates that
70,000 Central Americans reside illegally in Mexico, mainly in the south.

"A lot of people don't like them because they steal our jobs," said Jesus
Guzman, a store owner near the Guatemalan border in Ciudad Hidalgo. "The
ranchers and farmers love them because they work for half the salary of a
Mexican. But they bring everyone's pay down, and when the Central Americans
can't find work, they start stealing cars and robbing houses."

Guzman added, "We have a lot of the same problems that they're talking about in
California, but we don't need a Proposition 187. We have something better. It's
called the Federal Judicial Police."

Like the three-way flow of U.S.-Mexican-Canadian trade stemming from NAFTA, the
flow of migrants has created its own type of hemispheric interdependency.
Countries as small as El Salvador and as big as Mexico rely heavily on
remittances from their migrant nationals as a steady source of dollar revenue.

Capital Flows

According to a July OECD report, remittances from Mexican migrants to their
families back home total $ 3 billion annually, constituting the third-largest
source of dollar income for Mexico, behind petroleum exports and tourism.

"It's one of the few capital flows that doesn't disappear based on the whims of
investors," said University of California migration specialist Raul Hinojosa.

"In El Salvador, there were $ 2 billion in remittances in 1993, which on a
per-capita basis is even more than Mexico. It's fascinating because it actually
allowed the Salvadoran government to revise the national budget and reduce
import tariffs to zero. Remittances are now higher than El Salvador's total
exports to all countries."

The impact of these remittances in rural Mexico is often far more profound than
anything felt from NAFTA-related investment. For example, San Pablo Huixtepec,
in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, has funded paving of the town's
streets, repaired a bell tower in the town square and bought a new roof for a
360-year-old church, all through remittances from migrants in the United States.

In El Salvador, because of its recent civil war and ongoing economic problems,
one-fifth of the 5 million population have left the country, mostly migrating to
the United States. Since the war ended in 1992, the flux of migrants has not
slowed -- contrary to predictions of many experts.

The hamlet of San Jose de la Paz Arriba, 20 miles south of San Salvador, lives
almost entirely off money sent from relatives in the United States. In
comparison to surrounding communities, San Jose residents are able to live far
better as a result.

Besides individual remittances, expatriates from San Jose have set up a
committee in Los Angeles to help pay for community projects. The streets have
been paved and a new clinic constructed using the donations. Houses are being
repaired and new dwellings built. Unusual furnishings are starting to appear,
such as refrigerators, microwave ovens, washing machines and large-screen
televisions.

In many cases, there is no electricity to run the appliances, no running water
for the washing machines. But the appliances are carefully cared for and viewed
as highly prized status symbols.

"Migration has had more impact on El Salvador in the past decade than the civil
war," said Juan Jose Garcia, who recently completed a study on the impact of
migration on village life. "It has changed our culture deeply. It has put
different world maps in people's heads."

Garcia cited migration's influences from sexual mores to family structures and
consumption habits.

"The main social gathering place is no longer the church or the town plaza," he
explained. "The most important people are no longer the priest or the mayor. The
center of social activity now is Antel [the local telephone office], and the
telephone operators have gained greatly in importance. They are the ones who are
the gatekeepers to contact with the United States."

Benito Martinez, the Antel operator in San Jose de la Paz Arriba, a town of
3,000, said he places 350 to 400 calls to the United States each month, all of
them collect. Calls often last 20 to 90 minutes.

Telephone calls to Mexico from the United States in 1993 were 3 percent of all
international calls made in the world that year.

The American home is feeling the effects of the migration boom in ways that
seemed unimaginable a decade ago.

Scientists at the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta have been studying a
steep increase in a parasitic disease known as cysticercosis, which can include
tapeworms, brain lesions and symptoms of epilepsy. The disease, which affects up
to 3 percent of all Latin Americans, has been known to cause 50,000 deaths every
year, mainly south of the U.S. border. It is contracted by handling and eating
undercooked pig meat and can be passed by touching other foods.

In Brooklyn, members of the Orthodox Sephardic Jewish community -- forbidden to
eat pork -- contracted the disease because it was common practice there to hire
housekeepers from Mexico, Guatemala and other Central American countries.

"You can imagine what a terrible shock it was to the community when they found
out the disease had something to do with pig meat. It was so bad, so shameful,"
said Peter Schantz, a deputy chief of epidemilogy at the Atlanta centers.

Cross-Border Politics

The political mobilization that finally occurred among Latin American immigrants
in California last year against Proposition 187 has translated into a nascent
Latino political movement across the American Southwest -- supported, in part,
by the Mexican government.

Foreign Minister Gurria suggested in an interview that his government will take
an increasing interest in the political mobilization of Mexicans in the United
States to help ensure that similar measures do not take hold.

"Many in the U.S. Congress are not familiar with things Mexican. That is our
problem, ultimately, not theirs. . . . There are other countries which have
organized themselves very well in order to make matters of importance about
those countries very much felt by the U.S. administration and the U.S.
Congress," Gurria explained.

A goal of the Mexican government is to make Congress realize that there is "a
political price to pay" for voting against issues deemed vital to Mexico, Gurria
added, referring to congressional opposition to the Clinton administration's $
40 billion bailout package for Mexico. Israel "is a very, very good example of
how this is done, but not the only one."

Mexicans "were very politically intrusive during the Proposition 187 campaign,
which shows that the Mexican government thinks it has a stake in [the growing
anti-immigrant mood] in the United States," said John Martin, research director
of the Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies.

Correspondents Douglas Farah in El Salvador and Gabriel Escobar in Argentina
contributed to this report.

LATIN-BORN IN THE UNITED STATES

BY STATE, 1990 CENSUS

California -- 37%

New York -- 14%

Texas -- 13%

Florida -- 13%

Illinois -- 4%

New Jersey -- 4%

Remaining states -- 15%

SOURCE: U.S. Census

KEEPING IN TOUCH

Here is a sampling of figures from the FCC on phone calls made from the United
States to various Latin American countries in 1993 (1994 figures were not
available).

COUNTRY CALLS MINUTES REVENUES

(dollars)

MEXICO 217,369,776 1,398,864,544 $ 1,400,090,950

CANADA 570,433,917 2,493,774,583 1,427,215,902

EL SALVADOR 5,883,759 106,983,123 137,423,264

GUATEMALA 9,996,828 93,037,372 101,730,245

HONDURAS 4,301,417 61,045,116 69,017,923

COSTA RICA 7,715,053 46,723,633 53,319,293

ARGENTINA 14,083,856 84,910,649 95,132,097

BRAZIL 29,464,119 171,444,482 181,461,086

COLOMBIA 25,966,345 200,210,783 215,086,342

Note: These are business as well as personal calls.

SOURCE: FCC


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE AMERICAS: A CHANGING NEIGHBORHOOD; Pg. 6/6

GRAPHIC: Illustration; Photo, herberto rodriguez for The Washington Post; Map,
brad wye, Central American family heads north across Suchiate River from
Guatemala to Mexico. Guatemala's consul on Mexican side says other countries of
the isthmus also should have consulates there.  MAIN ROUTES OF MIGRATION (map)

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              343 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 25, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Old Wounds, New Schisms; A Fractious Exile Community Is Torn as U.S., Vietnam
Mend Relations

Lena H. Sun; Lan Nguyen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2278 words


Hung Tri Le fled his native Vietnam as a teenager two decades ago to escape the
communists. Now that the United States has normalized relations with Vietnam,
the 34-year-old technology consultant wants to return and offer his expertise to
help rebuild the economy.

But when he broached the idea to his father, he was rebuked for being naive.
Le's father, a colonel in the former South Vietnamese army, spent 10 years in a
political reeducation camp under the Vietnamese communists. His advice: Never
trust them.

"We argued about it," recalled Le, whose boyish haircut is beginning to show
gray. "I said: 'Even if you don't trust the government, wouldn't it be better to
open the country up and try to make the system work better for the people?' He
just shook his head."

For many Americans, the formal establishment of diplomatic relations between the
United States and Vietnam on Aug. 5 closed decades of hostility and enmity. But
for many Vietnamese Americans, normalization has reopened old wounds and created
new schisms.

Last year, the Vietnamese were second only to the Salvadorans in the number of
immigrants entering the Washington area, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. For the estimated 50,000 Vietnamese Americans who make
up one of the area's fastest-growing ethnic populations, the formal recognition
of Vietnam's communist government is dividing an already fractious community. It
is sowing fear and bitterness in the older generation, sparking curiosity and
nationalism in the younger generation and creating business opportunities for
those who want to make up for lost time -- but don't dare say so in public.

Background of War, Politics

The issue is emotionally explosive because most of the 950,000 Vietnamese
Americans in the United States came here as refugees escaping the communists.
They include highly educated professionals and elite members of the former
U.S.-backed South Vietnamese government who fled after Saigon fell in 1975;
entrepreneurs; "boat people," those of more modest backgrounds who escaped with
tens of thousands of others from the late 1970s to early 1980s; Amerasians,
children of U.S. servicemen and Vietnamese women; and most recently, former
political prisoners, jailed because they held military or government positions
in the former South Vietnamese government.

This background -- the traumatic flight from war and political conflict -- is
what most distinguishes Vietnamese Americans from the majority of immigrants in
U.S. history, who were drawn more by economic rather than political forces.

As refugees from the Cold War as well, Vietnamese Americans have much in common
with Cuban Americans, the most successful and visible group of political exiles
in the United States. For both groups, the defining moment of their lives is
going into exile, said Ruben Rumbaut, a Michigan State University sociologist
who is Cuban American and studies Indochinese refugees in the United States.

As a result, exiles spend the rest of their lives justifying that decision,
which makes it difficult for many Vietnamese Americans to accept normalization
with Hanoi. Acceptance is tantamount to acknowledging that "the reason I left
everything behind, to start from below scratch, was really not that important,"
Rumbaut said.

A Growing Presence

The politics of normalization reaches deeply into daily life. It dominates
dinner table conversations, as families talk about the possibility of returning
to Vietnam to live and work. It influences whether people attend certain
Vietnamese cultural performances and whether the Buddhists among them worship at
any of the area's three Vietnamese temples. One young Vietnamese American
professional even dropped her Vietnamese American doctor, in part, because they
clashed over normalization.

Vietnamese Americans were part of the largest refugee resettlement program in
U.S. history. They were resettled in all 50 states, partly to avoid a
concentration in one city, such as the Cubans in Miami, Rumbaut said. Over the
years, concentrations have developed in several areas, including California,
Texas and here.

Locally, the largest numbers of Vietnamese Americans have settled in Arlington
and Fairfax counties. The Northern Virginia telephone directory lists nine pages
of Smiths -- and four pages of Nguyens, the most common Vietnamese surname. The
Eden Center, a complex of Vietnamese shops in Falls Church, flies the South
Vietnamese flag. Two years ago, Le Chi Thao, a lawyer, became the first
Vietnamese American to serve on the Fairfax School Board.

Vietnamese communities also have sprung up in Silver Spring and Langley Park. As
families become more established, they have tended to move from the close-in
suburbs to outlying ones: Springfield, Herndon, Rockville and Gaithersburg.

Relatives often live close to one another. Hung Le bought a five-bedroom
colonial in Falls Church down the street from the house where his father lives
with Le's older sister, a Georgetown restaurant manager. But Le has moved to a
nearby condominium, and his aunt is living in his house temporarily. Le sees his
father nearly every weekend.

When he dreams at night and when he balances his checkbook, Le thinks in
Vietnamese. But in other ways, including his fluent English, he considers
himself "American." He especially likes the "American" way of resolving
conflicts.

"In America, you can have disagreements in a meeting, but outside the meeting,
you're still friends," said Le, sipping tomato soup in a cafe not far from his
office at the Federal National Mortgage Association on Wisconsin Avenue NW. "In
the Vietnamese community, that's not true. Lots of times, people don't talk [to
one another] any more. You feel like a wall is starting to develop."

Much of the normalization debate within the Vietnamese community is dominated by
the older refugees, many of whom feel that they are being forced to live once
again with the enemy.

"Normalization has changed the power relationship between the government in
Vietnam and the [Vietnamese American] community here," said Bich Ngoc Nguyen,
executive director of the National Congress of Vietnamese in America, a
Springfield-based federation of about 200 organizations throughout the country.

A Deep-Seated Fear

The official Vietnamese presence here is a staff of about 10 people who operate
out of temporary quarters in a fifth-floor suite on 20th Street NW. The plan is
to move eventually into the Vietnamese Embassy on R Street NW -- between the
embassies of the Philippines and Kenya -- when renovations are complete.

No one knows how much influence the new embassy will wield among the Vietnamese
communities in the United States.

But for many, that is not the point. There is a deep-seated fear that formal
recognition has opened the way for Hanoi's operatives to infiltrate local
communities.

"Their officials will be able to go places and present their viewpoint. They
will even be able to publish newsletters or . . . finance some kind of
Vietnamese language newspaper," said Nguyen, a former Reagan administration
official.

Younger Vietnamese Americans tend to see things differently. They still have
strong emotional ties to Vietnam, but unlike their parents, they tend to view
recent developments with less fear and more optimism.

"We have the opportunity, we have the education, and we want to give something
back," said Maria Vu, 29, an administrator for Johnson & Johnson who heads a
recently formed organization of Vietnamese American professionals.

Vu and Le said it is time to find ways to help Vietnam, even if it means
alienating their elders by working with the communists.

Both have returned for visits. Le went in June and lectured about financial
markets at a university in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon. He is helping the
Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and other groups bring 50 Vietnamese
business officials to the United States for eight-week fellowships with U.S.
companies, the first high-level business training exchange since normalization.
The Vietnamese delegation arrived in Washington yesterday.

Other Vietnamese Americans also are eager to do business. One of them is a
former South Vietnamese government official who spent several years in a
reeducation camp digging ditches before escaping from Vietnam on a boat in 1980.
His Washington consulting company recently opened an American-products showroom
next door to the former U.S. Embassy in downtown Ho Chi Minh City. Pictures from
the grand opening show smiling U.S. and Vietnamese officials standing near new
Carrier air conditioners.

The businessman, in his forties, did not want to be identified for fear of
retaliation by what he called "fanatic" anti-communists. "History is history,"
he said, gesturing impatiently over a plate of ginger chicken in a Vietnamese
restaurant in Falls Church. "The only way Vietnam can develop faster is to tap
into the Vietnamese Americans out here."

Interest is surging. Since the Vietnamese liaison office in downtown Washington
opened six months ago, it has issued more than 20,000 visas, more than half to
Vietnamese who want to return and visit relatives.

Community Pressure

Yet, many typical Vietnamese Americans are reluctant to speak publicly about the
resumption of ties because, according to several people interviewed for this
story, there is strong pressure to take an anti-communist stance.

"If you don't say you're anti-communist, you get this phenomenon called chup mu,
which means putting on a hat, and the person is labeled a communist," Le said.

The pressure, particularly on the older generation, can take many forms:
ostracism, business boycotts, nasty articles in the local Vietnamese-language
press, which is predominantly anti-communist. One engineer said his father
supported normalization but dared not say so publicly for fear of losing
customers at the family bakery. The owner of a Northern Virginia cleaning
service said he would lose credibility with his workers, many of them former
political prisoners, if he expressed even a moderate stance.

In August, a local Vietnamese American musician was pressured into staying away
from a performance at the Museum of American History by a musical group from
Vietnam, organizers said. The performance was the first cultural visit from
Vietnam since President Clinton announced in July that Washington and Hanoi
would normalize ties.

"There was a fear that there would be some kind of symbolism on stage with the
musicians in support of the communist regime," said Madeleine Remez, of the
National Council for the Traditional Arts, which sponsored the performance with
the Smithsonian Institution.

In the past, some Vietnamese Americans have received death threats and a few
have been killed because they were viewed as supporting the communists, several
Vietnamese Americans said. In 1990, Vietnamese magazine columnist Triet Le, who
wrote critically about anti-communists as well as communists, was gunned down
with his wife outside their Fairfax home. There have been no arrests in the
case.

Some activists deny such pressure exists.

"I don't think we have any plan to deal with people who have different
opinions," said Quyen Le, executive president of the Vietnamese Community of
Washington, D.C., Maryland and Virginia, a Falls Church-based organization that
is among the most vocal -- and visible -- groups opposing the communists.

But Le acknowledged that his organization "keeps an eye out for and follows up
on people we suspect of being [communist] spies." He declined to elaborate, but
since 1989, about a dozen such people have been named in the Vietnamese-language
media, he said.

On Aug. 5, when embassies were opened formally in Hanoi and Washington, Le's
group organized about 60 demonstrators to protest the raising of the communist
flag -- red with a yellow star -- atop Hanoi's embassy near Sheridan Circle. The
building is the site of the former South Vietnamese embassy.

"The communists stole our country," yelled Danh Mien Thi Do, 52, of Falls
Church, in Vietnamese. She ripped a cardboard replica of the communist flag,
stomped on it and then spat at it. Her husband, a former political prisoner, had
been jailed by the communists.

Emotions often are freshest among recent arrivals, such as Bay Ho, a slight man
with salt-and-pepper hair who arrived in Falls Church in June with his seven
grown children. Ho, 62, is a former South Vietnamese army soldier who spent 10
years as a political prisoner.

In Vietnam, communist officials tried unsuccessfully to buy his 80-year-old
brother's identification papers for $ 900, Ho said. His brother, also a former
political prisoner, refused. Ho and other former prisoners here said it was
common for officials to try to buy the identities of former prisoners as a way
to infiltrate the overseas Vietnamese community.

A Vietnamese official in Washington laughed off the allegations. Press secretary
Chi Pham said the embassy was aware of hostility toward the communists. But, he
said, "we already have good relations with many Vietnamese overseas here."

That's what some fear the most.

Even though many Vietnamese are U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents, they
"don't feel strongly that they have inalienable rights as Americans, they don't
feel it in their bones," said Kim Oanh Cook, who runs a Falls Church social
service agency for Vietnamese refugees.

"For a lot of Vietnamese Americans, you think you are still Vietnamese," she
said. "Whoever is in power somehow has a hold on you, has a hold on your
family."


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, michael williamson; Photo, carol guzy; Symbol go,,krt graphics,
The Le family includes, from left, Hung Tri Le; his niece Alyson Le; and his
father, Tam Chon Le, who is surrounded by his grandchildren, Angelina, Aline and
Andrew, on the counter. Hung Le wants to return to his native Vietnam to help
rebuild the economy, an idea his father opposes.  A FAMILY DIVIDED: The U.S.
recognition of Vietnam is cleaving an already fractious local community. Hung
Tri Le, of Falls Church, a technology consultant who wants to return and help
rebuild the economy, has met stiff resistance from his father, Tam Chon Le, a
former South Vietnamese army colonel who spent 10 years in a political
reeducation camp, with whom he is pictured at left. The Le family, which
includes Anh Le and her daughter, Angelina, above, and Andrew and Aline, with
their uncle Kevin, below, has settled comfortably into the American lifestyle.
A COMMUNITY DIVIDED: President Clinton's decision last month to formally
recognize the Vietnamese government mobilized anti-communist Vietnamese
Americans, who turned out to protest at the site of the old South Vietnamese
embassy, at 2551 R St. NW, which will become the formal Vietnamese Embassy once
renovations are complete.

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              344 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 11, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS to Let In Au Pairs With Special Visas; Others Must Await Renewal of Program

Sandra Evans, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 361 words


Federal officials have found a way to allow foreign au pairs to enter the United
States this month, even though the au pair program lapsed Oct. 1 because of
hangups in Congress.

The expiration of the program threw hundreds of U.S. families and young people
overseas into confusion last week, after they were told that even those already
granted special 13-month visas would not be allowed in the country until the
program is reauthorized.

The au pair program, designed as a cultural exchange, has evolved into primary
child care for thousands of middle- and upper-middle-class families throughout
the country. Parents expecting au pairs to come into their homes in October were
scrambling last week to find alternative child care. Young Europeans, who are
paid $ 115 weekly, help with child care for the experience of living with a U.S.
family.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that
the INS office at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, the point
of entry for most au pairs, has been told to allow au pairs with the special
visas to enter. Officials will "defer inspection" of the documentation, and au
pairs will be told to present themselves to an INS office later, after Congress
has reauthorized the program.

Once official language is crafted, the INS will send similar instructions to all
of its local offices, spokesman Greg Gagne said.

"The intention is to not unduly inconvenience anybody who would come in with
good-faith documentation," Gagne said. "We are simply exercising this kind of
common-sense prerogative."

Au pair agencies said they were busy canceling flights and hotel rooms last week
for as many as 1,000 au pairs scheduled to enter the country this month.

The program's expiration does not affect au pairs already in the United States.
The INS decision applies only to those who already had valid 13-month visas
before Oct. 1. No new au pair visas will be issued until the program is
reinstated.

The Senate and the House have approved amendments to reauthorize the program,
but none of the bills carrying the amendments has made it all the way through
Congress.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              345 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 16, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Speaking Up for Latino Immigrants; Activists Organize Club to Advance Community
Interests, Cultivate Political Candidates

Manuel Perez-Rivas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - MARYLAND; Pg. M01

LENGTH: 587 words


After years of watching a rising wave of anti-immigrant sentiment and
"English-only" proposals, several Latino activists from Montgomery County have
formed their own political club in an attempt to counter the trend.

The Hispanic Democratic Club of Montgomery County is the only political club in
the county that specifically aims to represent the interests of the Latino
community and to groom more Latino candidates for elective office.

This is not the first time such an organization has been formed in Montgomery.
An earlier version of the Hispanic Democratic Club disintegrated during the
mid-1980s, largely because of divisions in the ranks.

During the intervening decade, organizers said, the climate for such an
organization has improved greatly. There are more Latinos living in the county
than ever before. And a changing political climate, they said, has underscored
the need for Latino unity.

"Our numbers are growing. But so far that hasn't translated into any real
political power," said Fernando Bren, who runs a tutoring agency with his wife
and is the new club's executive director. "For us, the driving force is to have
Hispanics exercise greater political power. That's what we want to address."

In 1994, there were about 55,000 people of Latino origin in Montgomery, about
7.6 percent of its 749,000 residents, according to county officials. Most of
Montgomery's Latino residents live in Silver Spring or Takoma Park, where one
electoral precinct is 43 percent Hispanic. There also are significant
populations in Wheaton and Gaithersburg.

"I believe people now recognize that the traditional problem in developing clout
for the Hispanic community has been based on divisions that exist within the
community, divisions of turf, of national origin," Bren said. "It's time to
overcome that."

In April, Bren and Rudy Arredondo, a longtime colleague who works as an
investigator for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, began thinking about
establishing another political club in the county. They wanted to address issues
important to the growing Latino population in Montgomery and to fight what they
see as an increasingly hostile, anti-immigrant mood sweeping the Washington area
and the country.

"We're at the bottom of the deck constantly," said Arredondo, the club's
chairman. "In Annapolis, there are a few people who consult with us from time to
time, but we have no real say. On the county level, it's also been very hard to
have an impact. In fact, we've had no impact."

One of the club's first activities was to recruit volunteers to help immigrants
apply for citizenship at a workshop last month that was sponsored by the Spanish
Catholic Center of the Archdiocese of Washington. More than 400 green card
holders took part. Two more are planned.

"Of course, another key intention is to groom candidates to run for elected
office in the county and in Annapolis," Arredondo said. The only Latino now
holding elective county office is Ana Sol Gutierrez, a school board member.

The club currently is made up of an 11-member executive board. Regular
membership, however, is open to all registered Democrats.

Club leaders plan to launch voter registration drives in the neighborhoods with
the heaviest concentration of Latino residents. And, as of January, the club is
to begin monthly breakfast meetings for community leaders.

"In the future, we're hoping to extend our reach into other counties in the
Washington area," Bren said. "We're planning to grow."


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 1995, Thursday

CORRECTION: A photo caption accompanying a story about the Hispanic Democratic
Club of Montgomery County in last week's Montgomery Weekly misidentified the two
men in the photo. Rudy Arredondo, the group's chairman, is on the right, and
Fernando Bren, the group's executive director, is on the left.

GRAPHIC: Photo, annalisa kraft

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              346 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 12, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

Foe of Aristide Plans Lawsuit, Return to Haiti

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 343 words


Former Haitian paramilitary leader Emmanuel Constant said yesterday he is suing
the U.S. government for $ 50 million for "wrongful incarceration" and dropping
his fight against deportation to Haiti.

Constant, the former head of a group that opposed the U.S.-backed return to
power last year of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, was detained by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in April and jailed in Salisbury, Md.,
pending deportation. He has denied State Department charges that he was
responsible for numerous human rights violations against Aristide supporters,
arguing that he was a paid agent of the Central Intelligence Agency, which knew
of his activities and did not discourage them.

"As a result of my wrongful incarceration, I am suing the State Department,
Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Attorney General Janet Reno in the
amount of $ 50 million," Constant said in a statement distributed by his
lawyers.

He said he was withdrawing his appeal against a deportation order so that he can
"participate in the Haitian presidential elections" scheduled for Dec. 17. He
added that he was "asking the international community to monitor my return to
Haiti."

In a telephone interview, Constant said he fears assassination in Haiti, but
that accepting deportation "is the only way to free myself."

Constant, 39, headed the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti, known
as FRAPH, which was accused by human rights groups of terrorizing Haitians under
the military regime that deposed Aristide in 1991. He entered the United States
in December 1994 on a tourist visa two months after U.S. forces restored
Aristide to power.

Constant said the CIA cultivated him, paying him $ 700 a month at one point,
because it had reservations about U.S. support for Aristide and wanted to
counterbalance what Constant called Aristide's "very hotheaded supporters."

But he said the CIA agents he worked with "were always gentlemen" and would
never countenance "any subversive operations" to thwart Aristide's return.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              347 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 28, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

The Final Vietnam Refugees

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 442 words


THE WRAPUP of a stirring international refugee drama that saw the rescue of the
1.3 million boat people and others tumbling out of Vietnam after the Communist
victory of 1975 has now been complicated by well-meaning but impatient refugee
advocates in Congress.

The actual resettlement that occurred was the result of an unusual
collaboration. Close-by countries offered desperate refugees temporary asylum,
and other countries offered them personal resettlement. The United States took
in nearly 1 million people. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
coordinated the operation. Vietnam itself has taken back 72,000 refugees (some
of whom, it needs to be said, did not want to be repatriated). Vietnam has also
made possible the orderly departure of 400,000 emigrants.

As the program winds down, 40,000 Vietnamese, who have been determined
ineligible, as economic migrants rather than political refugees, for
resettlement in the United States, languish in camps in Hong Kong and elsewhere
in Southeast Asia. By international agreement the last of them would be
returning to Ho Chi Minh City this month; they would join the 72,000 other
Vietnamese who have already been involuntarily repatriated. International
monitors have testified that these have been safely returned. Admittedly, there
can never be total confidence in such a finding, but the evidence in this case
seems pretty good.

No doubt responding to the doubts that linger, earlier this year a Republican
legislative initiative was launched that promised to sidetrack the international
program that was in play. Instead, this move would admit the 40,000 still in
camps directly to the United States. Given fresh hope by this intervention, the
refugees rejected repatriation. Some have rioted. Deportations have been halted.

The Clinton administration offers a solution: Let the refugees return to Vietnam
under U.N. protection, there to be interviewed a second time by U.S. immigration
officials to identify those who might be eligible for resettlement. American
officials are currently discussing this plan with Hanoi, which has its own
reservations, and with the wary refugees. The plan is not foolproof, but it does
afford a rare second chance to a group of petitioners who were previously
screened and denied American resettlement. If they are again denied and remain
in Vietnam, they will at least be in a country whose treatment of repatriated
persons has been under official American and international-agency scrutiny for
years and which appears to have met international standards. It's not wonderful,
but at this point it does seem the best solution.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              348 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 8, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Hundreds of Thousands in Havana Hear U.S. Blamed for Violent Protests

Frances Kerry, Reuter

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Aug. 7


Hundreds of thousands of Cubans gathered at Havana's Revolution Square today to
show support for the government, two days after street clashes in the capital
injured 35 people.

The crowd, estimated by officials at 600,000 and by some other observers at
lower figures, jammed the vast square at a meeting called to pay tribute to a
policeman killed in a ferry boat hijacking but also to issue a firm rebuff to
protesters.

The sea of people waved Cuban flags, chanted revolutionary slogans, thundered
out the national anthem and stood through a rain shower to hear the deputy
defense minister, Gen. Ulises Rosales del Toro, reiterate Cuba's angry charge
that the United States was behind the riotous clashes of would-be defectors with
security forces, followed by looting.

Rosales del Toro, who also is army chief of staff, centered his address on the
United States, reiterating President Fidel Castro's charge Friday that
Washington wanted to cause disorder and provoke a "bloodbath" in Cuba.

Lambasting the "malevolent" U.S. immigration policy on Cubans, the general
reiterated a threat by Castro Friday to flood the United States with Cuban
emigrants if Washington did not alter what Havana views as an immigration policy
that encourages illegal exits from the island. He said Cuba did not oppose
negotiations for a just solution to the problem.

Cuba says the current policy stimulates illegal exits because Washington limits
the visas it grants but, under the Cuban Adjustment Act, generally allows Cubans
who have left the island illegally to stay in the United States.

Castro was visiting Colombia for the swearing-in of President Ernesto Samper.
But a string of senior government figures, including First Deputy President Raul
Castro, Castro's younger brother, stood on the podium.

The meeting was in honor of 19-year-old policeman Gabriel Lamoth Caballero,
killed by hijackers who commandeered a ferry boat in Havana last Thursday to try
to travel to the United States.

But it was also a rallying call for the revolution after Friday's incidents, in
which groups of people throwing stones clashed for several hours with police and
civilian law enforcement brigades.

The Sunday newspaper Juventud Rebelde said 35 people, including 10 policemen,
were injured in the clashes along a section of Havana's Malecon seafront drive.
It also said an undisclosed number of people had been arrested.

A recent spate of ferry boat hijackings, highlighting the drama of a steady
trickle of Cubans who leave the Communist-ruled island illegally by sea to go to
the United States, were the trigger for Friday's clashes.

Castro also admitted in remarks to reporters in Bogota Saturday that there was
some discontent among the population amid Cuba's current severe economic crisis.
The country has been in decline since the loss of subsidies at the time of the
Soviet Bloc's collapse.

Thursday's hijacking, which ended with authorities bringing the hijackers and
passengers back to Havana after the vessel ran out of fuel, was the third such
incident in nine days.

Divers are still searching Havana bay for the body of a second policeman killed
in the hijacking.

The rally Sunday, in the tradition of Cuba's huge gatherings for events such as
key anniversaries, was the culmination of a blaze of pro-revolutionary activity
organized since the clashes.

Officials said some 22,000 people filed past Lamoth's coffin, laid out in the
Interior Ministry facing the square before the evening rally.

The crowds, in many cases organized by groups such as the Union of Young
Communists, walked, cycled and were brought in droves of buses from Havana and
the surrounding countryside.

Small demonstrations against the disturbances have been held in the city since
Friday evening and state media has issued a flood of condemnation of the
protesters and support for Castro and the revolution.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              349 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 20, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Cubans Still Board Rafts At Beach East of Havana;
State Radio Carries Clinton's Announcement

Frances Kerry, Reuter

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: COJIMAR, Cuba, Aug. 19, 1994


Dozens of Cubans continued to set off in rafts from a beach east of Havana this
afternoon after President Clinton announced that Cubans would be turned away
from the United States.

About 4 p.m., at least 10 rafts could be seen moving away from Cojimar, 10 miles
east of the Cuban capital. The rafts, made from inner tubes and wood, usually
carry four to six people.

People on the beach appeared unconcerned by the news of the change in U.S.
policy, and one man told reporters he didn't mind going to the Guantanamo Bay
Naval Base -- the U.S. installation where Cubans picked up at sea by the U.S.
Coast Guard were to be taken.

"Nothing's going to stop people from going," said a man who said he was there to
watch the spectacle of so many people leaving.

There was no official reaction in Cuba to Clinton's comments, but a state-run
continuous news radio channel was broadcasting Clinton's remarks about the
change in immigration policy.

Cojimar has been a key spot in recent days for a dramatically increased flow of
Cubans leaving. Few people on the beach in the morning were aware that U.S.
Attorney General Janet Reno had announced in Washington late Thursday that to
deter the flow of rafters, the United States would detain Cubans arriving
without visas. Clinton followed up with a 1:30 p.m. news conference in which he
said that Cubans picked up at sea would be detained at Guantanamo Bay.

Reno's comments were briefly reported by Cuba's state-run Radio Rebelde in its
morning news program. Granma, the Communist Party newspaper, mentioned in a
lengthy front-page article on U.S. immigration policy that Reno had urged Cubans
not to continue setting out.

The number of people leaving the communist-ruled island, which is in an economic
crisis, has shot up in the last few days to the highest levels since the Mariel
boatlift of 1980, when 125,000 left in an exodus that flooded Florida's social
services.

Cuban authorities are ignoring the departure of people from the island, as long
as they set off in their own vessels.

Almost 3,500 people have been picked up by the U.S. Coast Guard so far in
August, nearly the total number for all of 1993. Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles
declared a state of emergency on Thursday.

Cuban President Fidel Castro, reacting to a spate of hijackings of state-owned
vessels, warned two weeks ago that Cuba would no longer put obstacles in the way
of Cubans trying to leave the island by boat, or of their relatives in Florida
coming to pick them up, if Washington did not change its immigration policy.

Under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, Cubans who left the island without
papers -- generally in rafts or flimsy boats -- were automatically allowed to
stay in the United States.

Havana has long complained that this legislation stimulated illegal exits, since
Washington at the same time restricted the number of visas it granted.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              350 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 22, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Crowds Protest Detention of Cuban Refugees

Reuter

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 21, 1994


Police today blocked off streets leading to the immigration center where Cuban
refugees were being detained, after angry crowds demonstrated there Saturday.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service also began to allow relatives to
visit the more than 400 Cubans at Krome Detention Center, just outside Miami.
Busloads of Cuban exiles with proof that they were related to refugees housed at
Krome were being allowed into the center.

Cubans who arrived in south Florida by sea were being detained for the first
time in 28 years under a dramatic policy shift the Clinton administration
announced late Thursday.

The new policy -- which includes detention of Cuban refugees who reach U.S. soil
and removal to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba of those picked up at sea --
has met with a mixed response in the Miami area.

Of the 1.1 million people of Cuban descent in the United States, more than half
live in and around this city. Miami's Cuban exile community is a vibrant and
powerful political and economic force.

Crowds gathered in Miami's Little Havana neighborhood holding anti-Clinton signs
and chanting, "Miami, Si! Guantanamo, No!"


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE OFFICERS FRISK A GROUP OF
CUBANS SATURDAY IN FLORIDA. THEY WERE TAKEN TO A DETENTION CENTER NEAR MIAMI.
REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              351 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 06, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Naturalized Selection

ART BUCHWALD, Los Angeles Times Syndicate

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 417 words


Now, are we all agreed that children of legal aliens should not get any welfare
or medical benefits under the "Contract With America"? Good, because there are a
few people who accuse Americans of being mean-spirited to do this, and I
personally resent such an accusation.

If alien kids want to get medical care or free food, they should become
Americans like the rest of us. This country is broke, and we are never going to
get a capital gains tax cut until children of legal aliens carry their own
water.

While the bill has been passed by the House, the mechanics of how to prevent our
young ones from getting a free lunch have not been worked out.

A good scenario might go something like this:

Little Gerard Occhiuzzo is crying in class because his tooth hurts. The teacher
sends him to the nurse's office where she, by law, must ask him to produce proof
of American citizenship and an autographed picture of Newt Gingrich.

While holding his aching jaw, Gerard admits that he is the child of legal
resident aliens.

The nurse tells him, "According to the House of Representatives, I cannot treat
your tooth. What kind of country would we be if we permitted every alien child
in this nation to go to a dentist?"

By this time Gerard is sobbing with pain. But the nurse has no choice. Her
orders are not to treat small noncitizens who are trying to cheat the government
out of hundreds of millions of dollars.

Gerard tries to explain: "My parents have paid taxes for over 10 years, and my
father served in the Army in Desert Storm."

"Don't confuse the issue," the nurse says. "I think I better call my congressman
and find out what to do about you."

The nurse calls Rep. Floogleman, who is on the House floor trying to convince
his fellow members that legal aliens should not be permitted to use U.S. Park
Service restrooms.

As soon as he comes off the floor, the congressman takes her call. She tells him
what's going on. "The child seems to be in tremendous pain."

"Alien kids don't have any moral fiber. I forbid you to give him an aspirin,"
Rep. Floogleman says.

The nurse looks over at Gerard. "Is it okay to let him have an ice pack?"

"Not one ice cube. You don't know legal aliens the way I do. You give them an
inch and they'll take a kilometer. Send the boy home and let his mother figure
out what to do. What's his nationality?"

"He's Brazilian."

"Then tell him to go to a Brazilian dentist and leave the Novocain for American
children who earned it."

LOAD-DATE: April 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
