
                               1 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 14, 2011 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Arizona countersuit raises tensions on immigration

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 783 words


Even as the federal lawsuit challenging Arizona's strict immigration law remains
tied up in an appellate court, tensions over the case have ratcheted up, with
the state firing a legal shot back at the Obama administration.

Gov. Jan Brewer (R) filed the unusual countersuit last week against the federal
government, accusing it of failing to secure the southwest border against a tide
of illegal immigrants. The lawsuit, or counterclaim, was filed as part of the
same case in which the Justice Department is seeking to have the Arizona law
declared unconstitutional.

The department sued Arizona in July over the immigration law, which empowers
police to question people who they suspect are in the country illegally. The law
has triggered a fierce national debate. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th
Circuit is considering whether to allow the measure's most contested provisions
to take effect.

"We did not want this fight. We did not start this fight,'' Brewer said as she
announced the state's countersuit Thursday at a news conference in Phoenix
attended by a handful of protesters. "But, now that we are in it, Arizona will
not rest until our border is secured and federal immigration laws are enforced."

The state's lawsuit names Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, who preceded Brewer as governor. A Justice
Department spokesman declined to comment, but Matt Chandler, a spokesman for
Napolitano, called the lawsuit "a meritless court claim" that "does nothing to
secure the border.''

Obama administration officials say they have heightened security along the
border through measures such as the Southwest Border Initiative launched in
2009.

Legal experts say Arizona has little chance of winning the lawsuit, which seeks
a judgment declaring the government in violation of its obligation to secure the
border and compensation for Arizona's costs for detaining illegal immigrants.
The state says illegal immigrants account for more than 14 percent of its prison
population.

Lawsuits against the federal government are barred in most circumstances under a
doctrine known as "sovereign immunity,'' and Arizona lost a similar lawsuit it
filed over federal immigration enforcement in the mid-1990s. The 9th Circuit
upheld a lower court's dismissal of that case, partly on sovereign immunity
grounds.

"They lost then, and I think they're going to lose now,' said Louis Moffa, a law
professor at Rutgers University who is an expert on immigration and
constitutional law. He said the suit "makes some forceful arguments, but it's a
political lawsuit.''

Even Arizona Attorney General Tom Horne (R), who joined Brewer in the lawsuit,
said in an interview, "There are prior cases that went against us. We're asking
the 9th Circuit to take a second look.''

Whatever its legal merits, the lawsuit reignited the political passions about
the Arizona law, which was signed in April amid praise from some conservatives
and condemnation from civil rights groups.

Other states had vowed to copy Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigration, but a
number of similar bills nationwide have stalled in recent months or are being
reworked.

A coalition of civil rights groups that also is suing Arizona over the new
immigration law said in a statement that the state's countersuit "is a political
stunt" and "a legal sideshow that will do nothing to increase border security.''

But Horne said the countersuit is needed because an influx of illegal immigrants
who are narcotics traffickers and have committed other crimes is putting Arizona
residents at risk.

"I want the federal government to start doing its job of protecting the border
because Arizona is suffering very severely  in a way that might be hard for
people in Washington to understand,'' he said.

In its lawsuit against Arizona, the Justice Department argues that the state
statute is "preempted" by federal law because immigration enforcement is solely
a federal prerogative. Attorneys for Arizona say the law is constitutional.

U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton in July put on hold the most contested parts
of the Arizona law. Those provisions would require police to check immigration
status if they stop someone while enforcing other laws, allow for warrantless
arrests of suspected illegal immigrants and criminalize the failure of legal
immigrants to carry their documentation.

Arizona appealed that ruling, and a three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit held a
hearing in San Francisco in November. It is not known when the panel will issue
a ruling. The case is expected to wind up back before Bolton in federal court in
Phoenix, where it will proceed along with Arizona's countersuit.

markonj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Appeals court deals blowto Ariz. immigration law

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 841 words


A federal appeals court ruled Monday that the most contested provisions of an
Arizona immigration law passed last year will remain blocked from taking effect,
handing the Obama administration a victory in its efforts to overturn the
legislation.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit upheld a lower court ruling that
put on hold key provisions of the Arizona law, which empowers police to question
people whom they have a "reasonable suspicion" are illegal immigrants. The
measure has triggered a fierce national debate, and the legal case is being
watched by other states and advocates on both sides of the issue.

In a split decision, a three-judge panel found that U.S. District Judge Susan R.
Bolton "did not abuse" her discretion in blocking parts of the law that, among
other things, require police to check immigration status if they stop someone
while enforcing other laws.

The court ruled only on Bolton's order, not on whether the Arizona measure is
legal, and the Justice Department's move to have the law thrown out will
proceed.

But the judges gave strong indications that they accept the administration's
argument that the legislation is unconstitutional and that they would rule that
way in the end.

"The Arizona statute before us has become a symbol,'' Judge John T. Noonan wrote
in a concurring opinion. "For those sympathetic to immigrants to the United
States, it is a challenge and a chilling foretaste of what other states might
attempt.''

Judge Richard A. Paez, who wrote the majority opinion, used strong language as
he appeared to endorse the administration's position that Arizona's law intrudes
on federal immigration enforcement and is "preempted" by federal law.

"Arizona has attempted to hijack a discretionary role that Congress delegated to
the Executive,'' the decision said, adding that the Arizona law would "usurp"
the U.S. attorney general's role in directing any state enforcement of federal
immigration laws.

Judge Carlos T. Bea dissented from parts of the ruling.

The decision, the first appellate action on the much debated law that Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer (R) signed in April 2010, makes it highly likely that the
Justice Department will prevail in the 9th Circuit, which has a majority of
Democratic-appointed judges, legal experts said.

"I believe this will control the outcome of the case,'' said Louis Moffa, a
professor at Rutgers School of Law and an expert on immigration and
constitutional law. "The court's language is pretty stark.''

Extended struggle

The ruling is also one of the first steps in a legal struggle expected to play
out over several years. Brewer has vowed to take the case to the U.S. Supreme
Court and could appeal Monday's decision to a larger 9th Circuit panel.

In a joint statement, Brewer and Arizona Attorney General Tom Horne (R) said
they are "considering their legal options" and that they remain confident the
law will eventually be found constitutional. Monday's ruling "does harm to the
safety and well-being of Arizonans who suffer the negative effects of illegal
immigration,'' they said.

Justice Department spokesman Matthew Miller said the department is "pleased with
the court's decision.''

The decision did not break down along strict partisan lines. Paez is a
Democratic appointee, but Noonan was appointed by President Ronald Reagan, a
Republican. Bea is a Republican appointee who tends to vote with the court's
conservative wing.

Objections raised

In her July ruling, Bolton blocked provisions of the Arizona law that also allow
for warrantless arrests of suspected illegal immigrants and would criminalize
the failure of immigrants to carry registration papers.

Civil rights groups and federal lawyers had objected to those provisions in
particular, while Arizona officials defended them as necessary to fight illegal
immigration.

Bolton allowed other provisions to take effect. including one making it a crime
to obstruct traffic to pick up day laborers.

The Justice Department lawsuit, filed in July, was a rare assertion of federal
power that sets up a clash with a state on one of the nation's most divisive
political issues. The lawsuit said the Arizona measure conflicts with federal
law, would disrupt immigration enforcement and would lead to police harassment
of those who cannot prove their lawful status.

Arizona has defended the law's constitutionality and accused the federal
government of refusing to solve the state's illegal immigration problem.

Lawmakers across the country had vowed to copy Arizona's strict crackdown, but
state budget deficits coupled with the federal challenge and the political
backlash have made passage of such statutes uncertain.

Omar Jadwat, an attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union - which
represents civil rights groups also challenging the Arizona law - said Monday's
ruling would probably affect states still considering such laws.

"It sends a very clear message that what Arizona tried to do just can't be done
in a constitutional way,'' he said. "It would be folly not to pay attention to
that.''

markonj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 3, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 476 words

ARIZONA

Donations soughtfor border fence

Arizona, whose immigration law sparked a lawsuit by the Obama administration and
national boycotts, aims to collect tens of millions of dollars in private
donations to build a border fence with inmate labor.

The plan, created by lawmakers and signed into law by Gov. Jan Brewer (R) in
April, would turn donations over to a group of Republican legislators, political
appointees and four county sheriffs who have criticized U.S. efforts on illegal
immigration. They say the fence is needed to stop an "invasion" that may include
violent criminals and Middle Eastern terrorists disguised as Mexicans.

The campaign is ratcheting up rhetoric between the state and the federal
government over border security. It is modeled after a similar effort by Brewer
that taps into nationwide discontent over U.S. policy to pay for the defense of
Arizona's immigration law. The campaign, Keep Arizona Safe, has raised more than
$3.8 million from about 45,000 donations since June 2010, said Matthew Benson, a
spokesman for Brewer.

For the border fence, more than $146,000 has been collected from about 3,000
private donors from every state since fundraising began July 20.

- Bloomberg News

NEW JERSEY

Politician resigning over nude photos

A Democratic politician who e-mailed a woman nude photos of himself that were
later posted on a Republican activist's Web site says he is resigning and he
will pursue all legal options to have the pictures taken down.

In an e-mailed statement Tuesday, Cumberland County Freeholder Louis Magazzu,
53, apologized to his family, friends and constituents. Magazzu says he has been
separated from his wife for about two years.

Magazzu, who says he has been an elected county official since 1997, said he
sent the photos to a woman with whom he corresponded online for several years.
He said she requested the photos and that he didn't know she was "working with
an avowed political enemy."

- Associated Press

Ex-mayor free on parole: Former Detroit mayor Kwame Kilpatrick (D) walked out of
prison early Tuesday offering big smiles and a bear hug for a relative there to
greet him. He's free on parole but facing a federal corruption trial that could
send him back behind bars. He will rejoin his wife and three sons near Dallas.

Wash. tribe recognizes gay marriage: The Suquamish Tribal Council in Washington
state has adopted a law recognizing gay marriage, making it only the second
tribe in the country known to do so.

Katrina case goes to jury: Hurricane Katrina gave no excuse for the carnage on a
New Orleans bridge where police shot and killed two unarmed people and wounded
four others in 2005, a prosecutor said in closing arguments Tuesday at the trial
of five current or former officers. After several hours of closing arguments,
jurors were expected to begin deliberations Wednesday.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 3, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 490 words


ARIZONA          Donations soughtfor border fence

Arizona, whose immigration law sparked a lawsuit by the Obama administration and
national boycotts, aims to collect tens of millions of dollars in private
donations to build a border fence with inmate labor.

The plan, created by lawmakers and signed into law by Gov. Jan Brewer (R) in
April, would turn donations over to a group of Republican legislators, political
appointees and four county sheriffs who have criticized U.S. efforts on illegal
immigration. They say the fence is needed to stop an "invasion" that may include
violent criminals and Middle Eastern terrorists disguised as Mexicans.

The campaign is ratcheting up rhetoric between the state and the federal
government over border security. It is modeled after a similar effort by Brewer
that taps into nationwide discontent over U.S. policy to pay for the defense of
Arizona's immigration law. The campaign, Keep Arizona Safe, has raised more than
$3.8 million from about 45,000 donations since June 2010, said Matthew Benson, a
spokesman for Brewer.

For the border fence, more than $146,000 has been collected from about 3,000
private donors from every state since fundraising began July 20.

- Bloomberg News

NEW JERSEY          Politician resigning over nude photos

A Democratic politician who e-mailed a woman nude photos of himself that were
later posted on a Republican activist's Web site says he is resigning and he
will pursue all legal options to have the pictures taken down.

In an e-mailed statement Tuesday, Cumberland County Freeholder Louis Magazzu,
53, apologized to his family, friends and constituents. Magazzu says he has been
separated from his wife for about two years.

Magazzu, who says he has been an elected county official since 1997, said he
sent the photos to a woman with whom he corresponded online for several years.
He said she requested the photos and that he didn't know she was "working with
an avowed political enemy."

- Associated Press

Ex-mayor free on parole: Former Detroit mayor Kwame Kilpatrick (D) walked out of
prison early Tuesday offering big smiles and a bear hug for a relative there to
greet him. He's free on parole but facing a federal corruption trial that could
send him back behind bars. He will rejoin his wife and three sons near Dallas.

Wash. tribe recognizes gay marriage: The Suquamish Tribal Council in Washington
state has adopted a law recognizing gay marriage, making it only the second
tribe in the country known to do so.

Katrina case goes to jury: Hurricane Katrina gave no excuse for the carnage on a
New Orleans bridge where police shot and killed two unarmed people and wounded
four others in 2005, a prosecutor said in closing arguments Tuesday at the trial
of five current or former officers. After several hours of closing arguments,
jurors were expected to begin deliberations Wednesday.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 30, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Justice targets laws like Arizona's

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1270 words


The Obama administration is escalating its crackdown on tough immigration laws,
with lawyers reviewing four new state statutes to determine whether the federal
government will take the extraordinary step of challenging the measures in
court.

Justice Department lawyers have sued Arizona and Alabama, where a federal judge
on Wednesday allowed key parts of that state's immigration law to take effect
but blocked other provisions. Federal lawyers are talking to Utah officials
about a third possible lawsuit and are considering legal challenges in Georgia,
Indiana and South Carolina, according to court documents and government
officials.

The level of federal intervention is highly unusual, legal experts said,
especially because civil rights groups already have sued most of those states.
Typically, the government files briefs or seeks to intervene in other lawsuits
filed against state statutes.

"I don't recall any time in history that the Justice Department has so
aggressively challenged state laws," said Jonathan Turley, a constitutional law
expert at George Washington University Law School.

The legal skirmishing comes as immigration emerges as a defining issue in the
presidential campaign and Hispanic voters play an increasingly influential role.
Most Republican candidates are calling for a hard line on the nation's estimated
12 million illegal immigrants - and criticizing Texas Gov. Rick Perry for some
of his positions on the issue.

President Obama is staking out a position on the other side. He told a
roundtable of Latino reporters Wednesday that Arizona's immigration law created
"a great danger that naturalized citizens, individuals with Latino surnames,
potentially could be vulnerable to questioning. The laws could be potentially
abused in ways that were not fair to Latino citizens."

The Arizona law that passed last year - requiring police to check immigration
status if they stop someone while enforcing other laws - triggered a fierce
national debate. A Justice Department lawsuit led federal courts to block that
measure's most contested provisions, but similar laws have been approved in
recent months in Alabama, Utah, Georgia, Indiana and South Carolina. At least 17
other states have considered such measures this year.

Although Wednesday's ruling in Alabama was something of a setback, the Justice
Department and civil rights groups have been on a winning streak. The American
Civil Liberties Union and other groups have obtained rulings temporarily
blocking all or key parts of immigration laws in Utah, Georgia and Indiana, with
Republican- and Democratic-appointed judges blasting the measures as devoid of
due-process protections or for targeting illegal immigrants.

Now, the administration is under pressure from some quarters to intervene in
those states, as well as in South Carolina, where a new immigration law is set
to take effect Jan. 1. Civil rights groups have been lobbying the executive
branch, according to people familiar with the effort, and the ACLU is
circulating an online petition calling for federal lawsuits.

Utah, by contrast, is urging the government to stay out of court. Mark
Shurtleff, Utah's Republican attorney general, has met with senior Justice
officials, who he said are considering whether to join the civil rights lawsuit
as a plaintiff.

"We believe our defense is much better if the Justice Department is not the one
saying our law is superseded by federal law," said Shurtleff, who added that
Utah "worked very hard and carefully to make our law different from Arizona" so
it is constitutional.

Conservatives have criticized the Obama administration for suing Arizona, and
some legal observers said they detect political motives in the administration's
additional legal steps. The White House has been trying to rekindle excitement
among Hispanic voters, many of whom have been disappointed over Obama's
immigration policies.

Justice officials have denied any political motives and said they are proceeding
based on the facts and the law. Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.
have been critical of the state measures, with the president also telling
Wednesday's roundtable, "We can't have a patchwork of 50 states with 50
different immigration laws."

Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said lawyers are reviewing
the Utah, Indiana, Georgia and South Carolina laws and the "legal principles"
established in the Arizona case.

"Based on that review and applying those principles, the United States will
decide whether and when to bring suit challenging particular state laws,"
Hinojosa said.

Hovering over the debate is the possible involvement of the Supreme Court. The
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled in April that the most contested
parts of Arizona's immigration law will remain blocked from taking effect, and
the high court could decide to hear the case this term. That would mean a
decision before the 2012 presidential election.

"My guess is that they will take it," said Jonathan Benner, a Washington lawyer
who has argued numerous cases involving federal-state conflicts. "This is the
kind of case that is most interesting to the Supreme Court."

Other state statutes include provisions such as authorizing police to question
people's immigration status in certain circumstances, limiting the ability of
immigrants to use some forms of ID and criminalizing the harboring of illegal
immigrants.

The Justice Department and civil rights groups are arguing that the laws will
lead to harassment of immigrants or racial profiling and that they are
"preempted" under federal law, which gives the U.S. government control of
immigration enforcement.

"You'd have to be crazy to pass one of these laws, knowing you're buying
yourself an enormous lawsuit," said Cecillia D. Wang, director of the ACLU
Immigrants' Rights Project. She called the Alabama statute, signed into law in
June, "by far the most draconian and extreme."

The Justice Department and a coalition of civil rights groups sued over the law,
which requires public school officials to determine citizenship by seeking
children's birth certificates. Civil rights advocates say that will keep some
children out of school because their parents will fear being deported.

On Wednesday, U.S. District Judge Sharon Blackburn allowed that provision to
take effect, along with other elements of the law, until she can issue a final
ruling. But she temporarily blocked other provisions, including those making it
a crime for illegal immigrants to solicit work or to transport or harbor illegal
immigrants.

Alabama lawyers have backed the law's constitutionality, and Gov. Robert Bentley
(R) on Wednesday called it "the strongest immigration law in the country." Other
states also have defended their laws.

But some judges have been highly critical. In Indiana, U.S. District Judge Sarah
Evans Barker in June blocked the two most contested parts of that state's law.
The provisions would authorize warrantless arrests of illegal immigrants in
certain circumstances and make it a crime to accept an identification card used
by many immigrants.

Barker, an appointee of President Ronald Reagan, called the law "seriously
flawed" and said parts of the state's defense were "entirely fanciful."

Indiana officials are defending their law, and Greg Zoeller (R), the state's
attorney general, said the judge's ruling "can be seen as an indictment of the
federal government on their failure to enact and enforce immigration policy."

markonj@washpost.com

Staff writer David Nakamura contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Flaws in immigration law

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 445 words


I have to disagree with part of Lee Hockstader's otherwise fine Washington Forum
commentary on Utah's new immigration law ["Immigration reform the 'Utah Way,'"
March 11].  Mr. Hockstader said the law, which grants Utah's   undocumented
employees guest-worker permits   but also requires police to toughen interior
enforcement, is primarily a challenge to the national GOP. Actually, it's a
challenge to both parties, but especially to the Obama administration.

President Obama has insisted that states such as Utah cannot make and enforce
their immigration laws, but, in effect, Utah is proposing to do just that. It's
also doing it in a manner that is far more reaching and precedent-setting than
the notorious Arizona law that is the target of a Justice Department lawsuit.
Utah will need a waiver from the federal government to manage its guest-worker
program, but if Mr. Obama grants it, he'll be undermining his administration's
Arizona case.

Second, this law is not, as Mr. Hockstader implied, a de facto amnesty. The Utah
legislature turned aside a competing bill that would have allowed undocumented
immigrants to be granted a de facto "amnesty" if they simply agreed to register
with local authorities. Supporters of that more liberal approach opposed the
guest-worker program because it gives undocumented immigrants only provisional
legal status. Mr. Hockstader left out this important fact.

Stewart J. Lawrence, Bethesda

l

Lee Hockstader sees hope for a breakthrough on immigration policy in recent Utah
legislation, but he understated the dangers. There already is a federal program
allowing agricultural employers to bring in guest workers on seasonal work
visas, the H-2A program. It requires state agency involvement.

It is unclear why Utah would spend more tax dollars and create more bureaucracy
on a pilot project to recruit foreign workers. Although the project would have
to comply with federal law, it could be used to attempt to lower wages and
reduce government efforts to stop abuses in the troubled guest-worker program.

We applaud Utah's recognition that a realistic policy should grant law-abiding
undocumented workers the opportunity to earn legal status, but it is not wise to
adopt a guest worker model. Guest workers' restricted "non-immigrant" status
deprives them of bargaining power, which encourages employers to prefer guest
workers and helps keep wages low.

The lack of a chance to earn a true immigration status and citizenship deprives
such people of the right to vote and the opportunity to integrate into our
communities. That's not good for farmworkers or for Utah.

Bruce Goldstein, Washington

The writer is president of Farmworker Justice.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 7, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 401 words

The Supreme Court on Monday:

lOrdereda federal appeals court to reconsider its ruling preventing the city of
Hazleton, Pa., from enforcing regulations that would deny permits to businesses
that hire illegal immigrants and find landlords who rent to them.

The justices, citing their recent decision upholding an Arizona
employer-sanctionslaw, threw out the ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
3rd Circuit.

Hazleton's Illegal Immigration Relief Act inspired similar laws across the
country, including the one in Arizona.

Hazleton, a northeastern Pennsylvania city of about 25,000, wants to fine
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants and deny business permits to companies
that give them jobs. A companion measure requires prospective tenants to
register with City Hall and pay for a rental permit.

l Rejected a challenge to a California policy that gives tuition breaks to
illegal immigrants to attend public colleges and universities.

The justices refused to review a California Supreme Court rulingthat upheld a
state law giving California high school graduates reduced tuition at state
schools, regardless of their immigration status. The court did not comment on
its action.

The law's challengers say it conflicts with federal immigration law that
prohibits post-secondary education aid to illegal immigrants.

Eleven other states grant similar benefits to illegal immigrants. They are:
Illinois, Kansas, Maryland, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma, Texas,
Utah, Washington and Wisconsin.

l Turned down appeals from Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn (D) and former senator Roland
Burris and let stand a legal ruling that requires Illinois to hold a special
election whenever a U.S. Senate seat becomes vacant.

The case grew out of the controversy that arose when then-Sen. Barack Obama was
elected president in November 2008 and then-Gov. Rod Blagojevich appointed
Burris to serve the remainder of Obama's term.

Shortly afterward, two Illinois voters sued in federal court, arguing that the
17th Amendment required the state to hold a special election as soon as
possible.

They eventually won before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit in
Chicago. But by then, a new senator, Mark Kirk (R), had been elected by voters,
and Burris had left office. In a one-line order Monday, the high court said it
dismissed appeals from Quinn and Burris and it would not review the matter.

- From wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 522 words

ALABAMA

Governor signs immigration law

Gov. Robert Bentley (R) signed a far-reaching law Thursday that is being
described by both sides of the immigration debate as the nation's strictest
anti-illegal immigration law, surpassing even Arizona's SB 1070.

The law bans illegal immigrants from receiving any state or local public
benefits; bars them from enrolling in or attending college; and prohibits them
from applying for or soliciting work.

It also requires that police, during any lawful "stop, detention or arrest,"
make a "reasonable attempt" to determine a person's citizenship and immigration
status, given a "reasonable suspicion" that the person is an illegal immigrant -
unless doing so would hinder an investigation.

Public elementary and secondary schools will be required to determine whether
students are illegal immigrants. Although the law will not bar them from
schools, it requires every school district to submit an annual report on the
number of presumed illegal immigrants to the state education board.

And the law outlaws harboring and transporting illegal immigrants, renting them
property and "knowingly" employing them within the state. It also makes it a
"discriminatory practice" to fire or fail to hire a legal resident when an
illegal one is on the payroll.

According to the Pew Hispanic Center, Alabama in 2010 was home to about 120,000
"unauthorized immigrants," up from an estimated 5,000 in 1990.

- Los Angeles Times

ARIZONA

Top aide details Giffords's recovery

Rep. Gabrielle Giffords's top aide says that the Arizona Democrat struggles to
communicate, and it remains unclear five months after Giffords was shot in the
head whether she will be able to return to work.

Chief of Staff Pia Carusone said that Giffords uses hand gestures and facial
expressions to communicate because she struggles to find words and form
sentences.

The aide said Giffords has until May to decide whether she will return to
Congress.

Carusone provided the most up-to-date details on Giffords's condition in an
interview published Thursday in the Arizona Republic.

Giffords survived a shooting rampage in January that killed six people and
wounded 12 others at a Tucson event.

- Associated Press

CALIFORNIA

Men found guiltyof killing journalist

An Oakland jury on Thursday found two men guilty of murder in the brazen daytime
shooting of the first American journalist killed on U.S. soil for reporting a
story in more than a decade.

Antoine Mackey and Yusuf Bey IV, the former head of Your Black Muslim Bakery,
were convicted in the August 2007 shooting of Chauncey Bailey while he walked to
the Oakland Post, where he was investigating the financial woes of Bey's group.

Founded by Bey's father, the bakery, which promoted self-empowerment, became an
institution in Oakland's black community. In recent years, the organization was
tainted by connections to criminal activity.

Prosecutors said that Bey was so desperate to protect the legacy of his family's
once-influential bakery that he ordered Bailey killed. The Oakland Post editor
had been working on a story about the organization's finances as it moved toward
bankruptcy.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 524 words

GEORGIA

Judge blocks partsof immigration law

A federal judge on Monday blocked parts of Georgia's law cracking down on
illegal immigration from taking effect until a legal challenge is resolved.

The elements blocked by District Judge Thomas Thrash include penalties for
people who knowingly and willingly transport or harbor illegal immigrants while
committing another crime. He also blocked provisions that authorize officers to
verify the immigration status of someone who cannot provide proper
identification.

Thrash wrote that, in parts of the law, the state is enforcing immigration law
that should be left to the federal government.

Most of the law was to go into effect Friday.

- Associated Press

WISCONSIN

Warring justicesprompt investigation

A fight between Wisconsin's divided Supreme Court justices led Monday to a
criminal investigation into the matter.

Justice Ann Walsh Bradley has accused Justice David Prosser of trying to choke
her during an argument in her state Capitol office on June 13. Prosser has
denied the allegations.

Dane County Sheriff David Mahoney said his office opened an investigation into
the incident at the request of the Capitol Police, which have jurisdiction in
the building where the argument took place.

The state judicial commission, which oversees judicial conduct, also announced
that it had opened an investigation.

Gov. Scott Walker (R) joined others in expressing concern that the infighting
had hurt public confidence in the court. Walker told a Milwaukee radio station
that the justices must settle their differences.

- Associated Press

MASSACHUSETTS

Gangster tells agents of trips to Boston

Notorious gangster James "Whitey" Bulger has told agents who arrested him last
week that he returned to Boston "armed to the teeth" several times during his 16
years on the run so he could "take care of some unfinished business."

Federal prosecutors said in a memo that Bulger refused to say who he visited in
Boston.

Bulger also admitted to having been a frequent traveler while a fugitive, saying
he went to Las Vegas several times.to play slot machines.

- Associated Press

FLORIDA

Screeners targetedill woman's diaper

The family of a gravely ill 95-year-old woman says that federal inspectors would
not let her board a plane because her diaper was wet, setting off alarms.

The woman ultimately took off the diaper so she could be cleared in time for her
flight.

The Transportation Security Administration said that its inspectors handled the
situation correctly and professionally and did not require the woman to remove
her diaper.

- Associated Press

Fire forces Los Alamos evacuation: Thousands of Los Alamos, N.M., residents
calmly left their homes Monday, ahead of an approaching wildfire that sent up
towering plumes of smoke and sparked a spot fire on the property of Los Alamos
National Laboratory. Lab officials said that no contamination was released.

Calif. congresswoman to retire: Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-Calif.) said Monday that
she will retire next year after two decades in Congress. A former Petaluma city
councilwoman, Woolsey became known for her opposition to the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Federal suit challenges Ala. immigration law

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 283 words


The Obama administration sued Monday to block enforcement of Alabama's new
immigration law, widely considered to be the toughest among several measures
passed by states to crack down on illegal immigrants.

The law, H.B. 56, was signed by Gov. Robert Bentley (R) in June and is due to
take effect Sept. 1. Civil rights groups brought a separate lawsuit challenging
the law about a month ago.

"If allowed to go into effect, H.B. 56's enforcement scheme will conflict with
and undermine the federal government's careful balance of immigration
enforcement priorities and objectives," administration lawyers said in the
lawsuit, filed in federal court.

"The scheme will cause the detention and harassment of authorized visitors,
immigrants, and citizens who do not have or carry identification documents
specified by the statute, or who otherwise will be swept into the ambit of H.B.
56's enforcement-at-all-costs approach," the suit said.

The administration, which sought an injunction to block the law from taking
effect, argued that the U.S. Constitution bars the state from adopting its own
immigration regime that interferes with the federal immigration system.

There are an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States.

Conservatives have complained that the Obama administration has failed to
sufficiently stop the flow of illegal immigrants into the country.

Attempts to overhaul federal immigration policy have gone nowhere in Congress.

Georgia, Arizona, Utah and Indiana were already defending new immigration laws
in federal court.

The Obama administration sued to block Arizona's tough law last year, and courts
have also put the laws in Georgia, Indiana and Utah temporarily on hold.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 436 words

Alabama

Obama aims to block immigration law

Lawyers for the Obama administration asked a federal judge Wednesday to
temporarily block Alabama's immigration law, widely seen as the toughest state
measure on illegal immigration in the country.

The law, set to take effect Sept. 1, requires police to detain anyone they
suspect of being in the United States illegally if the person cannot produce
proper documentation when stopped for any reason.

The law will also make it a crime to knowingly transport or harbor an illegal
immigrant and requires public schools to determine, by reviewing birth
certificates or sworn affidavits, the legal residency statuses of students upon
enrollment.

The administration argues that the Constitution bars states from adopting
immigration measures that conflict with federal laws. There are about 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States.

Georgia, Utah and Indiana are also defending new immigration laws in federal
court. The Obama administration successfully sued to block Arizona's law last
year.

- Reuters

NEW YORK

Weapons suspect's remarks suppressed

A judge has agreed to suppress statements that a man suspected of being an arms
dealer made to U.S. investigators before he was transferred from Thailand to New
York.

Federal Judge Shira Scheindlin ruled Wednesday that Viktor Bout's statements to
investigators weren't made voluntarily.

Bout has been blamed for fueling deadly Third World conflicts with powerful
weapons. He says he is a legitimate businessman and has pleaded not guilty to
conspiracy charges that carry a possible life term.

- Associated Press

VIRGINIA

Officer can stay in Navy despite videos

The former commander of the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise can remain in the
Navy, despite a finding that he committed misconduct in producing raunchy
videos, a Navy panel ruled Wednesday.

The board of inquiry found that Capt. Owen P. Honors committed conduct
unbecoming a naval officer, failure to demonstrate acceptable qualities of
leadership and substandard performance. The board did not elaborate on why
Honors should remain in the Navy. The government had been asking that Honors be
honorably discharged.

Honors helped produce and appeared in the videos that aired on the ship's
closed-circuit television network between October 2005 and December 2007, when
he was the ship's executive officer.

He said the videos were made to improve morale while teaching important
shipboard lessons, such as water conservation. Among other things, the videos
included simulated same-sex shower scenes, anti-gay slurs and references to
prostitution in foreign ports.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Alabama law doesn't discriminate

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 218 words


The Aug. 28 editorial "Alabama's travesty" suggested that Alabama's immigration
law is aimed at minorities. The law is aimed at immigrants who are illegal. If
it's enforced against all violators equally, how is that discriminatory?

Twenty-four million Americans are unemployed or cannot find full-time work.
Meanwhile, 7 million illegal immigrants work in the United States. Americans
want to see our immigration laws enforced to open up these jobs and deter
illegal immigration. Because the Obama administration has not enforced all
federal immigration laws, many states have sought to enforce their own laws to
protect American citizens and legal immigrants.

Congress and the administration can help unemployed American workers and greatly
reduce illegal immigration - without the need for state laws - by passing and
signing a mandatory E-Verify bill. E-Verify, a Web-based employment verification
program, protects jobs for legal workers and helps reduce the jobs magnet that
encourages illegal immigration. Most important, E-Verify protects against
discrimination. It doesn't ask race or creed - it merely checks a worker's name,
birth date and Social Security number.

Elton Gallegly, Washington

The writer, a California Republican, is chairman of the House subcommittee on
immigration policy and enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 7, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 417 words


The Supreme Court on Monday:

l  Ordered a federal appeals court to reconsider its ruling preventing the city
of Hazleton, Pa., from enforcing regulations that would deny permits to
businesses that hire illegal immigrants and find landlords who rent to them.

The justices, citing their recent decision upholding an Arizona
employer-sanctions law, threw out the ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the 3rd Circuit.

Hazleton's Illegal Immigration Relief Act inspired similar laws across the
country, including the one in Arizona.

Hazleton, a northeastern Pennsylvania city of about 25,000, wants to fine
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants and deny business permits to companies
that give them jobs. A companion measure requires prospective tenants to
register with City Hall and pay for a rental permit.

l Rejected a challenge to a California policy that gives tuition breaks to
illegal immigrants to attend public colleges and universities.

The justices refused to review a California Supreme Court ruling that upheld a
state law giving California high school graduates reduced tuition at state
schools, regardless of their immigration status. The court did not comment on
its action.

The law's challengers say it conflicts with federal immigration law that
prohibits post-secondary education aid to illegal immigrants.

Eleven other states grant similar benefits to illegal immigrants. They are:
Illinois, Kansas, Maryland, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma, Texas,
Utah, Washington and Wisconsin.

l Turned down appeals from Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn (D) and former senator Roland
Burris and let stand a legal ruling that requires Illinois to hold a special
election whenever a U.S. Senate seat becomes vacant.

The case grew out of the controversy that arose when then-Sen. Barack Obama was
elected president in November 2008 and then-Gov. Rod Blagojevich appointed
Burris to serve the remainder of Obama's term.

Shortly afterward, two Illinois voters sued in federal court, arguing that the
17th Amendment required the state to hold a special election as soon as
possible.

They eventually won before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit in
Chicago. But by then, a new senator, Mark Kirk (R), had been elected by voters,
and Burris had left office. In a one-line order Monday, the high court said it
dismissed appeals from Quinn and Burris and it would not review the matter.

- From wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 10, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 543 words


ALABAMA          Governor signs immigration law

Gov. Robert Bentley (R) signed a far-reaching law Thursday that is being
described by both sides of the immigration debate as the nation's strictest
anti-illegal immigration law, surpassing even Arizona's SB 1070.

The law bans illegal immigrants from receiving any state or local public
benefits; bars them from enrolling in or attending college; and prohibits them
from applying for or soliciting work.

It also requires that police, during any lawful "stop, detention or arrest,"
make a "reasonable attempt" to determine a person's citizenship and immigration
status, given a "reasonable suspicion" that the person is an illegal immigrant -
unless doing so would hinder an investigation.

Public elementary and secondary schools will be required to determine whether
students are illegal immigrants. Although the law will not bar them from
schools, it requires every school district to submit an annual report on the
number of presumed illegal immigrants to the state education board.

And the law outlaws harboring and transporting illegal immigrants, renting them
property and "knowingly" employing them within the state. It also makes it a
"discriminatory practice" to fire or fail to hire a legal resident when an
illegal one is on the payroll.

According to the Pew Hispanic Center, Alabama in 2010 was home to about 120,000
"unauthorized immigrants," up from an estimated 5,000 in 1990.

- Los Angeles Times

ARIZONA          Top aide details Giffords's recovery

Rep. Gabrielle Giffords's top aide says that the Arizona Democrat struggles to
communicate, and it remains unclear five months after Giffords was shot in the
head whether she will be able to return to work.

Chief of Staff Pia Carusone said that Giffords uses hand gestures and facial
expressions to communicate because she struggles to find words and form
sentences.

The aide said Giffords has until May to decide whether she will return to
Congress.

Carusone provided the most up-to-date details on Giffords's condition in an
interview published Thursday in the Arizona Republic.

Giffords survived a shooting rampage in January that killed six people and
wounded 12 others at a Tucson event.

- Associated Press

CALIFORNIA          Men found guiltyof killing journalist

An Oakland jury on Thursday found two men guilty of murder in the brazen daytime
shooting of the first American journalist killed on U.S. soil for reporting a
story in more than a decade.

Antoine Mackey and Yusuf Bey IV, the former head of Your Black Muslim Bakery,
were convicted in the August 2007 shooting of Chauncey Bailey while he walked to
the Oakland Post, where he was investigating the financial woes of Bey's group.

Founded by Bey's father, the bakery, which promoted self-empowerment, became an
institution in Oakland's black community. In recent years, the organization was
tainted by connections to criminal activity.

Prosecutors said that Bey was so desperate to protect the legacy of his family's
once-influential bakery that he ordered Bailey killed. The Oakland Post editor
had been working on a story about the organization's finances as it moved toward
bankruptcy.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 28, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 554 words


GEORGIA          Judge blocks partsof immigration law

A federal judge on Monday blocked parts of Georgia's law cracking down on
illegal immigration from taking effect until a legal challenge is resolved.

The elements blocked by District Judge Thomas Thrash include penalties for
people who knowingly and willingly transport or harbor illegal immigrants while
committing another crime. He also blocked provisions that authorize officers to
verify the immigration status of someone who cannot provide proper
identification.

Thrash wrote that, in parts of the law, the state is enforcing immigration law
that should be left to the federal government.

Most of the law was to go into effect Friday.

- Associated Press

WISCONSIN          Warring justicesprompt investigation

A fight between Wisconsin's divided Supreme Court justices led Monday to a
criminal investigation into the matter.

Justice Ann Walsh Bradley has accused Justice David Prosser of trying to choke
her during an argument in her state Capitol office on June 13. Prosser has
denied the allegations.

Dane County Sheriff David Mahoney said his office opened an investigation into
the incident at the request of the Capitol Police, which have jurisdiction in
the building where the argument took place.

The state judicial commission, which oversees judicial conduct, also announced
that it had opened an investigation.

Gov. Scott Walker (R) joined others in expressing concern that the infighting
had hurt public confidence in the court. Walker told a Milwaukee radio station
that the justices must settle their differences.

- Associated Press

MASSACHUSETTS          Gangster tells agents of trips to Boston

Notorious gangster James "Whitey" Bulger has told agents who arrested him last
week that he returned to Boston "armed to the teeth" several times during his 16
years on the run so he could "take care of some unfinished business."

Federal prosecutors said in a memo that Bulger refused to say who he visited in
Boston.

Bulger also admitted to having been a frequent traveler while a fugitive, saying
he went to Las Vegas several times.to play slot machines.

- Associated Press

FLORIDA          Screeners targetedill woman's diaper

The family of a gravely ill 95-year-old woman says that federal inspectors would
not let her board a plane because her diaper was wet, setting off alarms.

The woman ultimately took off the diaper so she could be cleared in time for her
flight.

The Transportation Security Administration said that its inspectors handled the
situation correctly and professionally and did not require the woman to remove
her diaper.

- Associated Press

Fire forces Los Alamos evacuation:Thousands of Los Alamos, N.M., residents
calmly left their homes Monday, ahead of an approaching wildfire that sent up
towering plumes of smoke and sparked a spot fire on the property of Los Alamos
National Laboratory. Lab officials said that no contamination was released.

Calif. congresswoman to retire:Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-Calif.) said Monday that she
will retire next year after two decades in Congress. A former Petaluma city
councilwoman, Woolsey became known for her opposition to the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 2, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Federal suit challenges Ala. immigration law

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 283 words


The Obama administration sued Monday to block enforcement of Alabama's new
immigration law, widely considered to be the toughest among several measures
passed by states to crack down on illegal immigrants.

The law, H.B. 56, was signed by Gov. Robert Bentley (R) in June and is due to
take effect Sept. 1. Civil rights groups brought a separate lawsuit challenging
the law about a month ago.

"If allowed to go into effect, H.B. 56's enforcement scheme will conflict with
and undermine the federal government's careful balance of immigration
enforcement priorities and objectives," administration lawyers said in the
lawsuit, filed in federal court.

"The scheme will cause the detention and harassment of authorized visitors,
immigrants, and citizens who do not have or carry identification documents
specified by the statute, or who otherwise will be swept into the ambit of H.B.
56's enforcement-at-all-costs approach," the suit said.

The administration, which sought an injunction to block the law from taking
effect, argued that the U.S. Constitution bars the state from adopting its own
immigration regime that interferes with the federal immigration system.

There are an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States.

Conservatives have complained that the Obama administration has failed to
sufficiently stop the flow of illegal immigrants into the country.

Attempts to overhaul federal immigration policy have gone nowhere in Congress.

Georgia, Arizona, Utah and Indiana were already defending new immigration laws
in federal court.

The Obama administration sued to block Arizona's tough law last year, and courts
have also put the laws in Georgia, Indiana and Utah temporarily on hold.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 25, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 455 words


Alabama          Obama aims to block immigration law

Lawyers for the Obama administration asked a federal judge Wednesday to
temporarily block Alabama's immigration law, widely seen as the toughest state
measure on illegal immigration in the country.

The law, set to take effect Sept. 1, requires police to detain anyone they
suspect of being in the United States illegally if the person cannot produce
proper documentation when stopped for any reason.

The law will also make it a crime to knowingly transport or harbor an illegal
immigrant and requires public schools to determine, by reviewing birth
certificates or sworn affidavits, the legal residency statuses of students upon
enrollment.

The administration argues that the Constitution bars states from adopting
immigration measures that conflict with federal laws. There are about 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States.

Georgia, Utah and Indiana are also defending new immigration laws in federal
court. The Obama administration successfully sued to block Arizona's law last
year.

- Reuters

NEW YORK          Weapons suspect's remarks suppressed

A judge has agreed to suppress statements that a man suspected of being an arms
dealer made to U.S. investigators before he was transferred from Thailand to New
York.

Federal Judge Shira Scheindlin ruled Wednesday that Viktor Bout's statements to
investigators weren't made voluntarily.

Bout has been blamed for fueling deadly Third World conflicts with powerful
weapons. He says he is a legitimate businessman and has pleaded not guilty to
conspiracy charges that carry a possible life term.

- Associated Press

VIRGINIA          Officer can stay in Navy despite videos

The former commander of the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise can remain in the
Navy, despite a finding that he committed misconduct in producing raunchy
videos, a Navy panel ruled Wednesday.

The board of inquiry found that Capt. Owen P. Honors committed conduct
unbecoming a naval officer, failure to demonstrate acceptable qualities of
leadership and substandard performance. The board did not elaborate on why
Honors should remain in the Navy. The government had been asking that Honors be
honorably discharged.

Honors helped produce and appeared in the videos that aired on the ship's
closed-circuit television network between October 2005 and December 2007, when
he was the ship's executive officer.

He said the videos were made to improve morale while teaching important
shipboard lessons, such as water conservation. Among other things, the videos
included simulated same-sex shower scenes, anti-gay slurs and references to
prostitution in foreign ports.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 3, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Alabama law doesn't discriminate

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 218 words


The Aug. 28 editorial "Alabama's travesty" suggested that Alabama's immigration
law is aimed at minorities. The law is aimed at immigrants who are illegal. If
it's enforced against all violators equally, how is that discriminatory?

Twenty-four million Americans are unemployed or cannot find full-time work.
Meanwhile, 7 million illegal immigrants work in the United States. Americans
want to see our immigration laws enforced to open up these jobs and deter
illegal immigration. Because the Obama administration has not enforced all
federal immigration laws, many states have sought to enforce their own laws to
protect American citizens and legal immigrants.

Congress and the administration can help unemployed American workers and greatly
reduce illegal immigration - without the need for state laws - by passing and
signing a mandatory E-Verify bill. E-Verify, a Web-based employment verification
program, protects jobs for legal workers and helps reduce the jobs magnet that
encourages illegal immigration. Most important, E-Verify protects against
discrimination. It doesn't ask race or creed - it merely checks a worker's name,
birth date and Social Security number.

Elton Gallegly, Washington

The writer, a California Republican, is chairman of the House subcommittee on
immigration policy and enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Delegate files immigration bill

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: Pg. T01

LENGTH: 617 words


A Prince William County delegate has embraced County Board of Supervisors
Chairman Corey A. Stewart's push to tighten Virginia immigration laws.

Stewart (R-At Large) said Thursday that Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter (R-Prince
William) has filed a bill that would crack down on illegal immigration in
Virginia, modeled on the county's law.

The bill would require law enforcement officials to inquire into the immigration
status of everyone arrested, whether or not they are taken into custody. Under
current Virginia law, sheriffs inquire into a person's legal status when he or
she is taken into custody at a jail.

The bill, which had not been scheduled to be heard as of Friday, also states
that when a warrantless arrest is made and the officer "finds probable cause to
believe" that the person is in the United States illegally, he must tell a
judicial officer. If the judicial officer concurs and thinks that person is not
likely to show up for a trial or a hearing, the judicial officer may refuse
bail.

"The strength of this policy is that it mandates the status check and
establishes a bright line for Virginia law enforcement, avoiding racial
profiling accusations," Stewart said. "I'm very appreciative to Delegate
Lingamfelter for carrying this legislation."

Lingamfelter did  not return calls seeking comment.

For the past several months, Stewart has been traveling the commonwealth, trying
to drum up support for a statewide immigration policy, in what he has dubbed the
Virginia Rule of Law Campaign. His most recent stop was Wednesday night at an
Alexandria tea party event. The Republican, who has toyed with running for a
U.S. Senate seat in 2012, spoke to about 30 tea party activists about his
campaign.

The campaign, launched in June, once focused on pushing Virginia to create an
immigration policy similar to Arizona's, which gives police wide latitude to
check the residency status of anyone who they have "reasonable suspicion" is an
illegal immigrant. But Stewart has since changed his focus and instead is
pushing for legislation that would require all localities in Virginia to adopt
an immigration policy similar to that of Prince William, which requires police
officers to check the immigration status of anyone arrested on suspicion of
violating a state or local law.

In November, county supervisors also approved a policy statement as part of
their legislative agenda that said other localities  should adopt an immigration
policy similar to Prince William's.  Supervisors Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles) and
Frank J. Principi (D-Woodbridge) voted against the policy statement, questioning
whether the board was essentially requiring jurisdictions to adopt what they
deemed an unfunded mandate.

Stewart said he is lobbying for the state to adopt Prince William's policy
instead of Arizona's because it has been tested in court and found to be legal.
He also said it has proven to be successful.

A recent study produced by the University of Virginia's Center for Survey
Research shows the policy has had some effect, as the growth of the county's
Hispanic population now lags behind that of other jurisdictions. Researchers
said that the policy did not affect most types of crime but that there was a
significant drop in aggravated assaults and hit-and-run accidents that could be
attributed, in part, to the policy.

Although the fate of Lingamfelter's bill won't be known for some time, Stewart
said it is still "a good first step" to fighting illegal immigration in the
commonwealth.

"By building an effective team with the General Assembly," Stewart said, "we
have the very real possibility to see the success we have achieved here in
Prince William shared across the state."

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 3, 2011 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Thousands protest Ga. immigration law

BYLINE: Errin Haines

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 478 words


ATLANTA - Thousands of marchers stormed the Georgia Capitol on Saturday to
protest the state's new immigration law, which they say creates an unwelcome
environment for people of color and those in search of a better life.

Men, women and children converged on downtown Atlanta for the march and rally,
cheering speakers while shading themselves with umbrellas and posters. Capitol
police and organizers estimated the crowd at 8,000 to 14,000. They filled the
blocks around the capitol, holding signs decrying House Bill 87 and reading
"Immigration Reform Now!"

Friends Jessica Bamaca and Melany Cordero held a poster that read: "How would
you feel if your family got broken apart?"

Bamaca was born in the United States, but her mother and sister are from
Guatemala. She said she fears that they will be deported.

"I would be here by myself," said Bamaca, 13. "I have a feeling [the governor]
doesn't know the pain affecting families. If he were to be in our position, how
would he react?"

Adelina Nicholls, executive director of the Georgia Latino Alliance for Human
Rights, said the crowd was sending a message.

"They are ready to fight," Nicholls said. "We need immigration reform, and no
HB87 is going to stop us. We have earned the right to be here."

Several groups stood with the largely Latino crowd, including representatives
from the civil rights movement. The Rev. Timothy McDonald, an activist who has
been supportive of immigration reform, was among the speakers showing his
solidarity.

"You are my brothers and my sisters," McDonald told the crowd. "Some years ago,
they told people like me we couldn't vote. We did what you are doing today. We
are going to send a message to the powers that be . . . that when the people get
united, there is no government that can stop them. Don't let them turn you
around."

MiLi Lai, an Emory University student who is Chinese, attended the rally because
the immigration law doesn't just apply to Latinos, but "all non-American
people."

"We are the same community," Lai said. "We have to fight for our rights."

On Monday, a judge temporarily blocked key parts of the law until a legal
challenge is resolved. One provision that was blocked authorizes police to check
the immigration status of people who are detained without proper identification.
It also authorizes police to arrest illegal immigrants. Another penalizes people
who knowingly and willingly transport or harbor illegal immigrants while
committing another crime.

Parts of similar measures in Arizona, Utah and Indiana have been blocked by the
courts.

Provisions that took effect Friday include one that makes it a felony to use
false information or documentation when applying for a job. Another provision
creates an immigration review board to investigate complaints about government
officials not complying with state laws related to illegal immigration.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Justice targets laws like Arizona's

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1257 words


The Obama administration is escalating its crackdown on tough immigration laws,
with lawyers reviewing four new state statutes to determine whether the federal
government will take the extraordinary step of challenging the measures in
court.

Justice Department lawyers have sued Arizona and Alabama, where a federal judge
on Wednesday allowed key parts of that state's immigration law to take effect
but blocked other provisions. Federal lawyers are talking to Utah officials
about a third possible lawsuit and are considering legal challenges in Georgia,
Indiana and South Carolina, according to court documents and government
officials.

The level of federal intervention is highly unusual, legal experts said,
especially because civil rights groups already have sued most of those states.
Typically, the government files briefs or seeks to intervene in other lawsuits
filed against state statutes.

"I don't recall any time in history that the Justice Department has so
aggressively challenged state laws," said Jonathan Turley, a constitutional law
expert at George Washington University Law School.

The legal skirmishing comes as immigration emerges as a defining issue in the
presidential campaign and Hispanic voters play an increasingly influential role.
Most Republican candidates are calling for a hard line on the nation's estimated
12 million illegal immigrants - and criticizing Texas Gov. Rick Perry for some
of his positions on the issue.

President Obama is staking out a position on the other side. He told a
roundtable of Latino reporters Wednesday that Arizona's immigration law created
"a great danger that naturalized citizens, individuals with Latino surnames,
potentially could be vulnerable to questioning. The laws could be potentially
abused in ways that were not fair to Latino citizens."

The Arizona law that passed last year - requiring police to check immigration
status if they stop someone while enforcing other laws - triggered a fierce
national debate. A Justice Department lawsuit led federal courts to block that
measure's most contested provisions, but similar laws have been approved in
recent months in Alabama, Utah, Georgia, Indiana and South Carolina. At least 17
other states have considered such measures this year.

Although Wednesday's ruling in Alabama was something of a setback, the Justice
Department and civil rights groups have been on a winning streak. The American
Civil Liberties Union and other groups have obtained rulings temporarily
blocking all or key parts of immigration laws in Utah, Georgia and Indiana, with
Republican- and Democratic-appointed judges blasting the measures as devoid of
due-process protections or for targeting illegal immigrants.

Now, the administration is under pressure from some quarters to intervene in
those states, as well as in South Carolina, where a new immigration law is set
to take effect Jan. 1. Civil rights groups have been lobbying the executive
branch, according to people familiar with the effort, and the ACLU is
circulating an online petition calling for federal lawsuits.

Utah, by contrast, is urging the government to stay out of court. Mark
Shurtleff, Utah's Republican attorney general, has met with senior Justice
officials, who he said are considering whether to join the civil rights lawsuit
as a plaintiff.

"We believe our defense is much better if the Justice Department is not the one
saying our law is superseded by federal law," said Shurtleff, who added that
Utah "worked very hard and carefully to make our law different from Arizona" so
it is constitutional.

Conservatives have criticized the Obama administration for suing Arizona, and
some legal observers said they detect political motives in the administration's
additional legal steps. The White House has been trying to rekindle excitement
among Hispanic voters, many of whom have been disappointed over Obama's
immigration policies.

Justice officials have denied any political motives and said they are proceeding
based on the facts and the law. Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.
have been critical of the state measures, with the president also telling
Wednesday's roundtable, "We can't have a patchwork of 50 states with 50
different immigration laws."

Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said lawyers are reviewing
the Utah, Indiana, Georgia and South Carolina laws and the "legal principles"
established in the Arizona case.

"Based on that review and applying those principles, the United States will
decide whether and when to bring suit challenging particular state laws,"
Hinojosa said.

Hovering over the debate is the possible involvement of the Supreme Court. The
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled in April that the most contested
parts of Arizona's immigration law will remain blocked from taking effect, and
the high court could decide to hear the case this term. That would mean a
decision before the 2012 presidential election.

"My guess is that they will take it," said Jonathan Benner, a Washington lawyer
who has argued numerous cases involving federal-state conflicts. "This is the
kind of case that is most interesting to the Supreme Court."

Other state statutes include provisions such as authorizing police to question
people's immigration status in certain circumstances, limiting the ability of
immigrants to use some forms of ID and criminalizing the harboring of illegal
immigrants.

The Justice Department and civil rights groups are arguing that the laws will
lead to harassment of immigrants or racial profiling and that they are
"preempted" under federal law, which gives the U.S. government control of
immigration enforcement.

"You'd have to be crazy to pass one of these laws, knowing you're buying
yourself an enormous lawsuit," said Cecillia D. Wang, director of the ACLU
Immigrants' Rights Project. She called the Alabama statute, signed into law in
June, "by far the most draconian and extreme."

The Justice Department and a coalition of civil rights groups sued over the law,
which requires public school officials to determine citizenship by seeking
children's birth certificates. Civil rights advocates say that will keep some
children out of school because their parents will fear being deported.

On Wednesday, U.S. District Judge Sharon Blackburn allowed that provision to
take effect, along with other elements of the law, until she can issue a final
ruling. But she temporarily blocked other provisions, including those making it
a crime for illegal immigrants to solicit work or to transport or harbor illegal
immigrants.

Alabama lawyers have backed the law's constitutionality, and Gov. Robert Bentley
(R) on Wednesday called it "the strongest immigration law in the country." Other
states also have defended their laws.

But some judges have been highly critical. In Indiana, U.S. District Judge Sarah
Evans Barker in June blocked the two most contested parts of that state's law.
The provisions would authorize warrantless arrests of illegal immigrants in
certain circumstances and make it a crime to accept an identification card used
by many immigrants.

Barker, an appointee of President Ronald Reagan, called the law "seriously
flawed" and said parts of the state's defense were "entirely fanciful."

Indiana officials are defending their law, and Greg Zoeller (R), the state's
attorney general, said the judge's ruling "can be seen as an indictment of the
federal government on their failure to enact and enforce immigration policy."

markonj@washpost.com

Staff writer David Nakamura contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 443 words

ALABAMA

Justice Dept. appeals immigration law

The Justice Department asked a federal appeals court on Friday to block
Alabama's strict new immigration law after a federal judge allowed key portions
to take effect.

U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn this week backed the law
authorizing police to detain people suspected of being in the country illegally
if they cannot produce proper documentation when stopped for any reason.

The judge also upheld a provision that permits the state to require public
schools to determine the legal residency of children. Federal judges in other
states have blocked similar state laws aimed at trying to stem illegal
immigration.

The Justice Department filed an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit, based in Atlanta, and also asked Blackburn to put her ruling on
hold pending that appeal.

- Reuters

WASHINGTON state

Longshore union is fined $250,000

A federal judge in Tacoma fined a Longshore union $250,000 Friday for its
tactics in a Longview labor dispute, and he warned that individual protesters
could face their own penalties for future violations of his orders.

U.S. District Judge Ronald Leighton has already held the International Longshore
and Warehouse Union in contempt for blocking a train and storming a grain
terminal last month. Authorities have said the protesters overpowered security
guards, damaged railroad cars and dumped grain.

"What's going on out there is awful," Leighton said. "We have to do something
about it, and I'm going to do something."

The National Labor Relations Board had asked the court to fine the union more
than $290,000 to cover the damage and expenses, such as overtime for law
enforcement agencies. Leighton said he rounded down to be cautious and ordered
additional penalties for future violations.

- Associated Press

Illness forces emergency landing: An American Airlines spokesman said a Boeing
777 made an emergency landing at Nashville International Airport after the pilot
became ill. Tim Smith said the plane was headed from Chicago to Miami on Friday
when it was diverted to Nashville about 1:30 p.m. Smith said the first officer
landed the plane safely.

Three stabbed at high school: Two students and a high school dean were stabbed
during a lunchtime fight at South East High School in South Gate, Calif., on
Friday, and the school was temporarily placed on lockdown, officials from the
Los Angeles Unified School District said.  One female student suffered "serious"
wounds, officials said; the other injuries were not considered life-threatening.
The assailant, a student at the school, was not injured and has been arrested.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 388 words

Alabama

Immigration law can go into effect, judge rules

A federal judge Wednesday refused to halt Alabama's tough new immigration law,
allowing key portions of the law to take effect while the Obama administration
and other groups appeal.

U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace denied an injunction.

The law authorizes police to detain people suspected of being in the country
illegally if they cannot produce proper documentation when stopped for any
reason.

The judge also upheld a provision that requires public schools to determine
students' legal residency.

- Associated Press

california

Cupertino quarry worker goes on shooting rampage

Authorities in Cupertino went door to door with guns drawn Wednesday in search
of a disgruntled employee they say opened fire at a Northern California
limestone quarry, killing three and injuring six before wounding another woman
in an attempted carjacking.

Schools were on lockdown in Cupertino and nearby Los Gatos as SWAT teams sought
Shareef Allman of San Jose.

Allman, 47,  was at a safety meeting at the quarry at about 4:30 a.m. when he
got annoyed and left, authorities said. He returned with a handgun and a rifle
and began shooting. Some of the wounded remained in critical condition last
night.

- Associated Press

ohio

Pork producers vow to fight ban on prison menus

A decision by Ohio officials to remove all pork products from prison menus in
response to a lawsuit by two Muslim inmates has spurred the state's pork
producers and processors to promise action of their own, possibly a countersuit.

Ohio, where 4 million pigs a year are raised, is a major pork producer. Already,
Ohio guidelines for Muslim prisoners say meals must be "free of all pork and
products containing or derived from pork."

The lawsuit by two convicted murderers does not involve pork. It demands that
non-pork meats come from animals slaughtered according to Islamic law. For
example, animals must have their throats slit and their  blood drained.

A prison system spokeswoman said removing pork assures that religious practices
are not jeopardized by pork coming into contact with other food. Among the
states that do not serve pork in prisons: California, Maryland and
Massachusetts.

The lawsuit is expected to go to trial in January. One of the prisoners in the
lawsuit is scheduled to die in June.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Justice Dept., Alabama in standoff on immigration

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1066 words


The Obama administration's legal campaign against restrictive state immigration
lawshas led to a bitter standoff in Alabama, where Justice Department attorneys
are investigating possible civil rights violations.

The federal government already has sued Alabama over its new law, one of three
such lawsuits against states that have cracked down on illegal immigration. Now,
the Justice Department has opened a civil rights investigation to monitor
potential discrimination as parts of the Alabama law take effect.

The standoff has been over Justice's request for detailed enrollment datafrom
Alabama schools, part of the probe into complaints that the law has prompted
Hispanic families to pull their children from school. But Alabama's attorney
general balked and, in a series of blunt replies, questioned the federal
government's authority to demand the information. The state education department
had advised school districts not to comply, but this week expressed a
willingness to cooperate.

The disagreement , which could lead to a second Justice Department lawsuit,
comes after the administration last year sued Arizona and, two weeks ago, filed
suit against South Carolina. Government lawyers are also considering challenges
to laws in Utah, Georgia and Indiana.

The lawsuits have emerged as a key part of the administration's efforts on
immigration and could serve as a counterpoint to growing criticism in the
Hispanic activist community over President Obama's stepped-up deportation
program.

The Alabama law is considered the toughest of six new state immigration
statutes,http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/a-tough-new-alabama-law-targets-ill
egal-immigrants-and-sends-families-fleeing/2011/10/07/gIQAtZuPWL_story.htmlwhich
include provisions giving police new authority to question legal status, among
other things.

The dispute has stirred memories of Alabama's segregationist past, with
accusations that the law targets Hispanics. A civil rights group compared
Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange to then-Gov. George C. Wallace (D) in
1963 as he resisted federal efforts to enroll black students at the University
of Alabama.

"The intemperate language of [Strange's] letter does remind us of George Wallace
in the schoolhouse door," said Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty
Law Center, which set up a hotline to monitor discrimination complaints over the
immigration law. He said the hotline has received nearly 4,000 calls.

Strange, a Republican elected last year, vehemently rejected the Wallace
comparison and said he would not tolerate discrimination. Supporters of the law
defended the attorney general and said concerns about racial profiling of
Hispanics are overstated.

"That's a poisonous thing to say," said Strange, who defeated Wallace's son,
George Wallace Jr., in a 2006 primary for lieutenant governor.

Legal experts say the level of federal intervention over the immigration laws is
extraordinary, particularly since the American Civil Liberties Union and other
groups have obtained rulings temporarily blocking all or key parts of the Utah,
Georgia and Indiana measures. Federal courts also have blocked the most
contested
provisionshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/appeals-court-upholds-justice-c
hallenge-on-ariz-law/2011/04/11/AFbyUKLD_story.htmlof Arizona's law.

The Alabama law passed in June after last year's Republican sweep of the
legislature. A federal appeals court last monthtemporarily blocked the most
contested provision, which requires public schools to determine citizenship by
seeking children's birth certificates.

But the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit allowed other parts to take
effect, pending a more detailed review of the Justice Department's appeal. Those
include provisions requiring police to check immigration status if they stop
someone while enforcing other laws and barring undocumented immigrants from
entering into business transactions with the state or being party to a contract.

Civil rights groups say this has led to illegal immigrants being evicted from
their homes, not getting paid for work and being unable to purchase some
utilities. One victim of domestic violence complained that she wasn't allowed to
seek a protective order from a judge, who threatened to turn her in to
authorities, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.

"The law has had a chilling effect," said Isabel Rubio, executive director of
the Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama, who said some Hispanic families have
left the state and others are signing custody of their children over to
neighbors in case they are deported.

Thomas E. Perez, the Justice Department's assistant attorney general for civil
rights, said federal lawyers are investigating similar complaints, along with
reports of racial profiling during traffic stops, Hispanic children being
withdrawn from school and bullying of children who show up.

"There's a real fear in these households," he said in an interview.

Strange said his office had not heard of such complaints. And Kris Kobach, a
senior Justice Department official in the George W. Bush administration who
helped draft the Alabama law and is helping coordinate the state's legal
strategy, said the law prohibits consideration of race.

He dismissed reports of discrimination in Alabama as "ridiculous."

On Nov. 1, Perez wrote to 39 Alabama school districts with significant Hispanic
populations, seeking detailed data on student enrollment and absences and giving
a Nov. 14 deadline. But Strange replied that Perez had not stated his legal
authority to demand the information.

Perez cited a raft of civil rights and other federal laws; Strange replied that
Justice had still asserted "no legal authority'" to obtain the data.

Alabama's interim education superintendent, Larry E. Craven, advised
noncompliance in a Nov. 2 letter to school districts. This week, in a letter to
Perez, he offered to help districts respond but denied any discrimination in
schools.

Perez said the government will take "appropriate action" if it finds violations
of civil rights laws.

Several Alabama school districts, citing the state education department's
initial recommendation, said they would not comply with Perez's request.

"Why should we do it if we've been told not to?" said Nancy Pierce, spokeswoman
for Mobile County schools, who said pulling the data would be "extremely
labor-intensive."

markonj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 429 words

North Carolina

Hospital discharges Billy Graham

Evangelist Billy Graham was released Tuesday from a North Carolina hospital
after suffering from pneumonia, a hospital spokeswoman said.

Graham, 93, returned to his home in Montreat, N.C., after a six-day stay in the
hospital. He will continue physical therapy, his staff said.

Graham, a preacher of Christian gospel to millions of followers and a spiritual
adviser to U.S. presidents, was treated in May for a previous bout of pneumonia.

- Reuters

Texas

Mother denied aid  shoots children, self

A 38-year-old Texas woman unable to qualify for food stamps for months walked
into a state welfare office with a gun, then shot her two children and killed
herself during a seven-hour standoff, officials said Tuesday.

Rachelle Grimmer's son, Timothy, 10, and daughter, Ramie, 12, were in critical
condition Tuesday, officials said.

Texas Health and Human Services spokeswoman Stephanie Goodman said Tuesday the
woman first applied for assistance in July. Goodman said the mother didn't
submit enough information.

- Associated Press

Alabama

Official seeks change to immigration law

Alabama's attorney general is recommending that lawmakers repeal some parts of
the state's new immigration law that have been put on hold by the  courts.

Attorney General Luther Strange called for repealing a section that makes it a
crime for an illegal immigrant not to carry registration documents. He also
suggested repealing the requirement that schools collect immigration information
on students.

He said the changes would help police and law-abiding citizens.

- Associated Press

Body under Christmas presents: Authorities have charged a South Carolina woman
in the strangling death of a friend whose body was found hidden beneath the
Christmas presents in the victim's Florida home. Patty M. White, 40, of York,
S.C., was expected to be extradited to Florida to face murder charges in the
death of Michele O'Dowd, 67, of Jacksonville.Beaten by naked man: A Southern
California couple have been released from a hospital, three days after they were
beaten by a naked, 300-pound bodybuilder. Ruben Arzu, 22, is awaiting booking on
suspicion of attempted homicide. Police said the couple was attacked when they
returned from a party and found Arzu naked on their porch. They didn't  know
him.irefighters hold back:A Tennessee couple's  mobile home burned to the ground
as firefighters watched. Vicky Bell told WPSD-TV that she called 911 but
firefighters did not put out the blaze because she does not subscribe to the
local fire service.

- From news servic

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 3, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Thousands protest Ga. immigration law

BYLINE: Errin Haines

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 484 words


ATLANTA - Thousands of marchers stormed the Georgia Capitol on Saturday to
protest the state's new immigration law, which they say creates an unwelcome
environment for people of color and those in search of a better life.

Men, women and children converged on downtown Atlanta for the march and rally,
cheering speakers while shading themselves with umbrellas and posters. Capitol
police and organizers estimated the crowd at 8,000 to 14,000. They filled the
blocks around the capitol, holding signs decrying House Bill 87 and reading
"Immigration Reform Now!"

Friends Jessica Bamaca and Melany Cordero held a poster that read: "How would
you feel if your family got broken apart?"

Bamaca was born in the United States, but her mother and sister are from
Guatemala. She said she fears that they will be deported.

"I would be here by myself," said Bamaca, 13. "I have a feeling [the governor]
doesn't know the pain affecting families. If he were to be in our position, how
would he react?"

Adelina Nicholls, executive director of the Georgia Latino Alliance for Human
Rights, said the crowd was sending a message.

"They are ready to fight," Nicholls said. "We need immigration reform, and no
HB87 is going to stop us. We have earned the right to be here."

Several groups stood with the largely Latino crowd, including representatives
from the civil rights movement. The Rev. Timothy McDonald, an activist who has
been supportive of immigration reform, was among the speakers showing his
solidarity.

"You are my brothers and my sisters," McDonald told the crowd. "Some years ago,
they told people like me we couldn't vote. We did what you are doing today. We
are going to send a message to the powers that be . . . that when the people get
united, there is no government that can stop them. Don't let them turn you
around."

MiLi Lai, an Emory University student who is Chinese, attended the rally because
the immigration law doesn't just apply to Latinos, but "all non-American
people."

"We are the same community," Lai said. "We have to fight for our rights."

On Monday, a judge temporarily blocked key parts of the law until a legal
challenge is resolved. One provision that was blocked authorizes police to check
the immigration status of people who are detained without proper identification.
It also authorizes police to arrest illegal immigrants. Another penalizes people
who knowingly and willingly transport or harbor illegal immigrants while
committing another crime.

Parts of similar measures in Arizona, Utah and Indiana have been blocked by the
courts.

Provisions that took effect Friday include one that makes it a felony to use
false information or documentation when applying for a job. Another provision
creates an immigration review board to investigate complaints about government
officials not complying with state laws related to illegal immigration.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 1, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 456 words


ALABAMA          Justice Dept. appeals immigration law

The Justice Department asked a federal appeals court on Friday to block
Alabama's strict new immigration law after a federal judge allowed key portions
to take effect.

U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn this week backed the law
authorizing police to detain people suspected of being in the country illegally
if they cannot produce proper documentation when stopped for any reason.

The judge also upheld a provision that permits the state to require public
schools to determine the legal residency of children. Federal judges in other
states have blocked similar state laws aimed at trying to stem illegal
immigration.

The Justice Department filed an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit, based in Atlanta, and also asked Blackburn to put her ruling on
hold pending that appeal.

- Reuters

WASHINGTON state          Longshore union is fined $250,000

A federal judge in Tacoma fined a Longshore union $250,000 Friday for its
tactics in a Longview labor dispute, and he warned that individual protesters
could face their own penalties for future violations of his orders.

U.S. District Judge Ronald Leighton has already held the International Longshore
and Warehouse Union in contempt for blocking a train and storming a grain
terminal last month. Authorities have said the protesters overpowered security
guards, damaged railroad cars and dumped grain.

"What's going on out there is awful," Leighton said. "We have to do something
about it, and I'm going to do something."

The National Labor Relations Board had asked the court to fine the union more
than $290,000 to cover the damage and expenses, such as overtime for law
enforcement agencies. Leighton said he rounded down to be cautious and ordered
additional penalties for future violations.

- Associated Press

Illness forces emergency landing:An American Airlines spokesman said a Boeing
777 made an emergency landing at Nashville International Airport after the pilot
became ill. Tim Smith said the plane was headed from Chicago to Miami on Friday
when it was diverted to Nashville about 1:30 p.m. Smith said the first officer
landed the plane safely.

Three stabbed at high school:Two students and a high school dean were stabbed
during a lunchtime fight at South East High School in South Gate, Calif., on
Friday, and the school was temporarily placed on lockdown, officials from the
Los Angeles Unified School District said.  One female student suffered "serious"
wounds, officials said; the other injuries were not considered life-threatening.
The assailant, a student at the school, was not injured and has been arrested.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 6, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 407 words


Alabama          Immigration law can go into effect, judge rules

A federal judge Wednesday refused to halt Alabama's tough new immigration law,
allowing key portions of the law to take effect while the Obama administration
and other groups appeal.

U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace denied an injunction.

The law authorizes police to detain people suspected of being in the country
illegally if they cannot produce proper documentation when stopped for any
reason.

The judge also upheld a provision that requires public schools to determine
students' legal residency.

- Associated Press

california          Cupertino quarry worker goes on shooting rampage

Authorities in Cupertino went door to door with guns drawn Wednesday in search
of a disgruntled employee they say opened fire at a Northern California
limestone quarry, killing three and injuring six before wounding another woman
in an attempted carjacking.

Schools were on lockdown in Cupertino and nearby Los Gatos as SWAT teams sought
Shareef Allman of San Jose.

Allman, 47,  was at a safety meeting at the quarry at about 4:30 a.m. when he
got annoyed and left, authorities said. He returned with a handgun and a rifle
and began shooting. Some of the wounded remained in critical condition last
night.

- Associated Press

ohio          Pork producers vow to fight ban on prison menus

A decision by Ohio officials to remove all pork products from prison menus in
response to a lawsuit by two Muslim inmates has spurred the state's pork
producers and processors to promise action of their own, possibly a countersuit.

Ohio, where 4 million pigs a year are raised, is a major pork producer. Already,
Ohio guidelines for Muslim prisoners say meals must be "free of all pork and
products containing or derived from pork."

The lawsuit by two convicted murderers does not involve pork. It demands that
non-pork meats come from animals slaughtered according to Islamic law. For
example, animals must have their throats slit and their  blood drained.

A prison system spokeswoman said removing pork assures that religious practices
are not jeopardized by pork coming into contact with other food. Among the
states that do not serve pork in prisons: California, Maryland and
Massachusetts.

The lawsuit is expected to go to trial in January. One of the prisoners in the
lawsuit is scheduled to die in June.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 18, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Justice Dept., Alabama in standoff on immigration

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1034 words


The Obama administration's legal campaign against restrictive state immigration
laws has led to a bitter standoff in Alabama, where Justice Department attorneys
are investigating possible civil rights violations.

The federal government already has sued Alabama over its new law, one of three
such lawsuits against states that have cracked down on illegal immigration. Now,
the Justice Department has opened a civil rights investigation to monitor
potential discrimination as parts of the Alabama law take effect.

The standoff has been over Justice's request for detailed enrollment data from
Alabama schools, part of the probe into complaints that the law has prompted
Hispanic families to pull their children from school. But Alabama's attorney
general balked and, in a series of blunt replies, questioned the federal
government's authority to demand the information. The state education department
had advised school districts not to comply, but this week expressed a
willingness to cooperate.

The disagreement , which could lead to a second Justice Department lawsuit,
comes after the administration last year sued Arizona and, two weeks ago, filed
suit against South Carolina. Government lawyers are also considering challenges
to laws in Utah, Georgia and Indiana.

The lawsuits have emerged as a key part of the administration's efforts on
immigration and could serve as a counterpoint to growing criticism in the
Hispanic activist community over President Obama's stepped-up deportation
program.

The Alabama law is considered the toughest of six new state immigration
statutes,              which include provisions giving police new authority to
question legal status, among other things.

The dispute has stirred memories of Alabama's segregationist past, with
accusations that the law targets Hispanics. A civil rights group compared
Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange to then-Gov. George C. Wallace (D) in
1963 as he resisted federal efforts to enroll black students at the University
of Alabama.

"The intemperate language of [Strange's] letter does remind us of George Wallace
in the schoolhouse door," said Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty
Law Center, which set up a hotline to monitor discrimination complaints over the
immigration law. He said the hotline has received nearly 4,000 calls.

Strange, a Republican elected last year, vehemently rejected the Wallace
comparison and said he would not tolerate discrimination. Supporters of the law
defended the attorney general and said concerns about racial profiling of
Hispanics are overstated.

"That's a poisonous thing to say," said Strange, who defeated Wallace's son,
George Wallace Jr., in a 2006 primary for lieutenant governor.

Legal experts say the level of federal intervention over the immigration laws is
extraordinary, particularly since the American Civil Liberties Union and other
groups have obtained rulings temporarily blocking all or key parts of the Utah,
Georgia and Indiana measures. Federal courts also have blocked the most
contested provisions              of Arizona's law.

The Alabama law passed in June after last year's Republican sweep of the
legislature. A federal appeals court last month temporarily blocked the most
contested provision, which requires public schools to determine citizenship by
seeking children's birth certificates.

But the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit allowed other parts to take
effect, pending a more detailed review of the Justice Department's appeal. Those
include provisions requiring police to check immigration status if they stop
someone while enforcing other laws and barring undocumented immigrants from
entering into business transactions with the state or being party to a contract.

Civil rights groups say this has led to illegal immigrants being evicted from
their homes, not getting paid for work and being unable to purchase some
utilities. One victim of domestic violence complained that she wasn't allowed to
seek a protective order from a judge, who threatened to turn her in to
authorities, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.

"The law has had a chilling effect," said Isabel Rubio, executive director of
the Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama, who said some Hispanic families have
left the state and others are signing custody of their children over to
neighbors in case they are deported.

Thomas E. Perez, the Justice Department's assistant attorney general for civil
rights, said federal lawyers are investigating similar complaints, along with
reports of racial profiling during traffic stops, Hispanic children being
withdrawn from school and bullying of children who show up.

"There's a real fear in these households," he said in an interview.

Strange said his office had not heard of such complaints. And Kris Kobach, a
senior Justice Department official in the George W. Bush administration who
helped draft the Alabama law and is helping coordinate the state's legal
strategy, said the law prohibits consideration of race.

He dismissed reports of discrimination in Alabama as "ridiculous."

On Nov. 1, Perez wrote to 39 Alabama school districts with significant Hispanic
populations, seeking detailed data on student enrollment and absences and giving
a Nov. 14 deadline. But Strange replied that Perez had not stated his legal
authority to demand the information.

Perez cited a raft of civil rights and other federal laws; Strange replied that
Justice had still asserted "no legal authority'" to obtain the data.

Alabama's interim education superintendent, Larry E. Craven, advised
noncompliance in a Nov. 2 letter to school districts. This week, in a letter to
Perez, he offered to help districts respond but denied any discrimination in
schools.

Perez said the government will take "appropriate action" if it finds violations
of civil rights laws.

Several Alabama school districts, citing the state education department's
initial recommendation, said they would not comply with Perez's request.

"Why should we do it if we've been told not to?" said Nancy Pierce, spokeswoman
for Mobile County schools, who said pulling the data would be "extremely
labor-intensive."

markonj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 7, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 449 words


North Carolina          Hospital discharges Billy Graham

Evangelist Billy Graham was released Tuesday from a North Carolina hospital
after suffering from pneumonia, a hospital spokeswoman said.

Graham, 93, returned to his home in Montreat, N.C., after a six-day stay in the
hospital. He will continue physical therapy, his staff said.

Graham, a preacher of Christian gospel to millions of followers and a spiritual
adviser to U.S. presidents, was treated in May for a previous bout of pneumonia.

- Reuters

Texas          Mother denied aid  shoots children, self

A 38-year-old Texas woman unable to qualify for food stamps for months walked
into a state welfare office with a gun, then shot her two children and killed
herself during a seven-hour standoff, officials said Tuesday.

Rachelle Grimmer's son, Timothy, 10, and daughter, Ramie, 12, were in critical
condition Tuesday, officials said.

Texas Health and Human Services spokeswoman Stephanie Goodman said Tuesday the
woman first applied for assistance in July. Goodman said the mother didn't
submit enough information.

- Associated Press

Alabama          Official seeks change to immigration law

Alabama's attorney general is recommending that lawmakers repeal some parts of
the state's new immigration law that have been put on hold by the  courts.

Attorney General Luther Strange called for repealing a section that makes it a
crime for an illegal immigrant not to carry registration documents. He also
suggested repealing the requirement that schools collect immigration information
on students.

He said the changes would help police and law-abiding citizens.

- Associated Press

Body under Christmas presents: Authorities have charged a South Carolina woman
in the strangling death of a friend whose body was found hidden beneath the
Christmas presents in the victim's Florida home. Patty M. White, 40, of York,
S.C., was expected to be extradited to Florida to face murder charges in the
death of Michele O'Dowd, 67, of Jacksonville.  Beaten by naked man: A Southern
California couple have been released from a hospital, three days after they were
beaten by a naked, 300-pound bodybuilder. Ruben Arzu, 22, is awaiting booking on
suspicion of attempted homicide. Police said the couple was attacked when they
returned from a party and found Arzu naked on their porch. They didn't  know
him. irefighters hold back: A Tennessee couple's  mobile home burned to the
ground as firefighters watched. Vicky Bell told WPSD-TV that she called 911 but
firefighters did not put out the blaze because she does not subscribe to the
local fire service.

- From news servic

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

The draw for illegal immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 200 words


In his Oct. 28 op-ed, "Fanning the flame on immigration," Michael Gerson said
that GOP campaigns that challenge the provision of subsidized education and
medical benefits to illegal immigrants are "repellent" and that, in any event,
it is economic opportunity, not government benefits, that are the "magnet" for
illegal immigration. Mr. Gerson missed the point. These benefits may not be
magnets for   undocumented workers, but they are incentives for otherwise
temporary workers to bring their families to this country and then stay put.

Before the 1970s, most illegal immigrants left their families at home, where the
cost of living was much lower. The families were the "magnet" that eventually
drew these migrants back home. After the Great Society's expansion of public
subsidies for health care and the Supreme Court's 1982 decision opening public
schools to children of illegal immigrants, the calculus changed.

I have no doubt that Mexicans love their kids as much as we Americans love ours.
If public schooling and nonemergency medical care were unavailable to the
children of undocumented workers, their parents would not bring them to this
country in the first place.

William W. Chip, Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 1, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

The draw for illegal immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 201 words


In his Oct. 28 op-ed, " Fanning the flame on immigration ," Michael Gerson said
that GOP campaigns that challenge the provision of subsidized education and
medical benefits to illegal immigrants are "repellent" and that, in any event,
it is economic opportunity, not government benefits, that are the "magnet" for
illegal immigration. Mr. Gerson missed the point. These benefits may not be
magnets for   undocumented workers, but they are incentives for otherwise
temporary workers to bring their families to this country and then stay put.

Before the 1970s, most illegal immigrants left their families at home, where the
cost of living was much lower. The families were the "magnet" that eventually
drew these migrants back home. After the Great Society's expansion of public
subsidies for health care and the Supreme Court's 1982 decision opening public
schools to children of illegal immigrants, the calculus changed.

I have no doubt that Mexicans love their kids as much as we Americans love ours.
If public schooling and nonemergency medical care were unavailable to the
children of undocumented workers, their parents would not bring them to this
country in the first place.

William W. Chip, Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 31, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

What immigration reform requires

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 287 words


The Dec. 29 editorial "Immigration impasse ahead" correctly identified the one
element that must be included in any comprehensive immigration bill yet can
stand alone without such legislation: increased visa quotas for foreign workers
with special skills and advanced degrees. Such a change in visa law would
alleviate the shortage of such workers and advance American competitiveness.

Unfortunately, before reaching this conclusion, the editorial engaged in stale
arguments, from deriding calls to close the border before any other reform can
be considered to lamenting that an impasse seems likely in efforts to shape
comprehensive reform that, among other things, would offer a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants already here.

Any legislation on comprehensive immigration reform must contain four elements:

l increased border security;

l enforcement of the law against hiring illegal immigrants, with significant
penalties for those who violate it;

l  increased visa quotas for workers with special skills and advanced degrees;
and

l a path to legalization for those already here illegally.

The major problem that must be addressed in any comprehensive immigration reform
is the flow of illegal immigrants into the United States. Thus, while reform can
be covered in one piece of legislation, at least two of the elements must be
sequenced. A significant reduction in new illegal immigrants must be the
condition for triggering the path to legalization. For example, the president
would have to certify for three years in a row that illegal immigration is down
by 80 percent from a certain base year in order to trigger the legalization of
those already here illegally.

The writer is a retired foreign service officer.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 23, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The limits of immigration enforcement

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 512 words


TYSON FOODS, one of the world's largest food processing firms, has a checkered
past when it comes to employment practices, specifically the hiring of
undocumented workers. A decade ago, the firm faced federal charges that it
conspired to smuggle undocumented workers into the country to operate its
production lines. A jury acquitted Tyson, but the damage to the company's name
was done.

So it was notable last week when U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
announced that Tyson had received a federal seal of approval for its hiring
practices, which it has improved over the past five or six years. After months
of scrutiny by officials, who combed through employment records for virtually
every one of Tyson's 100,000-plus workers in this country, ICE and Tyson signed
an agreement certifying that the firm and its workforce were on the right side
of immigration law.

The event is instructive, not least because Tyson is an outlier; in the past
four years, only 115 companies have enlisted in the so-called Image program that
Tyson signed up for recently. Most of them are small- to medium-sized ventures;
Tyson is one of just two Fortune 500 firms on the list. Although some 250,000
companies have enrolled in E-Verify, a federal program that screens potential
new hires for employment eligibility, most firms appear reluctant to have their
existing workforces scrutinized, as the Image program requires. And no wonder:
An estimated 6 million or 7 million undocumented immigrants are in the U.S.
labor force.

To its credit, the Obama administration has more than tripled the number of ICE
agents assigned to check hiring practices. The agency has targeted several
thousand employers with stepped-up audits of their workforces, arrested hundreds
of company officials and levied fines amounting to millions of dollars against
companies hiring undocumented workers. Recently, ICE announced that it is
beefing up its ability to go after larger companies that may employ undocumented
workers. All that is a sensible shift from Bush administration policy, which
emphasized raids on factories featuring mass detentions of the workers
themselves.

If the current policy turns up the heat on corporations, so much the better;
they may in turn increase pressure on Congress to reform America's broken
immigration system. As it stands, that system ignores the fact that millions of
undocumented workers play an integral role in the economy and that the nation
needs a realistic mechanism for admitting sufficient numbers of low-skilled
employees to fill jobs that Americans don't want, even with the nation suffering
from high unemployment.

The administration has cracked down on employers, tightened border security and
stepped up its deportation efforts, particularly against undocumented immigrants
with criminal records. Those steps, combined with the recession, have
dramatically slowed the inflow of workers here illegally. Still, some 11 million
of them remain in America, working in the shadows. As long as Congress refuses
to act, the problem will continue to fester.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration reform, the 'Utah Way'

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 937 words


SALT LAKE CITY

Utah, where Republicans outnumber Democrats by better than three to one in the
state legislature, has passed the nation's most liberal - and most reality-based
- policy on illegal immigration. And the Republican governor is expected to sign
it.

The legislation includes both a watered-down enforcement provision that police
say won't make much difference and a guest-worker program that would make all
the difference in the world - if it survives constitutional challenge - by
granting legal status to undocumented workers and allowing them to live normal
lives. In a nutshell, it's a one-state version of the overarching immigration
reform package that Congress has repeatedly tried, and failed, to enact.

Conservative Republicans here - and Republicans don't get much more conservative
than the statehouse variety in Salt Lake - say their bill is a gauntlet thrown
down to the feds for their inability to deal with illegal immigration and the
nation's demand for unskilled labor.

That's one way of looking at it. But the "Utah Way," as some are calling it, is
also a fraternal attack on Republicans, in Washington and elsewhere, whose only
strategy is to demonize, criminalize and deport 11 million illegal immigrants.

Karl Rove, Jeb Bush and Newt Gingrich are among the Republican grandees who have
distanced themselves from that approach and warned of the peril it poses for the
party. In the wake of Arizona's legislation last year, a wave of copycat bills
would go a long way toward permanently ridding the GOP of Hispanics, the
nation's largest and fastest-growing minority.

But it's in Utah that the Republican deportation caucus has been treated to real
abuse. What's interesting is that it's coming from unimpeachable conservatives.
If you want to see the most corrosive long-term wedge issue facing the GOP, come
to Salt Lake City.

Utah's guest-worker bill doesn't grant citizenship, of course, but in every
other way it's exactly what national Republicans have derided as "amnesty." It
would grant work permits to undocumented immigrants, and their immediate
families, who pay a fine, clear a criminal background check and study English.

The bill's chief sponsor, state Rep. Bill Wright, is a plain-spoken dairy farmer
who describes his politics as "extremely" conservative, likes Sarah Palin and
believes he may have once voted for a Democrat - possibly 40 years ago for
sheriff. He admires the work ethic of the Hispanic farmhands he's employed over
the years and doesn't care much for anything the government does, least of all
the idea that it might deport millions of immigrant workers and their families.

"That's not gonna happen," Wright told me. "They've got cars, they've got money
borrowed, they own property, they are intertwined. Just be real and face facts
the way they are."

A milestone in setting the stage for Wright's legislation was the "Utah
Compact," a pithy declaration of reform principles drafted last fall by business
leaders and conservative elites, who feared Utah would follow in Arizona's
footsteps and risk losing tens of millions of dollars in tourism and convention
business, as Arizona did. The compact helped swing public opinion in Utah away
from the illegal-immigrant bashers who admired Arizona's law.

"They've had their 15 minutes in the media and now the adults are going to start
talking about how to handle matters," said Paul Mero, executive director of
Utah's most prominent conservative think tank, the Sutherland Institute, who
helped draft the compact. "We've been able to break through that political
barrier put up by the wing nuts who see every brown person as a criminal."

Advocates of the compact included the police, some key elected officials and,
critically, the Mormon church, whose members include perhaps 90 percent of
Utah's state lawmakers. They understood that the fast-growing Hispanic
community, which counts for 13 percent of Utah's population and may include more
than 100,000 undocumented workers, is vital to the state's tourism, agriculture
and construction industries.

The advocates' genius was to reframe the cause of immigration reform, including
the guest-worker program, as fundamentally a conservative project. In the face
of sound bites from reform opponents such as "What part of 'illegal' don't you
understand?" Utah conservatives shot back with: What part of destroying the
economy don't you understand? And by the way, what part of breaking up families
don't you understand?

The question is whether Utah will inspire similar movements in other states or
whether it will remain the exception. On that, the evidence is mixed.

Discouragingly, neither Utah's two U.S. senators nor its three representatives
have backed the Utah Compact or the just-passed state legislation. Most
mainstream Republicans remain stuck on enforcement, which is code for
deportation. And the Mormon church, which did much to sway public opinion and to
inoculate the guest-worker legislation from conservative attack, has limited
influence outside the state.

Encouragingly, though, several conservative states have rejected Arizona-style
bills this year. Reform advocates are at work on versions of the Utah Compact in
Colorado, Georgia, Indiana, Maine, Washington, Idaho and Oregon.

The lesson from the "Utah Way" is that pragmatists in search of solutions can
initiate a reform movement outside the legislature and build a case and a
coalition that appeal to conservatives. By offering ideas that may provide a fix
in the absence of federal action, they may trump the tired slogans of opponents
of reform.

The writer is a member of the editorial page staff.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

High court upholds Arizona's effort to curb illegal immigration

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 815 words


Arizona, the state at the forefront of efforts to crack down on illegal
immigration, may revoke the business licenses of companies that knowingly employ
undocumented workers, the Supreme Court ruled Thursday.

In a 5 to 3 vote, the court rejected arguments that control over illegal
immigration is solely a federal responsibility and endorsed narrowly drawn state
efforts to regulate the employment of those in the country illegally. Eight
other states - Colorado, Mississippi, Missouri, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia - have passed similar laws that would
punish companies for hiring undocumented workers.

Arizona's provisions "fall squarely" into an exception in the federal
immigration law that Congress wrote in 1986, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.
said.

Thursday's decision does not not necessarily shed light on how the justices
would view a more controversial Arizona law, S.B. 1070. The law contains, among
other things, a provision requiring local law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of people they stop who they suspect have entered the country
illegally. It has been challenged by the Obama administration and blocked by
lower federal courts. The state has said it will ask the Supreme Court this
summer to review the law.

Other aspects of the politically divisive immigration issue await the court as
well. It has not decided whether to hear a challenge to a California law that
grants in-state tuition rates to some illegal immigrants or if it will consider
efforts of Hazleton, Pa., to revive local laws seeking to deny employment and
housing to undocumented immigrants.

The law at issue in Thursday's decision is the Legal Arizona Workers Act, which
calls for revocation of a company's business license if it has twice been found
to knowingly or intentionally employ illegal workers.

The law requires companies to use a federal online program known as E-Verify -
which challengers said was unreliable - to determine whether an employee is
authorized to work.

The law was passed in 2007 and signed by Gov. Janet Napolitano (D), now
President Obama's secretary of homeland security.

It was opposed by an unusual coalition: the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, civil
rights groups, labor unions and the Obama administration. Business groups
criticize the patchwork of state and local efforts regulating employers, while
civil-liberties groups worry about discrimination and racial profiling.

The 1986 federal Immigration Reform and Control Act preempts "any state or local
law imposing civil or criminal sanctions" on employers who hire unauthorized
immigrants. But Arizona took advantage of a parenthetical clause in the statute
- "other than through licensing and similar laws" - to impose its own penalties.

A majority of the court agreed with the state's reading of the federal law.

"It makes little sense to preserve state authority to impose sanctions through
licensing, but not allow states to revoke licenses when appropriate as one of
those sanctions," Roberts wrote in the opinion.

Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito
Jr. agreed with the outcome.

Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor dissented.
Justice Elena Kagan did not take part in the case because she had worked on it
while serving as Obama's solicitor general.

Breyer, joined by Ginsburg, said the purpose of Congress's 1986 law was
uniformity, not encouraging individual state sanctions. Sotomayor agreed, in a
separate dissent: "I cannot believe that Congress intended for the 50 states and
countless localities to implement their own distinct enforcement and
adjudication procedures."

Roberts wrote that Arizona's law was mindful of the federal law and dismissed
the idea that employers would be so worried about losing their licenses that
they would discriminate broadly against workers.

"The most rational path for employers is to obey the law - both the law barring
the employment of unauthorized aliens and the law prohibiting discrimination -
and there is no reason to suppose that Arizona employers will choose not to do
so," he said.

Jay Sekulow, chief counsel of the conservative American Center for Law and
Justice, said the court's decision "provides a realistic road map for states to
take appropriate action in enacting legislation that is constitutional."

On the other hand, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Chamber of
Commerce stressed the narrowness of the ruling.

"The decision does not give states or local governments a blank check to pass
any and every immigration law," said Robin Conrad, executive vice president of
the National Chamber Litigation Center.

"State and local laws that do not carefully and assiduously track federal law,
or that merely masquerade as 'licensing' laws, would still be preempted."

The case is Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting.

barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 27, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

High court upholds Arizona's effort to curb illegal immigration

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 845 words


Arizona, the state at the forefront of efforts to crack down on illegal
immigration, may revoke the business licenses of companies that knowingly employ
undocumented workers, the Supreme Court ruled Thursday.


In a 5 to 3 vote, the court rejected arguments that control over illegal
immigration is solely a federal responsibility and endorsed narrowly drawn state
efforts to regulate the employment of those in the country illegally. Eight
other states - Colorado, Mississippi, Missouri, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia - have passed similar laws that would
punish companies for hiring undocumented workers.          Arizona's provisions
"fall squarely" into an exception in the federal immigration law that Congress
wrote in 1986, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said.

Thursday's decision does not not necessarily shed light on how the justices
would view a more controversial Arizona law, S.B. 1070. The law contains, among
other things, a provision requiring local law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of people they stop who they suspect have entered the country
illegally. It has been challenged by the Obama administration and blocked by
lower federal courts. The state has said it will ask the Supreme Court this
summer to review the law.          Other aspects of the politically divisive
immigration issue await the court as well. It has not decided whether to hear a
challenge to a California law that grants in-state tuition rates to some illegal
immigrants or if it will consider efforts of Hazleton, Pa., to revive local laws
seeking to deny employment and housing to undocumented immigrants.          The
law at issue in Thursday's decision is the Legal Arizona Workers Act, which
calls for revocation of a company's business license if it has twice been found
to knowingly or intentionally employ illegal workers.          The law requires
companies to use a federal online program known as E-Verify - which challengers
said was unreliable - to determine whether an employee is authorized to work.
The law was passed in 2007 and signed by Gov. Janet Napolitano (D), now
President Obama's secretary of homeland security.          It was opposed by an
unusual coalition: the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, civil rights groups, labor
unions and the Obama administration. Business groups criticize the patchwork of
state and local efforts regulating employers, while civil-liberties groups worry
about discrimination and racial profiling.          The 1986 federal Immigration
Reform and Control Act preempts "any state or local law imposing civil or
criminal sanctions" on employers who hire unauthorized immigrants. But Arizona
took advantage of a parenthetical clause in the statute - "other than through
licensing and similar laws" - to impose its own penalties.          A majority
of the court agreed with the state's reading of the federal law.          "It
makes little sense to preserve state authority to impose sanctions through
licensing, but not allow states to revoke licenses when appropriate as one of
those sanctions," Roberts wrote in the opinion.          Justices Antonin
Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. agreed with
the outcome.          Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia
Sotomayor dissented. Justice Elena Kagan did not take part in the case because
she had worked on it while serving as Obama's solicitor general.
Breyer, joined by Ginsburg, said the purpose of Congress's 1986 law was
uniformity, not encouraging individual state sanctions. Sotomayor agreed, in a
separate dissent: "I cannot believe that Congress intended for the 50 states and
countless localities to implement their own distinct enforcement and
adjudication procedures."          Roberts wrote that Arizona's law was mindful
of the federal law and dismissed the idea that employers would be so worried
about losing their licenses that they would discriminate broadly against
workers.          "The most rational path for employers is to obey the law -
both the law barring the employment of unauthorized aliens and the law
prohibiting discrimination - and there is no reason to suppose that Arizona
employers will choose not to do so," he said.          Jay Sekulow, chief
counsel of the conservative American Center for Law and Justice, said the
court's decision "provides a realistic road map for states to take appropriate
action in enacting legislation that is constitutional."          On the other
hand, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Chamber of Commerce stressed
the narrowness of the ruling.          "The decision does not give states or
local governments a blank check to pass any and every immigration law," said
Robin Conrad, executive vice president of the National Chamber Litigation
Center.

"State and local laws that do not carefully and assiduously track federal law,
or that merely masquerade as 'licensing' laws, would still be preempted."

The case is Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting.

barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Several states want court ruling on birthright citizenship

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1060 words


In a move certain to escalate the legal tug of war over illegal immigration,
state lawmakers from across the country announced Wednesday that they are
launching an effort to deny automatic citizenship to the U.S.-born children of
undocumented immigrants.

Republicans from Pennsylvania, Arizona, Oklahoma, Georgia, South Carolina and
other states said they were taking aim at birthright citizenship by seeking to
apply the Constitution's 14th Amendment - which grants citizenship to all
children born in the United States - only to children with at least one parent
who is a permanent resident or citizen.

Within weeks, several state legislatures are expected to introduce bills that
would lay the groundwork for such a reinterpretation of the 14th Amendment,
which was passed in the wake of the Civil War in order to confer citizenship on
freed African American slaves.

Proponents said their strategy is designed to draw legal challenges and get the
issue before the Supreme Court.

Civil rights groups denounced the move and said it was motivated by racism
against Latino immigrants. They also said that Supreme Court precedents have
made clear for more than a century that the 14th Amendment applies to all
children born in the United States, regardless of whether their parents were in
the country legally.

About 340,000 children were born in the United States to undocumented immigrants
in 2008, according to a study released in August by the Pew Hispanic Center.
Thousands of children born to tourists and foreign students also could be denied
citizenship if the 14th Amendment were reinterpreted.

The move is the latest example of states testing the boundaries of federal
control over immigration. "This country has a malady, and it is costing her
citizens dearly," said South Carolina State Sen. Danny Verdin (R). He added that
the rise in number of what he called "anchor babies" - children born in the
United States to undocumented immigrants - had created a huge problem.

Pennsylvania State Rep. Daryl Metcalfe (R) said that he was planning to
introduce legislation within weeks and that legislators in about 40 states,
including Virginia, had signed up to learn more about the proposal. Metcalfe
said he expected about 20 states to introduce legislation soon, among them
Pennsylvania, Arizona, Nebraska, Alabama, Delaware, Idaho, Indiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Texas and Utah.

Corey Stewart, chairman of the Prince William County Board of County
Supervisors, who has been pushing for Arizona-type legislation in Virginia, said
he is disappointed that Virginia is not in the vanguard of the push to end
birthright citizenship.

"It has been so difficult to get bold action," he said.

In Maryland, Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County), the legislature's
most outspoken critic of illegal immigration, said it is possible he may
introduce birthright legislation. But it is unlikely to advance very far in a
state controlled by Democrats.

"It's hard to imagine a more quintessentially anti-American proposal than one
that would judge a person by their parents or grandparents or
great-grandparents," said Lucas Guttentag, who directs the Immigrant Rights
Project at the American Civil Liberties Union. Guttentag said that the ACLU
would counter any effort to challenge the 14th Amendment.

Proponents of the new strategy said they would adopt a two-pronged approach. The
first is to introduce bills in state legislatures that revive the concept of
"state citizenship." Only children with at least one parent who is a U.S.
permanent resident or citizen would be granted state citizenship, though it
wouldn't prevent the federal government from granting U.S. citizenship to the
children of undocumented immigrants.

The second prong of the strategy involves a more direct challenge to the
authority of the federal government by using what is known as a state compact to
draw a distinction between the children of undocumented immigrants and those of
legal permanent residents and U.S. citizens.

A compact is a legal term that describes a measure, passed by states, that
requires congressional approval. If Congress approves a state compact, it can
become federal law without requiring the signature of the president, said Kris
Kobach, professor of law at the University of Missouri at Kansas City and the
Kansas secretary of state-elect.

The states involved in the compact would issue different birth certificates to
children of permanent residents and U.S. citizens from those of undocumented
immigrants, tourists and foreign students. The birth certificates would draw a
distinction between those children whose parents are "subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States" - a phrase from the 14th Amendment - and
other children whose parents are not.

Kobach and other proponents said that because undocumented immigrants are in the
country illegally, they are not under the jurisdiction of the United States.

Effectively, states would be throwing down the gauntlet to Congress to deny
citizenship to children who do not have at least one parent who is a permanent
resident or a citizen.

Walter Dellinger, who was assistant attorney general and acting solicitor
general in President Bill Clinton's administration, predicted that the Supreme
Court would dismiss the challenge to the 14th Amendment because of past
decisions that ruled children born in the United States were citizens.

In 1898, the Supreme Court ruled that children born to Chinese migrants - who
were themselves barred by exclusionary racial laws from becoming citizens - were
U.S. citizens since they were born on U.S. soil.

The clause in the 14th Amendment that restricted birthright citizenship to those
"under the jurisdiction of the United States," he added, merely excluded the
children of foreign diplomats from becoming citizens.

Repeated challenges to the 14th Amendment, several civil rights experts said,
had questioned the legitimacy of African American, Chinese American and Japanese
American citizens. Each time, the challenge was refuted.

"This matter has been raised in every instance in a racial context," Dellinger
said. "That's why we wanted a simple rule: Every new girl or boy born in this
country is simply, indisputably, an American."

vedantams@washpost.com

Staff writers Anita Kumar, Rosalind S. Helderman and John Wagner contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Heated debate over Md. tuition

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 730 words


Giving undocumented immigrants in-state tuition benefits at Maryland colleges
would violate federal law, send the wrong message to law-abiding immigrants and
be unfair to taxpayers, state legislators opposed to the measure said Wednesday.

Opponents of the controversial legislation appeared outgunned in the Senate but
vowed to fight on. A vote on the measure may come as early as Monday, after
proponents crossed a procedural threshold late Wednesday evening.

"This is the most flawed piece of public policy I have ever, ever seen," said
Sen. James Brochin (D-Baltimore County).

Proponents said it makes moral and practical sense to allow undocumented
immigrants who attended Maryland high schools to pay the same tuition as their
high school classmates who are legal residents or citizens.

The Supreme Court ruled decades ago that all children are entitled to a high
school education up to the 12th grade, regardless of their legal status.
Proponents want to make Maryland's colleges just as accessible, said Sen. Paul
G. Pinsky (D-Prince George's).

The debate was especially emotional because of the group at its epicenter:
undocumented immigrants brought to this country as children.

Paul, 18, an Annapolis High School senior who did not give his last name because
of his undocumented status, came with his mother from El Salvador, crossing the
border illegally.

"I did not have a choice," he said.

Now a standout student who is applying to Yale University and other Ivy League
schools, Paul said outside the Senate chamber that he is hoping to be eligible
for in-state tuition benefits at Maryland colleges and financial aid at the
other schools. He said dozens of his classmates are undocumented immigrants.

The discussion on the Senate floor was marked by acrimony. When Senate President
Thomas V. Mike Miller (D-Calvert) called at one point for polite debate,
Minority Leader Nancy Jacobs (R-Harford) said, "That's not going to happen!"

Proponents and opponents characterized one another as out of touch.

Jacobs demanded to know how Maryland could in good faith offer foreigners who
had broken federal immigration laws in-state tuition benefits, while giving
foreigners on legal student visas at the same schools a tuition bill three times
higher.

"These individuals have the opportunity for education in the state," David R.
Brinkley (R-Frederick) insisted, referring to undocumented immigrants. "The
question is who is going to pay for it. The fact is this is going to cost money.
And lots of it."

Under the measure, undocumented immigrants would be allowed to pay in-state
tuition at community colleges in the same county in which they graduated from
high school if their parents were Maryland taxpayers. After two years and 60
college credits, students could transfer to a state college in their junior year
if there were space and the students had good grades.

State educators and college administrators have backed the measure.

Advocates said that the difference between in-state and regular tuition for two
years of community college and two years at a state school is about $26,000.

About 10 other states, including California, Texas and New York, have passed
similar measures. And Montgomery College offers discounted tuition rates to
undocumented immigrants who graduate from county high schools, though that
practice is being challenged in court by Judicial Watch, a conservative legal
group.

In-state tuition for undocumented immigrants is under siege in several states,
including Texas and Kansas. The GOP-controlled Virginia House of Delegates
passed a bill this year that would have banned undocumented immigrants from
public colleges and universities, but the measure died in the
Democratic-controlled Senate.

In a strategy pursued by proponents in other states, Maryland legislators are
linking in-state tuition benefits to high school attendance, rather than to
residency in Maryland, given that undocumented immigrants are not legal
residents of the United States.

Pinsky said it is unthinkable that Congress will not one day provide a path to
legal status for many of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country.
When that day comes, he said, Maryland will be better off if its undocumented
immigrants had gone to college and were prepared for citizenship and economic
success.

vedantams@washpost.com

Staff writer Rosalind S. Helderman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Md. Senate backs tuition breaks for illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 366 words


Maryland state senators on Monday signed off on legislation that would make
undocumented immigrants eligible for in-state tuition benefits at the state's
public colleges.

After a lengthy and emotional debate, the Senate voted 27  to 20 to approve the
measure, shifting one of the legislative session's most controversial
immigration bills to the House of Delegates.

Sen. Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George's), the lead sponsor, spoke to dozens of
students seated in the gallery who would benefit from the measure about how he
arrived legally in the United States from El Salvador at age 5.

"This is about education; it's not about immigration," he said. "What do we do
with the talent and the intellect of the children of undocumented immigrants who
are already living here? These children didn't make the decision to come to
Maryland. Their parents did."

Republican opponents and some Democrats said the state should not be subsidizing
the cost of higher education for illegal immigrants, and that their objections
were a matter of fairness.

The bill "sends a terrible message," Sen. Allan H. Kittleman (R-Howard) said.
"We're telling our students, 'It's okay to break the law, and you'll get a
benefit.'â[#x20ac][#x2c6]"

The measure passed by the Senate is a scaled-back version of what proponents
initially envisioned.It calls for Maryland high school graduates, regardless of
immigration status, to initially qualify for tuition breaks only at the state's
community colleges. Those who receive an associate's degree could transfer to
one of Maryland's four-year institutions and pay the in-state rate.

The compromise is an acknowledgment of heightened national debate over illegal
immigration in states such as Arizona, and increased competition for slots at
some of Maryland's universities.

Outside the Senate chamber Monday night, students celebrated the vote, waving
American flags and wearing faux graduation caps.

Supporters said the out-of-state tuition rate - an average of $10,000 more each
year - makes higher education cost-prohibitive for most undocumented immigrants.
Students would have to provide proof that their parents are Maryland taxpayers,
and commit to seeking residency.

marimowa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrants close to tuition breaks

BYLINE: Daniel de Vise

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 898 words


With anti-illegal-immigrant sentiment rising in the United States, a growing
number of states are considering legislation that would forbid public
universities from offering in-state tuition breaks to illegal immigrants.

But this week, the Maryland legislature, dominated by Democrats, took a step in
the opposite direction, voting to guarantee in-state tuition to illegal
immigrants. Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) is expected to sign the bill.

Sponsors overcame years of entrenched opposition with a provision that steers
undocumented students to community colleges instead of the increasingly
competitive flagship school, the University of Maryland, lessening the risk that
they will crowd out others for coveted spots.

Whether illegal immigrants should reap the benefits of residency at public
universities is one of the more contentious issues to emerge in the national
immigration debate. In this legislative session alone, at least eight states
took up bills to extend in-state tuition to illegal immigrants and as many
considered bills to deny it, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. Maryland is the only state this year to pass a bill extending
benefits.

Overall, the clear trend is toward ending tuition breaks. At least three states,
including Arizona, Colorado and Georgia, have moved to deny in-state tuition to
illegal immigrants since 2006. South Carolina barred illegal immigrants from
even enrolling in state colleges. Some Virginia lawmakers have tried repeatedly
to enact a similar law.

At least 10 states, including California and Texas, have laws that offer
in-state tuition to illegal immigrants, but most were passed in the first half
of the past decade. Now, several repeal efforts are underway.

"I think it's bad public policy, and I think it's a terrible use of tax dollars
to subsidize an illegal behavior," said Carl Wimmer, a Republican state
legislator in Utah who has worked to undo a 2002 state law that allows in-state
tuition for illegal immigrants in his state.

Supporters of tuition breaks, including most of the higher education community,
hope Maryland's bill will inspire others.

"I think this is a momentum-changer," said Dan Hurley, director of state
relations and policy analysis at the American Association of State Colleges and
Universities in Washington.

Tuition discounts would mean the difference between "going to college or not
going to college," said one 18-year-old Silver Spring student who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he is here illegally. "That's what it means to
me. Because we're not eligible for aid or scholarships, there's no way I'll be
able to come up with $24,000 a year."

That is what he would pay as a nonresident student at Maryland. He studies now
at Montgomery College, which has a long-standing policy of allowing undocumented
immigrants to pay lower resident tuition if they graduated from the county's
public schools. Most other public colleges and universities in the Washington
region charge out-of-state rates to illegal immigrants.

Maryland state Sen. Victor R. Ramirez, a Democrat from Prince George's County,
has pushed his bill since 2003. (It passed that year but was vetoed by then-Gov.
Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.) Even in Maryland, such legislation rouses fears about
undocumented students crowding out others at state universities.

The University of Maryland has an admission rate of about 40 percent. The school
is allowed to reserve up to 30 percent of freshman slots for nonresidents.
Tuition discounts might prompt more undocumented immigrants to apply,
potentially putting them in competition with other Marylanders.

The bill countered those concerns by diverting illegal immigrants from the
freshman admission cycle. To qualify for discounts, these students would have to
spend the first two years at a community college, then transfer to a four-year
institution. Community colleges have open enrollment, although their students
still face competition to get seats in popular classes.

"I can feel satisfied knowing that nobody's going to be displaced," said
Ramirez, a Salvadoran immigrant who attended the public Frostburg State
University.

Proponents of tuition breaks say such laws are both ethical and practical.
Illegal immigrant families pay taxes that fund resident subsidies, they say, and
denying them college access arguably hurts the local economy.

"This is for our Maryland residents, because they are," Ramirez said. "They have
been living here for many years, and this is their home."

Opponents of the measure say Maryland would pay dearly for tuition breaks. An
in-state student costs the University of Maryland at least $16,000 in subsidies:
That's the difference between the $8,416 annual tuition and mandatory fees for
residents and the $24,831 charged to nonresidents, who effectively pay the full
cost of their education.

Even the comparatively low-cost Montgomery College arguably loses $200 for every
credit hour taken by an undocumented student with a resident discount.

"You're talking about $50 million for a thousand kids over four years," said
state Rep. Patrick L. McDonough, a Republican and radio talk-show host from
suburban Baltimore. He said he is considering a ballot referendum and a lawsuit
to halt the measure.

"I have never seen or witnessed a bill that has generated so much anger and so
much fear as this piece of legislation," he said.

devised@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Opponents of tuition bill seek public vote

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 433 words


Opponents of legislation designed to give college tuition breaks to illegal
immigrants in Maryland say they are on track to collect the thousands of
signatures needed to try to overturn the measure, which passed the General
Assembly last month.

Del. Neil C. Parrott(R-Washington) and Del. Pat McDonough(R-Baltimore County)
are leading the effort to give voters a say in whether to uphold the bill.

Parrott said volunteers in most of Maryland's counties are gathering signatures
and spreading the word at grocery stores and community events that "our tax
dollars are going to fund illegal aliens." He added: "Now is not the time to be
spending money on what is an unlawful program."

Sen. Victor Ramirez, the Prince George's Democrat who sponsored the legislation,
said immigrant advocates and other proponents of the measure will mobilize to
educate voters and ensure that the signatures gathered are valid. He called
Parrott's message "misleading" and said the legislation would not give immigrant
students a free ride.

"It gives kids the opportunity to go to college and be treated like all other
Maryland high school graduates," Ramirez said.

Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) has said he will sign the bill that would allow illegal
immigrants who have graduated from Maryland high schools to pay in-state tuition
at the state's colleges and universities.

Students would have to provide proof that their parents or guardians are
taxpayers and would have to begin their courses at a community college. Those
who earn an associate's degree could transfer to a four-year institution at the
lower in-state tuition rate.

Maryland would join at least 10 states that provide similar benefits to
undocumented immigrants. But other states have moved in the opposite direction,
including Virginia, where some lawmakers have tried to block illegal immigrants
from enrolling in state colleges.

Putting a referendum on the ballot in Maryland is a difficult task. Although
many groups have tried in recent years, the last statewide measure to qualify
was in 1991, according to the State Board of Elections. Voters in that election
upheld less-restrictive abortion laws.

Opponents of the in-state tuition bill have until May 31 to turn in one-third of
the required 55,700 signatures, or about 18,600 names. The final batch must be
turned in by June 30.

Parrott said the group - Mdpetitions.org - has been encouraged by public support
for its effort and hopes to turn in more than 36,000 signatures by the first
deadline to ensure that the names can withstand anticipated legal challenges
from supporters of the bill.

reyese@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Maryland's immigration backlash

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 559 words


MARYLAND IS the latest state to extend college tuition breaks to undocumented
immigrants who graduate from state high schools, provide tax returns going back
five years, prove their academic mettle by completing two years of study in a
community college and, for men, register for the draft.

The measure is a tough, fair and sensible way to help make college affordable
for students who grew up in Maryland but, often through no fault of their own,
lack legal status in this country. Beyond helping them, it would help Maryland
by providing credentials to talented young people who would be prepared to
contribute to the state's economy.

But the legislation, signed into law this week by Democratic Gov. Martin
O'Malley, is under attack by anti-illegal-immigrant activists. Brandishing
slogans about respect for the law and the misuse of public funds, the activists
want to make life so impossible for undocumented immigrants that they will
somehow be forced to go "home." Never mind that Maryland is the only home that
many of these students, thoroughly American in speech, habits, culture and
allegiance, know or remember.

The activists have launched a petition drive to block the law from taking effect
this year by collecting about 58,000 valid signatures to put it on the ballot in
2012.

The leader of the petition drive is Pat McDonough, a Baltimore County lawmaker
who was among 55 Republicans to vote as a bloc against the legislation, known as
the Dream Act, last month. Mr. McDonough is a radio talk show personality whose
past crusades have included enshrining English as Maryland's official language
and promoting ownership of stun guns and Tasers. His record of success in the
General Assembly is almost nil; the legislature has passed just two bills of the
more than 50 he's introduced since being elected to the House of Delegates in
2002. He refers to Annapolis as "Wackoville" and the legislature as the "General
Asylum."

Mr. McDonough insists that tuition breaks for undocumented immigrants will cost
Marylanders "hundreds of millions of dollars" in lost tuition revenue; in fact,
most estimates are considerably lower than that. He says undocumented Maryland
students should pay the out-of-state rate if they want to attend college. The
reality is that many will not be able to afford it.

The bottom line for Mr. McDonough, as for many Republicans, is that illegal
immigrants can and should be made to leave the country, and that federal, state
and local governments can hasten that process by taking legislative and
administrative steps that make life impossible for them.

This is fantasy, of course. Eleven million undocumented immigrants are in
America, 7 million of them in the workforce; many have been here a long time and
are deeply interwoven in the fabric of their communities. The idea that they can
somehow be made to disappear - "attrited," in Mr. McDonough's euphemism - is a
daydream. It won't fly with businesses, industries and citizens that need and
have come to rely on undocumented workers and residents.

In following at least 10 other states in enacting some version of the Dream Act,
Maryland opened a door to youngsters who hope for a better future, like
generations of immigrants before them. If that door is slammed, Maryland will
shortchange its own future by blocking those residents from fulfilling their
potential.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 8, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Md. voters to decide immigrant tuition law

BYLINE: Aaron C. Davis

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1009 words


Opponents of a new law that gives undocumented immigrants in-state tuition
discounts at Maryland's public colleges have gathered enough signatures to
suspend the law and force a statewide referendum, election officials said
Thursday.

It is the first time in 20 years that a petition drive has forced a vote on a
Maryland law.

Under the law, undocumented immigrants who can prove that they have attended
Maryland high schools for at least three years and that their parents or
guardians have begun paying taxes were to have been allowed to begin courses
this fall at community colleges at in-state rates. The measure was approved in
the closing hours of this year's legislative session after years of failed
attempts.

Opponents of the immigrant tuition bill celebrated Thursday, calling the news
from the Maryland State Board of Elections a chance to turn back an expensive
liberal ideology promoted by the Democratic-controlled legislature.

"This is a great benefit to every citizen of the state," said Del. Neil C.
Parrott (R-Washington), the leader of the petition drive. "The liberal
leadership of the General Assembly rammed this through, even with 20 Democrats
voting against it. It's taken the hard work of volunteers across the state to
make sure voters will have the final say."

Elections officials have yet to certify the outcome, and court challenges are
likely. But the petition's success, combined with the House of Delegates'
decision this spring not to approve same-sex marriage, suggests that Maryland is
not as socially liberal as its reputation and overwhelming Democratic political
structure would suggest.

Conservatives owe part of their success to a first-of-its kind online tool used
to connect with like-minded opponents and to avoid the clerical errors that
routinely doom signature-gathering drives in Maryland. Signatures can be
rejected if they do not match voter rolls, so the tool printed a Maryland
voter's name and information exactly as it is listed in registration records. A
petition signer only needed to sign his name as printed and mail it to the
petition campaign.

The success of the Internet petition appears poised to have a profound effect
beyond the referendum at hand.

"This issue of illegal immigration tapped into a zeitgeist. With the economy, it
was ripe to be the first referendum to succeed in 20 years," said Todd Eberly, a
political science professor at St. Mary's College. "But the way it was done,
this will have a major impact, too. Maryland Republicans can now use this as an
alternative means to have influence . . . and as a result, same-sex marriage is
likely dead in the General Assembly for the near future."

A bill to legalize same-sex marriage died in the House in April. But a same-sex
marriage bill passed in New York last month, and proponents have said they would
use that momentum to make the issue a major part of the legislative session in
Maryland when the assembly reconvenes in January. But Eberly and others said
that may be less likely if the issue appears destined for a referendum, where
many same-sex marriage efforts around the country have failed.

Sen. Richard S. Madaleno Jr. (D-Montgomery), an openly gay lawmaker who has
sponsored same-sex marriage legislation, disagreed with Eberly.

"I think we should keep in perspective that less than 2 percent of the citizens
of this state have signed onto this petition," he said. "Maryland has a
remarkably low petition threshold. You could probably get 2 percent of Virginia
to sign onto a petition to be a sanctuary state" for undocumented immigrants.

A coalition of clergy, immigrant rights groups and Democrats who backed the
immigrant tuition measure has vowed to scrutinize the validity of signatures and
launch court challenges.

Alisa Glassman, lead organizer of one of those groups, Action in Montgomery,
predicted Thursday that even if the tuition law proceeds to a referendum,
proponents would prevail at the ballot box.

"The language used to gather signatures has for the most part been very narrow,
mean-spirited and, at times, racist," Glassman said. "We believe that once a
counter-narrative is put out there, one that speaks to the greater good, the
Maryland DREAM Law will prevail."

For a four-year degree, the plan could cost Maryland $40,000 per student, and
state analysts had estimated that hundreds of undocumented high-school graduates
would begin applying for aid this summer. Immigrant groups say that those
students' college plans are now in limbo, and that for many, college in the fall
may be out of reach financially.

Opponents of the bill said the outcome of the petition effort shows how out of
touch the state's leaders were.

"This is the biggest petition victory in the history of the state . . . and the
driving force was the passion and outrage of the people of Maryland," said Del.
Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County), a lead organizer. "Politicians in
Annapolis tried to make this about something it wasn't."

McDonough said that more than 50 percent of those who signed the petitions were
registered Democrats. He said that the issue would become part of the 2012
election dialogue and that he was sure it would help Republicans in Maryland and
elsewhere.

"President Obama has said passing a national DREAM Act is one of his priorities,
and when he is in Maryland, he will have to campaign for it. From the success we
had in gathering signatures, I expect a big success at the polls, and that will
give Obama a bloody nose. And if it fails in Maryland, that will give Gov.
[Martin] O'Malley, one of his biggest supporters, a bloody nose, too."

Opponents needed at least 55,736 signatures, or 3 percent of those who cast
ballots in the last statewide election, to push the measure to a vote in
November 2012. The board reported Thursday that 63,118 signatures had been
validated by local officials. Counting and certifications of signatures will
continue for weeks because opponents turned in more than 130,000 signatures. The
Board of Elections has until July 22 to certify the total tally.

davisa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Lawsuit over immigrant tuition breaks thrown out

BYLINE: Andrew Ujifusa

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T21

LENGTH: 474 words


A judge has thrown out a lawsuit against Montgomery College that challenged the
college's policy of granting illegal immigrants in-county tuition rates.

In an Aug. 16 ruling, Montgomery County Circuit Court Judge Marielsa A. Bernard
granted the college's motion to dismiss the case brought by three county
residents who were represented by the Judicial Watch organization in the
District, which describes itself as a "conservative, nonpartisan educational
foundation."

Bernard dismissed the case "with prejudice," meaning that the plaintiffs cannot
amend their complaint.

"That's what we wanted all along, for the case to be dismissed," college
spokeswoman Elizabeth Homan said Friday.

An attorney for the plaintiffs, Paul Orfanedes, said Friday that the group will
consider filing an appeal.

In January, Michael Lee Philips of Rockville, Patricia Fenati of Damascus and
David Drake of Rockville filed suit alleging that the college is breaking the
law by granting in-county tuition to illegal immigrants.

The college's policy is to charge the in-county tuition rate for anyone who
graduates from Montgomery County public schools and applies to the college
within three years, regardless of immigration status. At the time of the
lawsuit, in-county tuition was $107 per credit hour, compared with $219 for
in-state residents and $299 for out-of-state residents.

The plaintiffs alleged that by granting illegal immigrants the lowest rate,
Montgomery College was not collecting the tuition it should have under the law
and was hurting taxpayers.

Supporters of the college's policy argue that it helps the economy and students
in need.

In March, the college challenged the plaintiffs' standing to file the lawsuit,
saying it would usurp the role of the college and the Maryland Higher Education
Commission in setting tuition rates. Bernard agreed with this argument in her
ruling.

"The Court finds that it would be inconsistent with this legislative scheme for
the Plaintiffs to be able to proceed with a private right of action," Bernard
wrote.

But Orfanedes argued that legal precedent in Maryland has given taxpayers
standing to sue in instances in which public money is being spent illegally.

"It's a head-scratcher," he said.

An appeal from the group will be filed with the Maryland Court of Special
Appeals, Orfanedes said.

In a separate action, Maryland Del. Neil C. Parrott (R-Dist. 2B) of Hagerstown
has led a petition drive to take the Maryland Dream Act, which grants in-state
college tuition rates to some illegal immigrants, to referendum. The General
Assembly passed the law earlier this year.

The Latino and immigration advocacy group Casa of Maryland and individual
plaintiffs have filed suit to stop the petition, but if that lawsuit is
unsuccessful, the law will go to referendum on the general-election ballot next
year.

aujifusa@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 4, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

Opponents of tuition bill seek public vote

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 440 words


Opponents of legislation designed to give college tuition breaks to illegal
immigrants in Maryland say they are on track to collect the thousands of
signatures needed to try to overturn the measure, which passed the General
Assembly last month.

Del. Neil C. Parrott (R-Washington) and Del. Pat McDonough (R-Baltimore County)
are leading the effort to give voters a say in whether to uphold the bill.

Parrott said volunteers in most of Maryland's counties are gathering signatures
and spreading the word at grocery stores and community events that "our tax
dollars are going to fund illegal aliens." He added: "Now is not the time to be
spending money on what is an unlawful program."

Sen. Victor Ramirez, the Prince George's Democrat who sponsored the legislation,
said immigrant advocates and other proponents of the measure will mobilize to
educate voters and ensure that the signatures gathered are valid. He called
Parrott's message "misleading" and said the legislation would not give immigrant
students a free ride.

"It gives kids the opportunity to go to college and be treated like all other
Maryland high school graduates," Ramirez said.

Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) has said he will sign the bill that would allow illegal
immigrants who have graduated from Maryland high schools to pay in-state tuition
at the state's colleges and universities.

Students would have to provide proof that their parents or guardians are
taxpayers and would have to begin their courses at a community college. Those
who earn an associate's degree could transfer to a four-year institution at the
lower in-state tuition rate.

Maryland would join at least 10 states that provide similar benefits to
undocumented immigrants. But other states have moved in the opposite direction,
including Virginia, where some lawmakers have tried to block illegal immigrants
from enrolling in state colleges.

Putting a referendum on the ballot in Maryland is a difficult task. Although
many groups have tried in recent years, the last statewide measure to qualify
was in 1991, according to the State Board of Elections. Voters in that election
upheld less-restrictive abortion laws.

Opponents of the in-state tuition bill have until May 31 to turn in one-third of
the required 55,700 signatures, or about 18,600 names. The final batch must be
turned in by June 30.

Parrott said the group - Mdpetitions.org - has been encouraged by public support
for its effort and hopes to turn in more than 36,000 signatures by the first
deadline to ensure that the names can withstand anticipated legal challenges
from supporters of the bill.

reyese@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 13, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Maryland's immigration backlash

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 559 words


MARYLAND IS the latest state to extend college tuition breaks to undocumented
immigrants who graduate from state high schools, provide tax returns going back
five years, prove their academic mettle by completing two years of study in a
community college and, for men, register for the draft.

The measure is a tough, fair and sensible way to help make college affordable
for students who grew up in Maryland but, often through no fault of their own,
lack legal status in this country. Beyond helping them, it would help Maryland
by providing credentials to talented young people who would be prepared to
contribute to the state's economy.

But the legislation, signed into law this week by Democratic Gov. Martin
O'Malley, is under attack by anti-illegal-immigrant activists. Brandishing
slogans about respect for the law and the misuse of public funds, the activists
want to make life so impossible for undocumented immigrants that they will
somehow be forced to go "home." Never mind that Maryland is the only home that
many of these students, thoroughly American in speech, habits, culture and
allegiance, know or remember.

The activists have launched a petition drive to block the law from taking effect
this year by collecting about 58,000 valid signatures to put it on the ballot in
2012.

The leader of the petition drive is Pat McDonough, a Baltimore County lawmaker
who was among 55 Republicans to vote as a bloc against the legislation, known as
the Dream Act, last month. Mr. McDonough is a radio talk show personality whose
past crusades have included enshrining English as Maryland's official language
and promoting ownership of stun guns and Tasers. His record of success in the
General Assembly is almost nil; the legislature has passed just two bills of the
more than 50 he's introduced since being elected to the House of Delegates in
2002. He refers to Annapolis as "Wackoville" and the legislature as the "General
Asylum."

Mr. McDonough insists that tuition breaks for undocumented immigrants will cost
Marylanders "hundreds of millions of dollars" in lost tuition revenue; in fact,
most estimates are considerably lower than that. He says undocumented Maryland
students should pay the out-of-state rate if they want to attend college. The
reality is that many will not be able to afford it.

The bottom line for Mr. McDonough, as for many Republicans, is that illegal
immigrants can and should be made to leave the country, and that federal, state
and local governments can hasten that process by taking legislative and
administrative steps that make life impossible for them.

This is fantasy, of course. Eleven million undocumented immigrants are in
America, 7 million of them in the workforce; many have been here a long time and
are deeply interwoven in the fabric of their communities. The idea that they can
somehow be made to disappear - "attrited," in Mr. McDonough's euphemism - is a
daydream. It won't fly with businesses, industries and citizens that need and
have come to rely on undocumented workers and residents.

In following at least 10 other states in enacting some version of the Dream Act,
Maryland opened a door to youngsters who hope for a better future, like
generations of immigrants before them. If that door is slammed, Maryland will
shortchange its own future by blocking those residents from fulfilling their
potential.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 8, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Md. voters to decide immigrant tuition law

BYLINE: Aaron C. Davis

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1013 words


Opponents of a new law that gives undocumented immigrants in-state tuition
discounts at Maryland's public colleges have gathered enough signatures to
suspend the law and force a statewide referendum, election officials said
Thursday.

It is the first time in 20 years that a petition drive has forced a vote on a
Maryland law.

Under the law, undocumented immigrants who can prove that they have attended
Maryland high schools for at least three years and that their parents or
guardians have begun paying taxes were to have been allowed to begin courses
this fall at community colleges at in-state rates. The measure was approved in
the closing hours of this year's legislative session after years of failed
attempts.

Opponents of the immigrant tuition bill celebrated Thursday, calling the news
from the Maryland State Board of Elections a chance to turn back an expensive
liberal ideology promoted by the Democratic-controlled legislature.

"This is a great benefit to every citizen of the state," said Del. Neil C.
Parrott (R-Washington), the leader of the petition drive. "The liberal
leadership of the General Assembly rammed this through, even with 20 Democrats
voting against it. It's taken the hard work of volunteers across the state to
make sure voters will have the final say."

Elections officials have yet to certify the outcome, and court challenges are
likely. But the petition's success, combined with the House of Delegates'
decision this spring not to approve same-sex marriage, suggests that Maryland is
not as socially liberal as its reputation and overwhelming Democratic political
structure would suggest.

Conservatives owe part of their success to a first-of-its kind online tool used
to connect with like-minded opponents and to avoid the clerical errors that
routinely doom signature-gathering drives in Maryland. Signatures can be
rejected if they do not match voter rolls, so the tool printed a Maryland
voter's name and information exactly as it is listed in registration records. A
petition signer only needed to sign his name as printed and mail it to the
petition campaign.

The success of the Internet petition appears poised to have a profound effect
beyond the referendum at hand.

"This issue of illegal immigration tapped into a zeitgeist. With the economy, it
was ripe to be the first referendum to succeed in 20 years," said Todd Eberly, a
political science professor at St. Mary's College. "But the way it was done,
this will have a major impact, too. Maryland Republicans can now use this as an
alternative means to have influence . . . and as a result, same-sex marriage is
likely dead in the General Assembly for the near future."

A bill to legalize same-sex marriage died in the House in April. But a same-sex
marriage bill passed in New York last month, and proponents have said they would
use that momentum to make the issue a major part of the legislative session in
Maryland when the assembly reconvenes in January. But Eberly and others said
that may be less likely if the issue appears destined for a referendum, where
many same-sex marriage efforts around the country have failed.

Sen. Richard S. Madaleno Jr. (D-Montgomery), an openly gay lawmaker who has
sponsored same-sex marriage legislation, disagreed with Eberly.

"I think we should keep in perspective that less than 2 percent of the citizens
of this state have signed onto this petition," he said. "Maryland has a
remarkably low petition threshold. You could probably get 2 percent of Virginia
to sign onto a petition to be a sanctuary state" for undocumented immigrants.

A coalition of clergy, immigrant rights groups and Democrats who backed the
immigrant tuition measure has vowed to scrutinize the validity of signatures and
launch court challenges.

Alisa Glassman, lead organizer of one of those groups, Action in Montgomery,
predicted Thursday that even if the tuition law proceeds to a referendum,
proponents would prevail at the ballot box.

"The language used to gather signatures has for the most part been very narrow,
mean-spirited and, at times, racist," Glassman said. "We believe that once a
counter-narrative is put out there, one that speaks to the greater good, the
Maryland DREAM Law will prevail."

For a four-year degree, the plan could cost Maryland $40,000 per student, and
state analysts had estimated that hundreds of undocumented high-school graduates
would begin applying for aid this summer. Immigrant groups say that those
students' college plans are now in limbo, and that for many, college in the fall
may be out of reach financially.

Opponents of the bill said the outcome of the petition effort shows how out of
touch the state's leaders were.

"This is the biggest petition victory in the history of the state . . . and the
driving force was the passion and outrage of the people of Maryland," said Del.
Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County), a lead organizer. "Politicians in
Annapolis tried to make this about something it wasn't."

McDonough said that more than 50 percent of those who signed the petitions were
registered Democrats. He said that the issue would become part of the 2012
election dialogue and that he was sure it would help Republicans in Maryland and
elsewhere.

"President Obama has said passing a national DREAM Act is one of his priorities,
and when he is in Maryland, he will have to campaign for it. From the success we
had in gathering signatures, I expect a big success at the polls, and that will
give Obama a bloody nose. And if it fails in Maryland, that will give Gov.
[Martin] O'Malley, one of his biggest supporters, a bloody nose, too."

Opponents needed at least 55,736 signatures, or 3 percent of those who cast
ballots in the last statewide election, to push the measure to a vote in
November 2012. The board reported Thursday that 63,118 signatures had been
validated by local officials. Counting and certifications of signatures will
continue for weeks because opponents turned in more than 130,000 signatures. The
Board of Elections has until July 22 to certify the total tally.

davisa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 25, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Lawsuit over immigrant tuition breaks thrown out

BYLINE: Andrew Ujifusa

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T21

LENGTH: 474 words


A judge has thrown out a lawsuit against Montgomery College that challenged the
college's policy of granting illegal immigrants in-county tuition rates.

In an Aug. 16 ruling, Montgomery County Circuit Court Judge Marielsa A. Bernard
granted the college's motion to dismiss the case brought by three county
residents who were represented by the Judicial Watch organization in the
District, which describes itself as a "conservative, nonpartisan educational
foundation."

Bernard dismissed the case "with prejudice," meaning that the plaintiffs cannot
amend their complaint.

"That's what we wanted all along, for the case to be dismissed," college
spokeswoman Elizabeth Homan said Friday.

An attorney for the plaintiffs, Paul Orfanedes, said Friday that the group will
consider filing an appeal.

In January, Michael Lee Philips of Rockville, Patricia Fenati of Damascus and
David Drake of Rockville filed suit alleging that the college is breaking the
law by granting in-county tuition to illegal immigrants.

The college's policy is to charge the in-county tuition rate for anyone who
graduates from Montgomery County public schools and applies to the college
within three years, regardless of immigration status. At the time of the
lawsuit, in-county tuition was $107 per credit hour, compared with $219 for
in-state residents and $299 for out-of-state residents.

The plaintiffs alleged that by granting illegal immigrants the lowest rate,
Montgomery College was not collecting the tuition it should have under the law
and was hurting taxpayers.

Supporters of the college's policy argue that it helps the economy and students
in need.

In March, the college challenged the plaintiffs' standing to file the lawsuit,
saying it would usurp the role of the college and the Maryland Higher Education
Commission in setting tuition rates. Bernard agreed with this argument in her
ruling.

"The Court finds that it would be inconsistent with this legislative scheme for
the Plaintiffs to be able to proceed with a private right of action," Bernard
wrote.

But Orfanedes argued that legal precedent in Maryland has given taxpayers
standing to sue in instances in which public money is being spent illegally.

"It's a head-scratcher," he said.

An appeal from the group will be filed with the Maryland Court of Special
Appeals, Orfanedes said.

In a separate action, Maryland Del. Neil C. Parrott (R-Dist. 2B) of Hagerstown
has led a petition drive to take the Maryland Dream Act, which grants in-state
college tuition rates to some illegal immigrants, to referendum. The General
Assembly passed the law earlier this year.

The Latino and immigration advocacy group Casa of Maryland and individual
plaintiffs have filed suit to stop the petition, but if that lawsuit is
unsuccessful, the law will go to referendum on the general-election ballot next
year.

aujifusa@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Immigration law reviewed

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T18

LENGTH: 829 words


Virginia should lower the temperature of the debate on illegal immigration and
look for ways to pass effective laws on the issue that don't run afoul of
federal powers or re-legislate issues already addressed by the General Assembly,
Prince William Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter (R) said Monday.

Lingamfelter said that's why he asked Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli
II (R) to do a legal analysis of legislation proposed this year by Prince
William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) that
would essentially replicate an Arizona statute that requires police officers to
check the immigration status of anyone they stop for questioning if they have
reasonable suspicion the person is in the United States illegally.

Stewart's "Rule of Law" legislation would also make it illegal to knowingly
transport, harbor or otherwise aide illegal immigrants.

Stewart has essentially been campaigning on the need for immigration
legislation, making it the centerpiece of his political identity as he looks at
a run for the U.S. Senate in 2012.

But Virginia has a law, adopted in 2008, that requires sheriff's departments to
check the immigration status of anyone taken into custody by police and jailed.
And Cuccinelli issued a legal opinion over the summer in which he said it is
legal for police officers to inquire into a person's immigration status upon
stopping him or her, even if the person is not arrested.

"One of the things I'm trying to do as a legislator is get the temperature down,
where we're looking at this rationally, with the goal of effective legislation,"
Lingamfelter said. "I didn't have the expertise, . . . and before we got in a
huge back-and-forth on whether or not this works inside of Virginia's code, I
just boxed it up and sent it to the attorney general and asked him if he could
have his lawyers take a look."

In his legal analysis, an informal written dissection of legislation that has
not been filed for consideration by the General Assembly, Cuccinelli wrote last
week that he found large sections of Stewart's proposal to be duplicative of
state law and unnecessary. Other portions, he said, could introduce broad
classes of felony crimes, were drawn too broadly and could be preempted by
federal powers.

"I was very surprised by Cuccinelli's opinion," Stewart said. "I'm attacked by a
lot of pro-amnesty and liberal groups because of my position on illegal
immigration, but I never expected to be attacked from the rear by a fellow
conservative."

Stewart said that he disagrees with Cuccinelli's opinion but that the attorney
general reviewed a policy he is no longer advocating. Instead of pushing to
bring Arizona's law to the Commonwealth, Stewart is trying to get Prince
William's policy adopted across the state.

Stewart said he decided to push the Prince William policy a few weeks ago, after
a University of Virginia study showed that the county's policy had some effect
on illegal immigration. He also said that the county's policy was reviewed by a
federal district court judge in 2007 and was found to be legal and
constitutional.

"The Prince William policy has been tried and tested in court, and I believe it
is not only legally sound, but it's effective," he said. "I'm . . . absolutely
dumbfounded why the attorney general didn't know [about] the 2007 decision"
regarding the county's policy.

Lingamfelter said he's unsure whether Prince William's policies on illegal
immigration - considered the toughest in the state - actually result in those
who are stopped or arrested by police being treated differently than elsewhere
in Virginia. He said he was trying to learn more about how the county's policy
and state law are being applied to see whether there is room for legislation.

"We can't legislate by rhetoric," he said. "We've got to legislate based on
actual activity on the ground."

Immigration advocates have also said that Prince William's policy is duplicative
of state law. "Either [Stewart is] ignorant of state law, or he's deliberately
deceiving people," lawyer Claire Guthrie Gastanaga said.

Stewart disagreed, saying that the county's policy requires immigration checks
to be conducted on anyone arrested but that the state law waits until the person
is in jail.

"Only half of the people arrested end up in jail, which means Prince William's
policy is checking twice the number of people than other localities are checking
at the jail level," he said.

Stewart said he was unaware that Lingamfelter had asked Cuccinelli to draft a
legal opinion until it was made public last week. Stewart said he thinks he and
the delegate will work together to get some form of immigration legislation
before the General Assembly.

"Cuccinelli has been less than helpful on this issue," Stewart said. "His
opinion expresses fear of being challenged in court. . . . I don't care who
challenges me on this - if it's Cuccinelli or the pope - I am not going to back
down."

heldermanr@washpost.com

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Benefits of ICE program questioned

BYLINE: Gregg MacDonald

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T19

LENGTH: 1008 words


Ask Sheriff Stan G. Barry (D) about Secure Communities, an initiative to
identify illegal immigrants with criminal records, and he will say it is
successful. Others, however, say the program's success is misleading and comes
at a high price.

On Nov. 30, Barry outlined the program and its effects on Fairfax County as part
of "Ask Fairfax!," an online forum in which county staff members engage in
discussions with constituents about key Fairfax County topics.

Administered and paid for by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the
program cross-checks anyone booked into the county jail with federal databases
for criminal records and immigration status. If an immigration violation is
matched to a suspect, ICE requests that local law enforcement detain a suspect
after incarceration, or exoneration if charges are dropped, to determine whether
federal action, such as deportation, is required. The decision takes into
consideration the immigration status of the illegal immigrant and his or her
criminal history, according to ICE.

"The program works very well for us," Barry said. "It allows us to identify
illegal aliens in the community who have committed crimes without spending any
Fairfax County taxpayer money."

Nationally, the program is available in 686 jurisdictions in 33 states. Several
county police departments in Northern Virginia and Maryland participate in the
program, as does the District. According to ICE, it plans to expand Secure
Communities to all 50 states by 2013.

Barry said since the Secure Communities program was implemented locally in March
2009, 863 people have been identified for deportation. About half have been
deported, he said.

"People identified for deportation have to have committed what are termed Class
I offenses," Barry said during the forum. "These are offenses such as murder,
rape, robbery and drug distribution."

After being asked by a lawyer said to represent people who were served ICE
detainers for non-Class 1 offenses, Barry offered a further explanation.

"As I said earlier, ICE is focusing on Class I offenders. However, they have
criteria for identifying people and are deporting Class II and III offenders,"
he said. "We would honor any federal detainer placed by ICE, regardless of the
level of offense."

"I agree that this program is great for removing very dangerous criminals," said
John Liss, director of the Virginia New Majority, an Alexandria-based political
action group with ties to labor unions that takes up many immigrant causes. "But
the truth is that Secure Communities is not being used exclusively for that
purpose. If someone is deported, relationships and families can be torn apart
for an offense potentially as innocuous as jaywalking. It is a grossly
disproportional punishment that massively impacts our sense of community in
Northern Virginia."

According to ICE statistics, about 22 percent of suspects detained by the Secure
Communities program nationwide were deemed Class I offenders. Since partnering
with county municipalities two years ago, 64,000 individuals -14,000 of whom
were convicted of a Class I offense - have been deported, according to an Oct. 4
Secure Communities operability report compiled by ICE.

Arlington County, which is in the process of withdrawing from the program,
share's Liss' sentiment.

"The manner in which Secure Communities has been implemented creates an
unnecessary and dangerous fear of local law enforcement in our immigrant
community," wrote Arlington County Manager Barbara M. Donnellan in an October
letter to ICE Director John Morton. "Contrary to its intent, Secure Communities
potentially makes our community less safe by creating divisions within our
community that hinder our successful community policing practices."

Fairfax County Sheriff's spokesman Sonny Cachuela disagrees with that
assessment.

"There are no community divisions being created with this program," Cachuela
said Dec. 2. "We are not going out into the community seeking illegal aliens. No
one is sought out, and no one is fingerprinted other than criminals processed
into our jail."

On the other side of the issue is the sentiment that illegal immigrants should
be actively pursued, and Secure Communities is not proactive in that approach.

Unlike the more aggressive 287(g) federal program, which allows local law
enforcement to uphold federal immigration laws, Secure Communities does not give
Fairfax County sheriff's deputies that authority.

"We are not authorized to enforce immigration laws," Barry said.

"How can a sheriff [who has taken] an oath to enforce the law say publicly he
will not enforce our immigration laws?"Guy Mullinax of the Fairfax County
Department of Transportation said during the online forum.

Herndon is the only jurisdiction in Fairfax County that participates in 287(g).
In November 2009, the Herndon Town Council voted to expand the federal powers
given to town police.

Previously, immigration status checks performed by Herndon police were limited
to people detained for driving under the influence and other serious felonies.
Under the 2009 expansion, those restrictions were removed. Now anyone detained
within the town can have their immigration status checked.

From January to October, Herndon police initiated 104 immigration status
investigations, which resulted in 54 "detainer" for deportation requests issued
by ICE. Prince William and Loudoun counties and the cities of Manassas and
Manassas Park also partner with ICE in 287(g).

The federal program "287(g) works because it is proactive," said former Herndon
Town Council member Charlie Waddell, a program advocate who voted to give town
police  expanded federal powers. "Secure Communities only works once someone has
been caught for some other crime and brought to the county jail. The two
programs complement each other, but I believe that Secure Communities without
287(g) is not nearly as effective. To my knowledge, no community rift exists in
Herndon as a result of either program, but I know a lot of bad guys are off our
streets."

gmacdonald@fairfaxtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax North

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 24, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Next Congress unlikely to pass DREAM Act, Republicans say

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 691 words


Congressional Republicans are pronouncing President Obama's proposal that the
next Congress overhaul the country's immigration laws as dead before arrival.

In his year-end news conference Wednesday, Obama said his biggest regret about
the recent lame-duck session of Congress was the defeat of the DREAM Act, a
measure that offered a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants brought
to the country as children.

"It is heartbreaking," Obama said, as he talked about how such immigrants often
realize they are without legal status only when they try to go to college or
join the military. "That can't be who we are. To have our kids, classmates of
our children, who are suddenly under this shadow of fear through no fault of
their own. They didn't break the law - they were kids."

Congressional Republicans said in interviews Thursday that their concerns about
the measure remain strong, and both House and Senate GOP leaders said they would
fight any attempt to legalize any of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in
the country before the administration secured the nation's southern border with
Mexico.

"It is pointless to talk about any new immigration bills that grant amnesty
until we secure the border, since such bills will only encourage more illegal
immigration," incoming House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) said in a
statement.

In an interview, Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), the ranking Republican on the House
immigration subcommittee, accused Obama of playing politics with immigration and
toying with Latino voters.

"It is extraordinarily unlikely that any version of comprehensive immigration
reform that includes amnesty will go through the House of Representatives," he
said.

Obama's call on Congress to pass the DREAM Act "polarizes Americans along the
lines of race and ethnicity," King added. "He implies there is a realistic
chance - he knows better, and therefore it makes it a political statement
designed to gin up his base and pit Americans against Americans."

During the recent contentious congressional debate over the act, Republicans
said the measure would reward violators of the country's immigration laws and
encourage new waves of illegal immigration. They also said that the measure was
lax in allowing some lawbreakers to gain citizenship, and said that the
requirement that DREAM Act beneficiaries obtain two years of college education
or military service set the bar too low.

Revising the DREAM Act to eliminate those issues would not solve the underlying
problem with the measure, said Stephen Miller, a spokesman for Sen. Jeff
Sessions (R-Ala.), who led Senate Republicans in their opposition to the
measure.

"When you're traveling in the wrong direction, modest alterations don't make a
difference," Miller said. "You need to get off the road and head down a
different one. As Senator Sessions has said, the first thing we need to do is
end the massive illegality at the border."

Sessions has previously termed attempts to combine tougher enforcement with
measures to provide legalization for undocumented immigrants a "ruse," because
such measures would grant legal status to undocumented immigrants immediately,
whereas it would defer border security for the future.

Recent analyses suggest that the number of people illegally crossing the border
has declined - although no one knows how much of the decline is attributable to
tougher border security and how much is because the recent recession has
lessened the availability of jobs.

"My administration has done more on border security than any administration in
recent years," Obama said Wednesday, highlighting sharp increases in resources
for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, border patrol and
surveillance. Obama said he was open to new measures to improve border security
but also wanted the incoming Congress to pass measures that legalized some
undocumented immigrants.

"I think it is absolutely appropriate for the American people to expect that we
do not have porous borders and anyone can come in here anytime," Obama said.
"But I also think about those kids and I want to do right by them."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration impasse ahead

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 603 words


DESPITE THE lame-duck defeat of a modest immigration reform known as the Dream
Act, both President Obama and Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) said they
are not giving up on improving the nation's immigration laws. We applaud their
persistence and hope progress is possible - if not for something
"comprehensive," as was the goal in the past Congress, then for incremental
change.

The recession and high unemployment certainly clouded the prospects for reform.
Not coincidentally, the midterm elections elevated both in Washington and state
capitals a number of politicians who are not much open to compromise. Mr. Obama
has stepped up deportations and company audits above Bush administration levels,
yet these politicians continue to attack the administration for its supposed
softness on the issue. Calls to "close the border" before any other reform can
be considered can hardly be taken seriously, given how many resources are now
being devoted to border control.

In a handful of Southern and Western states, Republican governors and lawmakers
are vowing to replicate Arizona's harshly nativist law or go even further with
bills that would outlaw the presence of undocumented immigrants or require
police to screen suspects for immigration status - or both. The assumption
underlying such legislation is that the 11 million illegal immigrants in this
country, including the 7 million who hold jobs, can and should be deported en
masse.

In fact, deportation on such a scale would be impractical and economically
self-defeating. According to polling data, it would also be broadly unpopular.
Even among Americans who don't depend directly on illegal immigrants as a source
of unskilled labor - which many do - there is little appetite for wrenching
millions of undocumented families, including many with roots, relatives and
children in America, from their communities and shoving them across the border.

In Congress, Rep. Steve King, an Iowa Republican who is likely to chair the
subcommittee dealing directly with immigration, wants to end automatic or
"birthright" citizenship for children born in the United States, which has been
enshrined in U.S. law since the 14th Amendment's adoption in 1868. Mr. King's
proposal, which targets children of illegal immigrants, is unlikely to carry
both houses of Congress, and in any event it would be vetoed by Mr. Obama.

Impasse also seems likely in efforts to shape comprehensive reform that would
crack down on employers who hire undocumented workers while providing a steady
supply of guest workers, attracting the skilled workers the country needs and
offering a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants already here.

But particular pieces of immigration reform might still have bipartisan appeal.
One such element is the historical shortage of visas for foreign workers with
special skills and advanced degrees. Although demand eased somewhat this year
due to the recession, and there are legitimate concerns about abuses in the
system, the standing quotas in those categories - amounting to just 85,000
available visas per year - have been severely inadequate in recent years.

The result is that thousands of highly educated and technically adept foreigners
- precisely the workers America needs to compete in the global marketplace -
have been unable to come to the United States to fill vacant jobs here. That's
even been true for foreigners who have completed PhDs in specialized fields at
top U.S. universities - and are then forced to leave the country. Nothing could
be more self-defeating. Let's hope Congress can at least see its way to fixing
that problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 29, 2011 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Arizona-inspired immigration bills lose momentum in other states

BYLINE: Lois Romano

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1268 words


As state legislatures convene this month, lawmakers across the country who had
vowed to copy Arizona's strict measure cracking down on illegal immigrants are
facing a new reality.

State budget deficits, coupled with the political backlash triggered by
Arizona's law and potentially expensive legal challenges from the federal
government, have made passage of such statutes uncertain.

In the nine months since the Arizona measure was signed into law, a number of
similar bills have stalled or died or are being reworked. Some have faced
resistance from law enforcement officials who question how states or communities
could afford the added cost of enforcing the laws.

And some state legislators have backed away from the most controversial parts of
the Arizona law, which have been challenged in court by the federal government
and others. A federal judge has put on hold some of its provisions, including
those that would allow police to check immigration status if they stop someone
while enforcing other laws, allow for warrantless arrests of suspected illegal
immigrants and criminalize the failure of immigrants to carry registration
papers. The case is awaiting a ruling before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
9th Circuit.

"Obviously most places were not going to pass Arizona bills," said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates tighter immigration laws. "There's always an initial flush of
enthusiasm and then the reality of politics sets in. . . . These states are
bankrupt - they need to decide what battles they want to fight."

But Krikorian also said that the Arizona bill has "done what it was supposed to
do" by creating a national discussion on immigration reform in the absence of
federal legislation.

"I won't be surprised to see more state task forces looking more fully at this
issue," said Ann Morse, program director with the Immigrant Policy Project at
the National Conference of State Legislatures. "The interest level is still
there, but states are looking at the implications."

Georgia, Mississippi, Indiana, Florida, Nebraska, Kentucky, Utah, Pennsylvania,
Texas and South Carolina are among the states where Arizona copycat bills have
been drafted.

In Florida, an Arizona-style bill that appeared headed for passage a few months
ago appears to be on life support. Even its primary Senate sponsor has expressed
concern that the provision allowing police to check a person's immigration
status during a traffic stop could amount to racial profiling.

In Utah, a state dominated by conservative Republicans, a couple of bills
similar to Arizona's statute are in the legislative pipeline. But in November,
state leaders from business, law enforcement, education and the Mormon Church
urged moderation - and with some success. They drew up the "Utah Compact," which
declares immigration a federal issue and urges legislators to focus resources on
local crime.

Kirk Jowers, director of the Hinkley Institute of Politics at the University of
Utah, said the compact already "has had a big impact on a number of legislators.
. . . Some aren't backing down, but there are other bills floating around that
are far more moderate."

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
supports tougher immigration restrictions, said states will probably bite off
the small pieces of the Arizona bill that fit their constituencies.

"There is tremendous interest . . . in emulating portions of the Arizona model,"
he said. "But no one size fits all."

One area in which many states are finding consensus is with "E-Verify"
legislation, which requires businesses to use an Internet-based system to check
the legal status of prospective employees.

But when it comes to more restrictive laws, there is less agreement.

In Texas, business leaders have publicly expressed concern that the more than
three dozen strict immigration bills before the legislature will discourage
business development. Among them is a measure that would allow public elementary
schools to demand proof of citizenship from children.

In Mississippi, the Republican-controlled Senate and Democrat-controlled House
are headed for a showdown over provisions in their two bills. The Senate passed
an Arizona-style bill this month, but the House version deletes a provision that
would allow citizens to sue law enforcement officials who fail to enforce
restrictions.

Law enforcement officials there have questioned how practically they would be
able to uphold all the provisions of the measure, which would require local
police to become much more involved with the federal government in enforcing
immigration laws.

"Many states are facing dire fiscal situations, trying to solve state budgets
and create jobs," said Vivek Malhotra, advocacy and policy counsel for the
American Civil Liberties Union, which sees the Arizona law and others like it as
unfair and unconstitutional. "Enforcing a restrictive immigration measure is
expensive."

South Carolina might be on the fastest track, buoyed by new Republican Gov.
Nikki Haley, who has said she is committed to cracking down on illegal
immigrants. Among the four bills being circulated is one that, as in Arizona's
measure, would require immigrants to carry immigration documents with them at
all times. Police could demand the documents during traffic stops.

Legislative leaders in South Carolina are being pressed to explain how the state
will come up with the resources to pay for enforcement, but advocates say they
are determined to push for new laws.

"Illegals are ruining our state. They take away our resources," said local
activist Roan Garcia-Quintana, a Cuban American and executive director of the
Americans Have Had Enough Coalition. "We don't care what other states do."

Arizona's Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act, considered the
nation's toughest anti-illegal-immigration measure, was signed into law in
April. It sparked street protests, ignited a national debate over immigration
issues and triggered a legal challenge from the Obama administration's Justice
Department, which is arguing that federal law should preempt state immigration
laws.

The controversy has also cost Arizona, which has seen conventions canceled and
overall tourism decline. One study, by the liberal-leaning Center for American
Progress, reported that boycotts could end up costing Arizona upwards of $250
million in tax revenue, wages and visitor expenditures, a figure some state and
business leaders have disputed as high.

Virtually every state is considering some form of legislation affecting
immigration, and last year state legislatures enacted an unprecedented number of
immigration laws and resolutions, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. In some cases, lawmakers are advocating legislation that includes
a path to citizenship and amnesty provisions for those already here, while
conservatives favor more restrictive policies, including deportation.

There could be a political downside to enacting tougher laws headed into the
2012 presidential election.

At a recent conference organized by the new Hispanic Leadership Network, former
Florida governor Jeb Bush (R), who has criticized the Arizona law, noted the
importance of Latino voters.

"Hispanics will be the swing voters as they are today in the swing states." Bush
said. "If you want to elect a center-right president of the United States, it
seems to me you should be concerned about places like New Mexico, Arizona,
Nevada, Florida, Texas, places where but for the Hispanic vote, elections are
won and lost."

romanol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Counties see fewer Hispanic residents

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 933 words


A program that deputizes local police officers to enforce immigration laws sent
the Hispanic population plummeting in many places across the United States,
including Prince William and Frederick counties, according to a report released
Monday by the Migration Policy Institute.

In some cases, the initial decrease was steep: Between 2007 and 2009, Frederick
County lost 61 percent of its Hispanic population, and Prince William County
lost almost 21 percent, according to the report from the nonpartisan institute,
which used census data and school enrollment figures. The Hispanic populations
have rebounded, but not to their previous levels.

The study focused on seven places - including Prince William and Frederick -
that have adopted the federal 287 (g) program, which is in use by 70 state and
local law enforcement agencies in 25 states.

Under the program, which costs $68 million annually, local police officers are
trained to determine the immigration status of people they arrest and flag those
found to be in the country illegally to Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Once illegal immigrants are transferred to ICE custody, the U.S. government
decides whether to begin deportation proceedings.

Although ICE has said it prioritizes deportation of people with serious criminal
backgrounds, some of the jurisdictions participating in the program seek to
remove as many undocumented immigrants as possible, regardless of their criminal
background, the study found.

Frederick was among them, the institute found. In fiscal 2010, the county
detained 198 undocumented immigrants through the 287 (g) program, and 120 were
traffic offenders, the study says.

Prince William took a more targeted approach, the study found. The county
detained 846 illegal immigrants in 2010, including 237 traffic offenders. In
Loudoun County, 12 of the 47 people detained had committed a traffic offense.

In Frederick and Prince William counties, fewer than 10 percent of those
detained were arrested for the most serious, Level 1 crimes, which include
murder, rape and armed robbery. In Las Vegas, by contrast, more than 50 percent
of illegal immigrants detained were arrested for the most serious crimes.

"The wide variation reflected in our study suggests that state and local actors,
rather than ICE, are significantly defining the program's enforcement
priorities," says the report, which based its findings on ICE data and
interviews conducted in the seven localities.

In response to the report, ICE spokeswoman Gillian Brigham said: "MPI's study
affirms the value of ICE's focus on enforcing immigration law in a manner that
best promotes public safety, border security and the integrity of the
immigration system. The study, however, fails to acknowledge that certain
misdemeanors - such as drunk driving and domestic violence - are of serious
concern, undermine public safety and warrant ICE's attention."

Frederick County Sheriff Chuck Jenkins denied that the county is trying to
deport as many illegal immigrants as possible but said undocumented traffic
violators are potential threats.

"How do you say that a [serious] Level 1 offender is more dangerous than an
immigrant who's out driving a car illegally who could potentially hit someone
and kill them?" Jenkins said, noting that those arrested are "in the country
illegally to start with, and beyond that, they've committed a crime. How many
free passes do you give someone?"

The report says that targeting serious criminals makes more sense as an
enforcement strategy, particularly when government resources are limited.

Pursuing unauthorized immigrants who haven't committed serious crimes "takes
away resources to go after what everybody believes are the high-priority
criminals," said Marc Rosenblum, a senior policy analyst at MPI and one of the
report's authors. "You can't have them be a top priority and then have the
waitress or the gardener who's never broken a law except to be here illegally,
you can't have them both be the top priority. When these state and local
enforcement agencies fill up the detention centers and jails with low-priority
cases . . .  it compromises ICE's ability to do high-priority enforcement."

It also sows fear and distrust between local immigrant communities and the
police, the report says.

Immigration advocates have long decried the 287 (g) program, saying that it
leads to racial profiling and destroys relationships between police and
immigrant communities.

Because of the controversy surrounding it, the program's growth has stalled.
Another enforcement program, Secure Communities, has largely replaced it at the
local level, although Secure Communities has been attacked for some of the same
reasons.

Nationally, 998 jurisdictions in 38 states participate in Secure Communities,
including the District and parts of Northern Virginia and Maryland. The program,
which costs about $100 million annually, has been criticized in Arlington County
and the District, where local officials worry that it is discouraging
undocumented immigrants from reporting crimes.

ICE has said it plans to expand the program to every state by 2013.

Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors and a supporter of both enforcement programs, said he thinks that
allowing jurisdictions to apply the 287 (g) program differently is positive,
especially given variances in concentrations of immigrants in different areas.

"I would say that's a plus," he said. "I think it's an example of localities and
states being the great laboratories for policy development."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 6, 2011 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Case spotlights tension on Mexican border

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 871 words


After Arizona rancher Robert Krentz was killed on his land last year by a man
police believe was an illegal immigrant, television networks and more than 300
newspapers wrote about his death as an example of the dangers on the border.

Two months after Krentz was killed, 9-year-old Brisenia Flores and her father,
Raul, were shot to death in their home, 150 miles from Krentz's ranch. Their
attackers were allegedly affiliated with an militia group opposed to illegal
immigration that was conducting raids to steal money.

The Flores case is now being tried in Tucson, and immigrant rights activists
contend that it deserves more attention. The reason why: The raid was allegedly
organized by Shawna Forde, 43, head of a fringe border patrol group called
Minutemen American Defense.

Forde's murder trial, which has been marked by vivid testimony over the past two
weeks, has become a cause celebre among proponents of overhauling U.S.
immigration law, who cite the killings as an example of the risks of extremism
in the immigration debate.

"There has been the prospect of people taking the law into their own hands for
some time," said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, which
advocates a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. "The rhetoric, the hate
mail. It's unbelievable."

The organization Cuentame posted a  video online last week asking, "Is hate
turning to violence?" It elicited hundreds of comments.

But unlike the Krentz case, the trial has been a largely local story.

"There's a few places writing about this, but it is not getting the attention it
deserves," said Eric Rodriguez, vice president of the National Council of La
Raza. "It should be shocking to more people. Is there any circumstance where
what took place is acceptable to people?"

Krentz's shooting, which for a time was a staple of news coverage and has been
brought up in homeland security hearings on Capitol Hill, struck a nerve in part
because of the government's failure to deal with illegal immigration. Arizona,
which the Pew Hispanic Center reported this month is home to 400,000
undocumented immigrants, has passed tough legislation in recent months to crack
down on those who are in the country illegally.

Forde's small Minuteman group was known for tough rhetoric on illegal
immigration. According to police, Forde believed Flores was a drug trafficker
and planned to seize money and drugs from him to fund her group's patrol
efforts. Police found no drugs in the home and little money.

During the early-morning incident, Brisenia Flores was shot twice and Raul
Flores multiple times. Brisenia's mother, Gina Gonzalez, was shot twice but
survived and called 911.

Prosecutors accuse Forde of leading the raid, shouting orders to two men, her
alleged accomplices, who will stand trial this spring. Defense attorney Eric
Larsen counters that there's no direct evidence that she organized the raid or
was at the house at the time of the shooting.

Forde was at one time a member of the much larger Minuteman Project, though that
group's leader, Jim Gilchrist, has insisted his relationship with her was never
"extensive." Forde, whose group had about half a dozen members, had been pushed
out of other civilian border patrol groups because of her extremist views, said
Professor Brian Levin, director of a nonpartisan group that studies extremism at
California State University in San Bernardino.

"She was not an unknown," he said. "She was known as a firebrand."

In a 2007 report by the Southern Poverty Law Center, Forde was quoted saying she
worried that illegal immigrants would soon "outnumber real Americans." She said
she didn't like the common use of Spanish on business telephones and that she
"decided to do something about it."

Because of her past comments and actions, immigrant rights groups say, the
killing and the trial deserve to be treated as a crime with strong political
overtones.

"It is important to raise that particular issue because it seems like a lot of
the media is focusing more on the individual crime, the individual action, but
what we are seeing is a trend," said Axel Caballero, director of Cuentame, which
is affiliated with the liberal Brave New Foundation. "People are talking about
this."

The conversation is being led by Hispanic bloggers and picked up by activists,
who are focused on Forde's ties to the border militia movement.

Forde supporters have rallied around a Web site, Justice for Shawna Forde, and
allege that her trial is an effort to upend the border militia movement. The
operator of the site, Laine Lawless, who is a likely witness in the case,
appeared in the courtroom last week against a judge's order and interrupted the
trial, according to the Arizona Daily Star, which has followed the case closely.

Closing arguments in Forde's trial are expected late next week. Testimony so far
has included Gonzalez's recounting of the death of her daughter by an alleged
accomplice of Forde. "I can hear it happening. I can hear her telling him to
'Please don't shoot me,' " the mother testified. Last week, prosecutors
introduced text messages allegedly sent by Forde to others implicated in the
killings.

If convicted of murder, Forde could receive the death penalty.

thompsonk@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration enforcement works

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 159 words


The Feb. 1 Metro story "Counties see fewer Hispanic residents" missed the larger
story:  Illegal immigrants leave when laws are enforced.

The Migration Policy Institute report cited in the article found that consistent
enforcement leads illegal immigrants to leave the United States voluntarily.
This counters arguments that amnesty is the way to solve illegal immigration.
Fully enforced immigration laws send the message to illegal border crossers that
we take our laws seriously. Amnesty signals that they're welcome to violate U.S.
laws. And when illegal immigrants leave on their own, limited taxpayer-funded
resources are no longer drained and scarce jobs are opened up for unemployed
Americans and legal immigrant workers.

Enforcing all immigration laws would better protect the lives and well-being of
all Americans.

Elton Gallegly, Washington

The writer (R-Calif.) is chairman of the House subcommittee on immigration
policy and enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Lamar Smith's big stick

BYLINE: george f. will

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 755 words


During Lamar Smith's first 18 years in Congress, the view from his office was of
a parking lot. Now, in his 13th term, he looks out upon the Capitol dome.
Seniority confers perquisites.

Today he chairs the House Judiciary Committee, which has custody of the
immigration issue. When he was first elected, his Texas district - then 42,000
square miles, five times larger than Massachusetts - included 400 miles of the
border with Mexico. His district has meandered north and now is 150 miles from
the border. It includes portions of San Antonio and Austin. But Smith still
looks south, toward the flow of illegal immigration, which he considers a
uniquely comprehensive problem, affecting schools, health care, employment and
the culture.

Smith wants you to know that he is Texas to the marrow of his bones, even if he
did go to Yale. There he was one year behind George W. Bush. Smith is proud to
have been, he thinks, the only freshman who subscribed to Field and Stream
magazine. When his ancestors got to Texas in the 1850s, they were immigrants
entering an established Hispanic culture. He notes that San Antonio is a
"tri-cultural city" - 7 percent African American, 30 percent Anglo and 60
percent Hispanic. America, he says, has the world's "most generous legal
immigration policies. We admit as many legal immigrants as the rest of the world
combined."

Regarding illegal immigration, however, he proposes a program of "attrition
through enforcement." Workplace enforcement, that is.

He says such enforcement has declined 70 percent in the past two years, and
fines levied on employers of illegal immigrants are treated by businesses as a
bearable cost of doing business as usual. Nationally, 250,000 businesses are
using E-Verify, the program that quickly validates the legality of workers, and
each week 1,300 more businesses sign up for the system.

We are, Smith notes with quiet asperity, not finishing the fence, and the 1,200
National Guard troops President Obama sent to the border will leave one day.
Although half a million people are caught trying to enter the country illegally
each year, Border Patrol agents tell Smith that two to four get in for every one
apprehended. Hence his estimate that as many as 2 million are entering illegally
each year.

He thinks a physical barrier is necessary - he says the fence near San Diego
reduced illegal immigration there by 95 percent - but no barrier will be
sufficient. We must "reduce the attraction of the job magnet" so fewer illegal
immigrants will come and more will go home. Workplace enforcement is a
"disincentive to enter and an incentive to leave."

Some people say such policies will put Hispanic votes beyond the reach of
Republicans. Smith serenely disagrees.

He believes, on the basis of quotes he is pleased to share, that many on the
left see amnesty for illegal immigrants as a way to build a permanent Democratic
majority. He, however, is confident that Republicans can compete for Hispanic
votes while - indeed, by - insisting that everyone "play by the rules."

Notice, he says, that in 2010 the three Hispanics elected in statewide races -
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez and Nevada Gov. Brian
Sandoval - were all Republicans. In Texas, two new Hispanics were elected to
Congress, Quico Canseco and Bill Flores, both Republicans. Like the other three
freshman Hispanics in the House (Idaho's Raul Labrador, Washington's Jaime
Herrera Beutler and Florida's David Rivera, all Republicans), Canseco and Flores
stress border security.

Smith does not flinch from questioning the practice of "birthright citizenship"
- awarding citizenship to anyone born in America, including children whose
parents are here illegally. He cites a Houston Chronicle report that stated 70
percent of births in Houston and Dallas public hospitals in 2005 were to
illegal-immigrant mothers. Today  births to illegal immigrants account for
nearly 10 percent of births nationally.

He believes the practice of birthright citizenship rests on a misconstruing of
the 14th Amendment. The Supreme Court, he says, has never addressed the "precise
question" of the meaning of this: "All persons born . . . in the United States,
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States."

He favors ending birthright citizenship as currently administered and thinks it
is possible to "write a statute to get five votes" on the court. If he does
write one, this soft-spoken man will be carrying a big stick of legislative
dynamite.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Crash suspect wasn't deemed a flight risk

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 701 words


An undocumented immigrant who allegedly killed a nun while driving drunk in
Prince William County had been released by immigration authorities after two
other convictions because he had demonstrated that he was not a flight risk,
according to a Department of Homeland Security report released Friday.

Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, a Bolivian who entered the United States with his
family as a child in 1996, had two prior convictions for driving under the
influence of alcohol, as well as a string of other encounters with police,
before the Aug. 1 accident last year.

After Martinelly-Montano was released by authorities in October 2008,
immigration courts twice postponed ruling on whether he should be deported or be
eligible for residency. The accident that killed Jeanette M. Mosier, 66,
occurred weeks before the court had rescheduled a hearing.

The nun's death outraged Virginia officials and fueled an already heated
national immigration debate. After the crash, the state stopped allowing
immigrantsto obtain driver's licenses by using work permit cards as proof of
legal residence.

Martinelly-Montano's immigration status came to the attention of police in
December 2007, when he was convicted for drunken driving in Prince William. In
October 2008, he was again booked for driving under the influence.

Immigration authorities determined at the time that he was an undocumented
immigrant and began deportation proceedings, even as he was petitioning the
court to legalize his status.

As Martinelly-Montano awaited a hearing, authorities fitted him with a Global
Positioning System device and released him.

The tracking devices, used widely in lieu of detention, were needed in part
because of a lack of detention space, the report said. Martinelly-Montano
regularly showed up for court hearings and other procedural matters.

In following months, however, Martinelly-Montano was stopped by police - for
driving without a license in Fairfax County in March 2009 and for driving
recklessly in Manassas Park in April 2009 - but police and immigration
authorities did not communicate with one another about what each knew, the
report said.

According to the report, had that communication taken place and had policies now
in place been enacted earlier, Martinelly-Montano probably would have been
detained after he served two weeks in jail in late April and early May 2009 for
the 2008 DUI conviction.

Given his record of showing up for court proceedings, immigration authorities
not only released him in May 2009, but they "did not impose the highest form" of
monitoring at their disposal, the report says. It does not specify whether the
tracking device was removed.

The report says Martinelly-Montano complied with the terms of his release and
regularly reported to Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials.

ICE spokeswoman Cori Bassett said new agency guidelines are "prioritizing the
apprehension, detention and removal of criminal convicts and placing particular
emphasis on repeat offenders and aliens who pose a risk to public safety."

Had those priorities been in place when officials released Martinelly-Montano,
she added, "it is not likely that Martinelly-Montano would have been released."

Martinelly-Montano had a court hearing scheduled for Aug. 19. But at 8 a.m. Aug.
1 in Bristow, he lost control of his vehicle, and it collided head-on with a car
carrying three nuns. Mosier, 66, was killed, and the two others were seriously
injured.

The eight-page report about the case was released after Judicial Watch, a
conservative watchdog group, and others sued immigration authorities under the
Freedom of Information Act. The report's release followed a lengthy court
tussle.

"We have experience in how agencies disseminate information," said Tom Fitton,
president of Judicial Watch. "This is about the worst of the worst in terms of
abusing FOIA and messing with the courts."

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of Prince William's Board of County Supervisors, said
he was suspicious that the government was hiding something.

Among other issues, he said, officials had said in February that the report was
not yet complete, but the report released Friday was dated Nov. 24, 2010.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Crash suspect wasn'tdeemed a flight risk

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 701 words


An undocumented immigrant who allegedly killed a nun while driving drunk in
Prince William County had been released by immigration authorities after two
other convictions because he had demonstrated that he was not a flight risk,
according to a Department of Homeland Security report released Friday.

Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, a Bolivian who entered the United States with his
family as a child in 1996, had two prior convictions for driving under the
influence of alcohol, as well as a string of other encounters with police,
before the Aug. 1 accident last year.

After Martinelly-Montano was released by authorities in October 2008,
immigration courts twice postponed ruling on whether he should be deported or be
eligible for residency. The accident that killed Jeanette M. Mosier, 66,
occurred weeks before the court had rescheduled a hearing.

The nun's death outraged Virginia officials and fueled an already heated
national immigration debate. After the crash, the state stopped allowing
immigrantsto obtain driver's licenses by using work permit cards as proof of
legal residence.

Martinelly-Montano's immigration status came to the attention of police in
December 2007, when he was convicted for drunken driving in Prince William. In
October 2008, he was again booked for driving under the influence.

Immigration authorities determined at the time that he was an undocumented
immigrant and began deportation proceedings, even as he was petitioning the
court to legalize his status.

As Martinelly-Montano awaited a hearing, authorities fitted him with a Global
Positioning System device and released him.

The tracking devices, used widely in lieu of detention, were needed in part
because of a lack of detention space, the report said. Martinelly-Montano
regularly showed up for court hearings and other procedural matters.

In following months, however, Martinelly-Montano was stopped by police - for
driving without a license in Fairfax County in March 2009 and for driving
recklessly in Manassas Park in April 2009 - but police and immigration
authorities did not communicate with one another about what each knew, the
report said.

According to the report, had that communication taken place and had policies now
in place been enacted earlier, Martinelly-Montano probably would have been
detained after he served two weeks in jail in late April and early May 2009 for
the 2008 DUI conviction.

Given his record of showing up for court proceedings, immigration authorities
not only released him in May 2009, but they "did not impose the highest form" of
monitoring at their disposal, the report says. It does not specify whether the
tracking device was removed.

The report says Martinelly-Montano complied with the terms of his release and
regularly reported to Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials.

ICE spokeswoman Cori Bassett said new agency guidelines are "prioritizing the
apprehension, detention and removal of criminal convicts and placing particular
emphasis on repeat offenders and aliens who pose a risk to public safety."

Had those priorities been in place when officials released Martinelly-Montano,
she added, "it is not likely that Martinelly-Montano would have been released."

Martinelly-Montano had a court hearing scheduled for Aug. 19. But at 8 a.m. Aug.
1 in Bristow, he lost control of his vehicle, and it collided head-on with a car
carrying three nuns. Mosier, 66, was killed, and the two others were seriously
injured.

The eight-page report about the case was released after Judicial Watch, a
conservative watchdog group, and others sued immigration authorities under the
Freedom of Information Act. The report's release followed a lengthy court
tussle.

"We have experience in how agencies disseminate information," said Tom Fitton,
president of Judicial Watch. "This is about the worst of the worst in terms of
abusing FOIA and messing with the courts."

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of Prince William's Board of County Supervisors, said
he was suspicious that the government was hiding something.

Among other issues, he said, officials had said in February that the report was
not yet complete, but the report released Friday was dated Nov. 24, 2010.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Illegal immigrant held in fatal Va. crash

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 662 words


A Fairfax County man died Monday night after his car was forced into oncoming
traffic near Fort Belvoir by a repeat drunk driver who had previously been
deported for entering the country illegally, authorities said Tuesday.

Carlos Sanchez-Ramos, 33, was charged with aggravated involuntary manslaughter
and other counts. The victim was identified as Paul J. Krause, 54, of Glenbarr
Court in Fairfax Station.

After the crash, police said, Sanchez-Ramos climbed out of the car with a
3-year-old boy and fled. Police arrested him a short distance away on Route 1.

Court records indicate that his blood-alcohol content was roughly twice the
legal definition of intoxication. Sanchez-Ramos, who lives on Grandview Court in
the Springfield area, was previously convicted of drunken driving.

Immigration officials identified the man as Carlos Lagos Ramos and said he had
been deported to his native Honduras in January 2004. At some point after that,
Ramos reentered the country illegally, Cori W. Bassett, a spokeswoman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Tuesday.

In November 2007, Fairfax police arrested him after a single-car accident,
according to court records, and charged him under the name "Sanchez-Ramos" with
drunken driving.

But the Fairfax jail did not automatically check his immigration status, as it
does now for prisoners, with fingerprints through ICE's Secure Communities
program, and he was released.

In addition to Krause's death, a husband and wife, ages 77 and 73, suffered
serious injuries when their Mercedes was struck head on by Krause's car, police
said. They remained hospitalized Tuesday but are expected to survive.

The 3-year-old boy with Sanchez-Ramos was not injured. Police said they did not
know if the boy is his son. A 31-year-old man who was a passenger in
Sanchez-Ramos's car also was not hurt and did not flee the scene.

Krause was driving a 2010 Ford Fusion north on Route 1 (Richmond Highway),
between Telegraph Road and Fairfax County Parkway, about 5:22 p.m., Officer
Tawny Wright said. Police said Sanchez-Ramos, driving a 1994 Honda Civic in the
same direction, apparently lost control of the Civic and struck the Fusion.

The Fusion then veered into the southbound lanes and was struck head on by a
2010 Mercedes Benz, police said. Krause was flown to Inova Fairfax Hospital,
where he was pronounced dead at 7:44 p.m.

His family declined to comment Tuesday.

Sanchez-Ramos was charged with having a blood-alcohol content of between 0.15
and 0.20, roughly twice the legal definition of intoxication in Virginia, which
is 0.08. In addition to his second driving-while-intoxicated charge within five
years, Sanchez-Ramos also was charged with aggravated involuntary manslaughter,
driving on an alcohol-related revoked license, child endangerment and two counts
of felony hit and run.

Court records show that in his previous drunk-driving arrest, Sanchez-Ramos was
charged with having a blood-alcohol content between 0.15 and 0.20. The
breathalyzer sheet shows that Sanchez-Ramos recorded a 0.16 on Nov. 22, 2007.
The charge carried a mandatory minimum five-day jail sentence. But prosecutors
agreed to reduce the blood-alcohol content to 0.14, eliminating the jail time.

Sanchez-Ramos pleaded guilty to two charges in January 2008. He was given a
60-day jail sentence on the drunken-driving charge, with all time suspended, a
fine of $300 and court costs of $182, a fairly standard sentence in Fairfax for
first-time drunk drivers. He was also fined $250, and $11 in court costs, for
failing to have a license. He paid the $743 in April 2009.

Immigration officials said the man they know as Lagos Ramos entered the country
"without inspection" in September 2003, was apparently picked up shortly after
that and ordered deported by an immigration judge in November 2003. He was
removed to Honduras in January 2004, Bassett said.

On Monday night, ICE lodged a detainer for his arrest after his case in Fairfax
is resolved.

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

The madness of mass deportation

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 567 words


WHEN ARIZONA lawmakers enacted legislation last year inflating the power of
police officers to check immigration status when they make even routine stops,
they staked out a reputation for the state as a citadel of intolerance. That was
by design, for their explicit purpose was to drive away the hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants who, lured by jobs and a booming economy, had
arrived in the state in the preceding 10 or 15 years.

The law, hung up by constitutional challenges, has never taken full effect. But
it has had an important unintended consequence - as a wake-up call to the
nation's business community, for which a policy aimed at deporting millions of
undocumented workers is economic lunacy.

Thanks largely to a backlash from business, state legislatures elsewhere have
balked at adopting Arizona-style laws, though a few, particularly in the South,
have passed bills designed to deny opportunities to illegal immigrants and keep
them in the shadows. The business backlash is motivated partly by fears that
other states could suffer Arizona's fate: boycotts and cancellations that have
meant tens of millions of dollars in lost revenue for hotels, restaurants and
other businesses that rely on visitors. But businesses also fear the potential
economic damage from  mass deportation. A new report by the Center for American
Progress and the Immigration Policy Center, groups that are sympathetic to
illegal immigrants but intellectually serious, examines those costs in detail
and concludes that they would be staggering.

The report, "A Rising Tide or a Shrinking Pie,"shows that the effect of
full-scale deportation of illegal immigrants in Arizona would be tantamount to a
major recession, quite possibly more severe that that of 2008-09. Undocumented
workers, who make up 7 percent of Arizona's population and 9.4 percent of its
workforce, are critical to the state's economic health; not only do they do
vital jobs that others will not, they also shop, pay rent, pay taxes and sustain
the jobs of many other, legal workers.

A worst-case scenario, in which all of Arizona's 445,000 illegal immigrants are
deported, is highly unlikely. If it did take place, however,  Arizona's economy
would shrink by nearly 20 percent, total employment would contract by 17 percent
and state tax revenue would be slashed by 10 percent, the report estimates.
Deporting even a third of Arizona's illegal immigrants would cost the state $1
billion in annual revenue.

Conversely, if the federal government were to grant legal status to undocumented
immigrants, the report reckons, it would help close a wage gap between legal and
illegal workers, increasing productivity and disposable income. The results
would include 261,000 new jobs and $1.7 billion in higher tax revenue.

The report is not definitive. For instance, it makes no attempt to calculate the
costs of providing services that state and local government would incur from
mass legalization. Nor does it try to estimate the fiscal benefits of mass
deportation, including savings for school systems that are constitutionally
obligated to educate the children of illegal immigrants.

Nonetheless, it provides a useful reminder that the fantasy of deporting
millions of undocumented workers - a large majority of whom have been here for
more than a decade and who provide valuable and in many cases skilled or
semi-skilled labor - is economic suicide.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 1, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Hispanic voters care about immigration enforcement, too

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 196 words


Chris Cillizza's March 28 Monday Fix column, "Growth in Hispanic population
poses challenge for Republicans," argued that results from the 2010 Census paint
a grim picture of the Republican Party's future because of the increase in the
number of Hispanic voters.

But this is not true.

Mr. Cillizza implied that Hispanic voters support legalizing millions of illegal
immigrants, but many Hispanic voters support efforts to enforce our immigration
laws.

Republican Latino candidates in Florida, New Mexico and Nevada - all of which
have large Hispanic populations - won statewide races while calling for enhanced
border security and full enforcement of immigration laws.

Exit polls from the November 2010 election also showed that 38 percent of
Hispanic voters cast ballots for House Republican candidates. This is more than
in 2006 and 2008, when President Bush was spearheading the effort to pass a bill
that would legalize illegal immigrants.

The pro-enforcement movement is not strictly Republican, it is American. And it
is not anti-Hispanic; it is pro-rule-of-law.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Record on immigration at issue

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten;Perry Bacon Jr.

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 990 words


President Obama will stand on the U.S.-Mexico border Tuesday and try to take
credit for something that eluded predecessors in both parties: successfully
cracking down on illegal immigration.

It is a record that Republicans roundly dispute. And it has drawn fire from many
in Obama's Latino base, who say the president has stepped up enforcement
measures such as deportations while failing to deliver on his pledge to create a
path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants.

But in using a speech in El Paso to highlight his enforcement record, Obama will
signal that he intends to try turning the immigration debate into a political
winner among conservative swing voters who back tougher immigration policies.

The president is expected to reel off what his aides say is evidence of an
unprecedented focus on border security: hundreds of millions of dollars spent
since he took office on high-tech fencing, aerial drones and a doubling of the
border patrol since 2004. The result, aides say, has been a steep decline in
illegal incursions and plummeting crime rates in U.S. border communities from
Texas to California.

"He is championing what Latinos are looking for, which is real immigration
reform, while at the same time he is being a spokesperson for serious
improvements in border enforcement, which independent voters support," said
Doris Meissner, who was the Clinton administration's top immigration official.

Most experts and activists say any new legislative deal on immigration is highly
unlikely in the near term.

A flurry of White House activity on the issue in recent weeks, though,
underscores the administration view that immigration could play an important
role in the president's reelection campaign next year - with Obama needing to
revive enthusiasm among Latinos while boosting his standing with centrist swing
voters.

Obama has hosted some high-profile Latinos, including Spanish-language
newscasters and "Desperate Housewives" star Eva Longoria, at White House
meetings to offer assurances that he still wants an immigration overhaul.

The president and administration officials have said they want to find points of
compromise with Republicans - and aides say convincing the public that the
border is safer than it has been in years might pressure the GOP.

Activists have repeatedly raised concerns, saying that the administration's
policy of deporting up to 400,000 illegal immigrants a year is disrupting
families and targeting the wrong people. They want Obama to issue an executive
decree barring the deportation of young people who would qualify for the Dream
Act, legislation that would legalize many children of illegal immigrants.

"To simply talk about bringing Republicans and Democrats together, and somehow
through some magical wand, the Congress is all going to get together and give
relief to the immigrant community, is a false argument," said Rep. Luis V.
Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who attended a recent White House meeting.

Cecilia Munoz, a top White House adviser on immigration issues, told reporters
last week that Obama "doesn't feel he can bypass Congress." for "a major group
of folks."

Administration officials say they have sought over the past year to target more
criminals for deportations. According to data from the Department of Homeland
Security, the proportion of criminal illegal immigrants deported has risen from
about one-third three years ago to about half last year.

Much of the president's case on border enforcement has been laid out in recent
months in appearances by his Homeland Security chief, Janet Napolitano, who told
senators in a hearing last week that the administration has pursued "the most
comprehensive and dedicated effort to strengthen border security that our
country has ever deployed."

Napolitano acknowledged that measuring progress can be difficult and said her
agency is developing a border security "index" combining data such as arrest and
crime rates in border cities.

Among the achievements she has highlighted: increasing the number of Border
Patrol agents to about 20,000. Meanwhile, she said, the number of border arrests
has dropped by nearly half since 2006, an indication, she said, of improved
protections that discourage crossings.

Moreover, Napolitano says, crime rates in border communities are among the
country's lowest - despite a drug war raging in some cases within sight of
cities such as El Paso and San Diego.

El Paso, where bullets from a shootout across the border grazed City Hall last
year, has among the lowest crime rates of cities its size.

Some border mayors have spoken up in recent months to complain that the national
debate over the border has fueled impressions that their communities are
dangerous.

On Monday, the congressman from El Paso, Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D-Tex.), posted a
stinging memo on his Web site accusing House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) of
"tarnishing the image of border communities" by highlighting violence there. The
memo listed statistics showing cities in Boehner's home state to have far higher
violent crime rates than Texas's border towns.

Republicans say the Obama administration has a long way to go. GOP aides on
Capitol Hill say the White House has yet to reach out to the key players
demanding stricter border enforcement, including Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), a
onetime advocate for legalizing illegal immigrants.

McCain skewered Napolitano last week, questioning her assertions during a
hearing and saying that up to 200 "spotters" sit atop mountains in the Arizona
desert guiding smugglers across the border - an assertion that Napolitano
rejected. Others in the GOP have cited a February finding by the Government
Accountability Office that less than half of the border was under full
"operational control" by the government.

"And then we're supposed to believe that the administration is serious about
securing our borders. Well, I don't think so," McCain said.

wallstenp@washpost.com

baconp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Obama calls for immigration reform

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr.

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 499 words


EL PASO - Standing within sight of Mexico, President Obama declared Tuesday that
"we have strengthened border security beyond what many believed was possible,"
in his latest attempt to rally support for a proposal that would create a path
to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.

On his first trip to the U.S.-Mexico border as president, Obama attempted to
blunt the conservative argument that the United States should secure its own
borders before making any other changes to liberalize immigration law. Obama
reeled off a series of statistics that he says prove U.S. borders are not
plagued by illegal crossings and crimes, as many conservatives say.

"They wanted more agents at the border. Well, we now have more boots on the
ground on the Southwest border than at any time in our history," he said at the
Chamizal National Memorial, a park here that is named after a 1963 agreement
between the two countries and flies U.S. and Mexican flags.

Referring to conservative critics, he added, "The Border Patrol has 20,000
agents, more than twice as many as there were in 2004 . . . They wanted a fence.
Well, the fence is now basically complete."

The president accused Republicans of constantly looking to "move the goal posts"
on what constitutes securing the border.

"Maybe they'll need a moat," he said, generating laughter from a crowd of more
than 1,000. "Maybe they want alligators in the moat."

Republicans say Obama is wrong in arguing that the border is secure. They cite a
February report by the Government Accountability Office stating that only about
44 percent of the 2,000-mile U.S-Mexico border was under "operational control,"a
measure of how easy it is to detect and then apprehend people illegally crossing
into the United States.

"We hear from our constituents on a daily basis, and, while some progress has
been made in some areas, they do not believe the border is secure," Arizona
Republican Sens. Jon Kyl and John McCain said in a statement after Obama's
speech.

The president's speech was an attempt to balance two political groups that he
must woo for his 2012 campaign. Obama pledged to Hispanic voters, who
overwhelmingly backed him in 2008, that he would seek legislation that would
make it easier for undocumented workers to become citizens.

At the same time, he wants to show political independents that he is committed
to border security and that increased immigration affects their lives
positively.

Obama did not lay out a specific bill for Congress to take up, but he did
outline four principles: further increasing border enforcement funding if
necessary, punishing companies that deliberately hire undocumented workers,
streamlining the legal immigration process and creating a pathway to
citizenship.

Senate Democrats announced late Tuesday that they would re-introduce the Dream
Act, a bill that would provide a path to citizenship for some students. The
measure passed the House last year, when it was controlled by Democrats, but
died in the Senate.

baconp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Who's really twisting the truth on border security

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 306 words


The May 15 editorial "Twisting truth on the border" accused me of exaggerating
the lack of security along the Southwest border, but the nonpartisan Government
Accountability Office (GAO) and the Border Patrol agents on the ground know the
truth: The border is not secure.

The Obama administration - and apparently The Post - pretend the border is more
secure than ever because apprehensions are down. But apprehensions are down for
two reasons: Our sluggish economy and the limited ability of the Border Patrol
to apprehend illegal immigrants.

The unemployment rate has stayed around 9 percent for the past 22 months, and 26
million Americans are unemployed or underemployed. This has reduced the jobs
magnet that encourages illegal immigration.

But 7 million individuals work illegally in the United States, and the
administration hasn't done much to stop them. In the past two years, work-site
enforcement activities have plummeted by 70 percent. If the administration
enforced immigration laws, we could open up millions of jobs for unemployed
legal workers. And it would send the signal that we take our immigration laws
seriously. This would deter illegal immigration.

Also, the GAO found that efforts by the Border Patrol to stop illegal crossings
were "poor." Border Patrol agents on the ground will tell you that there are
three successful illegal crossings for every one stopped. Because of the
administration's selective enforcement of immigration law, only 44 percent of
the southern border is under the operational control of the Border Patrol,
according to the GAO. There is no substitute for improved border security
coupled with increased interior enforcement of drug and immigration laws if we
want to secure our border.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Face-off over Md. tuition expands

BYLINE: Aaron C. Davis

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 724 words


Opponents of a new Maryland law that would give undocumented immigrants breaks
on in-state college tuition have no right to force a referendum, an immigrant
rights group charged Monday in a lawsuit seeking to keep the issue off the 2012
ballot.

Casa of Maryland, a group often allied with the state's Democratic leaders,
alleges that state elections officials erred in letting opponents collect
signatures to suspendthe Maryland DREAM Act, the first state law in 20 years to
be halted and sent to the ballot by a petition drive.

The lawsuit contends that tax money the DREAM Act would direct to tuition aid
for undocumented immigrants effectively puts the measure in a class of laws
dealing with state budget issues, making it off-limits to a referendum.

If the measure was eligible for the ballot, the lawsuit asserts another flaw. It
says opponents do not have enough valid signatures, primarily because those that
were collected using new Internet software should be thrown out.

The online tool was developed this year by a Maryland Republican lawmaker in
anticipation of a future ballot-box fight over same-sex marriage. It helped
nearly 44,000 voters print and file petitions with their names, addresses and
other information listed exactly as recorded in state voter rolls. Such
precision is essential because any discrepancy can invalidate a petitioner's
signature.

The tool helped a small group of conservative organizers shatter previous
records for statewide signature gathering and has emboldened Maryland's
Republican minority, with some lawmakers already threatening to use the ballot
box routinely as a check on the state's Democratic-controlled General Assembly.

The prospect of such efforts makes the integrity of the new system all the more
important, said one of the lawyers challenging the petition.

"There's no safeguard. If someone knows your name, Zip code and date of birth,
which might be on your Facebook page, the computer will print out that
information exactly," said Joseph E. Sandler, a top election-law lawyer and
former general counsel for the Democratic National Committee, whose firm is
litigating the case pro bono for the plaintiffs. "There is no way to make sure
the voter whose name appears on the petition is the one who printed it out and
signed it.

"Maryland law makes this deliberately difficult," Sandler added. "We live in a
representative democracy. We don't live by mob rule; not every law is supposed
to go to the voters."

Del. Patrick McDonough, a Baltimore County Republican who was a lead organizer
of the petition drive, called the lawsuit a "shameful" attempt to upend the will
of voters and petition signers.

He said it was ludicrous for proponents to argue that the DREAM Act was
primarily a budget law and not a new state policy, which would be subject to
referendum.

McDonough also singled out Casa of Maryland, saying the organization was seeking
to circumvent the state's election rules to "promote the best interests of
illegal aliens."

Casa stressed that affected students and teachers are the lead plaintiffs. The
first two are listed as John Doe and Jane Doe, both 18-year-old undocumented
immigrants. The suit says the two excelled in Maryland high schools and may not
be able to afford tuition at Baltimore City Community College this fall without
in-state rates. The suit says their identities were kept confidential to protect
them from harassment.

Under the law, which passed in April after years of wrangling, undocumented
immigrants  - who are able to prove that they have attended high school in
Maryland for at least three years and that their parents or guardians have begun
filing taxes - were to have been allowed to begin courses this fall at community
colleges at in-state rates. After earning associates degrees, they would be
eligible for in-state rates at University of Maryland system schools.

Amy Exelby, deputy executive director of the left-leaning Ballot Initiative
Strategy Center, said the Maryland case is special. Utah and California have
faced recent legal action over Internet tools that allow voters to
electronically sign petitions, but they have not involved printing petitions.

"States are taking a slow, cautious approach to this," she said. The chance for
the court to review the online petitions in Maryland, she said, "is good for
democracy."

davisa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 503 words

ALABAMA

New immigration lawtemporarily blocked

A federal judge temporarily blocked enforcement of Alabama's new law cracking
down on illegal immigration, ruling Monday that she needed more time to decide
whether the law is constitutional.

The brief order by U.S. District Judge Sharon L. Blackburn means the law will
not take effect Thursday as scheduled. The ruling was cheered by opponents, who
have compared the law to Jim Crow-era statutes against racial integration.

But Blackburn didn't address whether the law is constitutional, and she still
may let all or parts of the law take effect. She said she will issue a ruling by
Sept. 28.

Both supporters and opponents say Alabama's law is the nation's toughest against
illegal immigration. Among other things, it would require schools to verify the
citizenship status of students. Officials say it wouldn't prevent illegal
immigrants from attending public schools.

- Associated Press

ARIZONA AND NEW YORK

9/11 charities probedfor irregularities

Officials in Arizona and New York have launched investigations into charities
that claim to serve 9/11 causes, probing whether they failed to follow state
laws - and may have misspent millions intended to help and honor those affected
by the terrorist attacks.

An investigation by the Associated Press uncovered dozens of 9/11 charities
across the country that didn't disclose publicly how they raised and spent
money, didn't keep promises to create memorials or contribute to 9/11 causes, or
did more to help their creators than those affected by the terrorist attacks.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office said state lawyers are
conducting a "broad review" of 9/11 charities to make certain that all
documentation for charities related to the 2001 terrorist attacks is in order
and that all rules on fundraising and disclosure are being followed.

In Arizona, Attorney General Tom Horne said his office is investigating a 9/11
charity that raised more than $700,000 from students, police and others to
create a huge memorial quilt that was never completed.

- Associated Press

TEXAS

Polygamist Jeffsis in induced coma

Polygamist sect leader Warren Jeffs was hospitalized Monday in a medically
induced coma in critical condition after fasting in the weeks since receiving a
life sentence for sexually assaulting underage followers, officials said.

Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokeswoman Michelle Lyons said Jeffs was
in critical condition, but Lyons would not give specific details about his
status. Lyons said Jeffs told corrections officers he had fasted since his
conviction earlier this month, but it was not immediately clear how long he'd
gone without food before being hospitalized.

Jeffs's attorney, Emily Detoto, said her client "hasn't been feeling well" and
was taken to East Texas Medical Center in Tyler on Sunday night. She declined to
elaborate.

The 55-year-old head of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day
Saints has a history of refusing to eat while incarcerated.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Obama's illegal move on immigration

BYLINE: David B. Rivkin Jr.;Lee A. Casey

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 973 words


only Congress has constitutional authority to establish U.S. immigration policy,
and fundamental reform requires legislative action. Thus the administration's
recent announcement that deportation will be sought only for undocumented
immigrants who have committed crimes in the United States violates the
separation of powers and is unconstitutional.

No president, of course, can hope to expel every undocumented person in the
United States - they number perhaps upward of 11 million people. Human and
financial resources to identify, apprehend, process and promptly deport millions
have been lacking for years as has, arguably, the political will to do so. In
this environment, immigration enforcement authorities, under administrations of
both parties, have performed as best they could given their resources. Still,
millions have been deported over the years. And while many had been convicted of
serious criminal offenses, most deportees have not been in that category.

The policy that Obama unveiledlast month  differs fundamentally from the spotty
immigration enforcement records of previous presidents. The administration
indicated that, henceforth, deportation will be focused solely on illegal
immigrants who have criminal records and that no enforcement resources will be
expended on those who do not pose a threat to public safety. The effect is that
undocumented individuals who have avoided apprehension at the border and not
been convicted of a serious offense since arriving to the United States will no
longer face the prospect of deportation, the most basic means of immigration
enforcement.

This goes far beyond merely prioritizing the use of limited immigration
enforcement  resources. And it exceeds the president's constitutional authority
by, in effect, suspending operation of the immigration laws with respect to a
very large and identifiable class of offenders.

Federal agencies establish enforcement priorities because Congress rarely votes
adequate monies to fully implement any federal program. Law enforcement agencies
such as Immigration and Customs Enforcement properly exercise prosecutorial
discretion in deciding which offenses to investigate and prosecute. That
discretion ultimately resides in the president. It allows him to establish
priorities - properly informed by his policy preferences - on at least two
levels.

First, a president can decide to devote more resources to a particular problem -
human trafficking or white-collar crime, for example - with the result that
other laws or areas of concern (say, organized crime) will be less vigorously
pursued and enforced. This is entirely lawful and appropriate. Presidents are
elected in part to establish such priorities.

Second, law enforcement officials must make determinations whether and how to
direct their efforts in individual cases. Under the manual governing U.S.
attorneys, for example, federal prosecutors must consider whether there is a
sufficient federal interest before pursuing a case. This involves questions such
as the nature and seriousness of an offense, potential deterrent effect on
others, the defendant's record, alternatives to criminal prosecution, likelihood
of success and established law enforcement priorities.

This discretion is fully supported by the president's constitutional authority.
But that authority is not boundless. While the president can legitimately decide
that, say, most FBI resources should be dedicated to the investigation and
prosecution of terrorism cases, he cannot decree that no enforcement resources
whatsoever should be allocated to securities fraud or counterfeiting cases.
Since in our constitutional system the executive branch has exclusive license to
enforce federal criminal laws, this would effectively decriminalize securities
fraud and counterfeiting, vitiating the federal statutes that proscribed such
activities.

In this regard, the Constitution provides that the president "shall take care
that the laws be faithfully executed." A century before the Constitution took
effect, Britain's King James II was deposed in no small part because he claimed
the right to generally suspend laws enacted by Parliament and to dispense with
law in individual cases.

James hoped to benefit his fellow Roman Catholics by issuing a "declaration of
indulgence," suspending operation of the religious penal laws Parliament had
enacted against Roman Catholics and non-Anglican Protestants. The opposition in
Britain was not merely due to religious bigotry. Acknowledging the power to
suspend or dispense with laws, even when used to grant religious tolerance,
would fatally warp any balance between executive and legislative authority. A
legislature has no power to speak of if the executive can simply decide not to
enforce its law. Thus, the suspending and dispensing powers were declared
illegal in the English Bill of Rights. Knowing this history, the Framers gave
the president no choice but to execute laws passed by Congress. As the Supreme
Court stated in the 1838 case Kendall v. United States,the power to dispense
with laws enacted by Congress "has no countenance for its support in any part of
the constitution."

Obama has not declared his intent to dispense with immigration law, and the
point at which permissible executive enforcement discretion becomes suspension
of statutory requirements often is one of degree. In this case, however, there
is little question that the line has been crossed. The president is entitled to
establish enforcement priorities, but the ultimate goal must always be
implementation of the law as enacted by Congress. If the president disagrees
with that law, he must persuade Congress to change it.

The writers are partners in the Washington office of Baker & Hostetler; they
served in the Justice Department under presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W.
Bush.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The Dream Act's impact

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 354 words


Regarding William E. Kirwan and William G. Robertson's Sept. 4 Local Opinions
commentary, "How every Marylander benefits from the Dream Act":

The question is not whether we should allow illegal immigrants to be educated at
our state colleges or universities. It's whether we should spend our limited
taxpayer dollars to reward people's illegal activities.

I am a first-generation American. I have benefited from parents who legally
immigrated. They came to this country with not much more than the clothes on
their backs. They worked and paid taxes legally, learned the language of our
land and earned the right to apply for citizenship after many years. They raised
three children and taught us English and their native language. We went through
the public-education system, and we paid for our own advanced educations. I
benefited from in-state tuition, earning degrees from three fine Maryland
universities.

The true Dream Act should celebrate the struggles of many legal immigrants to
become law-abiding citizens and support their children's education.

Also, we must remember that illegal immigrants in Maryland, even those with
college degrees, still cannot be legally hired. Will the next step be letting
businesses hire any college graduate, regardless of immigration status, as long
as he or she has an in-state degree?

Walter Dirndorfer, Linthicum

l

Surely The Post's editors know that Maryland's version of the Dream Act does not
require that children of illegal immigrants reside in the state for 16 to 18
years before applying for college, though that length of time was suggested in
the editorial attacking Mitt Romney for his opposition to such bills granting
lower tuition for residents ["A platform against opportunity," Sept. 5].

As written, the Maryland law requires only that the child have completed three
years of high school in the state. In not even mentioning this much more obvious
draw to those who might naturally desire a better future for their children, The
Post has distorted the facts in its advocacy for its position and thereby
undermined its credibility on the issue.

John Woodmaska, Kearny, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Targeting schoolchildren

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 533 words


THE CLEAR INTENT of Alabama's viciously xenophobic immigration law - and the
likely effect, now that most of it was upheld by a federal judge this week - is
to hound, harass and intimidate illegal immigrants into uprooting their lives
and moving elsewhere. The law aims to do this by various means, but none is more
pernicious than a provision requiring the state's public schools to collect
information on every student's immigration status, starting in kindergarten and
going to 12th grade.

In a ruling that tortures plain words and logic, U.S. District Judge Sharon
Blackburn wrote that Alabama's law does not create a state-specific registration
scheme applicable to illegal immigrants, nor does it attempt to register anyone.

In fact, that's precisely what it does and is meant to do. The law sets out
procedures whereby schools must determine if enrolling students were born
outside the United States or are the children of illegal immigrants. Any student
whose parent or guardian does not provide that documentation will be assumed to
be an illegal immigrant and classified as such by the schools in the state's
records.

In turning the schools into immigration registrars, Alabama's new law flies in
the face of good sense and settled law. The Supreme Court has specifically
prohibited such registration schemes by the states aimed at immigrants, legal or
illegal. And, in a ruling almost 20 years ago, it conferred on undocumented
students an unfettered right to a public education through high school.

The court did so for sensible reasons. It noted that there is no legal precedent
in America for punishing children for the actions of their parents. Writing for
the court in a 1982 decision squashing Texas's attempt to exclude illegal
immigrants from public schools, Justice William Brennan said, "It is difficult
to understand precisely what the State hopes to achieve by promoting the
creation and perpetuation of a subclass of illiterates within our boundaries,
surely adding to the problems and costs of unemployment, welfare, and crime."

Apparently, Alabama didn't get the message. By forcing schools to collect and
report data on the immigration status of students and their parents, the state
will frighten children away from attending school. The day after Judge
Blackburn's ruling, the Press-Register of Mobile, Ala., reported that 58 of 223
Hispanic students at a local elementary school withdrew from school or were
absent.

Most likely, illegal immigrants will simply go further underground or move to
more hospitable parts of the country - leaving Alabama bereft of the labor it
needs to pick crops, wash dishes in restaurants and do landscape and
construction jobs. Indeed, Alabama farmers are already warning that the law will
leave them badly shorthanded at harvest time.

By vilifying and victimizing schoolchildren and their families, Alabama
lawmakers are mounting an end run around Supreme Court precedent in hopes of
cleansing communities of what they see as the scourge of illegal immigrants. But
the real legacy will be a wave of fear, bitterness and desperation in
hardworking minority communities. In Alabama, the nation's ugly fight over
immigration policy just got uglier.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Targeting schoolchildren

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 533 words


THE CLEAR INTENT of Alabama's viciously xenophobic immigration law - and the
likely effect, now that most of it was upheld by a federal judge this week - is
to hound, harass and intimidate illegal immigrants into uprooting their lives
and moving elsewhere. The law aims to do this by various means, but none is more
pernicious than a provision requiring the state's public schools to collect
information on every student's immigration status, starting in kindergarten and
going to 12th grade.

In a ruling that tortures plain words and logic, U.S. District Judge Sharon
Blackburn wrote that Alabama's law does not create a state-specific registration
scheme applicable to illegal immigrants, nor does it attempt to register anyone.

In fact, that's precisely what it does and is meant to do. The law sets out
procedures whereby schools must determine if enrolling students were born
outside the United States or are the children of illegal immigrants. Any student
whose parent or guardian does not provide that documentation will be assumed to
be an illegal immigrant and classified as such by the schools in the state's
records.

In turning the schools into immigration registrars, Alabama's new law flies in
the face of good sense and settled law. The Supreme Court has specifically
prohibited such registration schemes by the states aimed at immigrants, legal or
illegal. And, in a ruling almost 20 years ago, it conferred on undocumented
students an unfettered right to a public education through high school.

The court did so for sensible reasons. It noted that there is no legal precedent
in America for punishing children for the actions of their parents. Writing for
the court in a 1982 decision squashing Texas's attempt to exclude illegal
immigrants from public schools, Justice William Brennan said, "It is difficult
to understand precisely what the State hopes to achieve by promoting the
creation and perpetuation of a subclass of illiterates within our boundaries,
surely adding to the problems and costs of unemployment, welfare, and crime."

Apparently, Alabama didn't get the message. By forcing schools to collect and
report data on the immigration status of students and their parents, the state
will frighten children away from attending school. The day after Judge
Blackburn's ruling, the Press-Register of Mobile, Ala., reported that 58 of 223
Hispanic students at a local elementary school withdrew from school or were
absent.

Most likely, illegal immigrants will simply go further underground or move to
more hospitable parts of the country - leaving Alabama bereft of the labor it
needs to pick crops, wash dishes in restaurants and do landscape and
construction jobs. Indeed, Alabama farmers are already warning that the law will
leave them badly shorthanded at harvest time.

By vilifying and victimizing schoolchildren and their families, Alabama
lawmakers are mounting an end run around Supreme Court precedent in hopes of
cleansing communities of what they see as the scourge of illegal immigrants. But
the real legacy will be a wave of fear, bitterness and desperation in
hardworking minority communities. In Alabama, the nation's ugly fight over
immigration policy just got uglier.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Takoma Park's 'sanctuary-city' policy threatened by federal law

BYLINE: Aaron Kraut

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T17

LENGTH: 775 words


Takoma Park officials say the city's decades-old illegal-immigrant sanctuary law
has helped build trust between non-U.S. citizens and the police, which, in turn,
has made the city a safer place.

But next year, when Montgomery County is expected to start enforcing the federal
Secure Communities program, Takoma Park's sanctuary city policy won't carry as
much weight.

Secure Communities is a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement program in
which police check the fingerprints of anyone brought to a county jail against
an FBI and ICE database. Those confirmed as illegal immigrants are turned over
to ICE and can be deported.

Takoma Park, which, under its 1985 sanctuary city law, forbids its police and
municipal employees from enforcing federal immigration laws, does not have its
own detention facility.

The city takes its prisoners to the Montgomery County Detention Center in
Rockville. At that point, Takoma Park residents would be subject to Secure
Communities.

"What the county does is out of our hands," Mayor Bruce Williams said. "What's
most important is public safety, and what keeps our community the safest is
having everybody trusting the police and being ready to come forward to help the
police."

The motivation for the continued support of the policy is that many immigrants
would be afraid to give information on crimes to the police  for fear their
immigration status might come up.

"We don't want anybody hesitating and saying, 'I don't want to call the police
because I want to be invisible,' " Williams said.

City officials are not allowed to ask a resident about their immigration status.
The city has never faced any sanctions or lost state or federal funding because
of the policy, according to City Manager Barbara Burns Matthews.

ICE recently delayed the introduction of Secure Communities until an
undetermined date next year because federal agencies lack the staff to handle
the data that would be sent to them, said Arthur Wallenstein, head of the
county's Department of Correction and Rehabilitation. The county was expected to
launch the program last week.

In 2007, Takoma Park Police Chief Ronald Ricucci asked the City Council for more
flexibility in looking into the immigration status of convicted felons to
prevent major crimes. The council unanimously voted to deny his request and
reaffirm Takoma Park's status as a sanctuary city.

Ricucci said the decision hasn't hampered his department's ability to keep the
city safe because Takoma Park police rarely get an ICE database warrant hit for
a violent felon.

Under the sanctuary policy, Ricucci said Takoma Park police officers do not
honor green-card violations or ICE warrants for deportation. But once a prisoner
is turned over to Montgomery County, they have no say.

Kim Propeack, political director for the immigrant rights advocacy group Casa de
Maryland, said immigrants respond to police departments that choose not to
enforce federal immigration policies, such as Secure Communities.

"We believe that the policy in Takoma Park has helped to buffer that
relationship and make the job of the police department possible," Propeack said.
"People tell us all the time about their willingness to come forward based on
those types of commitments."

Ricucci cited a case from two years ago in which a group of day laborers
witnessed the robbery of a local dry cleaner. One of the workers wrote the tag
number of the suspect's car in the dirt and volunteered the information to
police, which led to an arrest.

"I think we have a pretty good rapport with the immigrant community," Ricucci
said. "They see we treat everybody the same."

Since its implementation in Maryland in October 2008, 293 illegal immigrants
have been deported from the state under the Secure Communities program as of
March 31, according to the most recent data available.

Most of those - 223 - came from Prince George's County. About 65 percent, or 145
people, had no criminal record, and the reasons they were brought to jail were
too minor for the county to pursue, ICE spokesman Ross Feinstein told the
Gazette in April.

For now, Williams plans to continue to lobby against Secure Communities to try
to preserve the strength of the city's sanctuary policy. He has gone to
Annapolis to testify about the city's law, and as chair of the Maryland
Municipal League, he hopes to continue.

"The county's policy on Secure Communities is important to us," Williams said.
"We recognize that immigration policy in this country is screwed up. It seems
like they're not able to straighten it out. But that doesn't mean we have to
enable their inability to come up with a reasonable policy."

akraut@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The rot in Alabama

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 452 words


FARMERS IN ALABAMA are in revolt against the state's over-the-top immigration
law, which is designed to hound illegal immigrants so that they move elsewhere.
As it happens, a substantial portion of farm workers there, as in other states,
are undocumented. In the farmers' view, the law is depriving them of steady,
experienced labor - and threatening to deal a lethal blow to crops throughout
the state.

The uproar has exposed political fault lines within the Republican Party, whose
vows of support for business have run headlong into its crusade to drive away
illegal immigrants, on whom agribusiness relies. It's also laying bare the
nation's hypocrisy over unskilled immigrants, whose legal entry into the country
is blocked in most cases even though their labor remains much in demand.

Of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the country, some 7 million
are in the job force. The idea that they can be deported or replaced en masse
with jobless U.S. workers is far-fetched. That's the message that Alabama
farmers have been giving their elected leaders, so far to little avail.

Alabama lawmakers insist that, by driving undocumented workers out, they will
open jobs for Americans; the unemployment rate in the state is nearly 10
percent. But farmers say that jobless U.S. workers, mostly inexperienced in
field work and concentrated in and around cities, are ill-suited and mostly
unwilling to do the back-breaking, poorly paid work required to plant and
harvest tomatoes, squash, cucumbers and other crops. Farmers also say that, if
they were to raise wages to make the jobs more attractive, as advocates for the
new law suggest, crop prices would soar, making Alabama produce uncompetitive.

A federal court has stayed some parts of the Alabama law, such as a particularly
obnoxious measure that requires school systems to collect information on the
immigration status of students and their parents. But it has let stand other
provisions, including one allowing police to demand documentation from suspected
illegal immigrants who are pulled over in routine traffic stops. This has
prompted some of the state's estimated 120,000 illegal immigrants to pack up and
head elsewhere.

Some lawmakers, including Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), are suggesting the creation
of a guest- worker program to recruit sufficient numbers of farm hands and other
unskilled workers. But the workers required are already in the United States.
Congress and the federal government have failed to establish an adequate supply
of visas for the immigrant labor drawn here by the prospect of jobs. The right
thing to do is to fix the problem by enabling those workers to legalize their
status and put them on a path to citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

It's the distinctions of immigration that matter

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 282 words


I was dismayed at the word "unlikely" in the headline of the Nov. 28 Metro
article "Unlikely foes of Md. Dream Act" to describe legal immigrants who have
worked hard to obtain U.S. citizenship rightfully.

Isn't it understandable why legal immigrants, and other law-abiding U.S.
citizens, are outraged by illegal immigrants who want to be rewarded with
in-state tuition for their lawless behavior?

The only "unlikely" foes would seem to be criminals or those who approve of
breaking the law.

Susan L. Abbondanzo,

Silver Spring

l

I read with great interest the article about legal immigrants contesting the
Maryland Dream Act. What took you so long? A friend of mine came to this country
five short years ago and went through the long and laborious process required by
U.S. immigration law. While I understand the dilemmas regarding illegal
migration from Mexico, I find it difficult to justify the unfair application of
our laws. Have we become so unwieldy a country that we cannot follow our own
legal system?

Dee Daly, Washington

l

The Post and its reporters seem confused not only about the distinction between
legal and illegal immigrants but even about what an immigrant is.

The Nov. 25 Metro article "Away from family, a place at the table" referred to
the "tradition that celebrates America's earliest immigrants." However, the
Pilgrims were not immigrants but settlers. Since America did not exist, how
could they immigrate to it? Instead the Pilgrims and the other English colonists
in Maryland and Virginia created what would later become America.

An immigrant is somebody who comes to an existing society and assimilates to it
by adopting its language and culture.

Christopher Hewitt, Glen Echo

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 18, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

Who's really twisting the truth on border security

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 306 words


The May 15 editorial "Twisting truth on the border" accused me of exaggerating
the lack of security along the Southwest border, but the nonpartisan Government
Accountability Office (GAO) and the Border Patrol agents on the ground know the
truth: The border is not secure.

The Obama administration - and apparently The Post - pretend the border is more
secure than ever because apprehensions are down. But apprehensions are down for
two reasons: Our sluggish economy and the limited ability of the Border Patrol
to apprehend illegal immigrants.

The unemployment rate has stayed around 9 percent for the past 22 months, and 26
million Americans are unemployed or underemployed. This has reduced the jobs
magnet that encourages illegal immigration.

But 7 million individuals work illegally in the United States, and the
administration hasn't done much to stop them. In the past two years, work-site
enforcement activities have plummeted by 70 percent. If the administration
enforced immigration laws, we could open up millions of jobs for unemployed
legal workers. And it would send the signal that we take our immigration laws
seriously. This would deter illegal immigration.

Also, the GAO found that efforts by the Border Patrol to stop illegal crossings
were "poor." Border Patrol agents on the ground will tell you that there are
three successful illegal crossings for every one stopped. Because of the
administration's selective enforcement of immigration law, only 44 percent of
the southern border is under the operational control of the Border Patrol,
according to the GAO. There is no substitute for improved border security
coupled with increased interior enforcement of drug and immigration laws if we
want to secure our border.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 2, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Face-off over Md. tuition expands

BYLINE: Aaron C. Davis

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 728 words


Opponents of a new Maryland law that would give undocumented immigrants breaks
on in-state college tuition have no right to force a referendum, an immigrant
rights group charged Monday in a lawsuit seeking to keep the issue off the 2012
ballot.

Casa of Maryland, a group often allied with the state's Democratic leaders,
alleges that state elections officials erred in letting  opponents  collect
signatures to suspend the Maryland DREAM Act, the first state law in 20 years to
be halted and sent to the ballot by a petition drive.

The lawsuit contends that tax money the DREAM Act would direct to tuition aid
for undocumented immigrants effectively puts the measure in a class of laws
dealing with state budget issues, making it off-limits to a referendum.

If the measure was eligible for the ballot, the lawsuit asserts another flaw. It
says opponents do not have enough valid signatures, primarily because those that
were collected using new Internet software should be thrown out.

The online tool was developed this year by a Maryland Republican lawmaker in
anticipation of a future ballot-box fight over same-sex marriage. It helped
nearly 44,000 voters print and file petitions with their names, addresses and
other information listed exactly as recorded in state voter rolls.Such precision
is essential because any discrepancy can invalidate a petitioner's signature.

The tool helped a small group of conservative organizers shatter previous
records for statewide signature gathering and has emboldened Maryland's
Republican minority, with some lawmakers already threatening to use the ballot
box routinely as a check on the state's Democratic-controlled General Assembly.

The prospect of such efforts makes the integrity of the new system all the more
important, said one of the lawyers challenging the petition.

"There's no safeguard. If someone knows your name, Zip code and date of birth,
which might be on your Facebook page, the computer will print out that
information exactly," said Joseph E. Sandler, a top election-law lawyer and
former general counsel for the Democratic National Committee, whose firm is
litigating the case pro bono for the plaintiffs. "There is no way to make sure
the voter whose name appears on the petition is the one who printed it out and
signed it.

"Maryland law makes this deliberately difficult," Sandler added. "We live in a
representative democracy. We don't live by mob rule; not every law is supposed
to go to the voters."

Del. Patrick McDonough, a Baltimore County Republican who was a lead organizer
of the petition drive, called the lawsuit a "shameful" attempt to upend the will
of voters and petition signers.

He said it was ludicrous for proponents to argue that the DREAM Act was
primarily a budget law and not a new state policy, which would be subject to
referendum.

McDonough also singled out Casa of Maryland, saying the organization was seeking
to circumvent the state's election rules to "promote the best interests of
illegal aliens."

Casa stressed that affected students and teachers are the lead plaintiffs. The
first two are listed as John Doe and Jane Doe, both 18-year-old undocumented
immigrants. The suit says the two excelled in Maryland high schools and may not
be able to afford tuition at Baltimore City Community College this fall without
in-state rates. The suit says their identities were kept confidential to protect
them from harassment.

Under the law, which passed in April after years of wrangling, undocumented
immigrants  - who are able to prove that they have attended high school in
Maryland for at least three years and that their parents or guardians have begun
filing taxes - were to have been allowed to begin courses this fall at community
colleges at in-state rates. After earning associates degrees, they would be
eligible for in-state rates at University of Maryland system schools.

Amy Exelby, deputy executive director of the left-leaning Ballot Initiative
Strategy Center, said the Maryland case is special. Utah and California have
faced recent legal action over Internet tools that allow voters to
electronically sign petitions, but they have not involved printing petitions.

"States are taking a slow, cautious approach to this," she said. The chance for
the court to review the online petitions in Maryland, she said, "is good for
democracy."

davisa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 30, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 525 words


ALABAMA          New immigration lawtemporarily blocked

A federal judge temporarily blocked enforcement of Alabama's new law cracking
down on illegal immigration, ruling Monday that she needed more time to decide
whether the law is constitutional.

The brief order by U.S. District Judge Sharon L. Blackburn means the law will
not take effect Thursday as scheduled. The ruling was cheered by opponents, who
have compared the law to Jim Crow-era statutes against racial integration.

But Blackburn didn't address whether the law is constitutional, and she still
may let all or parts of the law take effect. She said she will issue a ruling by
Sept. 28.

Both supporters and opponents say Alabama's law is the nation's toughest against
illegal immigration. Among other things, it would require schools to verify the
citizenship status of students. Officials say it wouldn't prevent illegal
immigrants from attending public schools.

- Associated Press

ARIZONA AND NEW YORK          9/11 charities probedfor irregularities

Officials in Arizona and New York have launched investigations into charities
that claim to serve 9/11 causes, probing whether they failed to follow state
laws - and may have misspent millions intended to help and honor those affected
by the terrorist attacks.

An investigation by the Associated Press uncovered dozens of 9/11 charities
across the country that didn't disclose publicly how they raised and spent
money, didn't keep promises to create memorials or contribute to 9/11 causes, or
did more to help their creators than those affected by the terrorist attacks.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office said state lawyers are
conducting a "broad review" of 9/11 charities to make certain that all
documentation for charities related to the 2001 terrorist attacks is in order
and that all rules on fundraising and disclosure are being followed.

In Arizona, Attorney General Tom Horne said his office is investigating a 9/11
charity that raised more than $700,000 from students, police and others to
create a huge memorial quilt that was never completed.

- Associated Press

TEXAS          Polygamist Jeffsis in induced coma

Polygamist sect leader Warren Jeffs was hospitalized Monday in a medically
induced coma in critical condition after fasting in the weeks since receiving a
life sentence for sexually assaulting underage followers, officials said.

Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokeswoman Michelle Lyons said Jeffs was
in critical condition, but Lyons would not give specific details about his
status. Lyons said Jeffs told corrections officers he had fasted since his
conviction earlier this month, but it was not immediately clear how long he'd
gone without food before being hospitalized.

Jeffs's attorney, Emily Detoto, said her client "hasn't been feeling well" and
was taken to East Texas Medical Center in Tyler on Sunday night. She declined to
elaborate.

The 55-year-old head of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day
Saints has a history of refusing to eat while incarcerated.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 3, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Obama's illegal move on immigration

BYLINE: David B. Rivkin Jr.;Lee A. Casey

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 977 words


only Congress has constitutional authority to establish U.S. immigration policy,
and fundamental reform requires legislative action. Thus the administration's
recent announcement that deportation will be sought only for undocumented
immigrants who have committed crimes in the United States violates the
separation of powers and is unconstitutional.

No president, of course, can hope to expel every undocumented person in the
United States - they number perhaps upward of 11 million people. Human and
financial resources to identify, apprehend, process and promptly deport millions
have been lacking for years as has, arguably, the political will to do so. In
this environment, immigration enforcement authorities, under administrations of
both parties, have performed as best they could given their resources. Still,
millions have been deported over the years. And while many had been convicted of
serious criminal offenses, most deportees have not been in that category.

The policy that Obama unveiled last month  differs fundamentally from the spotty
immigration enforcement records of previous presidents. The administration
indicated that, henceforth, deportation will be focused solely on illegal
immigrants who have criminal records and that no enforcement resources will be
expended on those who do not pose a threat to public safety. The effect is that
undocumented individuals who have avoided apprehension at the border and not
been convicted of a serious offense since arriving to the United States will no
longer face the prospect of deportation, the most basic means of immigration
enforcement.

This goes far beyond merely prioritizing the use of limited immigration
enforcement  resources. And it exceeds the president's constitutional authority
by, in effect, suspending operation of the immigration laws with respect to a
very large and identifiable class of offenders.

Federal agencies establish enforcement priorities because Congress rarely votes
adequate monies to fully implement any federal program. Law enforcement agencies
such as Immigration and Customs Enforcement properly exercise prosecutorial
discretion in deciding which offenses to investigate and prosecute. That
discretion ultimately resides in the president. It allows him to establish
priorities - properly informed by his policy preferences - on at least two
levels.

First, a president can decide to devote more resources to a particular problem -
human trafficking or white-collar crime, for example - with the result that
other laws or areas of concern (say, organized crime) will be less vigorously
pursued and enforced. This is entirely lawful and appropriate. Presidents are
elected in part to establish such priorities.

Second, law enforcement officials must make determinations whether and how to
direct their efforts in individual cases. Under the manual governing U.S.
attorneys, for example, federal prosecutors must consider whether there is a
sufficient federal interest before pursuing a case. This involves questions such
as the nature and seriousness of an offense, potential deterrent effect on
others, the defendant's record, alternatives to criminal prosecution, likelihood
of success and established law enforcement priorities.

This discretion is fully supported by the president's constitutional authority.
But that authority is not boundless. While the president can legitimately decide
that, say, most FBI resources should be dedicated to the investigation and
prosecution of terrorism cases, he cannot decree that no enforcement resources
whatsoever should be allocated to securities fraud or counterfeiting cases.
Since in our constitutional system the executive branch has exclusive license to
enforce federal criminal laws, this would effectively decriminalize securities
fraud and counterfeiting, vitiating the federal statutes that proscribed such
activities.

In this regard, the Constitution provides that the president "shall take care
that the laws be faithfully executed." A century before the Constitution took
effect, Britain's King James II was deposed in no small part because he claimed
the right to generally suspend laws enacted by Parliament and to dispense with
law in individual cases.

James hoped to benefit his fellow Roman Catholics by issuing a "declaration of
indulgence," suspending operation of the religious penal laws Parliament had
enacted against Roman Catholics and non-Anglican Protestants. The opposition in
Britain was not merely due to religious bigotry. Acknowledging the power to
suspend or dispense with laws, even when used to grant religious tolerance,
would fatally warp any balance between executive and legislative authority. A
legislature has no power to speak of if the executive can simply decide not to
enforce its law. Thus, the suspending and dispensing powers were declared
illegal in the English Bill of Rights. Knowing this history, the Framers gave
the president no choice but to execute laws passed by Congress. As the Supreme
Court stated in the 1838 case Kendall v. United States,  the power to dispense
with laws enacted by Congress "has no countenance for its support in any part of
the constitution."

Obama has not declared his intent to dispense with immigration law, and the
point at which permissible executive enforcement discretion becomes suspension
of statutory requirements often is one of degree. In this case, however, there
is little question that the line has been crossed. The president is entitled to
establish enforcement priorities, but the ultimate goal must always be
implementation of the law as enacted by Congress. If the president disagrees
with that law, he must persuade Congress to change it.

The writers are partners in the Washington office of Baker & Hostetler; they
served in the Justice Department under presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W.
Bush.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 10, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

The Dream Act's impact

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 362 words


Regarding William E. Kirwan and William G. Robertson's Sept. 4 Local Opinions
commentary, "How every Marylander benefits from the Dream Act":

The question is not whether we should allow illegal immigrants to be educated at
our state colleges or universities. It's whether we should spend our limited
taxpayer dollars to reward people's illegal activities.

I am a first-generation American. I have benefited from parents who legally
immigrated. They came to this country with not much more than the clothes on
their backs. They worked and paid taxes legally, learned the language of our
land and earned the right to apply for citizenship after many years. They raised
three children and taught us English and their native language. We went through
the public-education system, and we paid for our own advanced educations. I
benefited from in-state tuition, earning degrees from three fine Maryland
universities.

The true Dream Act should celebrate the struggles of many legal immigrants to
become law-abiding citizens and support their children's education.

Also, we must remember that illegal immigrants in Maryland, even those with
college degrees, still cannot be legally hired. Will the next step be letting
businesses hire any college graduate, regardless of immigration status, as long
as he or she has an in-state degree?

Walter Dirndorfer, Linthicum

l

Surely The Post's editors know that Maryland's version of the Dream Act does not
require that children of illegal immigrants reside in the state for 16 to 18
years before applying for college, though that length of time was suggested in
the editorial attacking Mitt Romney for his opposition to such bills granting
lower tuition for residents ["A platform against opportunity," Sept. 5].

As written, the Maryland law requires only that the child have completed three
years of high school in the state. In not even mentioning this much more obvious
draw to those who might naturally desire a better future for their children, The
Post has distorted the facts in its advocacy for its position and thereby
undermined its credibility on the issue.

John Woodmaska, Kearny, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 1, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Targeting schoolchildren

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 534 words


THE CLEAR INTENT of Alabama's viciously xenophobic immigration law - and the
likely effect, now that most of it was upheld by a federal judge this week - is
to hound, harass and intimidate illegal immigrants into uprooting their lives
and moving elsewhere. The law aims to do this by various means, but none is more
pernicious than a provision requiring the state's public schools to collect
information on every student's immigration status, starting in kindergarten and
going to 12th grade.

In a ruling that tortures plain words and logic, U.S. District Judge Sharon
Blackburn wrote that Alabama's law does not create a state-specific registration
scheme applicable to illegal immigrants, nor does it attempt to register anyone.

In fact, that's precisely what it does and is meant to do. The law sets out
procedures whereby schools must determine if enrolling students were born
outside the United States or are the children of illegal immigrants. Any student
whose parent or guardian does not provide that documentation will be assumed to
be an illegal immigrant and classified as such by the schools in the state's
records.

In turning the schools into immigration registrars, Alabama's new law flies in
the face of good sense and settled law. The Supreme Court has specifically
prohibited such registration schemes by the states aimed at immigrants, legal or
illegal. And, in a ruling almost 20 years ago, it conferred on undocumented
students an unfettered right to a public education through high school.

The court did so for sensible reasons. It noted that there is no legal precedent
in America for punishing children for the actions of their parents. Writing for
the court in a 1982 decision squashing Texas's attempt to exclude illegal
immigrants from public schools, Justice William Brennan said, "It is difficult
to understand precisely what the State hopes to achieve by promoting the
creation and perpetuation of a subclass of illiterates within our boundaries,
surely adding to the problems and costs of unemployment, welfare, and crime."

Apparently, Alabama didn't get the message. By forcing schools to collect and
report data on the immigration status of students and their parents, the state
will frighten children away from attending school. The day after Judge
Blackburn's ruling, the Press-Register of Mobile, Ala., reported that 58 of 223
Hispanic students at a local elementary school withdrew from school or were
absent.

Most likely, illegal immigrants will simply go further underground or move to
more hospitable parts of the country - leaving Alabama bereft of the labor it
needs to pick crops, wash dishes in restaurants and do landscape and
construction jobs. Indeed, Alabama farmers are already warning that the law will
leave them badly shorthanded at harvest time.

By vilifying and victimizing schoolchildren and their families, Alabama
lawmakers are mounting an end run around Supreme Court precedent in hopes of
cleansing communities of what they see as the scourge of illegal immigrants. But
the real legacy will be a wave of fear, bitterness and desperation in
hardworking minority communities. In Alabama, the nation's ugly fight over
immigration policy just got uglier.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 2, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Targeting schoolchildren

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 534 words


THE CLEAR INTENT of Alabama's viciously xenophobic immigration law - and the
likely effect, now that most of it was upheld by a federal judge this week - is
to hound, harass and intimidate illegal immigrants into uprooting their lives
and moving elsewhere. The law aims to do this by various means, but none is more
pernicious than a provision requiring the state's public schools to collect
information on every student's immigration status, starting in kindergarten and
going to 12th grade.

In a ruling that tortures plain words and logic, U.S. District Judge Sharon
Blackburn wrote that Alabama's law does not create a state-specific registration
scheme applicable to illegal immigrants, nor does it attempt to register anyone.

In fact, that's precisely what it does and is meant to do. The law sets out
procedures whereby schools must determine if enrolling students were born
outside the United States or are the children of illegal immigrants. Any student
whose parent or guardian does not provide that documentation will be assumed to
be an illegal immigrant and classified as such by the schools in the state's
records.

In turning the schools into immigration registrars, Alabama's new law flies in
the face of good sense and settled law. The Supreme Court has specifically
prohibited such registration schemes by the states aimed at immigrants, legal or
illegal. And, in a ruling almost 20 years ago, it conferred on undocumented
students an unfettered right to a public education through high school.

The court did so for sensible reasons. It noted that there is no legal precedent
in America for punishing children for the actions of their parents. Writing for
the court in a 1982 decision squashing Texas's attempt to exclude illegal
immigrants from public schools, Justice William Brennan said, "It is difficult
to understand precisely what the State hopes to achieve by promoting the
creation and perpetuation of a subclass of illiterates within our boundaries,
surely adding to the problems and costs of unemployment, welfare, and crime."

Apparently, Alabama didn't get the message. By forcing schools to collect and
report data on the immigration status of students and their parents, the state
will frighten children away from attending school. The day after Judge
Blackburn's ruling, the Press-Register of Mobile, Ala., reported that 58 of 223
Hispanic students at a local elementary school withdrew from school or were
absent.

Most likely, illegal immigrants will simply go further underground or move to
more hospitable parts of the country - leaving Alabama bereft of the labor it
needs to pick crops, wash dishes in restaurants and do landscape and
construction jobs. Indeed, Alabama farmers are already warning that the law will
leave them badly shorthanded at harvest time.

By vilifying and victimizing schoolchildren and their families, Alabama
lawmakers are mounting an end run around Supreme Court precedent in hopes of
cleansing communities of what they see as the scourge of illegal immigrants. But
the real legacy will be a wave of fear, bitterness and desperation in
hardworking minority communities. In Alabama, the nation's ugly fight over
immigration policy just got uglier.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 6, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Takoma Park's 'sanctuary-city' policy threatened by federal law

BYLINE: Aaron Kraut

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T17

LENGTH: 778 words


Takoma Park officials say the city's decades-old illegal-immigrant sanctuary law
has helped build trust between non-U.S. citizens and the police, which, in turn,
has made the city a safer place.

But next year, when Montgomery County is expected to start enforcing the federal
Secure Communities program, Takoma Park's sanctuary city policy won't carry as
much weight.

Secure Communities is a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement program in
which police check the fingerprints of anyone brought to a county jail against
an FBI and ICE database. Those confirmed as illegal immigrants are turned over
to ICE and can be deported.

Takoma Park, which, under its 1985 sanctuary city law, forbids its police and
municipal employees from enforcing federal immigration laws, does not have its
own detention facility.

The city takes its prisoners to the Montgomery County Detention Center in
Rockville. At that point, Takoma Park residents would be subject to Secure
Communities.

"What the county does is out of our hands," Mayor Bruce Williams said. "What's
most important is public safety, and what keeps our community the safest is
having everybody trusting the police and being ready to come forward to help the
police."

The motivation for the continued support of the policy is that many immigrants
would be afraid to give information on crimes to the police  for fear their
immigration status might come up.

"We don't want anybody hesitating and saying, 'I don't want to call the police
because I want to be invisible,' " Williams said.

City officials are not allowed to ask a resident about their immigration status.
The city has never faced any sanctions or lost state or federal funding because
of the policy, according to City Manager Barbara Burns Matthews.

ICE recently delayed the introduction of Secure Communities until an
undetermined date next year because federal agencies lack the staff to handle
the data that would be sent to them, said Arthur Wallenstein, head of the
county's Department of Correction and Rehabilitation. The county was expected to
launch the program last week.

In 2007, Takoma Park Police Chief Ronald Ricucci asked the City Council for more
flexibility in looking into the immigration status of convicted felons to
prevent major crimes. The council unanimously voted to deny his request and
reaffirm Takoma Park's status as a sanctuary city.

Ricucci said the decision hasn't hampered his department's ability to keep the
city safe because Takoma Park police rarely get an ICE database warrant hit for
a violent felon.

Under the sanctuary policy, Ricucci said Takoma Park police officers do not
honor green-card violations or ICE warrants for deportation. But once a prisoner
is turned over to Montgomery County, they have no say.

Kim Propeack, political director for the immigrant rights advocacy group Casa de
Maryland, said immigrants respond to police departments that choose not to
enforce federal immigration policies, such as Secure Communities.

"We believe that the policy in Takoma Park has helped to buffer that
relationship and make the job of the police department possible," Propeack said.
"People tell us all the time about their willingness to come forward based on
those types of commitments."

Ricucci cited a case from two years ago in which a group of day laborers
witnessed the robbery of a local dry cleaner. One of the workers wrote the tag
number of the suspect's car in the dirt and volunteered the information to
police, which led to an arrest.

"I think we have a pretty good rapport with the immigrant community," Ricucci
said. "They see we treat everybody the same."

Since its implementation in Maryland in October 2008, 293 illegal immigrants
have been deported from the state under the Secure Communities program as of
March 31, according to the most recent data available.

Most of those - 223 - came from Prince George's County. About 65 percent, or 145
people, had no criminal record, and the reasons they were brought to jail were
too minor for the county to pursue, ICE spokesman Ross Feinstein told the
Gazette in April.

For now, Williams plans to continue to lobby against Secure Communities to try
to preserve the strength of the city's sanctuary policy. He has gone to
Annapolis to testify about the city's law, and as chair of the Maryland
Municipal League, he hopes to continue.

"The county's policy on Secure Communities is important to us," Williams said.
"We recognize that immigration policy in this country is screwed up. It seems
like they're not able to straighten it out. But that doesn't mean we have to
enable their inability to come up with a reasonable policy."

akraut@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 4, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

The rot in Alabama

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 452 words


FARMERS IN ALABAMA are in revolt against the state's over-the-top immigration
law, which is designed to hound illegal immigrants so that they move elsewhere.
As it happens, a substantial portion of farm workers there, as in other states,
are undocumented. In the farmers' view, the law is depriving them of steady,
experienced labor - and threatening to deal a lethal blow to crops throughout
the state.

The uproar has exposed political fault lines within the Republican Party, whose
vows of support for business have run headlong into its crusade to drive away
illegal immigrants, on whom agribusiness relies. It's also laying bare the
nation's hypocrisy over unskilled immigrants, whose legal entry into the country
is blocked in most cases even though their labor remains much in demand.

Of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the country, some 7 million
are in the job force. The idea that they can be deported or replaced en masse
with jobless U.S. workers is far-fetched. That's the message that Alabama
farmers have been giving their elected leaders, so far to little avail.

Alabama lawmakers insist that, by driving undocumented workers out, they will
open jobs for Americans; the unemployment rate in the state is nearly 10
percent. But farmers say that jobless U.S. workers, mostly inexperienced in
field work and concentrated in and around cities, are ill-suited and mostly
unwilling to do the back-breaking, poorly paid work required to plant and
harvest tomatoes, squash, cucumbers and other crops. Farmers also say that, if
they were to raise wages to make the jobs more attractive, as advocates for the
new law suggest, crop prices would soar, making Alabama produce uncompetitive.

A federal court has stayed some parts of the Alabama law, such as a particularly
obnoxious measure that requires school systems to collect information on the
immigration status of students and their parents. But it has let stand other
provisions, including one allowing police to demand documentation from suspected
illegal immigrants who are pulled over in routine traffic stops. This has
prompted some of the state's estimated 120,000 illegal immigrants to pack up and
head elsewhere.

Some lawmakers, including Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), are suggesting the creation
of a guest- worker program to recruit sufficient numbers of farm hands and other
unskilled workers. But the workers required are already in the United States.
Congress and the federal government have failed to establish an adequate supply
of visas for the immigrant labor drawn here by the prospect of jobs. The right
thing to do is to fix the problem by enabling those workers to legalize their
status and put them on a path to citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 3, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

It's the distinctions of immigration that matter

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 295 words


I was dismayed at the word "unlikely" in the headline of the Nov. 28 Metro
article "Unlikely foes of Md. Dream Act" to describe legal immigrants who have
worked hard to obtain U.S. citizenship rightfully.

Isn't it understandable why legal immigrants, and other law-abiding U.S.
citizens, are outraged by illegal immigrants who want to be rewarded with
in-state tuition for their lawless behavior?

The only "unlikely" foes would seem to be criminals or those who approve of
breaking the law.

Susan L. Abbondanzo,

Silver Spring

l

I read with great interest the article about legal immigrants contesting the
Maryland Dream Act. What took you so long? A friend of mine came to this country
five short years ago and went through the long and laborious process required by
U.S. immigration law. While I understand the dilemmas regarding illegal
migration from Mexico, I find it difficult to justify the unfair application of
our laws. Have we become so unwieldy a country that we cannot follow our own
legal system?

Dee Daly, Washington

l

The Post and its reporters seem confused not only about the distinction between
legal and illegal immigrants but even about what an immigrant is.

The Nov. 25 Metro article "Away from family, a place at the table" referred to
the "tradition that celebrates America's earliest immigrants." However, the
Pilgrims were not immigrants but settlers. Since America did not exist, how
could they immigrate to it? Instead the Pilgrims and the other English colonists
in Maryland and Virginia created what would later become America.

An immigrant is somebody who comes to an existing society and assimilates to it
by adopting its language and culture.

Christopher Hewitt, Glen Echo

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Tighter border security pushes immigrant smugglers to sea

BYLINE: Jason Kandel

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES - When U.S. immigration agents found a boatload of Mexican castaways
huddled on a Malibu beach, and a larger group marooned a week later on an island
north of Los Angeles, they realized it was a new trend.

Tightened security along the U.S.-Mexico border is pushing human smugglers from
Baja California to forsake the treacherous trek across mountains and deserts in
favor of ferrying illegal immigrants by sea.

"They're going farther north," said Jerry Conlin, a spokesman for U.S. Customs
and Border Protection in San Diego. "These smugglers will take would-be crossers
to the most remote areas where they believe their chances are much greater at
successfully smuggling these individuals into the U.S."

U.S. authorities have tallied 12 incidents of human smuggling by boat off
Southern California in the first six months of 2011, compared with four in the
same period last year, according to Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

ICE attributes the increase to stepped-up patrols, fencing and camera
surveillance along the nearly 2,000-mile U.S. border with Mexico.

In response, agents have added boat patrols and surveillance units and are
collaborating with the Mexican government.

In one striking case this month, 15 Mexican and Guatemalan nationals had to be
rescued from Santa Cruz Island, about 20 miles off the coast of Ventura, Calif.

Santa Cruz Island, part of the Channel Islands National Park, is a popular
outdoor spot for Los Angeles-area campers, kayakers, snorkelers and hikers. The
illegal immigrants found there July 8 had been marooned without food or water
for three days, immigration officials said.

Authorities say the seaborne smuggling crews, complete with boat captains, first
mates and navigators, typically transport illegal immigrants on rickety fishing
boats.

They travel out to sea in the dead of night with no lights or safety equipment
and drop their human cargo off on Southern California beaches. Agents have
investigated such incidents in Orange, Los Angeles and Ventura counties.

Ten suspected illegal immigrants were detained June 29 near the upscale seaside
enclave of Malibu. A woman in that group had a broken nose, and one man had
broken his leg, injuries suffered when they came ashore, officials said.

Agents caught 14 people at Crystal Cove State Park in Orange County on July 12
after their boat capsized. Three of the people arrested were charged with
conspiring to bring illegal immigrants into the country.

One passenger, Sergio Carillo-Vasquez, told investigators that he agreed to pay
the smugglers $7,000, according to a Border Patrol affidavit.

Claude Arnold, ICE special agent in Los Angeles, said it was surprising that no
one is known to have died at sea.

"The smugglers don't care about these people," he said. "They look at them as a
commodity."

- Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 31, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Tighter border security pushes immigrant smugglers to sea

BYLINE: Jason Kandel

SECTION: A section; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 474 words


LOS ANGELES - When U.S. immigration agents found a boatload of Mexican castaways
huddled on a Malibu beach, and a larger group marooned a week later on an island
north of Los Angeles, they realized it was a new trend.

Tightened security along the U.S.-Mexico border is pushing human smugglers from
Baja California to forsake the treacherous trek across mountains and deserts in
favor of ferrying illegal immigrants by sea.

"They're going farther north," said Jerry Conlin, a spokesman for U.S. Customs
and Border Protection in San Diego. "These smugglers will take would-be crossers
to the most remote areas where they believe their chances are much greater at
successfully smuggling these individuals into the U.S."

U.S. authorities have tallied 12 incidents of human smuggling by boat off
Southern California in the first six months of 2011, compared with four in the
same period last year, according to Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

ICE attributes the increase to stepped-up patrols, fencing and camera
surveillance along the nearly 2,000-mile U.S. border with Mexico.

In response, agents have added boat patrols and surveillance units and are
collaborating with the Mexican government.

In one striking case this month, 15 Mexican and Guatemalan nationals had to be
rescued from Santa Cruz Island, about 20 miles off the coast of Ventura, Calif.

Santa Cruz Island, part of the Channel Islands National Park, is a popular
outdoor spot for Los Angeles-area campers, kayakers, snorkelers and hikers. The
illegal immigrants found there July 8 had been marooned without food or water
for three days, immigration officials said.

Authorities say the seaborne smuggling crews, complete with boat captains, first
mates and navigators, typically transport illegal immigrants on rickety fishing
boats.

They travel out to sea in the dead of night with no lights or safety equipment
and drop their human cargo off on Southern California beaches. Agents have
investigated such incidents in Orange, Los Angeles and Ventura counties.

Ten suspected illegal immigrants were detained June 29 near the upscale seaside
enclave of Malibu. A woman in that group had a broken nose, and one man had
broken his leg, injuries suffered when they came ashore, officials said.

Agents caught 14 people at Crystal Cove State Park in Orange County on July 12
after their boat capsized. Three of the people arrested were charged with
conspiring to bring illegal immigrants into the country.

One passenger, Sergio Carillo-Vasquez, told investigators that he agreed to pay
the smugglers $7,000, according to a Border Patrol affidavit.

Claude Arnold, ICE special agent in Los Angeles, said it was surprising that no
one is known to have died at sea.

"The smugglers don't care about these people," he said. "They look at them as a
commodity."

- Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Stewart's immigration reform push brings a challenger

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T18

LENGTH: 383 words


Prince William County resident John Gray, who plans to challenge incumbent
county board Chairman Corey A. Stewart next year, said he will launch a Web site
to counter Stewart's stance on illegal immigration.

Gray said the Web site, which will debut in about a week, will be called Prince
William Rule of Law - a twist on Stewart's Virginia Rule of Law Web site, which
Stewart launched this year in an effort to bring immigration reform to the
Commonwealth.

The site, Gray said, will not attack Stewart but will counter Stewart's campaign
and present "factual" information instead of "scathing rhetoric" and "misleading
innuendoes."

Stewart (R-At Large) is pushing for the state to implement an immigration policy
similar to Prince William's, which requires police officers to check the
immigration status of all people arrested on suspicion of violating state or
federal laws. Stewart has been touting the policy in recent weeks, latching on
to a recent University of Virginia study that showed the policy had some impact
on the immigration population in the county.

Gray said his Web site will detail why communities would not want to implement a
similar policy. It will not advocate for the rescission of the 287 (g) program
in the county.

"What it will present is both the relative neutrality of the results of the 287
program and, most importantly, the collateral damage experienced by Prince
William County from the misimplementation of the program by individuals using it
for personal political gain," he said.

Gray announced his plan to run as an independent against Stewart in June, citing
his frustration with Stewart using Prince William as a "stepping stone" to reach
his political aspirations. Stewart is looking to run for U.S. Senate in 2012.

Stewart "has the right and prerogative to propose whatever he wants and to run
for whatever office he wants to run for in his capacity as a private citizen,"
Gray said. "He doesn't have the right, nor is it the proper use of his office as
chairman . . . to use that podium to advance his personal political agenda."

Gray, 59, ran for a seat on the board in 2007 but was defeated by Occoquan
Superviso               r Michael C. May. Gray, Stewart and Gainesville resident
Gary C. Friedman will vie for board chairman next year.

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Customs pushed envelope to hit goal

BYLINE: Andrew Becker by Andrew Becker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1569 words


For much of this year, the Obama administration touted its tougher-than-ever
approach to immigration enforcement, culminating in a record number of
deportations.

But in reaching 392,862 deportations, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
included more than 19,000 immigrants who had exited the previous fiscal year,
according to agency statistics. ICE also ran a Mexican repatriation program five
weeks longer than ever before, allowing the agency to count at least 6,500 exits
that, without the program, would normally have been tallied by the U.S. Border
Patrol.

When ICE officials realized in the final weeks of the fiscal year, which ended
Sept. 30, that the agency still was in jeopardy of falling short of last year's
mark, it scrambled to reach the goal. Officials quietly directed immigration
officers to bypass backlogged immigration courts and time-consuming deportation
hearings whenever possible, internal e-mails and interviews show.

Instead, officials told immigration officers to encourage eligible foreign
nationals to accept a quick pass to their countries without a negative mark on
their immigration record, ICE employees said.

The option, known as voluntary return, may have allowed hundreds of immigrants -
who typically would have gone before an immigration judge to contest deportation
for offenses such as drunken driving, domestic violence and misdemeanor assault
- to leave the country. A voluntary return doesn't bar a foreigner from applying
for legal residence or traveling to the United States in the future.

Once the agency closed the books for fiscal 2010 and the record was broken,
agents say they were told to stop widely offering the voluntary return option
and revert to business as usual.

Without these efforts and the more than 25,000 deportations that came with them,
the agency would not have topped last year's record level of 389,834, current
and former ICE employees and officials said.

The Obama administration was intent on doing so even as it came under attack by
some Republicans for not being tough enough on immigration enforcement and by
some Democrats for failing to deliver on promises of comprehensive immigration
reform.

"It's not unusual for any administration to get the numbers they need by
reaching into their bag of tricks to boost figures," said Neil Clark, who
retired as the Seattle field office director in late June, adding that in the 12
years he spent in management he saw the Bush and Clinton administrations do
similar things.

But at a news conference Oct. 6, ICE Director John T. Morton said that no
unusual practices were used to break the previous year's mark.

"When the secretary tells you that the numbers are at an all-time high, that's
straight, on the merits, no cooking of the books," Morton said, referring to his
boss, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. "It's what
happened."

ICE declined to make any officials available for interviews. In selected
responses to e-mailed questions, spokesman Brian P. Hale wrote that the agency
did nothing different from previous years but did not deny that ICE had focused
on voluntary returns when it faced a shortfall weeks before the fiscal year
ended. Rather, field offices were reminded of the voluntary return option, he
said.

"ICE offered eligible aliens . . . the opportunity to accept voluntary return,"
Hale said. "The decision to accept VR [voluntary return] was the aliens'."

Those efforts did not appear to result in a spike in voluntary returns.
Statistics provided by ICE show that voluntary returns peaked at 8,960 in June,
before dipping and then leveling off in the last two months of the fiscal year.
A total of 64,876 immigrants were voluntarily returned to their home countries
in 2010.

Chris Crane, president of the American Federation of Government Employees
National Council 118, the union that represents ICE immigration agents and
officers, said offering voluntary return was not common practice for the agency.
The union has been at odds with Morton over what it calls lax enforcement and
gave him a no-confidence vote in June.

"It's breaking the rules to break the record," Crane said. "You don't change the
way you do business to meet some quota. Morton said we don't do quotas. But
that's what this is."

On Oct. 1 - the start of fiscal 2011 - Robin F. Baker, an acting ICE assistant
director, cheered field directors on to the finish line in an e-mail obtained by
the Center for Investigative Reporting.

"We are just 1061 shy of 390,000. However, we still get to count closed cases
through Monday, October 4th so . . . keep having your folks concentrate on
closing those cases," Baker wrote.

Starting in 2009, ICE began to shut its books for the fiscal year ending Sept.
30 in the first few days of October. Any deportations that take place in one
fiscal year but are confirmed after Oct. 5 are added to the next fiscal year's
statistics.

Based on the new accounting approach, the agency counted 19,422 removals from
2009 in the 2010 statistics. In 2010 itself, 373,440 other people were deported.

Current and former ICE employees also point to an expanded U.S.-Mexico
partnership as another way the agency increased overall deportation numbers.

Known as the Mexican Interior Repatriation Program, the bilateral effort between
the U.S. and Mexican governments focuses on reducing the deaths of migrants
attempting to cross the border during the scorching Arizona summer. Mexicans
caught by Border Patrol agents in the Sonoran Desert region and southern Arizona
are turned over to ICE agents, who carry out the removals to Mexico.

In a February memo, James M. Chaparro, ICE's head of enforcement and removal
operations, called on field directors to "maximize" participation in the
program, which he outlined as one of the ways to increase removals and "move us
into position to meet or exceed the fiscal year goals."

Since its launch in 2004, the program had never started earlier than July 7.
This year, the first flight full of Mexicans departed June 1. By starting in
June, ICE tallied 6,527 returns that in the past would have been handled - and
counted - by the U.S. Border Patrol. Overall, a record 23,384 Mexicans between
June and September accepted flights back to Mexico City, and then a bus ticket
to their home town, at a cost of almost $15 million.

ICE spokesman Hale said the agency started the program early because of
available funds and a timely agreement between the United States and Mexico. He
acknowledged that some of the immigrants removed through the program were caught
or detained hundreds of miles from Arizona.

"Select individuals from west Texas were offered an opportunity to volunteer for
safe return to their place of origin in the interior of Mexico," Hale said.

He also confirmed that Mexican nationals detained near Seattle - possibly as
many as 500 immigrants, according to one local officer - were also included on
the flights.

The surge to break the deportation record in the final weeks of the fiscal year
consumed the agency, said a high-ranking immigration official, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the person wasn't authorized to discuss the
matter publicly.

"They had everyone burning the candle at both ends to reach 390,000," the
official said. "They were basically saying anything you can do to increase the
overall removal number, that's what you should do - over everything else."

lIn the Seattle area, immigration officers were instructed to give the voluntary
return option to immigrants who did not face mandatory detention and didn't have
attorneys.

lIn the Atlanta area, ICE officers were told to persuade immigrants who had
already asked to see an immigration judge to instead voluntarily leave the
country.

lIn Chicago, officers were told to stop releasing eligible immigrants and
monitoring them with electronic ankle bracelets, which might spur more to accept
voluntary removals, according to a Sept. 22 e-mail.

"Due to our increase in funding for detention for the remainder of the fiscal
year, do not release anyone on an order of recognizance at this time," James
McPeek, an assistant field office director in Chicago, wrote in the e-mail to
employees. "Another option is to offer a VR [voluntary return] and keep in
custody - this will increase our removal numbers for the fiscal year."

An ICE employee in Louisiana, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear
of reprisal, estimated that over a two-week period at least 100 to 150 Mexican
nationals, some of whom had multiple drunken driving convictions, had their
court cases reassigned as voluntary return, which was not common practice. ICE
agents elsewhere reported similar numbers.

Several ICE employees said, however, that once the fiscal year ended, their
offices reverted to infrequently offering the return option. In the Pacific
Northwest, some employees received an e-mail stating just that.

"Effective immediately: do not offer V/Rs [voluntary returns] to aliens who have
been convicted of or are pending DUI," ICE supervisor Elizabeth Godfrey wrote
Oct. 4.

ICE's goal for 2011 is to remove 404,000 immigrants.

Andrew Becker is a reporter for the Center for Investigative Reporting. He can
be reached at abecker@cironline.org CIR is a nonprofit news organ-ization based
in Berkeley, Calif., dedicated to producing investigative journalism. Its
stories have appeared frequently in The Washington Post and other newspapers.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 8, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration court

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 391 words


THE SUPREME COURT case U.S. Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting elucidates two
important principles: First, that states will take matters into their own hands
when the federal government fails to act in the face of legitimate concerns; and
second, that when states and the feds butt heads, the courts will almost
invariably be asked to settle the dispute, stripping both sides of control over
the outcome.

The case, which is scheduled to be heard on Wednesday and involves a challenge
to an Arizona immigration law, should serve as a wake-up call for Capitol Hill
and the White House and spur action on much-needed comprehensive immigration
reform. The law allows Arizona to revoke the state licenses of employers who
hire illegal immigrants. It also requires Arizona employers to use the federal
E-Verify system to ensure that all employees are eligible to work in this
country. Arizona says that this type of licensing power has long been the
province of the states. It points to a Supreme Court ruling from 1976 that
concluded that states had the right to impose sanctions against employers who
hired illegal workers.

But that high court ruling came some 10 years before Congress amended the
immigration laws to claim for itself almost exclusive power to regulate
immigration, including employer sanctions. Although these revisions carved out a
licensing exception for the states, the Chamber and its allies make a compelling
case that the exceptions were meant only for provisions that covered employers
who relied on seasonal agricultural workers. Arizona's law is not limited to
this area, and it is less of a licensing scheme - meant to ensure basic
qualifications or requirements - than it is an exercise of traditional law
enforcement power. The Arizona law's insistence that employers use the E-Verify
system also clashes with the federal government's determination that
participation be voluntary.

The Constitution makes clear that federal law is "the supreme law of the land"
and that it trumps competing state mandates. The federal government, reflecting
the views of the executive and Congress, has argued fiercely for exclusive
authority over immigration, in part because it has implications for  foreign and
domestic affairs. If its view prevails - as it deserves to - it should put this
power to good use by enacting immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Disparities in deportation program raise questions

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1193 words


Despite vows by the Obama administration to focus its immigration enforcement
efforts on criminals, a quarter of those who have been deported through a
program called Secure Communities had not been convicted of committing any
crime, government statistics show. And that percentage was vastly higher in some
jurisdictions, including Prince George's County, where two-thirds of the 86
undocumented immigrants were not criminals.

The Prince George's rate of noncriminal deportation was the second-highest in
the country among counties or cities with at least 50 removals, according to
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement figures through the end of July, the
latest numbers made available.

By comparison, 15 percent of the 105 immigrants removed from Prince William
County, which has taken a much tougher stance toward illegal immigrants than
Prince George's, were not criminals. Even Maricopa County in Arizona - home to
Joe Arpaio, the self-proclaimed "toughest sheriff in America" - deported
noncriminals at a rate of less than half that of Prince George's.

The disparities have left local authorities puzzled and immigrant rights
activists outraged.

Immigration officials declined to explain the disparities but defended Secure
Communities, which is becoming the nation's central immigration enforcement
mechanism.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano recently credited the program with
helping to produce a more than 70 percent increase in deportations of criminals,
including gang members, murderers and drug traffickers.

"Secure Communities has resulted in the arrest of more than 59,000 convicted
criminal aliens, including more than 21,000 convicted of major violent offenses
like murder, rape, and the sexual abuse of children," Napolitano said.

Immigration rights groups say the program has led to the removal of tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants who have committed far less serious crimes or
none at all.

"The numbers out of Prince George's are absurd," said Gustavo Andrade,
organizing director of CASA of Maryland, an immigrant rights group that is
active in the county. "Even one family destroyed because of this kind of program
makes it unacceptable."

John Erzen, a spokesman for the Prince George's Department of Corrections, and
Maj. Andrew Ellis, a county police spokesman, said they were not aware of any
police or jail practices that could explain the numbers. They said that federal
authorities decide whom to detain and deport through Secure Communities, which
will soon be operating across the country.

The program uses fingerprints collected by local authorities when people are
charged with anything from a traffic violation to murder. After the prints are
run through a federal database, anyone found to be in the United States
illegally can be ordered detained while federal authorities initiate deportation
proceedings.

Launched by the George W. Bush administration and expanded dramatically by the
Obama administration, Secure Communities is primarily designed to target and
deport violent criminals. But it also identifies visa violators, fugitives and
those who have crossed the border illegally before.

Beth Gibson, assistant deputy director of ICE, said that some of those listed as
noncriminals may have been removed before legal proceedings were completed
against them. A person charged with assault and fingerprinted by police, for
example, may have been released on bail on the criminal charge and then detained
by ICE and deported on immigration charges before the criminal charge was fully
prosecuted, she said.

(Although being in the country without papers can sometimes be a crime -
especially when the person is a repeat offender - undocumented immigration is
usually an administrative violation.)

Brian Hale, an ICE spokesman, said that some of the people listed as
noncriminals may have previously entered the country illegally, which is a
federal felony if charges are successfully pressed, or may have been fugitives.
As an example, he cited the jurisdiction with the country's highest rate of
noncriminal deportation: Jefferson Parish in Louisiana.

Fifty-three of the 146 noncriminal immigrants removed from the parish "were
illegal reentrants or fugitives," Hale said in an e-mail. "Other aliens, even if
not illegal reentrants or fugitives, may have a lengthy immigration history or
have been encountered multiple times at the border."

Gibson and Hale said that the agency has a mandate to remove people who are in
the country illegally, regardless of whether they have been found guilty of a
crime.

"Our prioritization of criminals and fugitives does not amount to a de facto
amnesty for people who are not criminals and fugitives," Gibson said.

The Obama administration has sought to demonstrate that it is serious about
enforcement even as it has pushed for an overhaul of U.S. immigration laws. But
reform has stalled despite a record number of deportations over the past two
years.

On Saturday, a measure that would have created a path to citizenship for
hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United
States as children died in the Senate, with opponents calling it backdoor
amnesty for lawbreakers.

Deporting nearly 800,000 undocumented immigrants has failed to satisfy Obama's
critics, who say they don't think he has been tough enough in going after the
country's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. At the same time, the
stepped-up enforcement has alienated some Latino voters and their advocates.

A senior White House official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to talk
candidly said that Secure Communities has removed a large number of illegal
immigrants who were not violent threats to public safety. The official also said
that the program's priorities are in the right place and that the percentage of
violent and dangerous criminals being removed would continue to climb.

Until a few months ago, the government was reporting an even higher number of
noncriminal deportations through Secure Communities than current figures.

Statistics through the end of April show that 45 percent of the undocumented
immigrants deported via the program had not been convicted of any crime.

After the deportations had been completed, a manual audit of the cases found
that many people listed as noncriminals had criminal histories, Hale said.

As a result, the number of noncriminal deportations through July 31 dropped
across the country. In Maricopa County, the deportation rate for noncriminals
fell from 54 percent through April to 32 percent through July. In San Diego, the
numbers fell from 63 to 21 percent.

The number of noncriminals removed from Prince George's was initially listed as
74 percent but dropped to 67 percent.

"Do we trust the July numbers, the April numbers or neither?" asked Bridget
Kessler, a clinical teaching fellow at the Cardozo Law School Immigration
Justice Clinic in New York, which is suing ICE for information about the Secure
Communities program on behalf of an immigrant rights group known as the National
Day Laborer Organizing Network. "The program isn't doing what ICE had said it
was meant to do."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

A lost decade for immigration reform

BYLINE: Roberto Suro

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1479 words


Ten years ago, George W. Bush came to Washington as the first new president in a
generation or more who had deep personal convictions about immigration policy
and some plans for where he wanted to go with it. He wasn't alone. Lots of
people in lots of places were ready to work on the issue: Republicans,
Democrats, Hispanic advocates, business leaders, even the Mexican government.

Like so much else about the past decade, things didn't go well. Immigration
policy got kicked around a fair bit, but next to nothing got accomplished. Old
laws and bureaucracies became increasingly dysfunctional. The public grew
anxious. The debates turned repetitive, divisive and sterile.

The last gasp of the lost decade came this month when the lame-duck Congress -
which struck compromises on taxes, gays in the military and arms control -
deadlocked on the Dream Act.

The debate was pure political theater. The legislation was first introduced in
2001 to legalize the most virtuous sliver of the undocumented population - young
adults who were brought here as children by their parents and who were now in
college or the military. It was originally designed to be the first in a
sequence of measures to resolve the status of the nation's illegal immigrants,
and for most of the past decade, it was often paired with a bill for
agricultural workers. The logic was to start with the most worthy and
economically necessary. But with the bill put forward this month as a
last-minute, stand-alone measure with little chance of passage, all the debate
accomplished was to give both sides a chance to excite their followers. In the
age of stalemate, immigration may have a special place in the firmament.

The United States is in the midst of a wave of immigration as substantial as any
ever experienced. Millions of people from abroad have settled here peacefully
and prosperously, a boon to the nation. Nonetheless, frustration with policy
sours the mood. More than a quarter of the foreign-born are here without
authorization. Meanwhile, getting here legally can be a long, costly wrangle.
And communities feel that they have little say over sudden changes in their
populations. People know that their world is being transformed, yet Washington
has not enacted a major overhaul of immigration law since 1965. To move forward,
we need at least three fundamental changes in the way the issue is handled.

Being honest about our circumstances is always a good place to start. There
might once have been a time to ponder the ideal immigration system for the early
21st century, but surely that time has passed. The immediate task is to clean up
the mess caused by inaction, and that is going to require compromises on all
sides. Next, we should reexamine the scope of policy proposals.  After a decade
of sweeping plans that went nowhere, working piecemeal is worth a try at this
point. Finally, the politics have to change. With both Republicans and Democrats
using immigration as a wedge issue, the chances are that innocent bystanders
will get hurt - soon.

The most intractable problem by far involves the 11 million or so undocumented
immigrants currently living in the United States. They are the human legacy of
unintended consequences and the failure to act.

Advocates on one side, mostly Republicans, would like to see enforcement
policies tough enough to induce an exodus. But that does not seem achievable
anytime soon, because unauthorized immigrants have proved to be a very durable
and resilient population. The number of illegal arrivals dropped sharply during
the recession, but the people already here did not leave, though they faced
massive unemployment and ramped-up deportations. If they could ride out those
twin storms, how much enforcement over how many years would it take to seriously
reduce their numbers? Probably too much and too many to be feasible. Besides,
even if Democrats suffer another electoral disaster or two, they are likely
still to have enough votes in the Senate to block an Arizona-style law that
would make every cop an alien-hunter.

Advocates on the other side, mostly Democrats, would like to give a path to
citizenship to as many of the undocumented as possible. That also seems
unlikely; Republicans have blocked every effort at legalization. Beyond all the
principled arguments, the Republicans would have to be politically suicidal to
offer citizenship, and therefore voting rights, to 11 million people who would
be likely to vote against them en masse.

So what happens to these folks? As a starting point, someone could ask them what
they want. The answer is likely to be fairly limited: the chance to live and
work in peace, the ability to visit their countries of origin without having to
sneak back across the border and not much more.

Would they settle for a legal life here without citizenship? Well, it would be a
huge improvement over being here illegally. Aside from peace of mind, an
incalculable benefit, it would offer the near-certainty of better jobs. That is
a privilege people will pay for, and they could be asked to keep paying for it
every year they worked. If they coughed up one, two, three thousand dollars
annually on top of all other taxes, would that be enough to dent the argument
that undocumented residents drain public treasuries?

There would be a larger cost, however, if legalization came without citizenship:
the cost to the nation's political soul of having a population deliberately
excluded from the democratic process. No one would set out to create such a
population. But policy failures have created something worse. We have 11 million
people living among us who not only can't vote but also increasingly are afraid
to report a crime or to get vaccinations for a child or to look their landlord
in the eye.

Much of the debate over the past decade has been about whether legalization
would be an unjust reward for "lawbreakers." The status quo, however, rewards
everyone who has ever benefited from the cheap, disposable labor provided by
illegal workers. To start to fix the situation, everyone - undocumented workers,
employers, consumers, lawmakers - has to admit their errors and make amends.

The lost decade produced big, bold plans for social engineering. It was a
10-year quest for a grand bargain that would repair the entire system at once,
through enforcement, ID cards, legalization, a temporary worker program and
more. Fierce cloakroom battles were also fought over the shape and size of legal
immigration. Visa categories became a venue for ideological competition between
business, led by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and elements of labor, led by the
AFL-CIO, over regulation of the labor market: whether to keep it tight to boost
wages or keep it loose to boost growth.

But every attempt to fix everything at once produced a political parabola
effect. As legislation reached higher, its base of support narrowed. The last
effort, and the biggest of them all, collapsed on the Senate floor in July 2007.
Still, the idea of a grand bargain has been kept on life support by advocates of
generous policies. Just last week, President Obama and Hispanic lawmakers
renewed their vows to seek comprehensive immigration reform, even as the
prospects grow bleaker. Meanwhile, the other side has its own designs, demanding
total control over the border and an enforcement system with no leaks before
anything else can happen.

Perhaps 10 years ago, someone like George W. Bush might reasonably have imagined
that immigration policy was a good place to resolve some very basic social and
economic issues. Since then, however, the rhetoric around the issue has become
so swollen and angry that it inflames everything it touches. Keeping the battles
small might increase the chance that each side will win some. But, as we learned
with the Dream Act, even taking small steps at this point will require rebooting
the discourse.

Not long ago, certainly a decade ago, immigration was often described as an
issue of strange bedfellows because it did not divide people neatly along
partisan or ideological lines.   That world is gone now. Instead, elements of
both parties are using immigration as a wedge issue. The intended result is
cleaving, not consensus. This year, many Republicans campaigned on vows,
sometimes harshly stated, to crack down on illegal immigration. Meanwhile, many
Democrats tried to rally Hispanic voters by demonizing restrictionists on the
other side.

Immigration politics could thus become a way for both sides to feed
polarization. In the short term, they can achieve their political objectives by
stoking voters' anxiety with the scariest hobgoblins: illegal immigrants vs. the
racists who would lock them up. Stumbling down this road would produce a decade
more lost than the last.

surorob@gmail.com

Roberto Suro is a professor of journalism and public policy at the University of
Southern California.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 28, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Verifying workers' immigration status

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 194 words


Contrary to what was stated in the Jan. 22 editorial "The limits of immigration
enforcement," the federal E-Verify program is not used on potential hires. It
can be used only for newly hired employees. To prevent discrimination, the
Web-based E-Verify program, administered by the Department of Homeland Security,
prohibits employers from using E-Verify to screen potential hires. Rather,
E-Verify is a tool to confirm that the information given on an I-9 form, which
is required for every new employee, is correct.

As a former small-business owner in the restaurant industry, I found it
frustrating that employers were expected to hire legal workers but were given no
tools to do so. Since employers cannot be expected to be document experts, when
I became a member of Congress I created E-Verify as a way to provide employers a
simple, free and easy way to check the information provided on the I-9. Fifteen
years later, E-Verify has exceeded expectations through the use of biometric
data for non-citizens, is 99.6 percent accurate and continues to improve, expand
and evolve.

The writer, a California Republican, is a member of the U.S. House of
Representatives.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Businesses dread an expansion of E-Verify

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 842 words


In an early indicator of how congressional Republicans will legislate on
immigration, House GOP leaders are expanding an inquiry into an enforcement
program that allows employers to check the immigration status of employees.

The E-Verify program has long been championed by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.),
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's immigration panel, which will hold a
hearing on it Thursday.

Many business owners believe that Gallegly and other House Republicans want to
make E-Verify, currently a voluntary program for companies, mandatory. Critics
of such a move, many of them farmers, warn that it could destabilize the
agricultural economy, which is heavily dependent on undocumented immigrants, and
jeopardize millions of jobs held by American citizens that are upstream and
downstream of farm labor.

Supporters of E-Verify say that, with minimal effort, the program ensures that
jobs are filled only by U.S. citizens and those foreigners who are legally
authorized to work.

After he was named chairman of the immigration subcommittee, Gallegly noted that
"making [E-Verify] universally mandatory would ease the cumbersome and easily
manipulated I-9 process employers now use to screen employees. It would also
greatly reduce the number of illegal immigrants in the American workforce."

Gallegly was referring to the I-9 form, which employers must have job-seekers
fill out. It requires documentation, such as a Social Security number, that the
applicants are eligible to work in this country. With E-Verify, employers can
run the information through federal databases to confirm it or identify people
who are not legally authorized to work.

"I have a real mixed reaction from my members," said Randel Johnson, senior vice
president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "Some find it workable, and others do
not."

"With some companies, it is the logistical problem of having a computer on your
construction site" to run the online queries, Johnson added. "If you are running
a small business, there is aversion to a new system that will make things more
complicated."

The fast food company Chipotle Mexican Grill was recently asked to turn over I-9
information about employees at 60 Washington and Virginia restaurantsto the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. The chain was forced to fire
suspected illegal workers at its Minnesota restaurants after a similar probe.
Chipotle spokesman Chris Arnold said that restaurants in Arizona and the
Carolinas currently use the E-Verify system and that the company is weighing
whether to expand its participation in the program nationwide.

Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said
illegal workers are taking jobs that could help reduce unemployment among legal
residents.

"With unemployment at 9 percent for 21 months, jobs are scarce and families are
worried," Smith said. "According to the Pew Hispanic Center, 7 million people
are working in the U.S. illegally. These jobs should go to legal workers."

Independent analyses of the E-Verify program by the Government Accountability
Office and a Maryland research group known as Westat show that the overwhelming
majority of those legally allowed to work in the country are quickly approved. A
thriving market in fake Social Security numbers, however, means that the program
fails to spot many undocumented immigrants.

To deter fraud, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency, which runs
E-Verify, is increasingly using passports and employment-authorization documents
that contain photo identification, said spokesman Chris Bentley. New efforts are
underway, he added, to spot applicants who proffer fake driver's licenses.

But the elephant in the room is that significant portions of the U.S. economy
depend on undocumented immigrants for labor, said Craig J. Regelbrugge, vice
president of the American Nursery & Landscape Association.

"Simply put, any E-Verify expansion that comes without meaningful immigration
reform would be disastrous for the American agricultural economy," he said. "It
will leave the United States importing food and exporting jobs."

Smith disagreed. "Critics of E-Verify claim illegal immigrants hold jobs that
Americans won't do. But even in the agriculture industry, where amnesty
supporters insist we need illegal workers, 50 percent of the agriculture jobs
are held by U.S. citizens and legal immigrants," Smith said. "And if farmers
really need foreign labor, they can get it legally - we have a guest worker
program for agricultural workers that has no numerical limit."

But at a telephone briefing organized by the pro-immigration National
Immigration Forum, Regelbrugge said three in four farm jobs are filled by
undocumented immigrants.

"Every lowly, backbreaking farm-working job sustains three jobs in the non-farm
economy," he said. "What Congress needs to know is we have 1.6 million dedicated
farmworkers, and if they go away, we will lose several million American jobs
upstream and downstream. We happen to think that is too high a price."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Prince William news in briefPrince William news in brief

BYLINE: - Compiled by Jennifer Buske

SECTION: Pg. T02

LENGTH: 668 words

Pr. William officials seek congressional subpoena

Prince William County supervisors are requesting that Congress subpoena
information from the Department of Homeland Security on the whereabouts of the
criminal illegal immigrants the county has turned over to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

County officials filed a Freedom of Information Act request with federal
officials for the information in November but never got a response. It is time,
County Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said, to take it to the next
level and get answers.

The request for information was prompted by an August car accident in which
Carlos Martinelly-Montano, 23, was allegedly driving drunk when he crashed into
a car carrying three nuns, killing one.

Martinelly-Montano entered the country from Bolivia when he was 8. He had been
released by immigration authorities after two previous drunken-driving
convictions and had been awaiting a deportation hearing.

County officials had also asked for an investigation into why Martinelly-Montano
was released.

Stewart said that report is scheduled for release Monday.

The data county officials want would span from the time the county adopted its
immigration policy in 2007 to the present. The policy, which was modified in
2008, requires Prince William police officers to check the immigration status of
anyone arrested on suspicion of violating a state or local law.

County officials said about 3,200 people were released to ICE between July 2007
and December last year.

Activist plans to run for Gainesville board seat

Air Force veteran and community activist Carl Genthner plans to vie for a seat
on the Prince William Board of County Supervisors in November.

The 61-year-old Democrat will run for the Gainesville district seat, which has
been held by John T. Stirrup (R) since 2003. Stirrup has not yet announced
whether he will seek reelection.

A New York native, Genthner spent 20 years with the Air Force before spending
another 20-plus years as a contractor for the Navy.

Genthner founded the Gainesville Group in 2008 as a way to explore issues that
impact the Gainesville community, the county and the state, according to the
group's Web site. The Democratic members are dedicated to improving Prince
William, specifically in the western end, he said. The group has done the
adopt-a-highway program and also collected 3,200 pounds of food for a local food
bank.

Genthner is also a Rotarian, a member of the Kiwanis club and on the board of
the Blue Ridge Assistance Dogs.

His motivation to serve the community - his father.

"My dad was part of my inspiration," he said in his biography. "Whether it was
coaching my brother's paralympics team or serving as a lay preacher in the
church, he showed me time and time again how one person can make a real
difference in the lives of others."

Genthner resides with his wife, June, in Gainesville. The couple have been
married seven years and between their blended families have seven children, 10
grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.

Army officials release commemorative coins

The Army Historical Foundation, along with U.S. Mint officials, is producing
three 2011 Army commemorative coins for the public to purchase.

The Army $5 gold coin, silver dollar and clad half-dollar were authorized by
Congress in 2008, officials with the project said.

People can order the coins at www.usmint.gov/catalog or by calling
1-800-USA-MINT. There is a surcharge of $35 for the gold coin, $10 for the
silver coin and $5 for the clad coin to the Army Historical Foundation.
Officials with the project said the money will help finance the National Museum
of the United States Army set to open in 2015 at Fort Belvoir.

The $5 coin shows five soldiers who symbolize the Army's strength and readiness.
The silver dollar depicts the busts of a male and female soldier representing
deployment in the 21st century, and the last coin personifies the active Army,
Army National Guard and Army Reserves, officials said.

- Compiled by Jennifer Buske

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Agency conflictedon immigrationenforcement plan

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 934 words


Even as federal immigration officials were telling Arlington County, San
Francisco and other jurisdictions that they could not opt out of a controversial
immigration enforcement program, they were telling other municipalities that
they could, according to internal Department of Homeland Security documents.

The documents, released as a result of a lawsuit against DHS by opponents of the
program, reveal an agency at odds over how to handle criticism of Secure
Communities, the Obama administration's signature immigration enforcement
program, without running afoul of constitutional limits on what the federal
government can demand of local jurisdictions.

The program sends fingerprints gathered by local law enforcement agencies to the
FBI and then through a federal immigration database to identify undocumented
immigrants. About 1,049 jurisdictions in 39 statesparticipate, including many in
Maryland and Virginia.

About 59,000 undocumented immigrants have been deported via Secure Communities,
including 21,000 convicted of murder, rape and other violent crimes, according
to Immigration and Customs Enforcement. It has been praised by officials in the
vast majority of communities where it is being used.

But the program has come under fire from some officials in Arlington County, the
District and other municipalities because of worries that Secure Communities
could discourage immigrants from reporting crimes.

When Arlington and Santa Clara, Calif., sought to opt out of the programlast
year, ICE officials said it was not possible for local jurisdictions to refuse
to participate.

In October, DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano declared that Secure Communities was
not "an opt-in, opt-out program." But even after her statement, ICE officials
did not back away from earlier assurances to New York officials that local
communities there would have the last word on whether to join the program.
Internal documents show they also created an exception for Chicago.

"No jurisdiction will be activated if they oppose it," read an e-mail to New
York officials from Dan Cadman, a Secure Communities regional coordinator.
"There is no ambiguity on that point. We get it."

John Caher, a spokesman for the New York State Division of Criminal Justice
Services, said federal authorities have continued to allow local jurisdictions
in New York to opt in or out.

"In our view, it's a local decision," said Caher, who noted that only 10 of New
York's 62 counties had chosen to participate.

The contradictory messages were evident within the federal agency. Five days
after Napolitano declared that the program was effectively mandatory, a Secure
Communities regional coordinator, whose name was blacked out in one of the
internal documents that was made public, sent an e-mail to colleagues disputing
Napolitano's claim.

"Witness the fact that Chicago and Cook County IL have in fact opted out; and
the fact that in New York State, we are required to ask each and every law
enforcement organization in the state whether or not they wish to participate
before we will be permitted to activate them," the e-mail stated. "How does any
of that square with the 'no opt-out for locals?' Doesn't."

The District has not agreed to be part of Secure Communities, and last year all
13 members of the D.C. Council expressed strong oppositionto being part of the
program.

In Arlington, county officials concluded in November that  they had no choice
but to participate. The Arlington County Board had voted unanimously to opt out
of the program - an initiative led by board member J. Walter Tejada (D), who
moved from El Salvador to the United States 30 years ago.

Tejada said Wednesday that he was puzzled by the flexibility that ICE has
granted to some jurisdictions but not others.

In trying to explain why Arlington and other jurisdictions couldn't opt out of
the program, immigration officials described Secure Communities as an
information-sharing program between the FBI and ICE. The agency said in a
statement released Wednesday that it expected every jurisdiction in the country
to be part of the program by 2013.

In their internal discussions, however, agency officials worried that allowing
voluntary participation would slow the program's expansion "to a crawl."

At the same time, officials worried that making the program mandatory might run
afoul of the 10th Amendment, which prohibits the federal government from using
states to enforce national laws.

"ICE has put so much attention to wordsmithing and crafting this language,
perhaps to tiptoe around the fact they do not have the legal authority," said
Sarahi Uribe at the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, one of three
immigrant-advocacy groups that obtained the documents from ICE after a court
battle.

The agency wound up sending mixed signals to the House Judiciary Committee,
which was then controlled by Democrats. A letter sent to Rep. Zoe Lofgren
(D-Calif.), the chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, suggested that
local communities that did not want to participate in Secure Communities could
get in touch with ICE.

Immigration officials later backpedaled, saying that fingerprints would be run
through the ICE database whether local officials wanted to participate in the
program or not. Local authorities could choose only not to receive information
about potential immigration violations or why ICE had ordered individuals to be
detained.

The internal documents chronicle a conversation between ICE officials and three
irate immigration subpanel staffers, who told immigration officials that they
thought they had been misled.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Federal immigration programgives some jurisdictions leeway

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1036 words


When D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier heard about a new federal immigration
enforcement program last year, she said it could have prevented eight killings
in the city in the previous two years.

But her enthusiasm was tempered by a concern that the program, designed to
detect suspects in police custody who are undocumented immigrants, would also
ensnare people who had committed minor offenses, prompting immigrants not to
report crimes and domestic abuse to police.

Lanier worked behind the scenes last year with federal officials to redesign the
program in potentially far-reaching ways, according to recently released
internal documents by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

But Lanier's attempt to get the program to focus on serious offenses was stymied
when the D.C. Council and community groups expressed reservations about
participating in any fashion. Eventually, the city withdrew from the program.

Lanier's efforts offer a glimpse into the myriad ways in which communities in
the Washington region and across the nation have grappled with the controversial
immigration enforcement program known as Secure Communities. The District's
experience also reveals how inconsistent federal guidelines have created
widespread confusion. Arlington County, for example, was forced to participate
in the program against its will. Other jurisdictions, such as the District and
Montgomery County, have been given significantly more latitude.

The Secure Communities program grew out of recommendations by the 9/11
Commission and has become a centerpiece of the Obama administration's effort to
focus immigration enforcement on criminals.

Under the program, fingerprints routinely collected by local authorities are
forwarded to Immigration and Customs Enforcement for a status check. If a
fingerprint is matched with someone known to be in the country illegally, ICE
can order the immigrant's detention as a first step toward deportation.

Initially, federal immigration officials promised many local governments that
their participation would be voluntary. But in late 2009 and 2010, the officials
modified their assurances. They began telling communities that the only
voluntary part of the program was that a jurisdiction could choose not to
receive information about why ICE wanted police to detain someone - a relatively
minor aspect of the program.

"Because Secure Communities is fundamentally an information-sharing partnership
between federal agencies, state and local jurisdictions cannot opt out from the
program, though state and local jurisdictions can opt not to receive the results
of immigration queries," ICE spokesman Brian Hale said.

Hale said he expected that every jurisdiction in the country would be actively
participating in the program by 2013. He credited the program with apprehending
more than 59,000 undocumented immigrants who committed crimes, including about
21,000 who had committed serious offenses such as murder, rape and child sexual
abuse.

Last fall, the Arlington County Board cited the risk the program posed to
community policing efforts and voted not to participate. But federal officials
told the county that local jurisdictions cannot decide to opt out.

In Maryland, the situation is more mixed than it is in Virginia, where every
jurisdiction in the state is participating in Secure Communities. The program
has been activated in more than half of Maryland's 24 jurisdictions, including
Prince George's, Baltimore and Anne Arundel counties, according to ICE. The city
of Baltimore is not yet participating in the program.

Although it is not clear why, Montgomery County appears to have been given
leeway in joining the program, according to internal documents from ICE obtained
under a Freedom of Information Act request by various immigration and legal
advocacy groups.

"Montgomery County is neither opting-in nor opting-out of the program,"
Montgomery County Police Chief J. Thomas Manger said in a statement. "When
[Secure Communities] comes to the entire state of Maryland, we will
participate."

Manger also said the county routinely shares with ICE the names of all suspects
who have been arrested in violent or dangerous crimes, along with any available
information about their nationalities.

In an interview, Lanier said that she had hoped to find a middle ground that
targeted violent and dangerous offenders for immigration checks while
withholding the fingerprints of suspects whom police picked up for minor
offenses.

"In the case of domestic violence, or if it is a minor misdemeanor case, there
is a concern people will not come forward and report it," she said, explaining
why she thought suspects picked up in minor crimes should not be referred for an
immigration status check.

She also said she was concerned that domestic abuse wouldn't be reported because
the victims would fear the deportation of family members. "If they don't report
it before it escalates, we don't have a chance to stop it before it escalates."

Lanier said she had conversations on modifying the program with members of
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano's office. She characterized federal
officials as cooperative and said she had hoped that a modified program could
create a new model for the nation. The District, she added, does not run
suspects' names through any immigration databases.

After the D.C. Council expressed opposition to joining the program - and
immigration advocacy groups voiced strong opposition to the program in any form
- Lanier said she broke off the discussion with federal officials and pulled out
of the program.

Federal immigration authorities "permitted the District not to participate until
2013," Lanier said. "I was trying to negotiate some kind of agreement before it
became mandatory in 2013. It's a different ballgame now."

Advocates for immigrants remain worried that the program is an overly broad
dragnet.

"The program's mandate is to target serious criminals that pose a threat to
public safety," said Sarahi Uribe of the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network, which obtained the internal documents through the FOIA request.

"We've seen a majority of those identified and deported pose no threat to public
safety."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

130 immigrants arrested during sweep

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 756 words


In the many years before technology enabled virtually instant checks of a
person's immigration status, untold numbers of immigrants - legal and illegal -
committed crimes, did their time and were released.

But federal immigration officials are now targeting them, as well, and in a
three-day sweep by federal and local law enforcement agencies in Northern
Virginia this week, 130 immigrants with prior convictions were taken into
custody, officials said Wednesday at a news conference in Manassas.

While performing the "enforcement surge," as Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Director John Morton called it, police and federal agents also picked up eight
fugitives and 25 people who already faced immigration violations, including
three who had been deported.

Of the 163 arrests, 60 were made in Fairfax County, 37 in Prince William County,
20 in Loudoun County, 13 in Alexandria city and 11 in Arlington County. There
were additional arrests elsewhere in the region.

Some of those picked up had been convicted of crimes such as rape, assault,
burglary and drug possession, Morton said. But they had served their sentences
and been released before immigration officials launched programs to check on and
detain illegal immigrants.

About half of the those arrested - 64 - were in the country legally, and the
rest were not, officials said. But even those with legal status, such as work
permits or "green cards," can be deported if they commit crimes of "moral
turpitude" or receive sentences of a year or more.

"If you're committing crimes here in our country," Morton said, "and you're here
unlawfully, it's time for you to go home."

Morton said the operation was part of a continuing effort to cross-check with
local agencies such as probation and parole departments and, using ICE's
resources, find people who have committed deportable offenses but have eluded
detection. He said the initiative had been occurring across the country for two
years.

One of the people picked up this week was a 21-year-old Mexican man in
Harrisonburg who was a legal permanent resident but who had been convicted of
sexual assault and received a five-year sentence. In Arlington, a 39-year-old
legal resident from Ecuador with convictions for assault and battery, grand
larceny and statutory rape was arrested. A 39-year-old British man in Madison,
Va., also here legally, was picked up Monday after ICE found he had a conviction
for aggravated sexual battery of a child.

"The criminals who were arrested the last three days," Morton said, "are not the
kind of people we want walking the streets of the commonwealth."

An array of local officials stood behind Morton, including Prince William Police
Chief Charlie T. Deane and Loudoun Sheriff Steve O. Simpson. Both said their
departments' work with federal immigration efforts had received large support in
their communities.

Deane was among many police executives who said they feared that increased
immigration enforcement would discourage crime reporting by victims and
cooperation by witnesses. Deane said his officers experienced that problem
initially, but improved community awareness of the benefits of immigration
enforcement has gradually restored trust, and crime reporting, in the immigrant
neighborhoods.

Prince William Board Chairman Corey Stewart (R) issued a statement saying the
sweep was "a beginning step" but added, "This is certainly not enough, though.
ICE and the federal government will show that they are serious about dealing
with criminal illegal aliens when they begin to hold criminal illegals in
custody until they are deported." Stewart cited the cases of Carlos Montanoand
Jose Reyes Alfaro.

Montano was charged in a drunken car crash last year that killed a nun and
seriously injured another. He had not been detained by immigration authorities
despite several prior drunk driving arrests. Alfaro has been arrested in
connection with the slaying of three people in Prince William in February and
was in the country illegally.

Morton said he had issued a new policy at ICE that makes drunk drivers a higher
priority when officials assess whom to deport. "We're paying a lot of attention
to DUIs."

Morton said recent enforcement efforts were leading to unprecedented numbers of
deportations. He said a record 195,000 people were removed last year, and "I am
confident we will exceed that number this year."

The 163 people swept up between Sunday and Tuesday came from 32 different
countries in Latin America, the Middle East, Europe, Asia, the Caribbean and
Africa.

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Rape suspect's fingerprints notin ICE database

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 734 words


Although Salvador Portillo-Saravia was being held by federal immigration
authorities in 2003, they failed to enter his fingerprints into a national
database before he was deported to El Salvador, immigration officials said
Thursday. So seven years later, after Portillo-Saravia had sneaked back into the
United States, his fingerprints were not in the database when he was checked by
the Loudoun County jail.

The check came back "no match," and he was released. A month later, Fairfax
County police say, he raped an 8-year-old girl in Centreville.

The admission by an Immigration and Customs Enforcement official was in a letter
sent to Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) after Wolf had inquired about problems with
the IDENT database, a nationwide collection of fingerprints and other biometric
identification data.

Elliot Williams, ICE's assistant director for congressional relations, wrote
that "the agency policy to enroll the fingerprints in IDENT was not followed,
thereby reducing ICE's ability to thwart this terrible and tragic event." ICE
officials could not say why the prints weren't entered in 2003.

The news that Portillo-Saravia had been releasedfrom jail in November after
having been deported revealed a security gap: Many fingerprints taken before
2005 are not in the system.

Immigration officials said this week that they are taking steps to digitize all
old "rolled ink" fingerprints that aren't in the national database and that they
are sending out monthly reminders to local jails to take additional steps when
someone is suspected of being in the country illegally.

Portillo-Saravia fled the area after the sexual assault.  After a manhunt
involving federal marshals and local police, he was captured last monthin
Houston.

Portillo-Saravia's preliminary hearing was set for Thursday in Fairfax juvenile
court, but it was postponed because no court reporter was assigned to the case.
The victim and her family were asked to return to the courthouse again in May.

Portillo-Saravia said nothing during the brief hearing and did not appear to
make eye contact with the victim or her family.

Police said he had gone to the family's home with a friend, on the morning after
Christmas, and that the friend was dating the victim's mother.

Portillo-Saravia, arrested early one Sunday morning on suspicion of being drunk
in public, was back on the streets even though he had been checked through ICE's
Secure Communitiesprogram, in which the fingerprints of everyone who is booked
into a participating jail are electronically checked against ICE's national
database. The database has 91 million sets of prints, ICE officials said, but
was not fully operational until 2005.

Some prints taken before 2005 - officials aren't sure how many - were handled
the old-fashioned way, with inked fingertips rolled onto file cards or papers.
Although all of Virginia's jails participate in Secure Communities, many jail
officials said they were unaware that people fingerprinted before 2005 might not
be in the database.

"We have begun a methodical effort," ICE Director John Morton said Wednesday
after a news conference in Manassas, "to go through and digitize all the prints
and put them through the system. That is the intent. But it takes time. And it
takes money."

Morton said he did not know how long it would take to enter the inked prints
into the system. He said that prints are not in one central location and that
officials are trying to determine the most efficient way to digitize them. ICE
officials could not say Thursday what progress had been made to upgrade the
database.

In addition to the electronic database check, jail officials can also make a
manual request to ICE's Law Enforcement Support Center or contact a local ICE
field office if they suspect a prisoner is an illegal immigrant, ICE officials
said.

After Portillo-Saravia's case became public, ICE sent a teletype to all Secure
Communities participants reminding them that "a 'no match' message . . . does
not mean that the subject is lawfully present in the United States. Even in a
'no match' scenario, ICE may have an interest in the subject."

That reminder will be sent every month to Secure Communities participants, ICE
officials said. Some sheriffs said they do not have the time or resources to
perform additional checks, particularly for the many prisoners who are being
booked misdemeanors or lesser charges.

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Fingerprints' lasting marks

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 405 words


Regarding the March 21 editorial "Not enough fingerprints":

The federal Secure Communities program involves sending an alleged criminal's
fingerprints to Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at the point of
booking - not when the person is convicted, let alone when they're convicted of
something serious. So far, a majority of those illegal immigrants deported as a
result of this process don't fit the profile of serious criminals that ICE
claims to be pursuing. A majority either have no criminal record or committed
only minor offenses.

If ICE really wanted to concentrate on serious criminals, it would focus on
records of people who've been convicted. Secure Communities' broader scope
strongly suggests that it has something else in mind, possibly this:

People who enter the country without documents, if they avoid arrest entirely,
have no prints on file in the United States; Secure Communities won't identify
them. They also, under present law, have essentially no chance of adjusting
their immigration status.

But people who have overstayed visas constitute about 40 percent of those
present without formal authorization. They do have prints on file. And they
have, in some cases, a remote chance of adjusting their immigration status.
They're also the people likeliest to be detected by Secure Communities.

Is ICE going after easy cases? Trying to lower the population of people who
might be able to attain legal status in the future? Either explanation seems
both possible and regrettable.

Mary Hopkins,Everett, Mass.

l

The Post claims that ICE "has neither inclination nor resources to deport
suspects with otherwise clean records who have been arrested for low-level
infractions." But ICE's own statistics tell a different story, showing the
Secure Communities program sweeps up an alarmingly high percentage of people who
have no criminal convictions or who were arrested for traffic and other
low-level offenses. That worries immigrant communities, who view Secure
Communities as an incentive to arrest people just so their fingerprints can be
checked or as an obstacle to approaching the police when they are victims or
witnesses to a crime.

Post articles have revealed ICE's pattern of providing misleading and
contradictory information about the program. Maybe the editorial board should
read the articles, too.

Joan Friedland, Washington

The writer is the managing attorney at the National Immigration Law Center.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Foreign gay spousescan seek some benefits

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 398 words


Foreign nationals who are married to U.S. citizens of the same sex may apply for
spousal green cards and other benefits, immigration authorities announced
Monday, but it remains to be seen whether the government will issue them.

In the past, foreign same-sex spouses who sought the immigration benefits
granted to heterosexual married couples were automatically rejected by the U.S.
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services because of a law that barred the
federal recognition of gay marriage.

But the agency has stopped that practice, at least temporarily, in light of last
month's decision by the Obama administration to no longer defend the
constitutionality of the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act in court. Any such
applications will now be put on hold until the agency receives guidance from the
Department of Homeland Security's general counsel, spokesman Christopher S.
Bentley said.

"USCIS has not implemented any change in policy and intends to follow the
president's directive to continue enforcing the law,"  Bentley said in a
statement. "USCIS has issued guidance to the field, asking that related cases be
held in abeyance, while awaiting final guidance related to distinct legal
issues."

Republicans in Congress vowed to defend the statute against several legal
challenges filed by same-sex couples. Moreover, the Obama administration has
said unequivocally that the law will remain in place unless it is repealed or
invalidated by the courts. The Supreme Court is likely to resolve the issue.

The USCIS decision does not apply to deportations. However, the administration's
reservations about the Defense of Marriage Act led an immigration judge in New
York to stop deportation hearings for a married Argentine lesbian found to be in
the country illegally, according to media reports.

Gay rights groups hailed Monday's announcement, which was first reported by the
Daily Beast, as a significant victory, because the heterosexual spouses of U.S.
citizens are afforded certain benefits under immigration law. For example, they
may apply for permanent residency status or green cards, which are key steps
toward citizenship.

"Today's statement is the first domino to fall for LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender] Americans with foreign national spouses," Rachel B. Tiven,
executive director of the advocacy group Immigration Equality, said in a
statement.

sandhya@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama renews effort to reformimmigration despite detractors

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr.

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 488 words


The Obama administration is beginning another effort to change the nation's
immigration laws, despite little enthusiasm from Republicans in Congress.

President Obama met for more than an hour Tuesday with members of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, his third session on the issue at the White House
in the past three weeks. White House aides promised a renewed push to try to
persuade Congress and the American public to back Obama's proposals, which would
combine stronger enforcement of current immigration laws with the creation of a
pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

"He is committed and will be leaning into this issue in a very serious and very
vigorous way," said Melody Barnes, Obama's top domestic policy adviser.

The new effort comes as Obama starts his 2012 reelection campaign needing to
rebuild support among Latinos, many of whom view immigration reform as critical.
Obama won two-thirds of the Hispanic vote in 2008, but some polls have shown
that his approval ratings have dipped among this key electoral bloc.

High turnout among Latinos could help Obama win in states such as Colorado and
Florida, although White House officials emphasize that they have long sought to
reform immigration laws and are not pushing the issue only because of the 2012
campaign.

Barnes said the White House, aware of the opposition from congressional
Republicans, will seek to build a coalition outside Washington that includes
business leaders, law enforcement figures and others. Over the past few weeks,
Obama has met with a range of people, most of whom back his vision for
immigration reform, including former New York police commissioner William
Bratton and "Desperate Housewives" star Eva Longoria.

Immigration reform has not been a priority of the administration, at least
compared with  health-care reform and the economy. But last year, Obama did urge
the passage of the so-called Dream Act, which would allow young people whose
parents brought them to the United States illegally to gain citizenship
eventually if they attended college or served in the military for at least two
years.

The bill passed in December in the then-Democratic-controlled House, but was
blocked in the Senate by a 55-41 vote, with most Republicans and a few Democrats
saying the measure would reward illegal behavior. Republicans, now in control of
the House, have expressed little desire to back Obama's push.

"The speaker's focused on creating jobs, cutting spending and lowering gas
prices," said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker John A. Boehner
(Ohio.).

Latino activists and even some members of Congress have called for the adoption
of a blanket policy that would not allow the deportations of any students who
would qualify for the Dream Act. But Obama aides say that such a policy would be
a unilateral decision by the administration and that they instead want to reach
an agreement with Congress.

baconp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Montgomeryimmigrationenforcementlaunch is set

BYLINE: Michael Laris;and Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 967 words


Montgomery officials are getting a civics lesson in the power of the federal
government: A controversial federal immigration enforcement program will launch
in the county this fall, whether local officials like it or not.

In a terse letter, a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement official told
Montgomery's corrections director that the program, called Secure Communities,
is coming soon. As part of the program, fingerprint data from local law
enforcement are sent to federal immigration officials.

"This letter is to notify you that the activation date for Montgomery County is
scheduled for Tuesday, September 27, 2011," the three-sentence letter said.

Montgomery already sends information to ICE about people arrested on charges of
violent or gun crimes, regardless of whether they are immigrants. It also
regularly sends a list of foreign-born inmates to immigration officials. County
officials are concerned that the new program's broader net will draw in many
upstanding individuals or those who have made minor mistakes.

In Prince George's County, for example, a large majority of undocumented
immigrants deported via the program were not criminals. Advocates say they are
concernedthat some victims of domestic violencemight stop calling police for
help because they fear it will lead to their deportation.

At a rally outside the County Council building in Rockville on Tuesday, Florinda
Lorenzo, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, described being arrested and
jailed a year ago for selling phone cards from her home in Langley Park. Now she
faces deportation and will voluntarily leave her three young children, all
U.S.-born, with their father and move back to Guatemala to apply to immigrate
legally. "I just don't want to go. I want to stay with my kids right here," she
said.

The District is not participating in the programbut will eventually do so, local
and federal officials said. Arlington is part of the program - over the vigorous
objections of local leaders who thought that their participation was voluntary.
But local officials, including those in Montgomery, have learned that federal
law trumps local preferences on immigration matters.

The ICE letter was written April 26, the same day council member Nancy Navarro
(D-Eastern County) proposed a resolution saying the council "opposes
implementation of the Secure Communities initiative in Montgomery County."

By Tuesday, after scrambling to figure out where the county and council stood
legally and politically, council members unanimously passed a radically
overhauled version of Navarro's resolution. The council, it declared,
"encourages our public safety officials to work closely with ICE to ensure that
the Secure Communities program is implemented consistent with its stated purpose
and goals."

"The resolution itself changed 180 degrees," said council member George L.
Leventhal (D-At Large).

Still, Navarro said, it's important for the council to be on record with its
deep misgivings.

"They're saying, 'We're coming,' " Navarro said of immigration officials, adding
it's important for the council's message to be heard as well. According to the
resolution, the federal program, "as currently administered, will create
division in our community, promote a culture of fear, and dismantle the trust
that our police officers have worked to establish in many immigrant
communities."

ICE defends the program, which it said helped deport 72,445 undocumented
immigrants with criminal backgrounds from October 2008 through March. Of those,
26,473 were found guilty of crimes as serious as murder, rape and the sexual
abuse of children.

The program, which began in the George W. Bush administration and was greatly
expanded by the Obama administration, sends the fingerprints of suspects picked
up by local police to immigration officials. The fingerprint is checked against
a national database of undocumented immigrants, and if there is a match showing
that the person in custody is in the country illegally, federal officials ask
the local police department to detain the suspect for an immigration check.

When the program was activated in any given area, ICE spokeswoman Barbara
Gonzalez said, it tended to first identify "lower-level criminals as they are
first to complete their criminal sentence and come into ICE custody." But over
time, she said the program usually identified an increasing number of
undocumented immigrants with links to violent crimes and a decreasing number who
had committed less-serious crimes.

After conducting their own investigations, immigration officials sometimes place
detainees into deportation proceedings. Officials have said that the program
prioritizes the removal of violent and dangerous criminals but that they are
also required by law to remove non-criminal undocumented immigrants who come to
their notice via the program, if sufficient detention and removal resources
exist.

County Executive Isiah Leggett (D) said the county's own notification system has
worked well. "Unless there are some changes, it will supersede our local
program," Leggett said. While the county plans to continue expressing its
disappointment and trying to work with federal officials, he said, "I'm not sure
we will have any success on that. They've got a national program in place, and
they're just imposing it, whether you agree or not."

Leggett spoke by phone from a White House meeting of county officials from
across the country discussing local concerns, immigration enforcement among
them. He said the homeland security secretary acknowledged shortcomings in the
way the government has communicated to locals about the federal effort. "Janet
Napolitano got up and said they miscommunicated to a lot to people in counties
about Secure Communities," Leggett said.

larism@washpost.com

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Obama shows his love for Latino immigrants

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 362 words

Lee Hockstader

Mr. Obama's El Paso coup

In reiterating his vision for immigration reform Tuesday - a vision essentially
identical to his predecessor's - President Obama spoke truth to power, the power
in this case being congressional Republicans.

The president's speech in El Paso isn't likely to make any difference to
Republicans, who can and will continue to block any serious overhaul of
immigration policy, which is to say anything that solves the problem of 11
million undocumented immigrants. But it may make plenty of difference to
Hispanics, the nation's biggest and fastest-growing minority, in reminding them
who's got their backs.

For the president, and for Democrats generally, that's a massively helpful and
timely reminder. It's a virtual certainty that no Republican who even hints at
eventual citizenship for illegal immigrants (read: amnesty) can win the GOP
nomination for president next year. So while Hispanic voters watch Republicans
brawl in primaries over who would be truly the meanest Deporter in Chief, the
president can sit back and buy ads on Univision, reprising his El Paso speech.
Translation: Who loves ya, baby?

Obama won two-thirds of the Hispanic vote in 2008, a crushing majority that
helped him to big wins in Nevada, Colorado, Florida and New Mexico. Since then,
Republicans at the national, state and local levels have been busy spoiling
their brand with Hispanic voters for a generation by bashing undocumented
immigrants, who are thoroughly interwoven with legal immigrants - in other
words, real live voters. In 2012, I wouldn't be surprised if Obama wins 70 to 75
percent of the Hispanic vote.

Republican pig-headedness on immigration is long-term gold for Democrats. More
than a fifth of the students in American K-12 schools are Hispanic, and that
percentage is growing fast. By the 2020 presidential election, half a dozen
states are going to be more or less decided on the basis of Latino votes; by
2028, it could be a dozen.

The president could sit back and reap the electoral fruit of Republican
immigrant-bashing in 2012. By standing up and delivering speeches like the one
in El Paso, he ensures a bumper crop of Hispanic votes.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Kick-starting immigration reform

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 612 words


FOR THE THIRD TIME in as many weeks, President Obama and his top domestic policy
advisers hosted a group of prominent Hispanics and immigration experts the other
day at the White House. That was followed by a policy speech on immigration
reformTuesday in El Paso. The president's goal has been twofold: First, and
explicitly, it was to reaffirm his support for overhauling the nation's
dysfunctional immigration system, which has produced 11 million undocumented
immigrants. Second, and implicitly, it was to galvanize relations with a large
and increasingly restless voting bloc whose support was critical to his victory
in 2008 and will be again for his prospects in 2012.

The restlessness of Hispanic voters is understandable, if not wholly
attributable to Mr. Obama. As a candidate, he promised to press, in his first
year in office, for comprehensive immigration reform. But the first year came
and went with no movement on immigration. And that was before Mr. Obama lost his
Democratic majority, along with much of his influence, in the House of
Representatives.

Now, with Republicans ruling the House, chances for a comprehensive immigration
bill are nil. Though the president insists he has not given up, Hispanic
advocates, celebrities and lawmakers who have visited the White House have come
away with the impression that Mr. Obama is stymied by the Republicans.

It is true that with few exceptions, Republicans in Congress remain dead set
against any measure that includes eventual citizenship - or, as they would
describe it, amnesty - for immigrants here illegally. But it would be cynical
for the administration to use GOP obstructionism as justification to throw up
its hands, declare the issue dormant and scale back its efforts to what amounts
to a get-out-the-Hispanic-vote strategy.

The truth is that the administration has not been inactive on immigration; it
has simply trained all its fire on enforcement, perhaps hoping that would soften
Republican opposition to an eventual deal that included some provision for
assimilating the 11 million immigrants who lack documents.

If that was the strategy, it hasn't worked; the Republicans haven't budged. But
the administration's push on enforcement - including a crackdown on big
employers such as Chipotle, stepped-up deportations, especially of undocumented
criminals, and much tighter security along the Mexican border - has helped cut
the inflow and impeded the hiring of immigrants here illegally.

That's fine, but enforcement is only half the equation. As Hispanic lawmakers
and advocate groups have stressed, Mr. Obama could, on his own authority, order
steps that do not require legislation. One such measure would be to curtail or
suspend the deportation of undocumented young students who were brought to the
United States as children - whose immigration status might be legalized in the
future. Mr. Obama has refused to do that, saying the administration should not
bypass Congress on immigration policy.

Even without a top-to-bottom legislative package, the administration could push
for discrete measures for which an overwhelming economic argument can be made.
For instance, why not expand the quota of visas available to immigrants who
receive PhDs from American universities in science, math and engineering? What
sense does it make to educate such promising students, then force them to return
to their home countries, where many will take jobs competing against American
companies?

Mr. Obama may be stymied by the Republicans in delivering a full revamping of
immigration policy. But there is still work that could be done - and not just in
rallying Hispanics to vote against Republicans in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

In search of immigration solutions

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 323 words


Regarding the May 12 editorial "Kick-starting immigration reform":

Instead of recognizing that both sides of the immigration debate have legitimate
concerns, The Post suggested only that President Obama "curtail or suspend" some
enforcement and expand legal immigration for graduates of PhD programs (a step
that will matter little to those already in the United States illegally).

How about a realistic compromise? A plan that includes both (a) a path to legal
permanent residency, as well as (b) a permanent prohibition on U.S. citizenship
could break the stalemate.

For Republicans, the perceived scofflaws and line-jumpers would not get off
scot-free with all of the privileges of citizenship. At the same time, there
would be real, compassionate relief for millions of otherwise law-abiding people
living in the shadows. Each side would be making concessions while still
preserving significant ideological ground.

Legal, permanent residents can live long, happy lives in the United States
without becoming citizens. Indeed, many choose this path voluntarily even when
eligible for naturalization. It's time for politicians and opinion makers in
Washington to think outside the box.

Erik Warga, Washington

l

A more accurate headline for this editorial would have been "Kicking Obama in
the shin once again."

The Post acknowledged several times that Republicans have shown zero interest in
moving any legislation on immigration reform, either comprehensively or
piecemeal.

Yet the thrust of the editorial is that President Obama is at fault - both for
not acting  unilaterally and for criticizing the GOP for blocking action. Could
you not find room for one sentence condemning hard-liners for making a bad
situation even worse?

Let's suppose that the president took your advice and shifted his focus even
slightly from enforcement.

I can already imagine the GOP attack ads that would flood the airwaves in
response.

Steven Alan Honley, Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

ICE's program reforms to protect crime victims, witnesses

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 417 words


Federal authorities announced Friday that a key immigration enforcement program
that has drawn protests from some state and local governments will offer greater
protection to crime victims and witnesses.

Through the Secure Communities program, the FBI shares the fingerprint data of
people arrested by local and state law enforcement agencies with federal
authorities, who can use the information to check for immigration violations.
Immigrant organizations have complained that the program does not distinguish
enough between minor offenders and serious criminals. They say there is
widespread concern the program would silence victims and witnesses, who are
often reluctant to report crimes for fear of being swept up in arrests and
tagged for deportation.

"It is agency policy not to put these people into immigration proceedings," said
John Morton, director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The changes provide for greater prosecutorial discretion, which Morton said
"expands the grounds and the circumstances to be considered when officers are
making decisions on who to detain or remove." Reforms include more training for
local law enforcement, greater agency oversight and a stronger complaint system.

"If the administration is really concerned about their image in the community,
what they should do is to suspend the program completely," said Gustavo Andrade
of Casa de Maryland, an immigrant advocacy group.

Massachusetts, Illinois and New York recently said they would pull out of the
program. Baltimore and Oakland, Calif., also voted to cancel participation.

"We don't take that lightly. We take the governors' concerns seriously, and
that's part of the reason why these reforms are being undertaken," said an ICE
official with knowledge of the program. But the program is an
"information-sharing agreement between federal agencies," and there is no room
for local jurisdictions to opt out, he said.

The program, which began in 2008, has been implemented in 50 percent of the
country - about 1,400 jurisdictions -  with a goal of having it in place
nationwide by 2013. An advisory committee, which includes law enforcement
officials and immigration advocates, is expected to review it and offer findings
by August.

Some immigration groups were cautiously optimistic. "We're pleased that there's
been an acknowledgment of flaws" in the program, said Brittney Nystrom of the
National Immigration Forum. "It's a good sign, but the real devil here is in the
details."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

ICE drops Secure Communities deals

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 405 words


A key immigration enforcement program that has drawn criticism from some state
and local governments will terminate all existing agreements with jurisdictions
over the program, federal authorities announced Friday.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement said its director, John Morton, had sent a
letter to state governors terminating the agreements "to avoid further
confusion."

Through the program, the FBI shares fingerprint data of people arrested by local
and state law enforcement agencies with federal authorities, who can use the
information to check for immigration law violations. The agreements were meant
to educate states about the availability of the service, ICE officials say.

The initiative,  which began in 2008, has been implemented in about half the
jurisdictions in the country, with a goal of having it in place nationwide by
2013.

Inconsistent federal guidelineson the program have created confusion, with some
jurisdictions, such as Arlington County, forced to participate against their
will while others, such as the District and Montgomery County, have been given
more latitude.

Although the program, called Secure Communities, was initially widely thought to
be voluntary, federal officials have since said that there is no room for local
jurisdictions to opt out.  The memoranda of agreement, which states signed under
the previous administration, may have given a false impression that
participation was optional.

"Today's action represents a disagreement with that approach, and we're trying
to put more clarity into how this system actually works," a Department of
Homeland Security official said Friday. "We're going to continue the program,
but we're going to do it without MoAs."

Immigrant advocacy organizations responded angrily to the announcement. "For DHS
to act with such disregard for local leadership, community policing and fiscal
prudence is an act of bad faith and bad policy," Ali Noorani, executive director
of the Washington-based National Immigration Forum, said in a statement.

Immigrant advocates have criticized the program, saying that it does not
distinguish enough between minor offenders and serious criminals. They say it
could discourage victims and witnesses from reporting crimes for fear of being
swept up in arrests and tagged for deportation.

In June, the government announced measures designed to offer greater protection
to crime victims and witnesses.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Scare tactics on the border

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1007 words


DESPITE A BLOOD-SOAKED drug war that has convulsed Mexico, a broad array of data
shows that America's southwestern border is increasingly safe, secure and,
thanks to measures launched by President George W. Bush and sustained by
President Obama, much harder for illegal immigrants to cross. Yet against
substantial and mounting evidence, Republicans in Congress continue to portray
the border as beset by rising violence, out of control and a grave threat to
national security.

Given the clear data, it is hard to view these scare tactics as anything but a
cynical effort to distort the debate on immigration reform. The intent is to
distract Americans from the problem of 11 million immigrants here illegally by
pointing to an imaginary wave of crime and instability at the border. Of course,
goes the argument, we need immigration reform, but we can't possibly achieve it
until order is restored.

The Republican strategy is dishonest - and effective. "This is a national
security threat," Sen. John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, told a congressional
hearing. "So we need to regain the confidence of the American people before
they're going to allow us to move forward . . . to fix our broken immigration
system." Rep. Michele Bachmann, a Republican presidential hopeful, agreed with a
questioner at a town forum this week that U.S. troops should be redeployed from
South Korea to south Texas - a move that might comfort the North Koreans but
would have little or no effect in Texas.

In fact, it is Mr. Cornyn himself, along with others who make sensational
statements, who undermine the confidence about the border he says "we need to
regain." They do so with misrepresentations and twisted statistics whose effect
is to obscure the dramatic drops in illegal border crossings and violent crime
along the border.

One of the GOP's favorite bits of rhetorical ammunition comes from the
Government Accountability Office, which said in a report this year that 44
percent of the Mexican border is not under the Border Patrol's "operational
control." In fact, most of that 44 percent includes the border's most remote,
inaccessible, sleepy and least-crossed terrain - hardly the peril Mr. Cornyn and
others make it out to be. Still, many Republicans trot out the 44 percent at
every opportunity, conjuring the image of an unpoliced free-for-all on the
border.

The truth is very different. Nearly 18,000 Border Patrol agents are now deployed
at the border, a force that has nearly doubled since 2004, in addition to
thousands of personnel from other federal agencies as well as hundreds of
National Guardsmen. Thanks to that presence, as well as to economic, demographic
and other factors in Mexico and the United States, apprehensions of illegal
border crossers by the U.S. Border Patrol - a fair measure of the border's
porosity - have been cut by three-quarters over the past decade.

On current trends, including a 30 percent drop in the past 10 months compared to
the same period of 2010, the number of apprehensions in fiscal year 2011 will be
the lowest in 40 years. In other words, illegal immigration has fallen to levels
last seen in the Nixon administration.

None of this is an argument for standing down or lowering the nation's guard at
the border. Like many international boundaries, the U.S.-Mexico frontier has
never been impenetrable or immune to smuggling, corruption and criminality.

Today, Mexican drug cartels are waging a vicious war in Mexico that has spawned
an orgy of murders in Ciudad Juarez, just across the Texas border from El Paso.
Mexico's police force is ineffective and corrupt. In some cases, drug smugglers
and others attempting to enter the United States have confronted U.S. law
enforcement personnel, and for years there have been instances of rock throwing,
occasional Molotov cocktails and even some shootings from the Mexican side.

But Border Patrol statistics show no significant spike in violence against
officers in recent years, and this year the number of such incidents is sharply
down. A spokesman for the Drug Enforcement Administration told us flatly: "The
Mexican drug war has not spilled over into the U.S."

Overall crime is decreasing in most U.S. border cities, according to the latest
FBI figures. Kidnappings, many of them related to drug trafficking, are also
falling fast after having briefly spiked in Phoenix a couple of years ago.

Even in El Paso, overall violent crime - not very high compared to the rates in
other large American cities - has not increased, and the murder rate over the
past decade has fallen sharply compared with the 1990s. An uptick in murders
early this year was unrelated to instability at the border, according to El Paso
police.

According to the FBI, and to most coolheaded law enforcement officers in the
Southwest, the violence in Mexico has not affected cities on the American side
of the border. "Unfortunately," El Paso police chief Greg Allen told USA Today
last month, "some people's misperceptions have become their reality."

Members of Congress, such as Mr. Cornyn, have tried to have it both ways. On the
one hand, as a senator with a large constituency of Hispanic voters, he's
acknowledged the pressing need for immigration reform. On the other hand, Mr.
Cornyn has voted against virtually all serious legislation aimed at fixing the
nation's immigration system, including bills sought by the Bush administration.

In a congressional hearing, he pressed Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano to specify how much additional "time and efforts" are needed to
secure the border. But at the same time Mr. Cornyn has never defined what a
secure border would look like, and he's only glancingly acknowledged that
illegal crossings have plummeted.

Horror stories about an out-of-control border are untethered from the facts.
They're also irresponsible. By using the myth of escalating border insecurity as
an excuse for inaction on the pressing reality of a broken immigration system,
politicians perpetuate both a lie and the national disgrace of a dysfunctional
policy.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Mr. Obama's immigration policy

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 400 words


David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey ["Obama's illegal move on immigration,"
op-ed, Sept. 3] blithely assert the illegality of a recent Obama administration
announcement, which encouraged the closure of lower-priority cases so that the
overburdened immigration court system could more adeptly handle the cases of
immigrants who have dangerous criminal convictions or pose security risks. They
assert that only Congress sets immigration policy.

Perhaps these gentlemen could join my law students in studying the cases
establishing the federal power to regulate immigration - the late-19th-century
cases of Chae Chan Ping v. U.S., Ekiu v. U.S. and Fong Yue Ting v. U.S., which
explicitly defer to the "political departments," both executive and
congressional.

President Obama is acting well within the powers conferred by Congress. Beyond
the unquestionable constitutionality, it is simply good policy to let the
executive branch clear the debilitating court backlog to allow its enforcement
work to be smarter and more effective.

Elizabeth Keyes, Washington

The writer teaches immigration law at American University's Washington College
of Law.

l

The op-ed by David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey rested on a false premise:
that the Obama administration has decided to deport only those who have
committed crimes in the United States.

An Aug. 18 letter by Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to Sen.
Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) repeated the administration's position that it "makes no
sense to expend our enforcement resources on low-priority cases," such as those
of young people "who were brought to this country as young children and know no
other home."

But that does not mean, as Mr. Rivkin and Mr. Casey argued, that "no enforcement
resources will be expended on those who do not pose a threat to public safety."
They conceded that President Obama "has not declared his intent to dispense with
immigration law."

In fact, by every enforcement strategy and metric - interdictions, visa
controls, border enforcement, workplace audits, fines and debarments, and
criminal prosecutions - the administration has aggressively enforced the law. If
trends continue, it will remove roughly 1.5 million noncitizens over four years,
compared with 2 million removals during the eight years of George W. Bush's
presidency.

Donald Kerwin, New York

The writer is executive director of the Center for Migration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Whitewashed memories

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 505 words


IN BOTH OF THIS month's Republican presidential debates, Rep. Michele Bachmann
hailed what she evidently believes was the golden age of American immigration -
the period before the mid-1960s when, she said, "immigration law worked
beautifully."

Ms. Bachmann's nostalgia is touching but misplaced, unless she really pines for
a return to laws that explicitly favored white immigrants from a handful of
Northern European countries while excluding or disadvantaging Jews, Asians,
Africans and practically everyone else.

Ms. Bachmann didn't frame it that way, of course. She blamed "liberal members of
Congress" for upsetting a system that she characterized as requiring immigrants
to have money, sponsors, and clean health and criminal records. In Ms.
Bachmann's world, those immigrants would learn American history and to speak
English.

The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 fundamentally changed the system of
immigration in this country but not in the way Ms. Bachmann evidently imagines.
That law, pushed by Democrats including Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Rep.
Emanuel Celler (D-N.Y.), threw out four decades of immigration quotas whose
explicit goal was to emulate America's ethnic balance as it stood in the year
1890, when the country remained overwhelmingly white.

Specifically, the 1965 measure ended a legal regime dating from the early 1920s
that generally shut out Asians (especially Japanese) and capped immigration from
Latin America, Eastern and Southern Europe, and other areas at very low levels.
The effect was to overhaul that hidebound, exclusive quota system. The new
system, whose cornerstone gave preference to family reunification and job
skills, broadened what had been a narrow pool of immigrants to include soaring
numbers of newcomers from Asia and Latin America.

The shift has contributed to the nation's diversity, dynamism and rich cultural
kaleidoscope even as it challenged society, especially schools, to accommodate
waves of new Americans whose looks, language and customs were unfamiliar to
their neighbors.

By talking about sponsorship, English-language competency and the like, Ms.
Bachmann is either confused or deliberately misleading. Most legal immigrants
are still required to have family or employer sponsors, as they did in the gauzy
past she idealizes. As for learning English, American history and the like,
those were, and remain, requirements for citizenship, not immigration.

Ms. Bachmann, whose campaign did not respond to a request for comment, may not
care for the changes and effects wrought by the 1965 bill; many other critics on
the right do not. Patrick Buchanan, for example, has blamed the 2007 massacre at
Virginia Techon the immigration overhaul, noting that the gunman "was among the
864,000 Koreans here as a result of the Immigration Act of 1965, which threw the
nation's doors open to the greatest invasion in history, an invasion opposed by
a majority of our people." If Ms. Bachmann shares such views, let her address
the issue honestly and head on, not in code.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

American historian shaped modern immigration law

BYLINE: Emily Langer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 649 words


Oscar Handlin, a Harvard professor whose classic writings on American
immigration made him a leading intellectual force behind legislation that
eliminated the immigration quota system in the United States, died Sept. 20 at
his home in Cambridge, Mass., after a heart attack. He was 95.

His death was confirmed by his son, David Handlin.

The son of Jewish immigrants, Dr. Handlin was considered the father of modern
immigration studies. In his panoramic books, he chronicled the stories of
Europeans, Jews, Puerto Ricans and African Americans and other populations that
shaped the United States. His sweeping work "The Uprooted: The Epic Story of the
Great Migrations That Made the American People" won the 1952 Pulitzer Prize in
history.

"Once I thought to write a history of the immigrants in America," he wrote in
perhaps the most noted passage of that book. "Then, I discovered that the
immigrants were American history."

Dr. Handlin's credentials as a historian, the Harvard imprimatur and his
frequent writings - in publications including the Atlantic Monthly and
Commentary - made him an influential public intellectual in his time. Historians
cite him as a crucial behind-the-scenes player in the landmark 1965 legislation
that abolished the country-based quota systems that had regulated immigration
since the 1920s.

He was "absolutely central to it," said Hasia Diner, a professor of immigration
history at New York University.

Dr. Handlin found the quota systems, which favored Northern and Western European
immigrants, racially discriminatory.

He considered it "something that not only discriminated against prospective
immigrants," said Columbia University professor Mae Ngai, but also "a kind of
stigma against those ethnic groups in the United States."

In his writings, Dr. Handlin never treated American immigration in dry,
statistical terms. Critics described "The Uprooted," his most noted work, as a
riveting and moving account of the entire immigration experience.

"The Uprooted concerns the personal human side of the flood of immigration,"
wrote a New York Herald Tribune reviewer. "Mr. Handlin wrote of the European
settlements from which the immigrants came, then followed through the hardships
of their crossing, in steerage, and life that followed in the United States."

Oscar Handlin was born Sept. 29, 1915, in Brooklyn in a household where
education was highly valued. When Dr. Handlin's son was born, his father, a
Russian immigrant, suggested the name "Plato." Dr. Handlin and his wife decided
against it.

Dr. Handlin grew up working as a delivery boy in his family's grocery store and
often rested a book on top of his pushcart, reading as his made his way through
the streets of Brooklyn.

He graduated from Brooklyn College in 1934 and then studied at Harvard, where he
earned a master's degree in 1935 and a doctorate in history in 1940.

Among his mentors was Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr., who suggested the topic of his
dissertation: 18th- and early 19th-century immigrants to Boston. The work was
subsequently published under the title "Boston's Immigrants."

Dr. Handlin was himself the target of discrimination while at Harvard. His
classmate John Hope Franklin, who became a revered scholar of African American
history, wrote in a memoir that Dr. Handlin was turned away as an officer in the
Henry Adams Club because he was Jewish.

Dr. Handlin began teaching at Harvard while pursuing his graduate degrees and
would remain with the university for more than four decades.

His first wife, Mary Flug Handlin, with whom he often collaborated, died in
1976.

Survivors include his second wife, of 34 years, Lilian Bombach Handlin of
Cambridge, also a co-author; three children from his first marriage, David
Handlin of Lexington, Mass., Joanna Handlin Smith of Cambridge and Ruth Manley
of Guilford, Conn.; one brother; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.

langere@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

City agencies won't cooperate with ICE

BYLINE: Tim Craig

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 690 words


D.C. Mayor Vincent C. Gray reaffirmed Wednesday that District police and other
public agencies will not cooperate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
leaving it up to federal immigration officials to determine on their own whether
a resident is in the country illegally.

The decision reinforces executive orders by past District mayors, but Gray (D)
and council members say it goes further by explicitly setting standards for how
the city's criminal justice system will deal with immigrants.

"In the spirit of 'One City,' and assuring the equal treatment of citizens and
noncitizens alike, I am delighted to sign to this," Gray said.

Under the new guidelines, which Gray signed while surrounded by Hispanic and
African immigrants, D.C. police and corrections officials will not ask those
they come in contact with about their immigration status. District police also
will not enforce an ICE detainer or warrant issued against someone who has not
committed another crime.

Police and jail officials are forbidden from contacting ICE to have the agency
investigate the legal status of someone who has been arrested.

Instead, Gray and Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier said, police will process all
offenders in the same manner and leave it up to the FBI and ICE to decide
whether to check on their legal status.

For less-serious crimes, such as violating the city's open-container law, the
District no longer collects fingerprints. So the FBI and ICE can't determine
immigration status, officials said.

"Law enforcement agencies that honor ICE detainers help protect public safety,"
ICE spokeswoman Cori W. Bassett said.

For major crimes, such as robbery or drug possession, police will continue to
collect the offender's fingerprints and forward them to the FBI. It will be up
to the FBI to share information with ICE.

If ICE determines that it wants to detain offenders upon their release from
jail, the agency will have only 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, to
pick up a suspected illegal immigrant from custody. The city will not hold
inmates that ICE wants detained past 48 hours, Deputy Mayor for Public Safety
Paul Quander said.

"What this does is makes clear immigration status is not relevant in a criminal
matter and makes clear the District will not take any affirmative step to
enforce immigration civil matters," Quander said.

Kristopher Baumann, chairman of theD.C. Fraternal Order of Police labor
committee, blasted the decision, saying that until now local criminal justice
officials were willing to give ICE more than 48 hours to pick up someone it
wanted detained.

"Vince Gray right now is under such duress, he is willing to pander and fold to
any group in order to take the scrutiny off himself," Baumann said. "He has now
decided to go out and jeopardize public safety. This is not about regular
immigrants. This is about hard-core criminals and bad, bad guys."

In Prince William County, where law enforcement officials check the immigration
status of those arrested, Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart
(R-At Large) called Gray's move "disturbing and reprehensible."

"I find it incredibly ironic that the immigration laws of the United States are
not even enforced within the boundaries of our nation's capital," Stewart said
in a statement.

Gray countered that the policy will make the District safer by making someone in
the country illegally less afraid to interact with police or report alleged
crimes.

Some immigrants and activists played down Gray's order, noting that District
mayors have been distancing the city from immigration enforcement for decades.

"Mayor Gray has implemented and confirmed a policy that was initiated by the
Marion Barry administration in 1984," activist Jose Sueiro said.

But others called it a major morale boost for local immigrants concerned about
tough new immigration laws in several states, including Arizona and Alabama.

"It reinforces things for people who are scared," said Maria Gomez, president of
Mary's Center, an Adams Morgan health center. "And people have been running
scared."

craigt@washpost.com

Staff writer Nikita Stewart contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Microloan program to assist legal immigrants

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 750 words


Ernestina Pacas completed her citizenship application last week, 17 years after
she moved to the United States from El Salvador.

This week she is awaiting approval of a loan for $680, which she plans to use to
pay the application fees charged by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Pacas, 42, is among the first to apply for a new microloan designed to help
legal permanent residents cover their naturalization costs.

"If I become a citizen thanks to this loan, I will be a very happy person," said
Pacas, a hotel housekeeper in the District who qualified for naturalization
nearly a decade ago. She said she did not apply earlier because she did not have
the money to pay the fees.

Organizers expect hundreds of green card holders such as Pacas to qualify for
the pilot program being launched Tuesday byCASA of Maryland - the state's
largest immigrant advocacy group - in partnership with Citi and other financial
institutions and nonprofit groups. However, they said, the need is much greater.

The lack of money and English skills are the two main reasons permanent
residents do not seek citizenship, said Gustavo Torres, executive director of
CASA.

Nearly 300,000 people are eligible to apply for citizenship in the District,
Virginia and Maryland,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/mdhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/vaaccording to a
CASA report.

If the year-long microloan pilot in Maryland is successful, it could be expanded
in the region and replicated in other parts of the country, said Sheldon Caplis,
south Atlantic regional director for Citi Community Development. Citi is the top
investor in the program, contributing about $150,000 of the $400,000 cost.

"We want folks to attain citizenship. We want them to learn about the economic
system. We want them to be better aware of their financial opportunities and to
be able to take advantage of them," Caplis said. "This is a win-win."

According to the Pew Hispanic Center, about 12.4 million permanent residents
live in the United States. The majority are eligible to become naturalized
citizens, or soon will be.

Immigration statistics show that more people are choosing to naturalize. In the
District, Maryland and Virginia, the number of naturalizations has more than
doubled in the past decade, increasing from 13,770 in fiscal 2001 to 35,354 in
fiscal 2010, according to the Department of Homeland Security.

The pilot includes money for the microloans and citizenship and financial
education. The loans become due a month after a person receives the money.
Applicants have six months to repay at an interest rate of 8.5 to 9 percent,
CASA officials said.

Permanent residents interested in applying for a microloan can visit CASA's
citizenship office to process their citizenship paperwork. To qualify, they need
to complete an initial credit screening and financial counseling, be eligible
for citizenship and pay a $25 application fee.

The program targets "lowincome" immigrants, but organizers have not set any
income restrictions, said Eliza Leighton, director of strategic initiatives at
CASA.

The Latino Economic Development Corp. and the Ethiopian Community Development
Council Enterprise Development Group are partnering with Citi and CASA to
process the microloans, officials said.

Immigrant advocates point to several advantages to citizenship, including that
naturalized citizens have access to federal jobs and are less likely to be poor
than legal permanent residents who are eligible for citizenship.

Hispanic activists also see in naturalization an opportunity to increase the
group's electorate to shape immigration policy.

"For us to change the current immigration laws, it is vital that our people earn
citizenship," Torres said. "By becoming citizens, we demonstrate that we are
integrating into the American society, and we also send a message that we will
vote for candidates that respect our community."

Pacas is scheduled to start citizenship classes Thursday, where she will prepare
for the naturalization test, which measures English language skills and basic
knowledge of U.S. history and government.

As soon as she receives the loan, she said, she will send her paperwork to
immigration authorities.

Pacas said the surge in antiillegal-immigration laws in states across the
countryand the lack of federal immigration reformhave motivated her to seek
citizenship.

"I feel we need a voice," she said. "If everything goes well, and I pass the
exam and become a citizen, I will be the first in line to vote next year."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 4, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

Obama renews effort to reformimmigration despite detractors

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr.

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 489 words


The Obama administration is beginning another effort to change the nation's
immigration laws, despite little enthusiasm from Republicans in Congress.

President Obama met for more than an hour Tuesday with members of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, his third session on the issue at the White House
in the past three weeks. White House aides promised a renewed push to try to
persuade Congress and the American public to back Obama's proposals, which would
combine stronger enforcement of current immigration laws with the creation of a
pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

"He is committed and will be leaning into this issue in a very serious and very
vigorous way," said Melody Barnes, Obama's top domestic policy adviser.

The new effort comes as Obama starts his 2012 reelection campaign needing to
rebuild support among Latinos, many of whom view immigration reform as critical.
Obama won two-thirds of the Hispanic vote in 2008, but some polls have shown
that his approval ratings have dipped among this key electoral bloc.

High turnout among Latinos could help Obama win in states such as Colorado and
Florida, although White House officials emphasize that they have long sought to
reform immigration laws and are not pushing the issue only because of the 2012
campaign.

Barnes said the White House, aware of the opposition from congressional
Republicans, will seek to build a coalition outside Washington that includes
business leaders, law enforcement figures and others. Over the past few weeks,
Obama has met with a range of people, most of whom back his vision for
immigration reform, including former New York police commissioner William
Bratton and "Desperate Housewives" star Eva Longoria.

Immigration reform has not been a priority of the administration, at least
compared with  health-care reform and the economy. But last year, Obama did urge
the passage of the so-called Dream Act, which would allow young people whose
parents brought them to the United States illegally to gain citizenship
eventually if they attended college or served in the military for at least two
years.

The bill passed in December in the then-Democratic-controlled House, but was
blocked in the Senate by a 55-41 vote, with most Republicans and a few Democrats
saying the measure would reward illegal behavior. Republicans, now in control of
the House, have expressed little desire to back Obama's push.

"The speaker's focused on creating jobs, cutting spending and lowering gas
prices," said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker John A. Boehner
(Ohio.).

Latino activists and even some members of Congress have called for the adoption
of a blanket policy that would not allow the deportations of any students who
would qualify for the Dream Act. But Obama aides say that such a policy would be
a unilateral decision by the administration and that they instead want to reach
an agreement with Congress.

baconp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 4, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

Montgomeryimmigrationenforcementlaunch is set

BYLINE: Michael Laris;and Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 971 words


Montgomery officials are getting a civics lesson in the power of the federal
government: A controversial federal immigration enforcement program will launch
in the county this fall, whether local officials like it or not.

In a terse letter, a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement official told
Montgomery's corrections director that the program, called Secure Communities,
is coming soon. As part of the program, fingerprint data from local law
enforcement are sent to federal immigration officials.

"This letter is to notify you that the activation date for Montgomery County is
scheduled for Tuesday, September 27, 2011," the three-sentence letter said.

Montgomery already sends information to ICE about people arrested on charges of
violent or gun crimes, regardless of whether they are immigrants. It also
regularly sends a list of foreign-born inmates to immigration officials. County
officials are concerned that the new program's broader net will draw in many
upstanding individuals or those who have made minor mistakes.

In Prince George's County, for example, a large majority of undocumented
immigrants deported via the program were not criminals. Advocates say they are
concerned that some victims of domestic violence might stop calling police for
help because they fear it will lead to their deportation.

At a rally outside the County Council building in Rockville on Tuesday, Florinda
Lorenzo, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, described being arrested and
jailed a year ago for selling phone cards from her home in Langley Park. Now she
faces deportation and will voluntarily leave her three young children, all
U.S.-born, with their father and move back to Guatemala to apply to immigrate
legally. "I just don't want to go. I want to stay with my kids right here," she
said.

The District is not participating in the program but will eventually do so,
local and federal officials said. Arlington is part of the program - over the
vigorous objections of local leaders who thought that their participation was
voluntary. But local officials, including those in Montgomery, have learned that
federal law trumps local preferences on immigration matters.

The ICE letter was written April 26, the same day council member Nancy Navarro
(D-Eastern County) proposed a resolution saying the council "opposes
implementation of the Secure Communities initiative in Montgomery County."

By Tuesday, after scrambling to figure out where the county and council stood
legally and politically, council members unanimously passed a radically
overhauled version of Navarro's resolution. The council, it declared,
"encourages our public safety officials to work closely with ICE to ensure that
the Secure Communities program is implemented consistent with its stated purpose
and goals."

"The resolution itself changed 180 degrees," said council member George L.
Leventhal (D-At Large).

Still, Navarro said, it's important for the council to be on record with its
deep misgivings.

"They're saying, 'We're coming,' " Navarro said of immigration officials, adding
it's important for the council's message to be heard as well. According to the
resolution, the federal program, "as currently administered, will create
division in our community, promote a culture of fear, and dismantle the trust
that our police officers have worked to establish in many immigrant
communities."

ICE defends the program, which it said helped deport 72,445 undocumented
immigrants with criminal backgrounds from October 2008 through March. Of those,
26,473 were found guilty of crimes as serious as murder, rape and the sexual
abuse of children.

The program, which began in the George W. Bush administration and was greatly
expanded by the Obama administration, sends the fingerprints of suspects picked
up by local police to immigration officials. The fingerprint is checked against
a national database of undocumented immigrants, and if there is a match showing
that the person in custody is in the country illegally, federal officials ask
the local police department to detain the suspect for an immigration check.

When the program was activated in any given area, ICE spokeswoman Barbara
Gonzalez said, it tended to first identify "lower-level criminals as they are
first to complete their criminal sentence and come into ICE custody." But over
time, she said the program usually identified an increasing number of
undocumented immigrants with links to violent crimes and a decreasing number who
had committed less-serious crimes.

After conducting their own investigations, immigration officials sometimes place
detainees into deportation proceedings. Officials have said that the program
prioritizes the removal of violent and dangerous criminals but that they are
also required by law to remove non-criminal undocumented immigrants who come to
their notice via the program, if sufficient detention and removal resources
exist.

County Executive Isiah Leggett (D) said the county's own notification system has
worked well. "Unless there are some changes, it will supersede our local
program," Leggett said. While the county plans to continue expressing its
disappointment and trying to work with federal officials, he said, "I'm not sure
we will have any success on that. They've got a national program in place, and
they're just imposing it, whether you agree or not."

Leggett spoke by phone from a White House meeting of county officials from
across the country discussing local concerns, immigration enforcement among
them. He said the homeland security secretary acknowledged shortcomings in the
way the government has communicated to locals about the federal effort. "Janet
Napolitano got up and said they miscommunicated to a lot to people in counties
about Secure Communities," Leggett said.

larism@washpost.com

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 12, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Kick-starting immigration reform

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 617 words


FOR THE THIRD TIME in as many weeks, President Obama and his top domestic policy
advisers hosted a group of prominent Hispanics and immigration experts the other
day at the White House. That was followed by a policy speech on immigration
reform              Tuesday in El Paso. The president's goal has been twofold:
First, and explicitly, it was to reaffirm his support for overhauling the
nation's dysfunctional immigration system, which has produced 11 million
undocumented immigrants. Second, and implicitly, it was to galvanize relations
with a large and increasingly restless voting bloc whose support was critical to
his victory in 2008 and will be again for his prospects in 2012.

The restlessness of Hispanic voters is understandable, if not wholly
attributable to Mr. Obama. As a candidate, he promised to press, in his first
year in office, for comprehensive immigration reform. But the first year came
and went with no movement on immigration. And that was before Mr. Obama lost his
Democratic majority, along with much of his influence, in the House of
Representatives.

Now, with Republicans ruling the House, chances for a comprehensive immigration
bill are nil. Though the president insists he has not given up, Hispanic
advocates, celebrities and lawmakers who have visited the White House have come
away with the impression that Mr. Obama is stymied by the Republicans.

It is true that with few exceptions, Republicans in Congress remain dead set
against any measure that includes eventual citizenship - or, as they would
describe it, amnesty - for immigrants here illegally. But it would be cynical
for the administration to use GOP obstructionism as justification to throw up
its hands, declare the issue dormant and scale back its efforts to what amounts
to a get-out-the-Hispanic-vote strategy.

The truth is that the administration has not been inactive on immigration; it
has simply trained all its fire on enforcement, perhaps hoping that would soften
Republican opposition to an eventual deal that included some provision for
assimilating the 11 million immigrants who lack documents.

If that was the strategy, it hasn't worked; the Republicans haven't budged. But
the administration's push on enforcement - including a crackdown on big
employers such as Chipotle, stepped-up deportations, especially of undocumented
criminals, and much tighter security along the Mexican border - has helped cut
the inflow and impeded the hiring of immigrants here illegally.

That's fine, but enforcement is only half the equation. As Hispanic lawmakers
and advocate groups have stressed, Mr. Obama could, on his own authority, order
steps that do not require legislation. One such measure would be to curtail or
suspend the deportation of undocumented young students who were brought to the
United States as children - whose immigration status might be legalized in the
future. Mr. Obama has refused to do that, saying the administration should not
bypass Congress on immigration policy.

Even without a top-to-bottom legislative package, the administration could push
for discrete measures for which an overwhelming economic argument can be made.
For instance, why not expand the quota of visas available to immigrants who
receive PhDs from American universities in science, math and engineering? What
sense does it make to educate such promising students, then force them to return
to their home countries, where many will take jobs competing against American
companies?

Mr. Obama may be stymied by the Republicans in delivering a full revamping of
immigration policy. But there is still work that could be done - and not just in
rallying Hispanics to vote against Republicans in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 16, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

In search of immigration solutions

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 324 words


Regarding the May 12 editorial "Kick-starting immigration reform":

Instead of recognizing that both sides of the immigration debate have legitimate
concerns, The Post suggested only that President Obama "curtail or suspend" some
enforcement and expand legal immigration for graduates of PhD programs (a step
that will matter little to those already in the United States illegally).

How about a realistic compromise? A plan that includes both (a) a path to legal
permanent residency, as well as (b) a permanent prohibition on U.S. citizenship
could break the stalemate.

For Republicans, the perceived scofflaws and line-jumpers would not get off
scot-free with all of the privileges of citizenship. At the same time, there
would be real, compassionate relief for millions of otherwise law-abiding people
living in the shadows. Each side would be making concessions while still
preserving significant ideological ground.

Legal, permanent residents can live long, happy lives in the United States
without becoming citizens. Indeed, many choose this path voluntarily even when
eligible for naturalization. It's time for politicians and opinion makers in
Washington to think outside the box.

Erik Warga, Washington

l

A more accurate headline for this editorial would have been "Kicking Obama in
the shin once again."

The Post acknowledged several times that Republicans have shown zero interest in
moving any legislation on immigration reform, either comprehensively or
piecemeal.

Yet the thrust of the editorial is that President Obama is at fault - both for
not acting  unilaterally and for criticizing the GOP for blocking action. Could
you not find room for one sentence condemning hard-liners for making a bad
situation even worse?

Let's suppose that the president took your advice and shifted his focus even
slightly from enforcement.

I can already imagine the GOP attack ads that would flood the airwaves in
response.

Steven Alan Honley, Washington


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 18, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

ICE's program reforms to protect crime victims, witnesses

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A section; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 417 words


Federal authorities announced Friday that a key immigration enforcement program
that has drawn protests from some state and local governments will offer greater
protection to crime victims and witnesses.

Through the Secure Communities program, the FBI shares the fingerprint data of
people arrested by local and state law enforcement agencies with federal
authorities, who can use the information to check for immigration violations.
Immigrant organizations have complained that the program does not distinguish
enough between minor offenders and serious criminals. They say there is
widespread concern the program would silence victims and witnesses, who are
often reluctant to report crimes for fear of being swept up in arrests and
tagged for deportation.

"It is agency policy not to put these people into immigration proceedings," said
John Morton, director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The changes provide for greater prosecutorial discretion, which Morton said
"expands the grounds and the circumstances to be considered when officers are
making decisions on who to detain or remove." Reforms include more training for
local law enforcement, greater agency oversight and a stronger complaint system.

"If the administration is really concerned about their image in the community,
what they should do is to suspend the program completely," said Gustavo Andrade
of Casa de Maryland, an immigrant advocacy group.

Massachusetts, Illinois and New York recently said they would pull out of the
program. Baltimore and Oakland, Calif., also voted to cancel participation.

"We don't take that lightly. We take the governors' concerns seriously, and
that's part of the reason why these reforms are being undertaken," said an ICE
official with knowledge of the program. But the program is an
"information-sharing agreement between federal agencies," and there is no room
for local jurisdictions to opt out, he said.

The program, which began in 2008, has been implemented in 50 percent of the
country - about 1,400 jurisdictions -  with a goal of having it in place
nationwide by 2013. An advisory committee, which includes law enforcement
officials and immigration advocates, is expected to review it and offer findings
by August.

Some immigration groups were cautiously optimistic. "We're pleased that there's
been an acknowledgment of flaws" in the program, said Brittney Nystrom of the
National Immigration Forum. "It's a good sign, but the real devil here is in the
details."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 8, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

ICE drops Secure Communities deals

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 411 words


A key immigration enforcement program that has drawn criticism from some state
and local governments will terminate all existing agreements with jurisdictions
over the program, federal authorities announced Friday.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement said its director, John Morton, had sent a
letter to state governors terminating the agreements "to avoid further
confusion."

Through the program, the FBI shares fingerprint data of people arrested by local
and state law enforcement agencies with federal authorities, who can use the
information to check for immigration law violations. The agreements were meant
to educate states about the availability of the service, ICE officials say.

The initiative,  which began in 2008, has been implemented in about half the
jurisdictions in the country, with a goal of having it in place nationwide by
2013.

Inconsistent federal guidelines on the program have created confusion, with some
jurisdictions, such as Arlington County, forced to participate against their
will while others, such as the District and Montgomery County, have been given
more latitude.

Although the program, called Secure Communities, was initially widely thought to
be voluntary, federal officials have since said that there is no room for local
jurisdictions to opt out.  The memoranda of agreement, which states signed under
the previous administration, may have given a false impression that
participation was optional.

"Today's action represents a disagreement with that approach, and we're trying
to put more clarity into how this system actually works," a Department of
Homeland Security official said Friday. "We're going to continue the program,
but we're going to do it without MoAs."

Immigrant advocacy organizations responded angrily to the announcement. "For DHS
to act with such disregard for local leadership, community policing and fiscal
prudence is an act of bad faith and bad policy," Ali Noorani, executive director
of the Washington-based National Immigration Forum, said in a statement.

Immigrant advocates have criticized the program, saying that it does not
distinguish enough between minor offenders and serious criminals. They say it
could discourage victims and witnesses from reporting crimes for fear of being
swept up in arrests and tagged for deportation.

In June, the government announced measures designed to offer greater protection
to crime victims and witnesses.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Mr. Obama's immigration policy

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 416 words


David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey ["Obama's illegal move on immigration,"
op-ed, Sept. 3] blithely assert the illegality of a recent Obama administration
announcement, which encouraged the closure of lower-priority cases so that the
overburdened immigration court system could more adeptly handle the cases of
immigrants who have dangerous criminal convictions or pose security risks. They
assert that only Congress sets immigration policy.

Perhaps these gentlemen could join my law students in studying the cases
establishing the federal power to regulate immigration - the late-19th-century
cases of Chae Chan Ping v. U.S., Ekiu v. U.S. and Fong Yue Ting v. U.S., which
explicitly defer to the "political departments," both executive and
congressional.

President Obama is acting well within the powers conferred by Congress. Beyond
the unquestionable constitutionality, it is simply good policy to let the
executive branch clear the debilitating court backlog to allow its enforcement
work to be smarter and more effective.

Elizabeth Keyes, Washington

The writer teaches immigration law at American University's Washington College
of Law.

l

The op-ed by David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey rested on a false premise:
that the Obama administration has decided to deport only those who have
committed crimes in the United States.

An Aug. 18 letter by Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to Sen.
Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) repeated the administration's position that it "makes no
sense to expend our enforcement resources on low-priority cases," such as those
of young people "who were brought to this country as young children and know no
other home."

But that does not mean, as Mr. Rivkin and Mr. Casey argued, that "no enforcement
resources will be expended on those who do not pose a threat to public safety."
They conceded that President Obama "has not declared his intent to dispense with
immigration law."

In fact, by every enforcement strategy and metric - interdictions, visa
controls, border enforcement, workplace audits, fines and debarments, and
criminal prosecutions - the administration has aggressively enforced the law. If
trends continue, it will remove roughly 1.5 million noncitizens over four years,
compared with 2 million removals during the eight years of George W. Bush's
presidency.

Donald Kerwin, New York

The writer is executive director of the Center for Migration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 16, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Whitewashed memories

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 510 words


IN BOTH OF THIS month's Republican presidential debates, Rep. Michele Bachmann
hailed what she evidently believes was the golden age of American immigration -
the period before the mid-1960s when, she said, "immigration law worked
beautifully."

Ms. Bachmann's nostalgia is touching but misplaced, unless she really pines for
a return to laws that explicitly favored white immigrants from a handful of
Northern European countries while excluding or disadvantaging Jews, Asians,
Africans and practically everyone else.

Ms. Bachmann didn't frame it that way, of course. She blamed "liberal members of
Congress" for upsetting a system that she characterized as requiring immigrants
to have money, sponsors, and clean health and criminal records. In Ms.
Bachmann's world, those immigrants would learn American history and to speak
English.

The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 fundamentally changed the system of
immigration in this country but not in the way Ms. Bachmann evidently imagines.
That law, pushed by Democrats including Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Rep.
Emanuel Celler (D-N.Y.), threw out four decades of immigration quotas whose
explicit goal was to emulate America's ethnic balance as it stood in the year
1890, when the country remained overwhelmingly white.

Specifically, the 1965 measure ended a legal regime dating from the early 1920s
that generally shut out Asians (especially Japanese) and capped immigration from
Latin America, Eastern and Southern Europe, and other areas at very low levels.
The effect was to overhaul that hidebound, exclusive quota system. The new
system, whose cornerstone gave preference to family reunification and job
skills, broadened what had been a narrow pool of immigrants to include soaring
numbers of newcomers from Asia and Latin America.

The shift has contributed to the nation's diversity, dynamism and rich cultural
kaleidoscope even as it challenged society, especially schools, to accommodate
waves of new Americans whose looks, language and customs were unfamiliar to
their neighbors.

By talking about sponsorship, English-language competency and the like, Ms.
Bachmann is either confused or deliberately misleading. Most legal immigrants
are still required to have family or employer sponsors, as they did in the gauzy
past she idealizes. As for learning English, American history and the like,
those were, and remain, requirements for citizenship, not immigration.

Ms. Bachmann, whose campaign did not respond to a request for comment, may not
care for the changes and effects wrought by the 1965 bill; many other critics on
the right do not. Patrick Buchanan, for example, has blamed the 2007 massacre at
Virginia Tech on the immigration overhaul, noting that the gunman "was among the
864,000 Koreans here as a result of the Immigration Act of 1965, which threw the
nation's doors open to the greatest invasion in history, an invasion opposed by
a majority of our people." If Ms. Bachmann shares such views, let her address
the issue honestly and head on, not in code.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 23, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

American historian shaped modern immigration law

BYLINE: Emily Langer

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 651 words


Oscar Handlin, a Harvard professor whose classic writings on American
immigration made him a leading intellectual force behind legislation that
eliminated the immigration quota system in the United States, died Sept. 20 at
his home in Cambridge, Mass., after a heart attack. He was 95.

His death was confirmed by his son, David Handlin.

The son of Jewish immigrants, Dr. Handlin was considered the father of modern
immigration studies. In his panoramic books, he chronicled the stories of
Europeans, Jews, Puerto Ricans and African Americans and other populations that
shaped the United States. His sweeping work "The Uprooted: The Epic Story of the
Great Migrations That Made the American People" won the 1952 Pulitzer Prize in
history.

"Once I thought to write a history of the immigrants in America," he wrote in
perhaps the most noted passage of that book. "Then, I discovered that the
immigrants were American history."

Dr. Handlin's credentials as a historian, the Harvard imprimatur and his
frequent writings - in publications including the Atlantic Monthly and
Commentary - made him an influential public intellectual in his time. Historians
cite him as a crucial behind-the-scenes player in the landmark 1965 legislation
that abolished the country-based quota systems that had regulated immigration
since the 1920s.

He was "absolutely central to it," said Hasia Diner, a professor of immigration
history at New York University.

Dr. Handlin found the quota systems, which favored Northern and Western European
immigrants, racially discriminatory.

He considered it "something that not only discriminated against prospective
immigrants," said Columbia University professor Mae Ngai, but also "a kind of
stigma against those ethnic groups in the United States."

In his writings, Dr. Handlin never treated American immigration in dry,
statistical terms. Critics described "The Uprooted," his most noted work, as a
riveting and moving account of the entire immigration experience.

"The Uprooted concerns the personal human side of the flood of immigration,"
wrote a New York Herald Tribune reviewer. "Mr. Handlin wrote of the European
settlements from which the immigrants came, then followed through the hardships
of their crossing, in steerage, and life that followed in the United States."

Oscar Handlin was born Sept. 29, 1915, in Brooklyn in a household where
education was highly valued. When Dr. Handlin's son was born, his father, a
Russian immigrant, suggested the name "Plato." Dr. Handlin and his wife decided
against it.

Dr. Handlin grew up working as a delivery boy in his family's grocery store and
often rested a book on top of his pushcart, reading as his made his way through
the streets of Brooklyn.

He graduated from Brooklyn College in 1934 and then studied at Harvard, where he
earned a master's degree in 1935 and a doctorate in history in 1940.

Among his mentors was Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr., who suggested the topic of his
dissertation: 18th- and early 19th-century immigrants to Boston. The work was
subsequently published under the title "Boston's Immigrants."

Dr. Handlin was himself the target of discrimination while at Harvard. His
classmate John Hope Franklin, who became a revered scholar of African American
history, wrote in a memoir that Dr. Handlin was turned away as an officer in the
Henry Adams Club because he was Jewish.

Dr. Handlin began teaching at Harvard while pursuing his graduate degrees and
would remain with the university for more than four decades.

His first wife, Mary Flug Handlin, with whom he often collaborated, died in
1976.

Survivors include his second wife, of 34 years, Lilian Bombach Handlin of
Cambridge, also a co-author; three children from his first marriage, David
Handlin of Lexington, Mass., Joanna Handlin Smith of Cambridge and Ruth Manley
of Guilford, Conn.; one brother; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.

langere@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 20, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

City agencies won't cooperate with ICE

BYLINE: Tim Craig

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 702 words


D.C. Mayor Vincent C. Gray reaffirmed Wednesday that District police and other
public agencies will not cooperate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
leaving it up to federal immigration officials to determine on their own whether
a resident is in the country illegally.

The decision reinforces executive orders by past District mayors, but Gray (D)
and council members say it goes further by explicitly setting standards for how
the city's criminal justice system will deal with immigrants.

"In the spirit of 'One City,' and assuring the equal treatment of citizens and
noncitizens alike, I am delighted to sign to this," Gray said.

Under the new guidelines, which Gray signed while surrounded by Hispanic and
African immigrants, D.C. police and corrections officials will not ask those
they come in contact with about their immigration status. District police also
will not enforce an ICE detainer or warrant issued against someone who has not
committed another crime.

Police and jail officials are forbidden from contacting ICE to have the agency
investigate the legal status of someone who has been arrested.

Instead, Gray and Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier said, police will process all
offenders in the same manner and leave it up to the FBI and ICE to decide
whether to check on their legal status.

For less-serious crimes, such as violating the city's open-container law, the
District no longer collects fingerprints. So the FBI and ICE can't determine
immigration status, officials said.

"Law enforcement agencies that honor ICE detainers help protect public safety,"
ICE spokeswoman Cori W. Bassett said.

For major crimes, such as robbery or drug possession, police will continue to
collect the offender's fingerprints and forward them to the FBI. It will be up
to the FBI to share information with ICE.

If ICE determines that it wants to detain offenders upon their release from
jail, the agency will have only 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, to
pick up a suspected illegal immigrant from custody. The city will not hold
inmates that ICE wants detained past 48 hours, Deputy Mayor for Public Safety
Paul Quander said.

"What this does is makes clear immigration status is not relevant in a criminal
matter and makes clear the District will not take any affirmative step to
enforce immigration civil matters," Quander said.

Kristopher Baumann, chairman of the D.C. Fraternal Order of Police labor
committee, blasted the decision, saying that until now local criminal justice
officials were willing to give ICE more than 48 hours to pick up someone it
wanted detained.

"Vince Gray right now is under such duress, he is willing to pander and fold to
any group in order to take the scrutiny off himself," Baumann said. "He has now
decided to go out and jeopardize public safety. This is not about regular
immigrants. This is about hard-core criminals and bad, bad guys."

In Prince William County, where law enforcement officials check the immigration
status of those arrested, Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart
(R-At Large) called Gray's move "disturbing and reprehensible."

"I find it incredibly ironic that the immigration laws of the United States are
not even enforced within the boundaries of our nation's capital," Stewart said
in a statement.

Gray countered that the policy will make the District safer by making someone in
the country illegally less afraid to interact with police or report alleged
crimes.

Some immigrants and activists played down Gray's order, noting that District
mayors have been distancing the city from immigration enforcement for decades.

"Mayor Gray has implemented and confirmed a policy that was initiated by the
Marion Barry administration in 1984," activist Jose Sueiro said.

But others called it a major morale boost for local immigrants concerned about
tough new immigration laws in several states, including Arizona and Alabama.

"It reinforces things for people who are scared," said Maria Gomez, president of
Mary's Center, an Adams Morgan health center. "And people have been running
scared."

craigt@washpost.com

Staff writer Nikita Stewart contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 1, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Microloan program to assist legal immigrants

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 762 words


Ernestina Pacas completed her citizenship application last week, 17 years after
she moved to the United States from El Salvador.

This week she is awaiting approval of a loan for $680, which she plans to use to
pay the application fees charged by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Pacas, 42, is among the first to apply for a new microloan designed to help
legal permanent residents cover their naturalization costs.

"If I become a citizen thanks to this loan, I will be a very happy person," said
Pacas, a hotel housekeeper in the District who qualified for naturalization
nearly a decade ago. She said she did not apply earlier because she did not have
the money to pay the fees.

Organizers expect hundreds of green card holders such as Pacas to qualify for
the pilot program being launched Tuesday by CASA of Maryland - the state's
largest immigrant advocacy group - in partnership with Citi and other financial
institutions and nonprofit groups. However, they said, the need is much greater.

The lack of money and English skills are the two main reasons permanent
residents do not seek citizenship, said Gustavo Torres, executive director of
CASA.

Nearly 300,000 people are eligible to apply for citizenship in the District,
Virginia and Maryland,              according to a CASA report.

If the year-long microloan pilot in Maryland is successful, it could be expanded
in the region and replicated in other parts of the country, said Sheldon Caplis,
south Atlantic regional director for Citi Community Development. Citi is the top
investor in the program, contributing about $150,000 of the $400,000 cost.

"We want folks to attain citizenship. We want them to learn about the economic
system. We want them to be better aware of their financial opportunities and to
be able to take advantage of them," Caplis said. "This is a win-win."

According to the Pew Hispanic Center, about 12.4 million permanent residents
live in the United States. The majority are eligible to become naturalized
citizens, or soon will be.

Immigration statistics show that more people are choosing to naturalize. In the
District, Maryland and Virginia, the number of naturalizations has more than
doubled in the past decade, increasing from 13,770 in fiscal 2001 to 35,354 in
fiscal 2010, according to the Department of Homeland Security.

The pilot includes money for the microloans and citizenship and financial
education. The loans become due a month after a person receives the money.
Applicants have six months to repay at an interest rate of 8.5 to 9 percent,
CASA officials said.

Permanent residents interested in applying for a microloan can visit CASA's
citizenship office to process their citizenship paperwork. To qualify, they need
to complete an initial credit screening and financial counseling, be eligible
for citizenship and pay a $25 application fee.

The program targets "lowincome" immigrants, but organizers have not set any
income restrictions, said Eliza Leighton, director of strategic initiatives at
CASA.

The Latino Economic Development Corp. and the Ethiopian Community Development
Council Enterprise Development Group are partnering with Citi and CASA to
process the microloans, officials said.

Immigrant advocates point to several advantages to citizenship, including that
naturalized citizens have access to federal jobs and are less likely to be poor
than legal permanent residents who are eligible for citizenship.

Hispanic activists also see in naturalization an opportunity to increase the
group's electorate to shape immigration policy.

"For us to change the current immigration laws, it is vital that our people earn
citizenship," Torres said. "By becoming citizens, we demonstrate that we are
integrating into the American society, and we also send a message that we will
vote for candidates that respect our community."

Pacas is scheduled to start citizenship classes Thursday, where she will prepare
for the naturalization test, which measures English language skills and basic
knowledge of U.S. history and government.

As soon as she receives the loan, she said, she will send her paperwork to
immigration authorities.

Pacas said the surge in antiillegal-immigration laws in states across the
country and the lack of federal immigration reform have motivated her to seek
citizenship.

"I feel we need a voice," she said. "If everything goes well, and I pass the
exam and become a citizen, I will be the first in line to vote next year."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Tuition debatein Maryland

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 241 words


Many of the PostLocal.com readers who commented on an article about opposition
to a bill to give undocumented immigrants in-state tuition benefits at Maryland
colleges also came out against the legislation.

Hollyhock: If there are no rules, then society is flawed and lawless.

dmosgoo: I have already contacted every one of my state representatives telling
them that I completely oppose giving my tax dollars to illegal/undocumented
aliens.

cb11: What's the point of having a separate in-state tuition if anybody can get
it? An illegal is NOT entitled to every single perk everyone else gets. They are
entitled to basic human rights, but they are NOT entitled to perks of any kind.

hexnut: People: Ranting here does little to change things. As previously posted,
writing to your representatives and voting against the proponents is our only
recourse.

AGdQ: I say that if they are paying property taxes directly (buying a home) or
indirectly (renting a home), they should get in-state tuition.

jorob4539: The House and Senate need to start thinking about the people. Some of
you have been in politics too long. You have lost touch with the people and
their needs.

Terpinator1: I can hardly wait to get out of Maryland to a more sane,
tax-friendly state.

pennv: If you wish to become American, apply the legal way, and I will welcome
you with open arms . . .

bbblount: If the state has so much money that it can do this, how about reducing
my property taxes?

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

O'Malley signs bill allowing immigrants tuition breaks

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 942 words


Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, bucking a trend in other states, signed off on
legislation Tuesday that extends in-state tuition breaks to illegal immigrants
at the state's colleges and universities.

O'Malley's signature sets up a showdown with opponents who have already started
gathering signatures for a petition to try to repeal the law, which is  slated
to take effect in July.

Supporters of the new law, including dozens of religious leaders, immigrant
advocates, Democratic lawmakers and students, jammed the governor's reception
room at the State House in Annapolis to pose for photos and celebrate during the
signing ceremony.

"We've got guts," said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), a longtime
advocate for the bill. "We were willing to go against the tide and stand up for
something that is the right thing to do."

The in-state tuition legislation was one of more than 200 bills the governor
signed into law in a marathon session Tuesday. Among the others was a measure
intended to create reliability standards for electric companies in response to
extended power outages Pepco customers experienced last winter. Another creates
a prescription-drug monitoring program aimed at curbing the state's fastest
growing drug problem.

In a boon to wine aficionados and vineyards in Maryland, O'Malley (D) also
backed legislation that will allow residents to have their favorite bottles of
wine shipped directlyto their doorsteps.

It was the tuition bill, however, that had the most contentious road to passage
and that will remain the source of political debate in the weeks ahead.

Sponsors had worked for years to pass legislation that would allow
illegal-immigrant students to continue their education by paying lower in-state
rates. Former Republican governor Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. vetoed one version in
2003, and the measure this year was a tough sell even among some Democrats
because of concerns about competition for a limited number of slots for
residents.

In a compromise, sponsors rewrote the bill during the General Assembly session
that ended last month to direct undocumented students initially to community
colleges. Those who receive an associate's degree are then eligible to transfer
and pay in-state tuition at a four-year institution.

Students must have attended a Maryland high school for three years before
graduating, must provide proof that their parents are state taxpayers and must
express their intent to become a citizen.

After signing the bill, O'Malley said students whose families have been
residents and paid taxes for many years "should not have additional barriers put
up. It's bad enough that we have a dysfunctional immigration system."

Juan Lopez, a community college student from Hyattsville who attended the
ceremony, said the change in law would make a four-year school affordable and
allow him to "finally see my dream" of becoming a business administrator.

Maryland joins at least 10 other states, including California and New York, that
allow illegal-immigrant students to pay in-state tuition rates. But the national
trend is toward eliminating such breaks, according to the National Conference of
State Legislatures. In Virginia, lawmakers have tried to go further, proposing
to block illegal immigrants from attending state colleges.

Opponents of the new law in Maryland have until June 30 to collect the more than
55,000 signatures - or 3 percent of the number of votes cast in the last
gubernatorial election - required to hold a statewide referendum on the law.

Students would be able to qualify for in-state tuition rates at community
colleges starting in the fall. But if opponents are successful in collecting
enough valid signatures, the law would be put on hold until the next general
election, in November 2012.

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County), one of the lawmakers leading the
opposition, said that the petition effort is "ahead of schedule" and that he has
been overwhelmed by the level of "passion and rage" from residents against the
measure.

Opponents say they object to the state subsidizing the cost of education for
illegal immigrants. In-state students, for instance, pay $8,400 in annual
tuition at the University of Maryland, compared with the $24,800 paid by
out-of-state students.

McDonough acknowledged the challenge, however, of collecting tens of thousands
of valid signatures in such a short period. Maryland's law makes it difficult to
qualify for the ballot. The last law petitioned to statewide referendum was a
1992 measure loosening restrictions on abortions.

"Will we hit the mark? I don't know," McDonough said. "The enthusiasm is there."

The new laws governing utility reliability and wine shipments were among the
most high-profile of the session. After lengthy power outages last winter for
Pepco customers, the governor and legislators successfully pushed for a law
O'Malley signed Tuesday that imposes a $25,000-a-day fine on electric utilities
for violating reliability standards. Regulators will be charged with crafting
the standards, such as how quickly a company answers customer calls.

Del. Brian J. Feldman (D-Montgomery), who sponsored the bill in the House,
called the  standards a "critical first step" in improving the reliability of
electric service.

Starting July 1, Maryland residents will be allowed to join those in the
District, Virginia and 36 other jurisdictions in ordering bottles of wine by
mail. The law permits residents to ship 18 cases a year per household.

"It was just silly," Sen. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Montgomery), one of the bill's
sponsors, said of the prohibition. "We've caught up with the rest of the
country."

marimowa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Petition to repeal law on tuition breaks advances

BYLINE: John Wagner

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 376 words


Organizers of an effort to repeal a Maryland law granting college tuition breaks
to illegal immigrants have collected enough signatures to continue their push to
put the issue to a statewide vote.

An ongoing tally posted Tuesday morning on the State Board of Elections Web site
showed that 21,919 signatures had been validated, exceeding the 18,579 that were
needed by the end of May for the petition drive to carry on.

Opponents of the new law have until June 30 to collect 55,736 valid signatures -
or 3 percent of the number of votes cast in the last gubernatorial election. If
they succeed, the new law will be put on hold and a statewide referendum will be
held on the issue in November 2012.

More than 30,000 signatures submitted by the group MDPetitions.com from the
first batch remain to be inspected by local election officials. About 85 percent
of the signatures that were submitted have been accepted. State election
officials said they will continue to post updates as counting continues.

The law, signed last month by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) and set to go into effect
July 1, would allow students who are illegal immigrants to pay the lower
in-state rates at the state's colleges and universities. To be eligible,
students must have attended a Maryland high school for three years, provide
proof that their parents are taxpayers and express their intent to become a
citizen. As part of a compromise, the law directs undocumented students
initially to community colleges. Those who receive an associate's degree are
then eligible to transfer and pay in-state tuition at a four-year institution.

Supporters of the new law, including dozens of religious leaders, immigrant
advocates, Democratic lawmakers and students, jammed the governor's reception
room at the State House in Annapolis to pose for photos and celebrate during
last mont's signing ceremony.

The last law petitioned to a statewide referendum was a 1992 measure ensuring
that abortions could continue in Maryland. The referendum was on a law that set
forth the terms under which abortion would be legal in Maryland in the event the
Supreme Court struck down Roe v. Wade. The law was affirmed in the public vote.

wagnerj@washpost.com

Staff writer Ann E. Marimow contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 8, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Petition to repeal law on tuition breaks advances

BYLINE: John Wagner

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 392 words


Organizers of an effort to repeal a Maryland law granting college tuition breaks
to illegal immigrants have collected enough signatures to continue their push to
put the issue to a statewide vote.

An ongoing tally posted Tuesday morning on the State Board of Elections Web site
showed that 21,919 signatures had been validated, exceeding the 18,579 that were
needed by the end of May for the petition drive to carry on.

Opponents of the new law have until June 30 to collect 55,736 valid signatures -
or 3 percent of the number of votes cast in the last gubernatorial election. If
they succeed, the new law will be put on hold and a statewide referendum will be
held on the issue in November 2012.

More than 30,000 signatures submitted by the group MDPetitions.com
from the first batch remain to be inspected by local election officials. About
85 percent of the signatures that were submitted have been accepted. State
election officials said they will continue to post updates as counting
continues.

The law, signed last month by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) and set to go into effect
July 1, would allow students who are illegal immigrants to pay the lower
in-state rates at the state's colleges and universities. To be eligible,
students must have attended a Maryland high school for three years, provide
proof that their parents are taxpayers and express their intent to become a
citizen. As part of a compromise, the law directs undocumented students
initially to community colleges. Those who receive an associate's degree are
then eligible to transfer and pay in-state tuition at a four-year institution.

Supporters of the new law, including dozens of religious leaders, immigrant
advocates, Democratic lawmakers and students, jammed the governor's reception
room at the State House in Annapolis to pose for photos and celebrate during
last mont's signing ceremony.

The last law petitioned to a statewide referendum was a 1992 measure ensuring
that abortions could continue in Maryland. The referendum was on a law that set
forth the terms under which abortion would be legal in Maryland in the event the
Supreme Court struck down Roe v. Wade. The law was affirmed in the public vote.

wagnerj@washpost.com

Staff writer Ann E. Marimow contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 29, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Win the future? You'll need immigrants.

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 757 words


President Obama said Tuesday night that he is prepared to "work with Republicans
and Democrats to protect our borders, enforce our laws and address the millions
of undocumented workers who are now living in the shadows." He also said it is
time for this country to "stop expelling talented, responsible young people . .
.who could be further enriching this nation."

What was missing from his State of the Union address, however, was this key
fact: The only way the nation can meet Obama's call to "win the future" is to
bring in more high-skilled immigrants.

Until Washington gets past rhetoric on immigration reform, stops conflating
border security with visa issues and addresses the need for an increase in the
number of visas allotted to highly skilled immigrants, we will be competing with
one hand tied behind our back.

We do indeed "need to out-innovate, out-educate and outbuild the rest of the
world," as the president said, but a big part of the American way to do just
that has been to use the skills of immigrants.

The United States issues far more patents - a primary measure of innovation -
than any other country, but immigrants were responsible for about a quarter of
them in recent years, according to studies by researchers at Harvard Business
School and elsewhere.

At Intel, the world's largest maker of semiconductors, 40 percent of the patents
are for work done by Chinese or Indian immigrants, the Council on Foreign
Relations reported in 2009.

Immigrants create patents at twice the rate of native-born Americans because
they disproportionately hold degrees in science and engineering, Marjolaine
Gauthier-Loiselle and Jennifer Hunt concluded in a study published last year by
the Center for Economic Research in London.

In 2006, foreign-born students received 40 percent of science and engineering
PhDs and 65 percent of computer science doctorates at U.S. schools. The data
imply that an increase of one percentage point in the share of immigrant college
graduates in the population would increase patents per capita by 6 percent, the
two researchers estimated.

This is because many of these students stay in the country to work. Of all the
U.S. engineering and technology companies started between 1995 and 2005, 25
percent had at least one immigrant founder, according to a 2006 Duke University
study. An additional 27 percent had a foreign-born chief executive or chief
technology officer.

Harvard economist Greg Mankiw, chairman of the President's Council of Economic
Advisers during the Bush administration, has written that admitting more highly
skilled workers would promote still more entrepreneurship, innovation and
productivity, which are the primary drivers to increase national wealth and per
capita income.

Immigrants such as the Italian Enrico Fermi, the Hungarian Edward Teller, the
Germans Hans Bethe and Albert Einstein, and the Pole Hyman Rickover were central
in building our preeminence in nuclear power, physics and arms, for example.
David Ho from Taiwan pioneered protease inhibitors against AIDS. Sergey Brin
from Russia founded Google. The list goes on.

While some are busy arguing that foreigners are taking high-tech jobs from
Americans - so says the AFL-CIO on the left and some Tea Party advocates on the
right - researchers David Kerr of Harvard and David Lincoln of the University of
Michigan found last year that the large presence of immigrants in high-tech
fields stimulated business and actually created more jobs than they took away
for native-born Americans.

There is no shame in all this. Skilled immigrants are attracted by our superior
universities and American cultural openness.

What all this suggests is that Obama is shortchanging the country if he backs
away from pushing needed immigration reform, which has included expanding the
number of highly skilled immigrants. Meanwhile, nativists in the Republican
Party, by making the country feel unwelcome to immigrants, pose an outright
threat to future American greatness.

The current annual visa cap for most skilled foreign professionals is 85,000,
which is too low. A congressional Republican study group has been quietly
examining whether to lift the cap, but the group's head, Virginia Rep. Robert W.
Goodlatte, said the measure would be difficult to enact before stronger border
security is in place.

Border security and skills have nothing to do with each other. Politically
linking them may placate the nativists, but it also puts us on the road to
national decline, which surely neither party wants.

edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Dashing the Dream Act

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 214 words


Many well-educated elites with good-paying jobs, such as college presidents,
legislators and newspaper editors, invariably can only see the benefit of
expanded immigration and legalizing illegal workers, as was made clear by the
July 14 editorial "In Maryland, a referendum on a dream," supporting in-state
college tuition for illegal immigrants.

Economists are fond of saying, "There are winners and there are losers." When it
comes to immigration, those who hire immigrants to clean their houses, mow their
lawns and paint their nails are the winners. They don't compete with immigrants
for jobs or wages. Immigrants are not flooding the labor markets of college
presidents or newspaper editors. Those who compete with immigrant labor -
minorities, the working poor, low-skilled workers and the young - are the
losers. And the losers are more numerous than the winners. And that's why it was
easy to get signatures on a petition calling on Maryland voters to decide
whether they wanted to give in-state tuition to illegal immigrant youth.

With growing unemployment today, including among recent college graduates,
passing the Dream Act defies common sense, and the common people know it.

Jonette Christian, Holden, Maine

The writer is a co-founder of Mainers for Sensible Immigration Policy.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 19, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Dashing the Dream Act

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 214 words


Many well-educated elites with good-paying jobs, such as college presidents,
legislators and newspaper editors, invariably can only see the benefit of
expanded immigration and legalizing illegal workers, as was made clear by the
July 14 editorial "In Maryland, a referendum on a dream," supporting in-state
college tuition for illegal immigrants.

Economists are fond of saying, "There are winners and there are losers." When it
comes to immigration, those who hire immigrants to clean their houses, mow their
lawns and paint their nails are the winners. They don't compete with immigrants
for jobs or wages. Immigrants are not flooding the labor markets of college
presidents or newspaper editors. Those who compete with immigrant labor -
minorities, the working poor, low-skilled workers and the young - are the
losers. And the losers are more numerous than the winners. And that's why it was
easy to get signatures on a petition calling on Maryland voters to decide
whether they wanted to give in-state tuition to illegal immigrant youth.

With growing unemployment today, including among recent college graduates,
passing the Dream Act defies common sense, and the common people know it.

Jonette Christian, Holden, Maine

The writer is a co-founder of Mainers for Sensible Immigration Policy.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Falling behind on training workers

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 148 words


Michael A. Fletcher's reporting on the bitter irony facing the Fresno, Calif.,
workforce - an achingly high unemployment rate coexisting with a panoply of
unfilled job openings for skilled workers [front page, Feb. 2] - said as much,
if not more, about the need for comprehensive immigration reform as it did about
the need for worker training.

The fact is that under even the rosiest scenarios, bringing workers up to speed
takes time. Time that an overseas competitor can use to put American companies
out of business. The article added to the overwhelming body of evidence that the
correlation between hiring immigrant workers and taking American jobs is a false
one. The truth is that the law as it stands offers companies two choices: Move
the jobs overseas to where the workers are, or shutter the doors. In either
case, American workers lose.

The writer is an immigration attorney.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Chipotle workers protest their recent firings

BYLINE: Hamil R. Harris

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 494 words


About two dozen former employees of D.C. Chipotle restaurants gathered Wednesday
outside a Columbia Heights location to protest their firings after the chain
said they found discrepancies in employment documents.

Forty workers, many of whom are Hispanic immigrants, were terminated March 9
after the chain conducted a review of two D.C. restaurants and found that some
workers could not prove their immigration status.

"We found that these workers were not legally authorized to work in this
country," said Chipotle spokesman Chris Arnold. "Many workers left immediately,
but we had to let others go because we can't employ them under the law because
they are not legally authorized to work in the United States."

Several of those fired said they did not want to discuss their immigration
status. They said they were most upset over how their dismissals were handled.

"I saw the workers shortly after they were fired," said Sarahi Uribe of the
National Day Labor Organizing Network, who helped some of the former employees
organize their protest. "Some were crying, some had been working for Chipotle
for six years and many felt like they had been treated like trash."

Uribe said workers at the Chipotle in Columbia Heights were taken to the back of
the store March 9 during their 30-minute break and fired. By the time they
returned to the front of the restaurant, Uribe said they had already been
replaced by workers from other restaurants.

"We've dedicated so much time to Chipotle, and for them to fire us all of a
sudden, and in this way, made us feel terrible," Yeny Portales, one of the fired
workers, wrote in statement. "We felt like they didn't value our years of
service and that we, as their employees, didn't matter to them."

Workers were also let go from Woodley Park and Chinatown locations.

Fired employees say they want an apology for the way they were treated, a letter
specifically stating why they were fired and all outstanding compensation
including wages and overtime. Uribe said she has calculated that the workers are
owed nearly $21,000.

D.C. Council member Michael Brown, who joined the workers at their protest, said
in a statement that the issue was not the workers' immigration status but how
they were treated. "I want to make sure that all of these displaced workers are
fairly compensated for their many hours of hard work."

Chipotle, which has 1,100 stores, has been under increasing scrutiny from U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The agency has ordered the chain to prove
that its employees at locations across the country are eligible for employment
in the United States. The company had to let go more than 400 workers in
Minnesota last year because of problems with their immigration status.

Arnold said the company is committed to paying everyone everything they are
owed. He said if there is anyone who does not feel they have been paid in full,
they can contact the office and the company will look into it.

harrish@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Ariz. defends law on hiring illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 863 words


The Supreme Court sounded conflicted Wednesday about whether Arizona's attempt
to revoke the licenses of businesses that knowingly employ illegal immigrants
intrudes on federal law or complements it.

The case pits Arizona against an unusual coalition of challengers that includes
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, civil rights groups, labor unions and the Obama
administration. But that high-powered group faced a barrage of skeptical
questions from the court's conservatives, which bodes well for Arizona to see
its law upheld.

The state and the law's challengers agree that Congress meant for the 1986
federal Immigration Reform and Control Act to generally preempt states from
using employer sanctions to control immigration. But Arizona has taken advantage
of a parenthetical clause in the statute - "other than through licensing and
similar laws" - to go after companies that knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

The law being challenged, the Legal Arizona Workers Act, says a company could
lose its business license for knowingly hiring illegal workers - a "death
penalty," in the words of Washington lawyer Carter G. Phillips, who represented
the Chamber of Commerce.

The legislation was passed in 2007 and signed into law by then-Gov. Janet
Napolitano (D), now President Obama's secretary of homeland security.

It is different from a more recent Arizona law that the Obama administration is
battling in lower courts. That law contains a provision requiring local law
enforcement officials to check the immigration status of people they stop and to
detain those suspected of entering the country illegally.

A federal judge has blocked enforcement of that requirement, and the law is
under review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit.

The Supreme Court's decision in the illegal-worker case, though, might give some
indication of how willing the justices are to allow states to come up with their
own ways of trying to curb illegal immigration.

Justice Antonin Scalia was the most vocal member of the court in expressing
sympathy for the states and suggesting that Arizona was justified in taking what
he described as a "massive step."

"What Arizona says has occurred here is that the scheme in place has not been
enforced, and Arizona and other states are in serious trouble financially and
for other reasons because of unrestrained immigration," Scalia told Phillips.

Phillips said that doesn't mean that states can violate what he called
Congress's "carefully calculated" law to ensure uniform enforcement of
immigration measures and avoid a proliferation of state and local attempts to
regulate immigration.

"Congress was balancing three, at least, very difficult problems," Phillips
said. "Minimizing problems on the employers, minimizing discrimination against
people who are permitted to be hired, and avoiding hiring people who are not
permitted to do so."

Acting Solicitor General Neal K. Katyal said there can be no doubt that Congress
meant to reserve enforcement of such employer sanctions for the federal
government.

But Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. sharply questioned why the exception was
made for "licensing and similar laws."

Roberts said the law's challengers "are just kind of blinking over" that
exception. "That is not a real reservation by Congress of this power to itself,"
he said.

Arizona Solicitor General Mary R. O'Grady said the state's ability to revoke the
license of an employer who has twice violated the prohibition on hiring illegal
workers is in the "mainstream of state police power." She said the 1986 law
"took away our authority to impose civil monetary and criminal sanctions but
preserved our authority to impose sanctions under this law."

That struck Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg as an "anomaly" rather than a considered
judgment by Congress. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who seemed supportive of
Arizona at some points during the debate, agreed.

"Why would Congress want to do that?" he asked.

Justices Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor seemed supportive of the view
that the state law intruded on federal responsibilities.

Sotomayor, the only justice who referred to "undocumented" rather than "illegal"
immigrants, asked whether Congress had meant only to give states flexibility on
licensing after federal authorities investigated and then decided to sanction an
employer.

The justices spent little time on another challenged part of the Arizona law,
one that requires employers to use the federal E-Verify system to ensure that
all employees are eligible to work in this country.

But that program's reliability has been questioned, and Congress has said that
the program should be voluntary. The administration argues that Arizona,
therefore, cannot make it mandatory.

Justice Elena Kagan withdrew from the case because of her previous work on the
issue when she was the U.S. solicitor general. That makes the case even more
difficult for challengers of the law.

Because the law was upheld by the 9th Circuit, five of the remaining eight
justices would have to agree to overturn the law. A tie vote would uphold the
lower court's decision, although it would set no precedent.

The case is Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting.

barnesb@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

DREAM Act defeat reveals failed strategy

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1111 words


Whenever Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and other immigrant-rights advocates
asked President Obama how a Democratic administration could preside over the
greatest number of deportations in any two-year period in the nation's history,
Obama's answer was always the same.

Deporting almost 800,000 illegal immigrants might antagonize some Democrats and
Latino voters, Obama's skeptical supporters said the president told them, but
stepped-up enforcement was the only way to buy credibility with Republicans and
generate bipartisan support for an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws.

On Saturday, that strategy was in ruins after Senate Democrats could muster only
55 votes in support of the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors
(DREAM) Act, a measure that would have created a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. Under
Senate rules, Democrats needed 60 votes to overcome Republican opposition to the
bill. The House of Representatives had passed the measure this month, 216 to
198.

The irony of the DREAM Act's failure is that it had strong bipartisan support at
the start of the administration, and advocates thought it could generate
momentum for more policy changes.

But as the country's mood shifted on illegal immigration, support among
Republicans and some Democratic senators evaporated, with many decrying it as a
backdoor amnesty for lawbreakers. Even a former co-sponsor of the DREAM Act,
Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), voted against it.

Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), who led Republican opposition to the measure, said:
"This is an amnesty bill because it provides every possible benefit, including
citizenship, to those who are in the country illegally."

Virtually no one thinks an immigration overhaul is possible in the next two
years, given the views of many members of the incoming Republican majority in
the House.

Now many immigrant-rights supporters are second-guessing Obama's efforts to woo
Republicans by ramping up deportations.

"It is a strategy which has borne no fruits whatsoever," Gutierrez said. "This
administration has unilaterally led the march on enforcement, yet the other side
has not given one modicum of compromise."

"If you really want to bring Republicans to the table," he added, "so long as
they are getting everything they want, every piece of enforcement, why, why
would they come to the table?"

At a recent press briefing, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano denied
that the administration had increased deportations to bring Republicans to the
bargaining table.

"I don't view it as a quid pro quo," Napolitano said. "We enforce the law
because we took an oath to enforce the law."

But a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
speak candidly, said that although there was no explicit quid pro quo, the
administration had indeed hoped that tougher enforcement could create a new
climate in which legislative compromise became easier.

"One of the arguments that gets trotted out regularly is that the government
can't do its job," the official said. "We believe the government can do its job,
and our work hopefully is evidence of that."

Latino groups pushed hard for passage of the DREAM Act, mobilizing thousands of
students to campaign for the measure across the nation. They went on hunger
strikes, conducted prayer vigils, and organized holiday food drives and
Thanksgiving dinners with citizens.

The DREAM Act would have given hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
brought to the United States before age 16 a chance to gain legal status if they
have been in the country for five years, have graduated from high school, have
no criminal record, and attend college or serve in the military for two years.

"I am not asking for just a vote for the DREAM Act today," said Sen. Richard J.
Durbin (D-Ill.), who tried, along with Gutierrez, Napolitano, Education
Secretary Arne Duncan and others, to round up enough Republican votes for
passage. "From some of my colleagues, I am asking for much more - I am asking
for a vote of political courage."

But the Obama administration miscalculated conservative antipathy on the subject
of immigration, said a senior Democratic Hill staffer, speaking on the condition
of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk about the issue. Even as the
administration stepped up deportations, conservatives charged Obama with being
too soft on the country's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants.

"Short of marching these people naked over the border at the point of a bayonet,
there is no such thing as being tough enough" for those who want to target
illegal immigrants, the staffer said.

Immigrant-rights advocates think the issue will reverberate through the 2012
elections. Obama will have to persuade Latinos - who turned out for him in
record numbers in key states in 2008 - to do so again, despite the lack of
progress on legislative initiatives. For Obama to get into trouble, Hispanics
don't have to switch sides on Election Day - they just have to stay home, Latino
leaders said.

Republicans, meanwhile, have found that they can talk tough on immigration and
still appeal to Latino voters by picking conservative Hispanic candidates. That
produced three significant Republican victories this year: Marco Rubio captured
a Senate seat in Florida, and Susana Martinez won a gubernatorial race in New
Mexico, as did Brian Sandoval in Nevada. Rubio is being mentioned by some as a
vice presidential pick.

Ali Noorani, who heads the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant-rights
group, said that Obama faces a dilemma going forward. Republicans would now cry
foul if the administration eased up on deportations, he said. But Latinos are
losing patience with a strategy that has led to pain without gain for their
communities.

"The administration is in a pickle of epic proportions," Noorani said. "They are
going to feel incredible pressure in the House to increase enforcement, and the
record shows they will continue to increase enforcement of a broken immigration
system. On the other hand, candidate Obama will need those same Latinos, Asians
and other immigrant voters to come out for him in record numbers. How do they
square that circle?"

The senior White House official said the administration has no plans to pull
back on enforcement just because Republicans are unlikely to support a
bipartisan overhaul of immigration laws in the next two years. "In the short
term, there is not a lot of evidence [Republicans] will come forward, but our
response is not going to be to dismantle immigration enforcement," the official
said.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Md. to weigh own 'DREAM' tuition act

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 904 words


Maryland would offer in-state college tuition benefits to undocumented
immigrants who have attended state high schools and whose parents are taxpayers
if a measure being proposed by state Democrats becomes law.

The proposal, which will be introduced by Sen.-elect Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince
George's) when the General Assembly convenes next month, is certain to generate
controversy at a time of heated debate about illegal immigration, gaping state
budget shortfalls, and intense competition for coveted spots at the University
of Maryland and other state universities. Montgomery College came under attack
this year for offering tuition benefits to illegal immigrants.

"The citizens of Maryland do not offer in-state tuition to their fellow
Americans" who aren't state residents, said House Minority Leader Anthony J.
O'Donnell (R-Calvert). "Why would we offer in-state tuition to people who
violated our laws to get here?"

But supporters of the measure say students who attended Maryland high schools
should be encouraged, and not discouraged, to attend college, regardless of
their legal status.

"We're working backwards," said Ramirez, who previously introduced the in-state
tuition benefit in the House of Delegates in 2007. The House passed the bill,
but the Senate did not. "We have said, 'You can go to school for 12 years' - we
have invested in you for 12 years, and when that investment is ripe for the
picking, we say, 'No more.' "

A similar bill was approved by the General Assembly in 2003 but vetoed by
then-Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R). If it is approved by the legislature again,
Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) is expected to take a more sympathetic view, the
measure's supporters say.

Shaun Adamec, a spokesman for the governor, agreed but said that O'Malley would
have to examine any immigration-related legislation before deciding whether to
support it.

Maryland, with an estimated 250,000 undocumented immigrants, would be the latest
state to wade into the often-bitter national debate over tuition benefits for
young people in the country illegally. California, Illinois, Kansas, Nebraska,
New Mexico, New York, Texas and Utah are among states that have passed in-state
tuition measures, said Brent Wilkes, executive director of the League of United
Latin American Citizens, an advocacy group. Massachusetts probably will consider
such a move soon.

It's the latest sign that states across the country are stepping in to fill a
void left by congressional inaction on immigration policy. As efforts to
overhaul the immigration system have stalled in Congress during the Bush and
Obama years, states have stopped waiting for Congress and the federal government
to act.

The result has been a profusion of conflicting policies across the nation,
including a closely watched crackdown on illegal immigration in Arizona.

The Washington area alone provides ample evidence of the vastly differing
approaches: Even as Maryland considers giving undocumented immigrants in-state
tuition benefits, Virginia not only does not offer such benefits, but
legislators have tried - unsuccessfully - to bar undocumented immigrants from
enrolling at state-supported colleges.

Ramirez has dubbed his proposal the Maryland DREAM Act, a reference to national
legislation that was blocked in the Senate this month. The national DREAM Act
would have created a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who were
brought to the United States as children and who had joined the military or
attended two years of college.

The Maryland legislation would provide the tuition benefit for students who have
attended two years of Maryland high school, have parents or caregivers who are
state taxpayers and who express an intent to seek legal status in the country.

O'Donnell, the top Republican in the House of Delegates, said the Maryland
version of the DREAM Act has a "decent chance of passing." But that doesn't make
it right, he said.

"This is one more effort to legitimize illegal immigration - to encourage it,"
he said. "We should be discouraging it. It is a violation of our national
sovereignty for people to come here illegally. To offer them benefits paid for
by citizens - I believe it is an outrage."

A 1996 law explicitly prohibits states from offering in-state college tuition to
undocumented immigrants unless they offer such benefits to all students across
the country. The law was written by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), the incoming
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee and an outspoken opponent of illegal
immigration.

But states that offer in-state tuition benefits to undocumented immigrants have
crafted language that bases eligibility on attending local high schools. The
California Supreme Court recently upheld the right of that state to offer
in-state tuition benefits to undocumented immigrants.

In Maryland, there could be intense opposition to the proposal. Del. Patrick L.
McDonough (R-Baltimore County) recently called for a criminal investigation of
Montgomery College, which has long offered tuition benefits to undocumented
immigrants who graduate from county high schools.

Sen.-elect Roger P. Manno (D-Montgomery County), who supports the legislation,
said that's exactly what every public college in Maryland ought to be doing for
students, regardless of their legal status.

"We should give those folks every opportunity to succeed, to get an education
and to live with dignity," he said.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 31, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Tuition benefits in Maryland

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 195 words


dtyler: I am a black female taxpayer who was born in Maryland and whose family
moved to the District after my birth. As a taxpayer, I can't get free schooling,
so what makes illegals think they should be entitled to free schooling?

eklektra: I suspect this bill will die, as do many others that are introduced
each year.

JoeCitizen: No NO NO! Those who break the law even unintentionally have broken
the law.

Blame the parents who brought them here ILLEGALLY. No free passes. Get in line
at INS for starters, and work it from there. That is the LEGAL process.

great81: Bravo, Maryland.

margd1: I don't think U.S. taxpayers should be subsidizing educations of
noncitizens at any point, not just in college. But since all these people are
here, I'd rather they were educated than not.

neil64: Illegal immigrants are entitled to nothing other than deportation.

crilling2: I'm liberal, but this is such a no-brainer. Illegal immigrants
should, at the very least, be paying out-of-state tuition. Period.

AtTheBeach1: I don't like the idea of giving them tuition benefits, but I would
find it particularly revolting and absurd if they were to be admitted to these
schools preferentially.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

No tuition aid for illegal immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 205 words


The issue of illegal immigration has been made unnecessarily complex by
special-interest groups that have twisted and warped it into an anti-Hispanic
vendetta. In reality, it is simply the desire to bring those who broke the law -
by entering the United States illegally - to justice.

As the Dec. 30 Metro article "Md. to weigh own 'DREAM' tuition act" pointed out,
Sen.-elect Roger P. Manno (D-Montgomery County) said, "We should give those
folks every opportunity to succeed, to get an education and to live with
dignity."

In short, the proposed law would reward those who have broken the law, not
punish them. And their "opportunity to succeed" would be paid for by Maryland's
legal residents, both by lost revenue from the adjustments in tuition and by
fewer slots for admission to Maryland's state institutions.

Maryland is facing a $1.6 billion budget deficit. Montgomery County's budget
deficit is $300 million. Yet some state legislators want to pass a law that
would reduce the money flowing into the state's depleted coffers. If Maryland
really has that kind of money to burn, maybe legislators should put it toward
reducing the costs of college for Maryland's legal residents instead of
showering criminals with our money.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 9, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration language wars

BYLINE: Andrew Alexander

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 829 words


Read the online comments accompanying any story on immigration and you get a
taste of the impassioned public debate over what to do about those who may be
unlawfully in the country unlawfully. For news organizations, there's a
secondary discussion heating up over what to call them.

The dilemma is not new. Most newsrooms settled on terminology long ago. Many
adhere to the widely followed guidance of the Associated Press, which prefers
"illegal immigrant." The Post's internal stylebook says  "undocumented
immigrant" also may be used.

Discussion was renewed recently when Leo E. Laurence, a San Diego journalist and
member of the diversity committee of the Society of Professional Journalists,
wrote a column for the organization's magazine urging "undocumented" rather than
"illegal."

"Simply put, only a judge, not a journalist, can say that someone is an
'illegal,'" he wrote. Laurence, who was offering a personal view that SPJ has
not endorsed, soon ended up in a spirited on-air disagreement with Fox News
Channel's Bill O'Reilly, who suggested that refusing to use the term "illegal"
is "political correctness gone mad." The exchange sparked robust debate in the
blogosphere.

Among journalists, Laurence is not alone in his view.

"We prefer 'undocumented immigrant,' " said Michele Salcedo, president of the
National Association of Hispanic Journalists. She said that many people enter
the United States legally documented but "for one reason or another they
overstay their visa limit and become 'undocumented,' as it were." The term
"undocumented" is "more inclusive and accurate," said Salcedo, an editor in the
Washington bureau of the Associated Press.

She also agreed with Laurence that calling someone "illegal" is a judgment that
courts, not journalists, should make. "In this country, if you are accused of a
crime, whether it's a misdemeanor or a felony, you're entitled to your day in
court," she said.

Donald M. Kerwin Jr., a vice president at the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonpartisan think tank, said "illegal immigrant" is semantically wrong. While it
is proper to say someone broke the law, he said, "you can't call them an
'illegal' person."

Many readers think these kinds of distinctions are absurd. They argue that
entering the country without documents is, on its face, illegal. And if the
legal documents expired, they say, foreigners are here in violation of the law.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
supports tighter controls on immigration, rejects "undocumented" as "gibberish."
Many foreigners enter with forged or stolen documents, he said, adding: "You
could call them 'falsely documented,' but then you get into really unwieldy
terminology."

He also said it is "sophistry" to argue that the term "illegal immigrant" can be
used only after a formal legal judgment. "Getting a parking ticket isn't a
crime. But it's illegal," he said.

Krikorian also thinks illegal "alien" is acceptable, noting that federal
statutes use that word to refer to foreigners who entered unlawfully, as well as
those here legally on a so-called "green card." Most mainstream news
organizations, including The Post, forbid using "alien" on grounds that
secondary dictionary definitions include pejorative words like "strange."
Likewise, The Post and others prohibit using "illegal" as a noun ("he's an
illegal").

Reaching agreement on alternative terminology would be challenging.

"The trouble is that when you start trying to come up with alternatives, they're
all problematic," said Roy Beck, a former journalist and founder of NumbersUSA,
a group that favors limiting legal and illegal immigration. He said even the
term "immigrant" is often misused when applied to those who come legally on a
temporary worker visa.

Beck said a substitute for "illegal immigrant" might be the more cumbersome
"unlawfully present foreign national."  Kerwin raised the possibility of
"unauthorized immigrant."

A review of Post terminology in stories during the second half of 2010 shows
that "undocumented immigrant" was used about six times more frequently than
"illegal immigrant."

The Post would be wise to join the discussion over the best vocabulary, even if
it ended up reinforcing its current directives.

Tinkering with the terminology risks propelling news organizations into the
white-hot debate over immigration policy. Those that abandoned "illegal
immigrant," for example, surely would be accused of softening the jargon to
favor advocates of  less restrictive immigration laws.

But any conversation about accuracy is worth having. And this is not just about
semantics. Sometimes the terms used in describing an issue are so powerful they
can affect the course of the debate, especially when selected by journalists
with as much influence as those at The Post.

Andrew Alexander can be reached at 202-334-7582 or at ombudsman@washpost.com For
daily updates, read the omblog at http://voices.washingtonpost.
com/ombudsman-blog/.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 28, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Ariz. bill takes on birthright citizenship

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 88 words


Arizona lawmakers, once again diving into the national debate over illegal
immigration, proposed a bill Thursday that would challenge automatic U.S.
citizenship for children of illegal immigrants.

The proposal by Rep. John Kavanagh (R) is the second time this year lawmakers in
a state have targeted the U.S. Constitution's 14th Amendment. A similar proposal
was filed last week in Indiana.

Leaders of an effort to get proposals considered in other states hope that
lawmakers in 10 to 15 states will follow suit.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Without citizenship, quest to serve is grounded

BYLINE: Kevin Sieff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 856 words


When Noheli Carrasco takes charge of her teenage battalion at South Lakes High
School - their rifles pointing toward the ceiling, green uniforms crisply ironed
- she looks much like the military officer she wants to be.

But Carrasco, 18, is not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. And although she
wants to join the Air Force after graduation and has been courted by recruiters,
she is barred from enlisting.

The Obama administration, trying to bolster enlistment rates while fighting two
overseas wars, is seeking to lift the restriction on undocumented immigrants
like Carrasco through its DREAM Act. The Senate rejected it in December, but
administration officials have called for its reintroduction and passage.

"It's the one thing I want to do. I want to serve this country," said Carrasco,
who came here with her family from Bolivia when she was 11. "I had no idea how
hard it would be."

The DREAM Act is most often described as a way to provide young, undocumented
immigrants with a path to citizenship through attending college. But it would
also give aspiring soldiers such as Carrasco a chance to serve in the military -
and earn permanent residency in the process.

Senate Republicans say they will not support the legislation until their larger
concerns about illegal immigration and border security are addressed. "Giving a
pathway to citizenship without first securing the border is an inducement to
encourage more illegal immigration," Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) said on the
floor of the Senate in December.

But Carrasco has grown cautiously optimistic since hearing President Obama's
State of the Union address, in which he called for both immigration reform and
for opening ROTC programs on more college campuses. (JROTC is the high school
version of the ROTC, or Reserve Officers' Training Corps, program). Sen. Richard
J. Durbin (D-Ill.) said he plans to reintroduce the DREAM Act sometime in the
next several weeks.

In Northern Virginia, Carrasco wasn't alone in celebrating the administration's
twin goals, trying to shed light on the potential connection between immigration
reform and an all-volunteer military.

JROTC coordinators say it's not uncommon to meet young cadets from immigrant
families who are eager to serve but do not have necessary documentation. A few
years ago, Carrasco's brother was one of them. Last year, her best friend was
another.

"It's frustrating, because there's nothing you can do," said Maj. Joseph
Schuler, head of the JROTC program at South Lakes. "You just tell them to make
sure their paperwork is in order and to have a good backup plan if things don't
work out."

In recent months, top Pentagon officials have echoed that frustration, voicing
support for the DREAM Act as a means of expanding the country's eligible
recruiting pool.

"Throughout past and current conflicts, those who are not yet citizens have
answered the call to defend their adopted nation," Clifford Stanley,
undersecretary of defense for personnel and readiness, said at a December news
conference. "Allowing DREAM Act-eligible youth the opportunity to serve this
nation would continue this tradition of service while expanding the market of
high-quality patriotic youth to the advantage of military recruitment and
readiness."

The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, estimated that 31,000
recent immigrants would choose to enlist in the military if the DREAM Act became
law.

Carrasco didn't think much about military service before signing up for the
JROTC. She was 14 then - "a quiet girly-girl," she said. "I never even thought
about serving in Bolivia. It wasn't for me. . . . But the Air Force here is
academically and physically demanding. It felt like a great place to start my
career."

For several years, the program at South Lakes had been evolving from a mostly
white battalion to a group as diverse as any Army recruiting billboard, earning
state and national commendations in the process. Cadets' families hail from
around the world. Some, according to Schuler, a 21-year Army veteran, are not
citizens.

He knows because the JROTC's data sheet includes a box asking students that
question, as is required by the JROTC, he said. Sometimes that's the last time
the issue comes up. But in Carrasco's case, Schuler heard all about the aspiring
cadet's travails: the paperwork and the uncertain prospects.

The program, which prides itself on promoting leadership and discipline, is also
one of the school's more intimate classes, where students often feel comfortable
airing problems they're having at home.

But when Carrasco learned earlier this week that her quest for citizenship had
been delayed by at least a year, she kept quiet. "I didn't want to make the
major sad," she said.

With high school nearing its end, Carrasco wants to make the most of the last
months in her favorite class, despite the uncertainty about her future. That
means waking up early, keeping her honor guard uniform spotless and leading the
cadets in the JROTC cadet creed, which is how many of the classes begin.

"I am loyal and patriotic," it reads. "I am the future of the United States of
America."

sieffk@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

County may sue Homeland Security over immigrants

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: Pg. T02

LENGTH: 393 words


Prince William County supervisors want to pursue litigation against the
Department of Homeland Security and are asking Congress to investigate how the
agency has handled the illegal immigrants turned over by county law enforcement
officials.

After a closed meeting Tuesday, the Board of County Supervisors unanimously
endorsed a resolution that asks county staff members to seek "all available
redress" against DHS because the agency did not respond to a Freedom of
Information Act request the county filed last year to find out why Carlos A.
Martinelly-Montano, an illegal immigrant who allegedly killed one person and
injured two others in a drunken driving accident, was still in the community
although he had two previous drunken driving convictions.

"The Department of Homeland Security has an obligation to the citizens of Prince
William County to explain what they are doing to uphold their obligation to help
make our communities safe," board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said.
"Clearly, they made major mistakes in the Montano case and don't want to be held
accountable to the public for those, but we need to know how deep these problems
run."

Supervisors also want Congress to investigate how U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement has handled the 3,000 or so illegal immigrants the county has turned
over to ICE and where they are now. County officials filed a FOIA request for
that information last year.

Supervisor W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville), who brought up the motion to take
legal action, said it is a matter of public safety to know what has happened to
the illegal immigrants turned over to ICE. "It's important for our law
enforcement officials to know what they are dealing with in the county,"
Covington said.

Supervisors said Prince William police have done their job, checking the
immigration status of anyone arrested in the county. They questioned whether ICE
is doing its job, especially in light of the Feb. 10 shootingsin Manassas, in
which an illegal immigrant allegedly killed three people and injured three
others.

"Congress needs to provide ICE and DHS with the resources they need to protect
our citizens from criminal illegal aliens," Stewart said after the Manassas
shootings. "Our community has already lost too many people to these felons that
have no right to be here in the first place."

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 25, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 489 words

VIRGINIA

Fraud ring allegedly sold fake ID papers

Twenty-two people have been charged with producing more than 15,000 false
documents for illegal immigrants and with protecting their lucrative turf
through kidnappings, beatings and the slaying of a rival, officials said
Thursday.

The ring operated in 19 cities and generated more than $1 million over less than
two years selling Social Security cards, driver's licenses and work documents,
according to an indictment.

The documents sold at prices ranging from $150 to $200, and proceeds were wired
to the ring's base in Mexico, the indictment said.

The defendants, who are being held in Virginia, are accused of 12 counts,
including murder, assault, firearms possession, kidnapping, racketeering, money
laundering, and possessing and producing false documents. Most are illegal
immigrants from Mexico.

Investigators initially uncovered the forgery ring in Norfolk and tracked down
cells in three other Virginia locations. They traced the ring to 10 other
states.

John Morton, the director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
ring was among the top three document fraud cases the agency has ever
investigated.

"This was . . . organized crime on a grand scale," Morton said.

- Associated Press

new jersey

TSA officer admits he stole from travelers

A lead transportation security officer at Newark Liberty Airport has admitted
that he and his supervisor regularly stole money from travelers' bags during
security screenings.

Transportation Security Administration officer Al Raimi pleaded guilty Thursday
in Newark federal court to theft by a government officer.

Federal prosecutors say the 29-year-old Raimi stole between $10,000 and $30,000
cash over nearly a year from travelers passing through his checkpoint.

Raimi could face up to 10 years in prison at his June 6 sentencing.

- Associated Press

NEW YORK

Woman ran animal'concentration camp'

A New York woman tearfully admitted Thursday that she abused her children and
dozens of pets, sometimes torturing dogs and cats to death in the presence of
six young daughters in a home that her son described as "a concentration camp
for the animals."

Sharon McDonough, 44, pleaded guilty to a 13-count indictment charging her with
animal abuse and child endangerment.

Suffolk County Court Judge C. Randall Hinrichs said he would sentence McDonough
to a two-year maximum term. Time McDonough has served will count toward her
sentence, and she is expected to be freed in April or May.

Court-appointed defense attorney Christopher Brocato said McDonough pleaded
guilty to all the charges to save her children from having to testify at her
trial. "She knows there's no excuse," Brocato said.

- Associated Press

A fire at a Houston daycare center killed two children and injured five others
Thursday.  The children ranged in age from 18 months to 3 years old. Authorities
are investigating the cause of the blaze.

- From news reports

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 14, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Let all Md. students dream

BYLINE: Editorial by Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 478 words


THE DISPIRITING national debate over immigration has departed Washington for the
time being and alighted mostly in state capitals. In many of them, Republicans
have led a charge - mostly unsuccessful - to enact Arizona-style enforcement
crackdowns based on the whimsical idea that undocumented immigrants can be
rounded up by authorities or hounded into leaving. In a few states, though,
including Maryland, lawmakers are addressing the reality that the undocumented
are here to stay, and pushing for measures that will make them more productive
members of society.

There are few more compelling examples of the wisdom of that approach than
helping undocumented high school graduates go to college. Giving such students a
leg up by granting them reduced, in-state tuition rates could give them a
brighter, more affluent future, benefiting their communities, their states and
the nation.

That's the idea behind the Maryland Dream  Act, modeled on federal legislation
that failed in Congress. The bill would make college affordable for thousands
who graduate from state high schools, have parents or guardians who pay income
taxes in Maryland, and have what it takes to attend college.

The legislation has been attacked by (mostly Republican) lawmakers who think
that branding the students as illegal settles the debate. They raise the specter
of swarms of undocumented immigrants receiving the Maryland tuition benefit,
displacing native-born students on campus.

The reality is that undocumented students have been absorbed in the 10 other
states that have granted them in-state tuition rates, which include New York,
Texas and California. Many of the students are brought to this country as babies
or small children by parents seeking work and a steady education - not thinking
of higher education. Maryland education officials say they can handle the
undocumented students, who would be required by the legislation to attend two
years of open-enrollment community college before being eligible to apply to
four-year institutions.

There would be upfront cost in allowing undocumented students to pay in-state
tuition, about a third of what out-of-state students pay. The state estimates
the price at roughly $780,000 in 2014 and perhaps as much as $3.5 million by
2016. But consider even the short-term benefits to the state of producing
hundreds of extra college graduates annually, as opposed to high school
graduates or dropouts. The college graduates will earn more, pay more in taxes
and contribute to economic activity that more than offsets the initial expense.

The Supreme Court has ruled that states must offer free education through high
school for undocumented students. Why should they then segregate some
college-quality students from others, simply because of a decision their parents
may have made years earlier? That's not just unfair; it's also self-defeating.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Rewarding scofflaws with tuition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 125 words


The March 14 editorial "Let all Maryland students dream" failed to note that
undocumented immigrants cannot lawfully work in Maryland or anywhere else in the
United States. So to use millions in tax dollars to provide these individuals
tuition benefits not available to lawful U.S. residents (including legal
immigrants) who live outside Maryland is a waste of limited resources.

If the rule of law means anything, states will not use tax money to provide aid
and comfort to those who reside here in knowing violation of the law. And if the
goal of Maryland legislators is to help individuals violate federal and state
laws regarding illegal immigration, there are cheaper ways to do it.

Tom Fitton, Washington

The writer is president of Judicial Watch.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. may strengthenworker identity check

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 451 words


The federal government is exploring the possibility of using a credit rating
giant like Equifax to verify the identity of American workers, a move that could
make it far more difficult for undocumented immigrants to get jobs using stolen
Social Security numbers.

The plan by the Department of Homeland Security, which is still preliminary and
would probably require congressional approval, could have far-reaching
consequences. The government already allows employers to check the legal status
of employees using a system known as E-Verify, but hundreds of thousands of
undocumented immigrants beat the system by using stolen Social Security numbers.

If workers had to use the verification systems in place to apply for a mortgage
or a bank account, they would not only have to present a Social Security number
to an employer, but also answer questions about their personal history and
financial background to establish their identity.

On Monday, the government announced that it would begin allowing individuals in
the District, Virginiaand four other states to voluntarily use a system provided
by Equifax to verify their identity. Once they did that, they could access a
federal database to verify their authorization to work. The move will help the
small number of legally authorized immigrants and U.S. citizens who encounter
problems each year when an employer runs their Social Security numbers through
the E-Verify system.

By giving workers the ability to check their records before they apply for a
job, authorities said that citizens and immigrants who are authorized to work
will be able to take care of spelling mistakes and other common errors. The
voluntary program will be piloted in the District, Virginia, Arizona, Colorado,
Idaho and Mississippi. It will be expanded nationwide in the coming months.

Alejandro Mayorkas, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
the government planned to use the initiative to evaluate how the third-party
verification system worked, with a view to making the tool available to
employers.

Mayorkas added that only Congress could compel employers to use third-party
verification systems. The main E-Verify system is also voluntary for employers,
but House Republicans have indicated that they would like it to be mandatory.

Private identification systems might reduce Social Security number fraud, but
Mayorkas said he has concerns about how the federal government would deal with
errors in third-party databases.

Neither employers nor the federal government will gain information about worker
queries under the new self-check system. Mayorkas also said that employers will
not be permitted to force employees to do self-checks.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2011 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

In effort to change tone of immigration debate, groups turn to Utah

BYLINE: Josh Loftin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 551 words


SALT LAKE CITY - Liberal immigration activists are looking to Utah as a
compassionate and logical model for shaping the nation's policies toward illegal
immigrants.

Utah leaders - including government, education, business and religious groups -
came together in the fall to draft a set of principles to guide the immigration
debate in the state. Those guidelines, known as the Utah Compact, state in part
that illegal immigrants are essential to the economy and deserving of respect.

The recommendations are credited with aiding the passage of immigration-law
changes last month in the Utah legislature, including enforcement revisions and
a guest worker program.

"The leadership in Utah, through the compact, changed the debate around the
country," said Ali Noorani, executive director of the Washington-based National
Immigration Forum. "It's clear the compact has struck a chord with the silent
majority that wants reform."

Noorani is working with Utah officials to create a national version of the plan
that could be announced as early as this summer.

Opponents say the approach will lead to amnesty programs that only benefit big
business and caution that it will lead to more illegal immigration.

"They are trying to create the illusion of popular support for amnesty," said
William Gheen, executive director of the North Carolina-based Americans for
Legal Immigration. "But the reverse is true. Most people only want enforcement."

Groups spearheaded by religious and business leaders in several other states are
adopting their own versions of the Utah Compact. Most are adopting Utah language
that encourages keeping families together and urges compassion in law
enforcement.

"It's important to represent the human side," said Kathryn Williams, co-chair of
the Alliance for Immigration Reform in Indiana. "It's also important to set the
tenor of the debate so it's about what happens to that human."

The alliance mirrored Utah's message when it created the Indiana Compact, which
was unveiled this year. It has support from the Indiana Chamber of Commerce and
the Indiana Catholic Conference.

The initial goal for the Indiana plan - as well as similar drafts in Maine,
Florida, Georgia and Kansas - is to avoid contentious legislation similar to
what Arizona approved last year. That state's law sparked controversy over
provisions requiring police, while enforcing other laws, to question people's
immigration status if there is reasonable suspicion that they are in the country
illegally. That aspect of the law was put on hold by a federal judge.

Also prominent in the national debate are those who maintain that immigration is
a federal issue and should not be handled on a state level. Such groups say
compact plans represent an unconstitutional flouting of federal powers.

Wendy Sefsaf, of the Washington-based American Immigration Council, also points
out another reason for skepticism. Even if the compact's principles are
laudable, she said, the result in Utah "did not live up to it" because it would
create second-class workers who are not citizens.

Still, Utah does provide a starting point.

"We all have aspirational goals, and the compact has great aspirations," Sefsaf
said. "But most states are just reacting. Utah at least tried something that
wasn't just about deporting people."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Opportunity knocks

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 475 words


THE LEGISLATION extending college tuition breaks to Maryland students who are
undocumented immigrants is not exactly a giveaway to a shifty underclass of
undeserving freeloaders - even if opponents loved to spin it that way.

The bill, which had failed five times in Annapolis, was finally approved by
Maryland lawmakers on the last day of their legislative session this week; Gov.
Martin O'Malley (D) is expected to sign it. The bill grants the same tuition
subsidy to the children of illegal immigrants that other Maryland residents now
receive - huge savings that would shave more than $16,000 off this year's
nonresident tuition bill of $24,831 at the University of Maryland at College
Park, for instance.

To qualify for the in-state rate, undocumented students will have to clear a
series of high bars. They will first be required to graduate from a Maryland
high school after attending for at least three years and then complete the
equivalent of two years of full-time study in a state community college. In
addition, they will have to provide state tax returns showing that they or their
parents or guardians paid state taxes for at least five years preceding their
enrollment in a four-year college. In addition, male students will have to
register for the draft.

Keep in mind that in many or most cases, these are students who entered the
United States as young children with their parents, often with no idea that they
were breaking any law. In many cases, they have grown up speaking English as a
first language and have no adult memory of their native country. In speech,
habits, culture and allegiance, they are often as American as their native-born
peers.

That point was driven home by scores of undocumented but thoroughly Americanized
students who flooded the halls of the legislature in Annapolis in the past few
weeks. Mobilized by CASA of Maryland, a group that advocates on behalf of
illegal immigrants, they roamed the halls, buttonholing members of the General
Assembly and pleading their case in terms that any lawmaker could understand:
They simply wanted to crack open the door of opportunity. Impressed, some
African American lawmakers and clergymen noted that the campaign was more than a
little reminiscent of the civil rights era.

Despite the tough qualifying hurdles and the fact that 10 other states have
enacted similar legislation, none of the 55 Republicans in Annapolis could bring
themselves to vote for the measure. The bill passed both houses with strong,
though not unanimous, support from Democrats.

By voting to deny opportunities to thousands of undocumented students, most of
them Hispanic, the GOP tarnishes its brand with a fast-growing segment of the
electorate. More important to us, that denial would deprive Maryland of useful
talent and condemn blameless young people to live lives of unfulfilled
potential.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Manassas man key player in fake ID ring

BYLINE: Dana Hedgpeth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 895 words


Illegal immigrants in Northern Virginia knew where to go if they needed a
high-quality fake green card or Social Security card: They found Eulalio A.
Cruz.

From his Manassas home, Cruz, 33, sent cellphone photos of customers to his
computer. He'd add addresses and birth dates, used the right kind of ink, and
printed the fakes on card stock with holographic images. Sets of documents went
for $120 a pop. He'd use a series of runners to make the exchanges.

Federal immigration officials say that Cruz, who this week pleaded guilty to
racketeering in federal court in Richmond, was a key player in one of the
largest and most sophisticated document mills they have uncovered. His Manassas
operation was part of 19 that ran in 11 states, stretching from Nashville to
Providence, R.I., officials said. Each year, the ring produced between 10,000
and 15,000 fake documents. They wired at least $1 million to the bosses in
Mexico.

As the federal and state governments continue to crack down on illegal
immigration, such document mills are becoming a growing obstacle. Immigrants,
seeking to skirt local and national laws, need the documents to work and drive.
Cruz's ring turned to violence, prosecutors said, to protect its turf from
rivals, just as drug dealers have done for decades.

Authorities say the ring Cruz worked for was unique. Far more sophisticated and
productive than most of the mom and pop shops selling fake documents, it
operated under a strict chain of command, covered a large geographic area and
produced realistic counterfeits.

"It was very much like a legitimate business," said James C. Spero, deputy
assistant director for the Homeland Security Investigations division of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "If you worked hard, you could work your
way up higher in the organization."

Cruz, prosecutors say, reported directly to the "national supervisor" on the
U.S. side of the operation: Israel Cruz Millan, who was known by his Spanish
nickname "El Muerto," which means "the dead one." Millan is awaiting trial.

Based in North Carolina, Millan was part chief operating officer, part enforcer,
authorities say. He held regular conference calls and insisted that cell
managers submit detailed inventory lists of their ink cartridges, paper and
other supplies, prosecutors allege. Managers provided biweekly sales reports.
One note from Nashville showed $4,150 in proceeds and $1,684 in expenses.

Each cell's success depended heavily on runners who sought out customers at
grocery stores, laundromats and bars, authorities said. Sometimes they even
passed out business cards advertising their services.

Proceeds were divided up. Runners, who were expected to deliver seven to 10
customers a week, typically got a few hundred dollars, attorneys involved in the
case said. Managers got a fixed salary of between $300 and $400 a week. Millan
took a cut, and the rest of the money went to Mexico.

The cells used code names to hide their activity. Social Security cards, printed
in blue ink, were known as "smurfs," authorities said. "New ones" meant a
customer wanted a green card. They called the business cards "18s," because
that's how many fit on a sheet.

Workers who didn't follow the boss's strict protocol or didn't sell enough fake
documents were punished, federal officials said. They were spanked, had their
eyebrows shaved or were forced to wear weights.

Stealing from the organization was the "ultimate no-no," one prosecutor said.

In October, Millan hosted a conference call with managers from across the
country, according to court papers. He told them that one worker had pocketed
the proceeds from selling fake Social Security cards. Millan beat the man so the
group could hear his screams, authorities said.

"The point was to say, 'I'm in charge. Nobody steals from me and this
organization, or this is what will happen to you,' " said Neil H. MacBride, U.S.
attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, whose office is prosecuting the
case.

The group also turned to violence to protect its turf.

In 2009, members of the ring posed as customers buying fake identification cards
from competitors and arranged to meet them at a house in Richmond, according to
court papers. They bound the men's hands, feet and mouth with duct tape and beat
them with a bat, authorities say. One of Millan's crew put the barrel of a gun
in one man's mouth and warned him to stay out of their selling area.

In Little Rock, authorities said, a competitor was left for dead after a group
working for Millan lured the man and one of his partners to an abandoned
trailer, where they were attacked and beaten.

"They resorted to brutal, ruthless violence to support the criminal enterprise,"
MacBride said.

Federal agents said they received a tip about Millan's document ring and moved
in in November in an effort involving about 250 officers in nearly a dozen
states.

In all, 27 people were arrested on a range of charges including making and
selling false documents, gun possession, racketeering, kidnapping, and, in one
case, murder. Sixteen people, including Cruz, pleaded guilty in connection with
the ring. Two defendants are fugitives in Mexico.

Millan is expected to go on trial later this year.

In Cruz's Manassas home, authorities found more than 100 fraudulent documents as
well as printing equipment, card stock with holographic images and "18s."

hedgpethd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 569 words

ARIZONA

Border Patrol agents killed assisting chase

Two Border Patrol agents rushing to help capture suspected illegal immigrants
were killed Thursday when their sport-utility vehicle entered a marked railroad
crossing and was hit by a freight train.

The crash happened in a rural farming area near Interstate 8 and the town of
Gila Bend, about 69 miles southwest of Phoenix.

Eduardo Rojas Jr. and Hector Clark were trying to position themselves on a road
north of some other agents who were trying to capture the group, said
Supervisory Agent Kenneth Quillin, spokesman for the Border Patrol's Yuma
sector.

The suspects were on foot, and none has been arrested, Quillin said. "We do see
groups [of illegal immigrants] on a regular basis traveling through this area."

The crash happened at a railroad crossing that is marked but does not have
railroad crossing arms, he said.

The Union Pacific train with 75 cars was going about 62 mph when it hit the SUV,
pushing it about half a mile along the tracks.

Before the collision, the train engineers saw the SUV on the access road and
sounded the train's horn, said Detective Aaron Douglas of the Maricopa County
Sheriff's Office, which along with the FBI is investigating the deaths.

Union Pacific said in a statement that its crew had no warning that the SUV
would turn in front of the train. It did not elaborate.

- Associated Press

NEW YORK

2 held in terror plot after weapons sting

New York police arrested two North African-born men in a sting operation after
they bought a hand grenade and guns in order to attack synagogues, kill Jews and
blow up the Empire State Building, authorities said Thursday.

Algerian Ahmed Ferhani, 26, and Mohamed Mamdouh, 20, a Moroccan-born U.S.
citizen, were arrested after they bought three pistols, ammunition and an inert
grenade from an undercover officer, concluding a seven-month sting operation,
police and Manhattan prosecutors said.

New York has remained a target for al-Qaeda, and police went on heightened alert
after the May 1 raid in which U.S. Special Operations troops killed al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.

Wednesday's arrests foiled the 13th planned attack by militants on New York City
since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

They were charged under state terrorism statutes and, if convicted, face up to
life in prison. They were also charged with hate crimes.

- Reuters

CONNECTICUT

Prom invitationgets senior banned

A high school headmaster won't budge from her decision to bar a senior from the
prom after he asked a girl to the dance by posting an invitation in big
cardboard letters on the side of the school.

Shelton High School Headmaster Beth Smith said Thursday that James Tate's
punishment is the result of a well-publicized policy outlining consequences for
anyone getting into trouble at school after April 1.

"This regulation is reinforced over the course of the spring," Smith said. "This
unfortunate situation is the result of one of those consequences."

Early last week, Tate and two friends went to the school and posted 12-inch-tall
cardboard letters outside the main entrance, where everyone would see them when
arriving for school.

The message said: "Sonali Rodrigues, Will you go to prom with me? HMU - Tate."
HMU means "Hit me up," or "Call me."

Rodrigues said yes. But Tate and his two friends were given one-day in-house
suspensions by Smith and were barred from the June 4 prom.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Rights groups sue over Ga. law

BYLINE: Kate Brumback

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 416 words


ATLANTA - Civil liberties groups on Thursday asked a judge to block a Georgia
law that cracks down on illegal immigration, saying that the measure violates
state and federal law.

A coalition of local and national groups say they "face an imminent threat of
harm" if the new law is enforced. The groups filed a lawsuit asking to have the
the law declared unconstitutional and to block state authorities from enforcing
it.

Gov. Nathan Deal (R) signed the measure into law last month. Most parts of it
are set to take effect July 1.

"The Georgia General Assembly carefully vetted a piece of legislation that
ensured a constitutional product," Deal spokeswoman Stephanie Mayfield said.
"When filed, the lawsuit will be handled by the attorney general's office, and
the governor fully expects a ruling in the state of Georgia's favor."

The measure authorizes law enforcement to check the immigration status of a
suspect who cannot provide identification and to detain and hand over to federal
authorities anyone found to be in the country illegally. It also penalizes
people who, during the commission of another crime, knowingly transport or
harbor illegal immigrants and makes it a felony to present false documents or
information when applying for a job.

Georgia's law has some provisions that echo those in a law enacted last year in
Arizona and is similar to another enacted this year in Utah.

A federal judge blocked the most controversial parts of Arizona's law last year
after the Justice Department sued, saying the law intrudes on the federal
government's exclusive powers to regulate immigration.

A federal appeals court judge upheld the decision and Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer
(R) has said she plans to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.

The American Civil Liberties Union and other civil liberties groups filed a
complaint saying that the Utah law was an unconstitutional burden to legal
immigrants and too much like portions of Arizona's immigration law. A federal
judge last month temporarily blocked that law, citing similarities to the most
controversial parts of Arizona's law. A hearing is set for mid-July to determine
whether the law can go into effect.

Another section of the Georgia law set to be phased in starting in January will
require many businesses to check the immigration status of new hires. An Arizona
law with the same requirement was upheld last week by the U.S. Supreme Court.
The lawsuit filed Thursday does not take issue with that part of the Georgia
law.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 19, 2011 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

A worker's death raises tensions in 'Twilight' town

BYLINE: Manuel Valdes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 773 words


FORKS, Wash. - Benjamin Roldan Salinas, a forest worker in the country
illegally, leapt into the frigid Sol Duc River to escape a pursuing U.S. Border
Patrol Agent, disappearing into the fast-moving waters.

For more than three weeks, his family, friends and volunteers - including other
illegal immigrants - scoured the dense forest along the swollen river's banks
for any sign of him.

The Border Patrol suspected that Salinas had survived and fled. Still, as many
as 150 people at a time continued to look.

"They believed he was out there somewhere because he hadn't gone home," said
Sgt. Brian King of the Clallam County Sheriff's department.

The search ended June 4 when a family friend spotted the 43-year-old Salinas's
bloated, decomposing body entangled in roots downstream, according to the
sheriff's report.

His death heightened tensions in what has become a protracted engagement between
the Border Patrol and the immigrant population of Forks - the small, remote
Washington town best known as the fictional home of the vampire series
"Twilight."

"We talk about Arizona, Texas and the southern border . . . it's here. It's in
our back yard," said Forks Mayor Bryon Monohon, about immigration enforcement
efforts in his town. "It really is just an atmosphere of fear."

Border Patrol agents have questioned citizens and arrested illegal immigrants
leaving the Forks courthouse. They've chased migrants working as pickers for the
decorative floral industry.

The crackdown has spurred immigrants and their allies to develop a warning
system using phones and text messages any time a Border Patrol car is spotted,
according to interviews with Border Patrol officials, town leaders, and
immigrant advocates.

The agency says that it is simply following its mandate: Enforcing the country's
immigration laws, protecting the border and shoreline from terrorists, drug
smugglers and other illegal activity. Forks is just another locale where
immigration laws are being violated, officials said.

"We continue to go out there and do the same mission as we would right along the
border," said Border Patrol agent Chris Dyer, after a patrol of the town in
March. "Our style doesn't really change. I think they just don't understand the
full scope of our duties."

The northwest border was thrust into the spotlight when Ahmed Ressam, an
Algerian national who was convicted on multiple counts for his millennium plot
to bomb Los Angeles International Airport, was caught by Customs and Border
Protection agents in 1999 as he drove off a ferry in Port Angeles, Wash., with
explosives in the trunk of his car.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, President George W. Bush ordered CBP to beef up its
presence on the U.S.-Canada border, almost twice as long as the U.S.-Mexico
border. In 2007, the federal government began increasing immigration enforcement
efforts in Washington state and along the border.

Before that, Monohon said, the Border Patrol was rarely seen in Forks.

Border Patrol enforcement practices common on the southern border, such as
highway checkpoints, were implemented, annoying residents on the Olympic
Peninsula, the area's congressman and local authorities. Agents also conducted
more Northwest-accented actions, including checking cars on ferries. Objections
mounted and the road checkpoints were cut back. Agents still board passenger
buses bound for Seattle as part of their routine security efforts.

The Border Patrol is authorized to conduct enforcement actions within 100 miles
of the border. There are about 30 officers on the peninsula, the mayor said.

"I understand . . . that it's not right for people coming unchecked. But it's
not our community's failure. It's a failure of the entire country, that we have
to try to rectify somewhere, somehow," Monohon said. "But at the same time,
there are still civil rights issues. It's very disturbing that we have people
just up and disappear. But it's just Forks, we're a long ways away and nobody
pays attention."

According to the sheriff's office, Forest Service and Border Patrol, Salinas and
a woman were returning from a day harvesting salal, a shrub used in flower
arranging. They were stopped by a Forest Service officer, who then called the
Border Patrol.

Forest Service spokeswoman Donna Nemeth said the officer suspected Salinas and
the woman were harvesting salal illegally. When a Border Patrol officer arrived,
Salinas ran and was chased.

Salinas was last seen jumping into the river. The woman was arrested on an
immigration violation and was sent to the Tacoma detention center. She was later
released.

- Associated Press

Associated Press photographer Ted Warren contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 436 words

Lee Hockstader

John McCain'sburning words

Once upon a time, Sen. John McCain was one of the few nationally known
Republicans whose M.O. did not include bashing illegal immigrants for possible
electoral gain. But spooked by the xenophobia rampant in the GOP's base, McCain
has joined his party's mainstream in race-baiting, immigrant-hating rhetoric.
Over the weekend,  he cited "substantial evidence" that some of the wildfires
that have ravaged hundreds of thousands of acres in Arizona this month "have
been caused by people who have crossed our border illegally."

In fact, there is not even a shred of evidence of this. And in trying to defend
himself Monday, McCain made that very point. He issued an explanatory memo that
makes clear that his assertion was based on absolutely nothing.

"For years," said the statement, attributed to McCain's communications director,
"federal, state and local officials have stated that smugglers and illegal
immigrants have caused fires on our southern border." Ah, the old "for years"
dodge. The release quotes various officials (one from 2006) as offering a
variety of explanations for fires past and present, including the possibility
that some may have been set as diversions by illegal border-crossers.

And the "substantial evidence" that the current, hugely destructive fires were
set by illegal immigrants? Well, not so much. On Sunday, a U.S. Forest Service
official told CNN that the blaze was probably caused by an "escaped campfire" -
and that there was no reason to think illegal immigrants were behind it.

For months McCain has been insisting that sweeping immigration reform (of the
sort he championed back before his party turned on him because of it) is
impossible until the border is secure. He said the same thing last weekend.

But as McCain has been told repeatedly by the Border Patrol and other agencies,
the frontier with Mexico is now more secure and less porous than it has been in
years, thanks to huge additions of agents and resources initiated by President
George W. Bush and sustained by President Obama. Illegal crossings are down
dramatically, and in many sectors, bored agents patrol terrain where crossers
are few and far between. Illegal crossings have been cut in half since 2005.

But McCain hates to be bothered by the facts. For him, it's politically
expedient, and safer, to hew to the Republican orthodoxy, which prefers to paint
the border as out of control. But by appeasing the xenophobes in the Republican
base, McCain and Co. are fanning the flames of racial hatred in the Southwest
and beyond. And there really is substantial evidence of that.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

An immigrant's secret

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 321 words


Regarding the June 23 Style story "Burying the lead in the biggest story of his
life":

So The Post spiked the story about a former employee who is an undocumented
immigrant and is hiding behind the specious claim that "we will not comment on
individual personnel matters out of respect for the privacy of our employees."

Is this the best The Post can do? What happened to leading by example, no matter
how uncomfortable it may be?

The Post's official response is no better than the evasive comments of others
that The Post exposes (former Prince George's County executive Jack B. Johnson
and former representative Anthony Weiner perhaps being the best recent
examples).

I suspect the response won't withstand scrutiny and that The Post will be
compelled to report on itself further in the interest of candor.

Peter J. Rose,Fredericksburg

l

I applaud Jose Antonio Vargas for sharing his personal story. Unfortunately,
instead of taking this as an example of why immigration laws are broken, many
are taking this as an opportunity to bash the man and blame their own problems
on those "illegal aliens."

As someone who went through an ordeal to stay legally in this country, and who
has six months left on her visa, I know that  it is far from easy to obtain
legal status. I came to California from Europe, not to pursue the American Dream
but because my boyfriend was here. I followed my heart and enrolled in school.

Immigration lawyers and other people have told me my best bet to keep my legal
status is to marry an American citizen.

Apart from that, it is not enough to find an employer who loves you. You have to
find a human resources manager who is willing to deal with government
conditions, regulations and deadlines regarding work visas. It's real mayhem.

I can only dream about what I could accomplish if I had more time. As much as I
love this country, I will pack my bags and leave when my visa expires.

Margarita Kitova, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Md. tuition law may be halted

BYLINE: Aaron C. Davis

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1004 words


Growing frustration with illegal immigration, rising public debt and an
effective Internet campaign to gather voters' signatures have put Maryland
conservatives on the cusp of a victory to delay and possibly repeal a new law
that would give undocumented immigrants in-state college tuition breaks.

Maryland's version of the DREAM Act would more than halve tuition rates for
undocumented immigrants at Maryland colleges and universities. For a four-year
degree, the plan could cost the state $40,000 per student, and Maryland
officials have estimated that hundreds of undocumented high school graduates
would apply for the aid.

But a successful petition drive led by a handful of Maryland Republican
lawmakers appears all but certain to stall the effort.

Opponents say they are on pace to turn in a combined 100,000 signatures by
Thursday, even though state elections officials say they have certified most of
the nearly 56,000 needed to suspend the law and send it to a statewide
referendum in November 2012. The law had been scheduled to take effect Friday,
but it has been suspended while officials await a final tally on the signatures.

"People want to enforce immigration law, not skirt around it," said Del. Neil C.
Parrott (R-Washington). "This was a highly divisive bill with bipartisan
opposition that barely passed. It's important to allow the residents of Maryland
to have the final say."

The law was approved narrowly in April by the state's legislature and was signed
into law last month by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D), making Maryland at least the
10th state to offer in-state tuition breaks to its undocumented students.

But the law appears to also be the first in Maryland that voters will decide at
the polls in 20 years. The last law petitioned to a statewide referendum, which
ensured abortion rights in the state, was affirmed by voters in 1992.

The signature-gathering effort to repeal the tuition law is expected to draw
court challenges. But the rare success that opponents appear to be having in
easily crossing the threshold for a referendum has sparked debate in Annapolis
about whether Maryland's Democratic leadership overreached in approving the
measure.

In addition to Republicans, thousands of Democrats have signed on to oppose the
aid for immigrants in the party's strongholds of Baltimore and Prince George's
County.

"A referendum is extremely rare and certainly a statement of the times we are
in," said Don Norris, chairman of the public policy department at the University
of Maryland-Baltimore County.

"With a bad economy and lots of people being angry, I think this is most clearly
related to the economy. But we'll see. Immigration has never been a mainstream
issue in Maryland. Maybe that is changing and this will push it to the
forefront."

Michael Fix, an immigration expert at the Urban Institute in the District, said
that if voters in a traditionally blue state such as Maryland repeal the law, it
could affect debates in other states and possibly the debate in Congress about
whether to move forward with a national DREAM Act.

"There is a lot of noise on this issue right now, and it's hard to sum up what's
going on nationally," Fix said, noting that the Supreme Court recently rejected
an opportunity to review whether a similar law in California was legal and that
lawmakers in the Senate keep pushing for a vote on a federal law.

"A repeal as a result of a referendum in Maryland would have national salience,"
he said.

Kim Propeack, advocacy director for CASA of Maryland, which lobbies for
immigrant rights, said that if the petition effort is successful, it will throw
plans for many undocumented immigrants who graduated from Maryland high schools
this spring into limbo and leave college out of reach for many financially.

Under the law, students who can prove that they have attended Maryland high
schools for at least three years and that their parents or guardians have begun
paying taxes would be allowed to begin courses this fall at community colleges
at in-state rates.

Those who go on to earn an associate's degree could transfer to a four-year
institution at in-state rates. At the University of Maryland, tuition was $8,415
for in-state students, compared with $24,830 for out-of-state students.

Propeack said that legal challenges to the referendum effort are likely and
predicted that voters would ultimately see the many benefits of the law.

"We look forward to refocusing the issue not on the number of signatures and
petitions, but on the benefits to so many of Maryland's kids," she said.

Legal challenges are expected to focus in part on a new online tool opponents
built and used to secure tens of thousands of signatures.

In preparation for a possible referendum effort against same-sex marriage
legislation that died this year in Maryland, Parrott paid about $2,500 of his
own money to build a tool that has eliminated many clerical errors that
routinely doom signature-gathering drives in Maryland.

Because signatures can be rejected if they do not match voter rolls, the online
tool prints out a Maryland voter's name and information exactly as it is listed
in registration records. A voter  only needs to sign the petition as printed and
mail it to the campaign.

More than a third of the 47,288 signatures validated for the referendum have
come from the online tool, according to the State Board of Elections.

Last month, the American Civil Liberties Union of Maryland wrote a letter asking
the elections board to scrutinize the tool.

It could not only "determine the fate of the DREAM Act petition effort," the
letter read, "but could also dramatically change the petition process in
Maryland going forward, opening many more state and local laws to petition
challenges in the future."

Hopefully that's the case, said Parrott, who has recouped his $2,500 in
donations from opponents of the tuition law.

"There's always a question of how can we make it easier for people to get
involved in the process. This computer program does that well, so get involved."

davisa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

In Maryland, a referendum on a dream

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: Misplaced anger threatensa measure that would help students and the
state.


OPPONENTS OF Maryland's Dream Act - the law that would grant in-state tuition
discounts to undocumented immigrants provided they attend a Maryland high school
and they or their parents pay taxes - appear to have gathered well over 100,000
petition signatures. Barring judicial intervention or other unforeseen twists,
that's more than enough to suspend the law's implementation and put it up for a
referendum on the 2012 ballot.

There is little surprise in the opponents' success, especially given the
relative technological ease of online petition drives. That helped produce
thousands of signatures, with an assist from what one organizer called the
"passion and rage" surrounding a measure that would give a leg up to
undocumented immigrants while so many citizens are hurting.

Times of economic duress have traditionally fed such anti-immigration fervor in
America, in the past directed at Irish, Italians, Chinese and others seen as
outsiders. Maryland's jobless rate of 6.8 percent, while much lower than the
national average, remains almost double its level before the recession. In the
Free State, as elsewhere, many Americans worry that any government benefits
extended to undocumented immigrants may somehow result in a zero-sum calculus,
depriving financially stressed citizens of assistance to which they are
rightfully entitled.

The concerns about Maryland's Dream Actare understandable; they're also
misplaced. They fail to recognize that the law is overwhelmingly in the state's
interest. Implement it, and thousands of ambitious, promising youngsters who
have grown up in Maryland will have a chance to realize their potential as
productive, taxpaying members of society. Repeal it, and those same youngsters
will swell the ranks of the underclass, paying less in taxes, consuming more in
services and living lives soured by the frustration of unrealized potential.

The demographic targeted by the Dream Act consists largely of teenagers who were
brought by their parents to the United States, often as young children. Many
have relatives who are citizens. They have grown up speaking English and are
loyal to their adoptive country, attending and graduating from high school and
regarding themselves as American in most or every way.

Their undocumented status is not their fault, and there is no precedent in
American history for punishing children for the actions of their parents. Having
invested, in some cases, $200,000 in state, local and federal funds into
educating undocumented students from kindergarten through high school, why would
Maryland want to cut short their development by putting college out of their
reach?

Unfortunately, that is the reality now. Undocumented immigrants seeking to
attend the University of Maryland at College Park in the academic year starting
in September would be required to pay the out-of-state rate of $26,026 in
tuition and fees. Even if they have attended Maryland public schools all their
lives - even if they are straight-A students, debating champions or star
athletes - they are ineligible for the in-state rate of $8,655.

Opponents of the measure include every Republican in the state legislature, plus
a handful of Democrats. They argue that granting tuition breaks to illegal
immigrants would cost the state's university system heavily in terms of lost
tuition revenue. In fact, the cost issue is a red herring.

No more than a few hundred undocumented students are thought likely to qualify
for the discounted tuition annually. That's a drop in the ocean of roughly
26,000 new students who enter Maryland's four-year colleges and universities
each year. Moreover, the Dream Act specifies that undocumented students would
not be included in the tally of enrolled in-state residents, so they would not
displace a single Maryland student. Tellingly, none of Maryland's college or
university presidents oppose enrolling undocumented students.

By 2016, the Dream Act would cost the state just $3.5 million, according to
nonpartisan state legislative analysts. But that modest investment would be more
than offset by the future income the state (and the nation) would realize from
better educated residents who would be qualified for higher-paying jobs and pay
more in taxes.

Last year, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that opening
the door of higher education to undocumented immigrants would increase national
revenue by $2.3 billion over 10 years and cut the deficit by $1.4 billion.

Opponents argue that the Dream Act will make Maryland a magnet for further
illegal immigration, thereby stiffening competition for jobs that native
Marylanders could fill. In fact, numerous studies have shown that immigrants
don't steal jobs; they create them by expanding the scope of economic activity.
That's particularly true of better-educated immigrants.

But why provide higher education to students who are not legally employable upon
graduation? First, the reality is that undocumented immigrants - an estimated 7
million of them nationwide - do hold jobs; legal or not, they are in demand in
the workplace. Second, some of the students who would benefit from the measure
are in the process of applying for green cards and may eventually qualify as
permanent residents and citizens. Why limit their education?

Finally, it's foolish to assume that Congress will indefinitely ignore 11
million undocumented immigrants, most of whom are deeply embedded in American
communities and the economy. When Congress finally recognizes reality - and,
yes, grants amnesty to undocumented immigrants with deep roots and clean records
here - it is in everyone's interest that as many as possible are
college-educated.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 25, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

America's tranquil border

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 603 words


IMMIGRATION SKEPTICS are fond of portraying the southwestern border as lawless
and violent, a sort of Spanish-accented version of Pakistan's tribal areas. In
this fantasy dystopia, cascades of illegal immigrants cross the frontier,
running roughshod over outmanned and outgunned U.S. Border Patrol agents.

It's a colorful narrative, designed to scare Americans while deflecting reform
of the nation's broken immigration system. How can we discuss sweeping change,
let alone amnesty for millions of undocumented immigrants, the purveyors of fear
argue, while chaos reigns along the border?

But the lawless border portrayed by lawmakers such as Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas
and Sen. John McCain of Arizona, border state Republicans, is a fairy tale.
Illegal border crossings have nose-dived to their lowest levels in many years
and are projected to plunge even further. Many segments of the southwest border
are so quiet that border patrol agents spend their days surveying barren
landscapes devoid of activity.

What's more, as a recent New York Times article illustrated, the shrinking
demand to sneak across the border from Mexico is not only a function of
America's anemic economy, tougher state laws on illegal immigration or the
17,700 Border Patrol agents assigned there, nearly  double the number in 2004.
It can be traced also to economic, demographic and policy shifts inside Mexico
itself.

In fact, such a broad array of factors is depressing the rate of illegal
immigration from Mexico that even a surge in the American economy is not apt to
drive the numbers of undocumented border crossers back up to the levels of the
early- to mid-2000s, when a half million or more flooded into the country each
year.

Those factors include sharply dwindling Mexican fertility rates and family
sizes, which have shrunk the numbers of potential job seekers; higher gross
domestic product and family incomes, which have expanded incentives for Mexicans
to make a living at home; and rising educational levels, which are broadening
hope and opportunities for Mexicans who want to move up the economic ladder.

At the same time, the Times reported, U.S. consular officials in Mexico have
eased rules governing the issuance of tourist and temporary agricultural visas,
meaning that thousands more Mexicans are able to enter the United States
legally. Rejection rates for Mexicans seeking tourist visas have fallen to just
11 percent from 32 percent before 2008, the Times reported..

Those are salutary trends. Another development - less positive but equally
effective at dissuading the undocumented - is the growth of violent Mexican drug
cartels that prey on migrants as they head north for the border. As reported by
The Post's William Booth and Nick Miroff, migrants from Central America have
been particular targetsof the cartels, which have murdered some and press-ganged
others into service. Many Central Americans now think it is too dangerous to
attempt to cross Mexico into the United States.

The southwest border is hardly watertight; few international land boundaries
are. But all indications, including plummeting apprehensions by the beefed-up
Border Patrol, are that illegal border crossings have been cut in half in the
past five or six years.

The effect of all this must be depressing for peddlers of anecdotes and spinners
of tall tales about the border. But the plain facts are simply are not as
hair-raising as anti-illegal-immigration Republicans would have Americans
believe. Like it or not, the border is a much safer and better monitored place
than it has been in many years, and the trend lines promise more of the same.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The myth of the 'tranquil' border

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 251 words


The July 25 editorial "America's tranquil border" correctly observed that anemic
U.S. job growth has reduced the incentive for some illegal immigrants to cross
our southwest border. Yet tranquil is hardly how many Texans describe their
border communities.

Illegal crossings remain a feature of border life, and violent criminals are
among those who exploit America's porous border. Attacks on U.S. law enforcement
are rising, according to the Texas-based intelligence firm STRATFOR, and
shootouts disturb the tranquility all too often.  Nor would most Texans describe
Mexican drug cartels as "less positive but equally effective at dissuading the
undocumented." Texans have great sympathy for those preyed upon by traffickers
in drugs and human beings, and we find no utility in their brutality.

Instead of outsourcing border security to Mexican drug cartels, Texans would far
prefer that the federal government do its job. More than 1,100 miles of our
southwest border are not under "operational control" as defined by U.S. Customs
and Border Protection. Texans see that as a breach of trust and a failure of
federal responsibility.

I have introduced legislation to help secure our southwest border, as well as
improve our ports of entry to speed legitimate trade and travel between Mexico
and the United States.  Until Washington makes our border a much higher
priority, "tranquility" will remain a vision uprooted from reality.

John Cornyn, Washington

The writer (R-Tex.) is a member of the U.S. Senate.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Drawing the line

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 471 words


CRITICS BLASTED the administration's reassessment of deportation priorities as
an affront to the rule of law. Some immigration advocates hailed it as a
potential panacea for tens of thousands of undocumented immigrants.

It is likely to be neither - not the unauthorized power grab that some fear or
the far-reaching change that some hope for.

Over the next few months, the administration will review 300,000 or so cases in
the deportation pipeline. Individuals with criminal records - especially those
with convictions for violent crimes - will remain high priorities for removal,
as will those who have repeatedly and illegally tried to enter the country.
People caught attempting to cross the border illegally will continue to be
turned away.

But at least some people who have been law-abiding residents except for their
illegal entry will get to stay. This includes those who were brought here as
children and so-called Dream Act youth who have graduated from U.S. high schools
and have earned or are pursuing college degrees. It includes military veterans
or those with immediate family members who have served. And it includes gay and
lesbian foreign nationals whose spouses are U.S. citizens or permanent legal
residents.

Deportation proceedings against such people will be indefinitely suspended, and
these factors will be weighed when determining whether to initiate proceedings
against others in the future. But this administration - or the next - could
still initiate deportation proceedings down the road.

The administration also announced that those who are permitted to stay may apply
for work permits. Critics latched on to this as proof that the administration
was circumventing the will of Congress, which has repeatedly refused to enact
amnesties. But immigration law already allows the executive branch to award work
permits to certain undocumented immigrants. The initiative does not change the
eligibility criteria. Some who win the opportunity to stay may find themselves
unable to obtain permission to work - and that is where supporters of the
president's changes may be sorely disappointed.

Critics are wrong to label the administration's move as an "amnesty" - a reward
for scofflaws. There is no green card or citizenship oath at the end of this
process. The kind of  comprehensive reforms needed to address problems in the
immigration system can be authorized only by Congress. In the meantime, the
administration's initiative is a lawful and sensible step.

The executive branch has broad discretion in deciding which immigration cases to
pursue, and the administration has correctly determined that not all
undocumented immigrants are the same. The nation does not have the means or the
will to deport 11 million undocumented immigrants; it ought to concentrate on
those who really are causing trouble.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Illegal immigration boils up as litmus test for GOP voters

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;and Amy Gardner

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1066 words

DATELINE: KEENE, N.H.


KEENE, N.H. - Mitt Romney openedhis town hall meeting here talking about the
economy - his thoughts on growing business, getting government out of the way -
just as he does nearly every other campaign event. But when he opened last
week's forum for questions, the first voter he called on didn't seem concerned
about any of that. He wanted to know the Republican presidential candidate's
stance on border security.

A similar scene played out in South Carolina a few days later, when Rep. Michele
Bachmann (R-Minn.) attended a town hall meetingshe assumed would center on the
economy, jobs and the federal deficit - only to see the assembled voters react
most passionately to her comments on illegal immigration.

Polls might not suggest it, and the candidates might not be catering to it, but
immigration is an issue that voters won't let the GOP White House hopefuls
escape.

Republican primary voters keep bringing up immigration as the candidates
campaign in back yards, opera houses and recreation halls across Iowa, New
Hampshire and South Carolina. To a sizable chunk of those who will pick the
GOP's presidential nominee, immigration is an urgent issue, even a litmus test.

"Immigration is not even close to the top issue for most Republicans today, but
it is an issue that is heavy with symbolic importance to Republican voters,"
said GOP pollster Jon Lerner, who advised Tim Pawlenty untilhe dropped out of
the race last month. "If a candidate is squishy on immigration, that
symbolically suggests that he's probably unreliable on a whole host of other
conservative issues."

The view in the Republican Party on immigration has shifted dramatically to the
right since 2006, when President George W. Bush proposed an overhaul that would
have combined a legalization plan with tighter border security.

The issue is likely to take on even greater significance in the race for the
Republican nomination with the recent entrance of Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who
oversees the nation's biggest border state and who has a longer and more
complicated record on immigration than his opponents.

Since entering the race, Perry has taken a tough stance on the issue.

"Once we secure the border, we can have a conversation about immigration reform
in this country, but not until," Perry told reporters after a campaign stop last
month in South Carolina. "You must have the federal government putting the
resources, the boots on the ground, the aviation assets in the air, and secure
that border so that we know that the border is secure before we have a
conversation about any immigration reform."

Perry's history with the border is more nuanced than that. He has long advocated
a more seamless border between his state and Mexico, and he has traveled there
to drum up business for his state. In 2007, he called the proposed construction
of a fence between the United States and Mexico "idiocy," saying "it absolutely
would not work."

Ray Sullivan, Perry's communications director, said that remains Perry's
position.

"Fencing a 2,000-mile border is not practical," Sullivan said. "The governor
does and has always supported what he calls 'strategic fencing' in urban and
high-trafficked areas."

During Perry's first year in office, he signed a law allowing any student who
has lived in Texas for three years and graduates from a Texas high school to pay
in-state tuition at state colleges, regardless of their citizenship status.

The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support but now is criticized by
some Republicans as a precursor to the federal DREAM Act, a Democratic proposal
to create a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants brought into the
country as children.

Last year, Perry criticized Arizona's tough new immigration enforcement law,
saying that it "would not be the right direction for Texas."

Sullivan said Perry's stances made sense for Texas, pointing out that many
Texans have economic, cultural and family ties across the border. "Texans have a
very close and perhaps unique perspective on border issues," he said.

Some conservatives have begun attacking Perry on immigration. "He's just a
little bit too much like George Bush," Ann Coulter recently said on Fox News.

On immigration, Romney's position is to secure the border before considering
comprehensive reform. At the town hall in Keene, he said that means to "turn off
the magnet."

"Employers in the U.S. who knowingly hire people who are here illegally - that's
the magnet," he said. "So we have to crack down on employers that hire illegals,
make it easy for them to determine who's here legally and who's not, and then
crack down on those who hire illegals."

Bachmann, too, wants to crack down on those who are in the United States
illegally. On a recent five-day campaign swing, she was asked about immigration
at virtually every stop. At one, a town hall meeting in Charleston, S.C., she
elicited the most passionate response of the evening when she took a question on
immigration.

Bachmann promised to build a fence along "every mile, every yard, every foot,
every inch" of the nation's southern border, to "have the back" of enforcement
agents, and to put an end to the provision of federal benefits to illegal
immigrants.

But she really got her audience going with a series of lamentations about the
border that places her to the right of her opponents.

"On the southern border, we are dealing with a narco-terrorist state today in
Mexico," Bachmann said. "Because 70 percent of narcotics are coming to the
United States are coming from Mexico. Mexico is in a very different place right
now. We are seeing criminals, felons, drugs, we're seeing contagious diseases
coming into our country. What is wrong with our government that it isn't
stopping this from coming into the nation?"

The applause was loud, yet the man who asked the question, Rich Wiedenhoft, left
unsatisfied.

"The very town I live in is a sanctuary city, and I'm very ashamed of that,"
Wiedenhoft, 63, an Air Force retiree, said later in an interview. "I served in
the military for 20 years defending the flag. And I resent people coming in here
and taking advantage of us. I consider them invaders."

So which candidate might appeal more than Bachmann?

"That," he said, "is what I keep going to these meetings to find out."

ruckerp@washpost.com

Staff researcher Alice Crites and polling director Jon Cohen contributed to this
report. Gardner reported from South Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 468 words

Florida

Craft's moon launch reset for Friday

High winds at Cape Canaveral forced NASA to scrub the Thursday launch of its
GRAIL mission to the moon. NASA said the next two launch opportunities will be
Friday morning.

The two mirror-opposite spacecraft that comprise the Gravity Recovery and
Interior Laboratory mission are to arrive at the moon on New Year's Eve and New
Year's Day - a schedule that is not expected to change even if there are further
weather delays. GRAIL-A and GRAIL-B will spend three months making 12 polar
orbits of the moon each day.

Scientists predict the mission will provide a comprehensive map of the moon's
gravitational field, allowing them to better calculate the composition of its
crust, mantle and core and adding to their understanding of the evolution of
rocky planets.

- Los Angeles Times

New Mexico

Governor: Relatives were undocumented

 New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, who has drawn national attention and criticism
from immigrant advocacy groups for trying to stop illegal immigrants from
getting driver's licenses, has acknowledged her paternal grandparents came to
the U.S. illegally.

"I know they arrived without documents, especially my father's father," the
Republican said Wednesday in an interview in Spanish with KLUZ-TV, the
Albuquerque Univision affiliate.

Martinez has long acknowledged her Mexican heritage. But when asked previously
about reports that her grandfather was an illegal immigrant, her office has said
Martinez was unsure of his status since he abandoned the family when her father
was young.

- Associated Press

Edwards trial rescheduled for January: Ex-presidential candidate John Edwards's
trial on campaign finance charges has been delayed until January, giving his
defense team the time it says it needs to comb through more than 400,000 pages
of material turned over by the government. The former North Carolina senator was
charged in June with using about $1 million in under-the-table payments from
political supporters to hide his pregnant mistress, Rielle Hunter, during his
2008 run.

Longshore workers attack port: Hundreds of longshore workers stormed the Port of
Longview in Washington, overpowered security guards, damaged rail cars and
dumped grain at the center of a labor dispute that has spread to Seattle and
Tacoma ports, officials said Thursday.

Containment lines block wildfire flames: Authorities said Thursday that active
flames from a massive Central Texas wildfire are behind containment lines and
some residents evacuated from unburned areas could return to their homes. The
Bastrop County fire has been the most catastrophic of nearly 180 wildfires that
have erupted across Texas this week in an outbreak that's left nearly 1,700
homes statewide in ruins, killed four people and forced thousands to evacuate.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The GOP's nonsense on immigration

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 966 words


WHEN QUIZZED on the problem of illegal immigration at their debate the other
night, the Republican presidential hopefuls were by turns vague, evasive,
confused, contradictory and - in the notable case of Rep. Ron Paul of Texas, who
opposes a border fence because it might prevent law-abiding Americans from
withdrawing their savings and fleeing to Mexico in a crisis -
harebrained.â[#x2c6][#x161]

If a majority of the GOP aspirants agreed on anything, it was that nothing
meaningful can be done about the nation's dysfunctional immigration system and
the presence of 11 million undocumented immigrants until the southern border is
"secure." And as Texas Gov. Rick Perry asserted, "It is not safe on that
border."

That sounds very grave. There's just one problem: The border today is more
secure than it has been in years, according to virtually every yardstick
accepted by Republican and Democratic administrations for decades. Illegal
crossings, as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, are at their lowest level
in 40 years, and rates of nearly all measurable crimes are plummeting in border
communities.

In truth, then, the real message on immigration from most of the candidates is
this: We can't fix the broken system, or deal with illegal immigrants until,
well, ever. Because even if we understand that 11 million people cannot be
deported and must be granted some form of amnesty - the dreaded word! - our
conservative base will punish us if we admit it, let alone undertake it.

Mr. Perry struck first, accusing President Obama of possessing terrible
intelligence, or being an "abject liar," for telling a crowd in El Paso that the
border is safer than it's ever been. In fact, it's Mr. Perry whose relationship
to the truth is  at arm's length. In his El Paso speech, Mr. Obama merely
claimed "important progress" on securing the border, which is statistically
undeniable, and he cited the huge additional resources the federal government -
starting with President George W.  Bush - has dispatched there in recent years.

Beyond that, Mr. Perry had nothing significant to contribute to the conversation
on immigration. That may be because his positions are in fact much more closely
aligned with Democratic views, and  reality, than his own party's hard-line
stance.

Mr. Perry has opposed fencing the entire 2,000-mile border, correctly labeling
it a "preposterous idea" that wouldn't deter many illegal crossers. He favors a
sensible guest worker program to meet the labor market's demand, a proposal that
many Republicans regard as amnesty by another name. And he was the nation's
first governor to sign legislation extending tuition breaks to the blameless
children of illegal immigrants who attend  colleges and universities. That in
particular is an act of heresy for most of today's GOP politicians.

Then there was Mitt Romney, whose position on the issue is a sterling example of
incoherence. The former Massachusetts governor twice declared that "we ought to
have a fence" running the length of the border, but he acknowledged that any
fence would be highly porous and ineffective. That amounted to a pledge to spend
billions of dollars to no meaningful effect.

Aside from opposing amnesty, the former Massachusetts governor had no ideas - or
none he cared to share - about dealing with the 11 million undocumented
immigrants already here. But he did stress the need to crack down on employers
and tuition breaks that he said provide a "magnet" attracting illegal immigrants
in the first place - an oblique shot at Mr. Perry.

In fact, the real magnet for illegal immigrants has been the U.S. economy, which
has generated many low-wage jobs that the vast majority of Americans have not
wanted. And the core problem has been Washington's failure to devise a workable
system to provide an adequate and legal supply of labor.

Among the other major Republican candidates, there wasn't much more insight or
logic on offer. Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota ducked two straight questions
on what to do about the  11 million. Former senator Rick Santorum of
Pennsylvania said that he loved immigrants - his father and grandfather, to name
two - but that any discussion of the 11 million undocumented ones should come
later.

Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman Jr. advocated unspecified "punishment" for the
undocumented, while helpfully offering a reminder that they are "human beings"
and avoiding any explicit mention of his long-standing support for some form of
amnesty.

And then there was Ron "Don't Fence Us In" Paul.

As usual, no one in the Republican pack bothered to define what they mean by
"securing" the border, the reason being that those goal posts will never stop
moving.

Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry want more manpower and technology on the border. But
they never mention that Border Patrol deployments have already tripled over the
past 15 years, not counting 1,000 more officers being recruited and trained in
the current year, let alone the addition in recent years of thousands more boots
on the ground from an alphabet soup of other federal agencies plus the National
Guard.

Ms. Bachmann wants "a fence on every part of that border," by which we assume
she means the 1,350 miles not already fenced. But fences are costly and easily
defeated (think ladders and tunnels). More to the point, they are utterly
irrelevant to the 40 percent or more of undocumented immigrants who enter the
United States legally, then overstay their visas.

If there was one candidate who dared say something sensible, it was former House
speaker Newt Gingrich. Maybe being stuck near the bottom of the pack in the
polls gave him courage to mention the unmentionable: There must be "a much more
humane way" of dealing with illegal immigrants, Mr. Gingrich said, than
imagining America can "deport millions of people." Amen.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

GOP opponents pile on Perry's DREAM act

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1010 words


Texas Gov. Rick Perry was hardly trying to strike a radical note a decade ago
when he signed the Texas DREAM Act, the now-controversial law granting in-state
college tuition to illegal immigrants brought to Texas as children.

But the law has suddenly become a sharp point of departure, separating Perry
from his GOP presidential rivals as they compete for the conservative vote.

"If you say that we should not educate children who have come into our state for
no other reason than they have been brought there by no fault of their own, I
don't think you have a heart," Perry said at a Republican debate in Florida on
Thursday night.

That touched a nerve among many conservative voters and prompted a retort Friday
from former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney that "if you're opposed to
illegal immigration, it doesn't mean you don't have a heart, it means you have a
heart and a brain."

Since entering the presidential race six weeks ago, Perry has hovered at the top
of the polls, in large part due to his tough talk and tea party backing. But his
opponents lately have focused attention on his moderate stances, including what
they say is his weakness on immigration - not only because of the DREAM Act but
because he opposes building a fence along the entire southern border.

Early in his governorship, Perry advocated for more unfettered transportation
across the U.S.-Mexico line and health services that could span both sides of
the border. At the time, he pointed to the DREAM Act as a sign of his commitment
to improving education for minorities.

"We must say to every Texas child learning in a Texas classroom, 'We don't care
where you come from, but where you are going,' " Perry said shortly after the
bill passed in 2001, according to his Web site. "And that vision must include
the children of undocumented workers."

But the landscape on immigration has changed with the Sept. 11, 2001, terror
attacks, an increase in drug-related crime across the border and rising
opposition to illegal immigrants. And Perry's tone on some immigration issues
has shifted.

This year, he backed a bill barring "sanctuary cities" - communities that adopt
policies declining to share information with federal immigration authorities.
During Thursday's debate, he noted that his state invested $400 million into
border security.

But he has maintained his support for the DREAM Act, which over the past decade
has provided tuition breaks to more than 32,000 students attending Texas
colleges. The law sparked a national movement to pass a federal version, which
has been championed by President Obama and became a bitterly contested issue
that failed in Congress last year.

Perry has said he opposes the federal version, calling it "amnesty" because it
includes a path to citizenship. The Texas law does not have such a provision.
Rather, its supporters said it was intended to reduce the barriers to higher
education for children brought to the country illegally by their parents or
other adults.

The measure applies to undocumented students who have graduated from a Texas
high school, lived in the state for three years and signed an affidavit
promising to seek legal status. They can become eligible for scholarships and
pay in-state tuition rather than international student rates, which are
sometimes double and triple the resident fees.

The law was the first of its kind when it passed a decade ago - now about a
dozen states have such laws, and one is under consideration in Maryland - and it
drew overwhelming support from both parties in the Texas legislature.

http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2011/09/12/live-blog-of-cnns-first-ever-tea
-party-republican-debate/Repeated attempts to repeal it have failed, including
one this year. Even some members of the state's vast tea party network say that
they have no problem with it.

"We in Texas have a very long record of being neighbors to Mexico," said Clint
Cook, a spokesman for the Texas Tea Party Alliance. "Yeah, you could say that
some taxpayer dollars are being used, but at the same time those kids graduate
from college and go on to create money for the economy."

Last year, Texas education officials estimate that illegal immigrant college
students received about $9.5 million in state financial aid. And the Texas
Higher Education Coordinating Board said that last year more than 16,000
students were in the program - an uptick from previous years but still a small
fraction of the more than 1.3 million students attending state colleges and
universities.

Critics of the law say they have grown increasingly frustrated as the economy
has deteriorated and more illegal immigrants sign up for discounted tuition.
They say it takes seats away from qualified legal students and that taxpayers
should not be forced to subsidize the education of those in the country
illegally.

Maria Martinez, executive director of the Immigration Reform Coalition of Texas,
a nonprofit that advocates for stricter immigration enforcement and opposes the
Texas DREAM Act, speculated that Republicans who take a soft tack on these
issues are probably doing so under a misguided attempt at winning Latino votes.

"Politicians tend to try to be all things to all people, and Perry probably
thinks if you have a big tent rather than stand on your principles, that will
get you elected," said Martinez. But at a time of high unemployment and
dwindling resources, "you just can't tell me you'll win any popularity contests
as a politician having that position."

The bill was introduced by Rick Noriega, a former Democratic state
representative from the Houston area, who was inspired to act after meeting an
ambitious young high school graduate from El Salvador. The graduate was cutting
lawns rather than attending college because he had lived in the state illegally
since age 14.

Today, the student is a U.S. citizen and "he's working as an aviation mechanic
for Continental Airlines, has a house, is looking for a wife and complains that
his taxes are too high," Noriega said. "If that isn't American, I don't know
what is."

sandhya@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Illegal immigrants, illegal benefits

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 254 words


The Sept. 18 editorial "Hopes, dreams and Policy 45003" praised Montgomery
College for being an outlier in giving taxpayer-subsidized tuition benefits to
illegal aliens. The college is an outlier because it is an outlaw, a point the
editorial did not address.

Federal law prohibits such benefits unless they are specifically provided by a
state legislature. Likewise, Maryland law requires that tuition be based on a
student's lawful residence, which illegal aliens are unable to establish in the
state. The Maryland Dream Act, which specifically provides in-state or in-county
tuition rates for illegal aliens, is on hold and may be subject to a referendum
by voters on Election Day 2012. But the trustees of Montgomery College seem to
want to write their own rules, no matter the law.

For The Post to say that opponents of this illegal policy "enjoy bashing illegal
immigrants" is inappropriate and uncivil. We and the citizens and legal
residents who oppose this policy want public officials to obey the law and not
abuse the public office entrusted to them. This fight is as much about the
misguided political appointees governing Montgomery College as it is about
taxpayer handouts to immigrant lawbreakers.

Tom Fitton, Washington

The writer is president of Judicial Watch, which is representing the sponsor of
the drive to place the Maryland Dream Act on the 2012 ballot. The group also is
representing three taxpayers in the legal challenge to Montgomery College's
policy granting in-state tuition to illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Rick Perry says his remarks on immigration were 'inappropriate' Rick Perry says
his remarks on immigration were 'inappropriate'

BYLINE: Philip Rucker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 476 words


Texas Gov. Rick Perry, facing a conservative backlash over his labeling as
heartless those who oppose his state law giving college tuition breaks to the
children of illegal immigrants, said Wednesday that the tone of his remarks was
"inappropriate."

In an on-camera interview with Newsmax.com, a conservative media outlet, Perry
said he had been "over-passionate" in his answer to a question about the law
during last week's debate among GOP presidential candidates.

"I probably chose a poor word to explain that," Perry said in the interview.
"For people who don't want their state to be giving tuition to illegal aliens,
illegal immigrants in this country, that's their call, and I respect that."

Although he softened his remarks, Perry stood by the legislation and noted that
it passed in 2001 with the support of all but four legislators in Texas.

"I was probably a bit over-passionate by using that word. And it was
inappropriate," Perry said. "But here's what I do believe: that it is a state's
sovereign right to decide that issue for themselves."

In last Thursday's debate in Orlando, Perry said, "If you say that we should not
educate children who have come into our state for no other reason than they've
been brought there by no fault of their own, I don't think you have a heart,"
Perry said. "We need to be educating these children, because they will become a
drag on our society."

The comment drew boos from thousands of Republican activists in the debate
audience and reverberated across the GOP political landscape. Perry's rivals
have tried to use the issue as a wedge to drive between Perry and the party's
conservative base, which seeks tougher treatment of illegal immigrants.

Mitt Romney, Perry's top rival for the nomination, is sharply criticizing
Perry's law on the stump, noting that as governor of Massachusetts he vetoed a
similar law.

During a town hall meeting Wednesday in Goffstown, N.H., Romney reportedly
brought up the immigration bill and said he vetoed it because "I'd rather give
[benefits] to you. I'd rather forgive your loans than give it to people who are
here illegally." Romney hasn't been alone in pummeling Perry. On Tuesday night,
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie - who is not a candidate - criticized Perry's
immigration stance during a high-profile appearance at the Ronald Reagan
Presidential Library and Museum.

In an appearance Wednesday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," Romney defended comments
from Erick Erickson, the editor of a prominent tea party blog, Redstate.com,
suggesting that Romney is not conservative enough by pointing to Perry's more
moderate immigration stances.

"I think if we were to ask, well, now, which is the more conservative position
on immigration, Mitt Romney's or Rick Perry's, I think Eric would say, well,
actually Mitt Romney's is the more conservative position," Romney said.

- Philip Rucker

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 453 words

Illinois

County defies U.S. on immigrant felons

The release of more than 40 Cook County felons suspected of being illegal
immigrants has created fierce debate about the defiance of a federal program
aimed at deporting criminals.

Criminals suspected of being in the country illegally are to be held after they
serve their sentences or post bail so that their immigration status can be
checked. Other localities have refused to cooperate in cases involving
misdemeanors; Cook County is the first to refuse to hold felons.

"It puts residents at risk, and it puts my police officers at risk," said Rod
Craig, mayor of Hanover Park in suburban Chicago, who is livid about the release
of three suspected illegal immigrants charged with assaulting two officers and
trying to take one of their guns.

Jesus Garcia, the commissioner who sponsored the ordinance, said it is
"upholding our system of justice."

- Associated Press

TRANSPORTATION

Fast-track screening in trials at 4 airports

Select frequent fliers who agree to share personal information with the
Transportation Security Administration began using lower-hassle security lines
Tuesday in a trial program at four U.S. airports.

The voluntary program in Atlanta, Miami, Detroit and Dallas-Fort Worth is open
to travelers who are enrolled in Delta Air Lines' and American Airlines'
frequent-flier programs, which collect personal information, or one of three
government-run traveler programs: Global Entry, NEXUS and SENTRI.

Those passengers get a chance - not a guarantee - that they can move through
lines faster and avoid removing their shoes, belts or light coats while keeping
laptops and liquids in their bags.

- Associated Press

Food labels requested: An advocacy group based in St. Louis, the Center for Food
Safety, filed a petition Tuesday asking the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
require labeling of any food product that contains genetically modified
ingredients. The agency has 180 days to respond and will have to create a
comment period. An estimated 60 percent of processed food on American grocery
shelves contains genetically modified ingredients. The FDA is also considering
whether to approve genetically modified salmon.

Mich. welfare cuts postponed: A federal judge on Tuesday temporarily halted a
major round of cuts in Michigan's welfare program, saying the state did a poor
job of notifying people that  they would no longer receive cash benefits. A
stricter four-year cap on cash payments took effect Oct. 1. Notices were not
sent until Sept. 11 to recipients being cut off. The temporary injunction said
new notices must be sent and must include information on a recipient's right to
ask for a hearing to appeal the loss of benefits.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In Alabama, apprehension

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1738 words

DATELINE: IN FOLEY, ALA.


Trailer by trailer, yard sale by yard sale, and pew by empty pew, a poor but
tightknit immigrant community on Alabama's breezy Gulf Coast is rapidly
disintegrating.

This time it is not a tornado or hurricane uprooting families and scattering
them to the winds. It is a new state law, largely upheld last week by a federal
district judge, that seeks to drive illegal immigrants from the state by
curtailing many of their rights, punishing anyone who knowingly employs, houses
or assists them, and requiring schools and police to verify immigrants' legal
status.

Other states, including Arizona, Georgia and Colorado, have passed similar laws
in the past several years in a growing trend by state legislatures to crack down
on illegal immigration within their borders in the absence of comprehensive
federal action. But Alabama's new law is the toughest passed so far, and it is
the only one to withstand federal lawsuitsand other legal challenges, allowing
it to take virtually full effect.

Across Alabama, news of the court ruling has swiftly spread panic and chaos
among trailer parks and working-class areas where legal and illegal immigrant
families from Mexico and Central America - as many as 150,000 people, by some
estimates - live and work at jobs their bosses say local residents largely
refuse to do.

In Foley, a sprawling seaside resort town where hundreds of Hispanic immigrants
work in restaurants, sod farms and seafood industries, many families last week
were taking their children out of school, piling their furniture into trucks,
offering baby clothes and bicycles on front lawns for sale and saying tearful
goodbyes to neighbors and co-workers they might never see again.

"This is the saddest thing I have experienced in my 18 years as a priest," said
the Rev. Paul Zoghby, who ministers to a large Hispanic flock at St. Margaret of
Scotland Church. "We've already lost 20 percent of the congregation in the past
few weeks, and many more will be gone by next week. It is a human tragedy."

After evening Mass on Thursday, families mingled worriedly in the church lobby,
asking how to get help and debating where to flee.

"I have a cousin in Nashville. Maybe we'll try there," said a muscular
construction worker, holding a sleeping infant in his arms.

Others said they planned to head for Texas or Florida, where the laws are not as
strict. None wanted to return to Mexico, where they said wages are pitifully low
and violent crime is a constant threat.

Tough choices

Many such families have legal and illegal members, which presents them with
wrenching choices. One illegal couple's daughter, born in the United States,
just won a college scholarship; another such couple's daughter was recently
engaged to a local boy. Both decided they would flee Alabama anyway, reluctantly
putting family unity and safety before individual opportunities.

"This law has shattered all our dreams," said Maria, 35, a house cleaner and
mother of two from central Mexico, weeping and clutching at her husband for
support in a church meeting room. An illegal immigrant, she asked her last name
not be used. "We do the jobs no one else wants to do. We pay taxes. We do not
harm anyone. Now the government says they don't want us here, but we have
nowhere to go. All the doors are closing on us. We can't even drive a car
without being afraid. I cannot believe this is God's will."

The new law passed the state legislature in June after an unprecedented
Republican sweep of both chambers last year and the election of a Republican
governor, Robert Bentley. Amid a sustained economic slump and rising
unemployment, this political majority finally gave longtime advocates of a
crackdown on illegal immigrants the votes they needed.

Sponsors of the measure are unapologetic about its tough provisions. The law
makes it a criminal offense for an illegal immigrant to register a car, pay a
utility bill or rent an apartment, and it similarly penalizes anyone who hires,
shelters or signs a contract with an illegal immigrant.

As its backers see it, the law is a long-overdue panacea that will open up
thousands of jobs to struggling Alabamans squeezed out of the market by cheap
illegal labor. They also hope the law - after surviving legal challenges by the
Justice Department and other groups - will pressure the federal government to
overhaul its immigration system.

"I have no doubt that this is the best thing for the long-term economic health
of our state and no doubt that this is what a majority of the people of Alabama
wants," said state Sen. Scott Beason, chief sponsor of the measure. "We have
almost 10 percent unemployment, and we need to put our people to work. I
understand there are concerns, but the law needs to be given a chance."

Despite such assertions, the law has aroused condemnation and concern from an
assortment of Alabamans, including some unusual allies. White farmers, including
conservative Republicans, complain that their field crews have fled and that
their crops will rot on the vine. Black church and civil rights leaders, whose
communities suffer from high unemployment, decry the law as a reprise of
Alabama's racist history.

"These Republican politicians are running for office on Christian values, but
this law is in blatant disregard of Christian values. It is bringing back the
shameful and ugly past of our state," said the Rev. Roger Price, pastor of
Birmingham's iconic 16th Street Baptist Church, which was bombed in 1963during
the civil rights conflict.

"I admit we have an immigration problem," he said, "but this is not the way to
solve it."

Local government officials in heavily Hispanic communities have also expressed
worry, confusion and indignation over aspects of the law. Some police officials
privately say they are uncomfortable about how far they should go in checking
drivers' legal status. Some school officials are upset about the effect the law
has had on Hispanic parents who fear they will be deported while their children
are in class.

William Lawrence, the principal of Foley Elementary School, said frightened
immigrant families withdrew 25 students last week, even though all the children
were U.S. citizens. He said the Hispanic community was swept by rumors that
parents would be arrested when they came to collect their children. Many
families asked teachers and others to act as their children's emergency drivers
or legal guardians.

"We are doing all we can to reassure parents that their kids are safe, and
things have calmed down some, but this was extremely wrong," Lawrence said. "I
hope our lawmakers did not do it deliberately. They won, because now people are
leaving. But there is no reason to create such terrible fear of parents being
separated from their children."

Alabama, a largely agricultural state, has long relied on seasonal Mexican farm
laborers to harvest peaches, tomatoes and other crops under temporary guest
worker visa programs. What has made the past decade different, officials said,
is a surge of illegal immigrants who have put down roots, taken permanent jobs
at low wages and drained public health and education budgets. Officials estimate
the state spends about $280 million per year on public services for illegal
immigrant families.

Republican lawmakers said they want to bolster the national guest worker program
to return to an orderly legal flow of foreign field laborers, but a number of
farm owners interviewed last week said that the program was cumbersome and
inadequate and that they could not find local American workers willing to toil
long hours in hot fields.

"There is a lot of heavy lifting and manual labor, and you are out there in the
sun and the rain. It is just not attractive to Americans," said Mac
Higginbotham, an official with the Alabama Farmers Federation.

The group represents about 40,000 farmers and opposed the new immigration law.

"We have people losing 40 to 60 percent of their crops this season,"
Higginbotham said. "The law is affecting everyone."

Residents' reactions

In Foley, some residents have been frustrated by the influx of Hispanic
immigrants, especially those that are illegal. Some longtime parishioners left
St. Margaret when it initiated a formal ministry to Hispanics. A few Hispanic
church members mentioned incidents such as drivers yelling that they should go
home or pharmacists demanding to see proof of legality before filling
prescriptions.

"If I were Mexican, I would probably want to come here, too, but they need to
become citizens in a legal way and pay taxes like the rest of us," said Mary
Reinhart, a Foley resident who works at a resort near the beach.

People "start businesses that undercut everyone because they work so much
cheaper with illegals," she said. "There needs to be more regulation and a
proper way to make them legal."

But there was also an outpouring of sympathy and sadness from longtime
inhabitants of Foley toward Hispanic families they had gotten to know as
neighbors, co-workers, tenants or employees. Even some who said they opposed
illegal immigration and supported the new law seemed to feel conflicted about
seeing families they had come to know and like suddenly leaving.

At a Mexican restaurant where Zoghby, the pastor, treated several Mexican
families to farewell tacos and beer Thursday, a gray-haired customer came over
and hugged one of the departing guests.

At a half-empty trailer park where several Hispanic families were packing up on
Friday, the longtime manager, Tom Boatwright, watched glumly.

"They are my very best renters," he said. "They are hardworking and never cause
trouble. I really hate to see them go."

A mile away, in a development of new houses, one Mexican family was loading a
decade's worth of belongings into a pickup truck and a neighboring family had
spread clothing, toys, furniture and bed linens out on the lawn for sale. A
stream of people pulled up in cars and trucks to browse, most of them white
Alabamans. Several said they supported the new law or wanted to see the border
shut down, but all treated the Mexican families with cordial familiarity.

"I don't know what to think. The law is supposed to be doing one thing, but it
seems to be doing the opposite," said Lisa Snow, a grandmother who was rifling
through baby clothes at the yard sale. Snow said she had just lost her office
job but was sorry that the Mexican families were losing everything. "It just
feels very personal now," she said.

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Give us your tired . . . wait, keep them out!

BYLINE: Roberto Suro;Marcelo SuÃ¡rez-Orozco

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1493 words


This is what immigration used to be: the Statue of Liberty, your grandparents'
journey across the ocean and the institution that made our country great.

This is how it can seem today: out of control, breaking the law and stealing
American jobs.

Those are not necessarily two sides of a debate. Americans are very capable of
exalting immigration in the past even while fearing it in the future. But we
need to move away from that paradox in order to manage immigration in the
present.

We've been locked in a stalemate over immigration for more than a decade.
Political polarization is certainly at fault. So are the many people - including
anyone who eats vegetables or uses a computer - who benefit economically from
the status quo. But our public disagreements are matched by private conflicts.
When it comes to immigration, we are not only a divided nation - we have a
divided brain.

The national ambivalence is evident. A Gallup survey this year found that a
majority of Americans, 53 percent, said it was "extremely important" for the
government to halt the flow of illegal immigrants at the border. Yet an even
larger majority, 64 percent, said that illegal immigrants already in the country
should be allowed to remain and become U.S. citizens if they meet certain
requirements.

On the stump, this paradox is captured by a formulation favored by President
Obama and many other politicians: "We are a nation of immigrants, and we are a
nation of laws." Even in the marketplace of truisms, that one is not
particularly useful for crafting public policy.

In vowing to fight the Obama administration's court challenges to his state's
"strongest in the nation" immigration law, Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley said
recently, "As a physician, I would never ask a sick person if he or she was
legal or illegal." Nonetheless, he proclaimed his "sworn duty" to uphold a law
that would require schools to check the status of pupils.

One explanation for how we live with such irreconcilable views lies in the
stories we tell about migration. Simply put, we have contradictory narratives of
past and present. Our history does not connect to our future. We love
immigration looking backward, but we are apprehensive looking forward.

The master builder of the historical narrative was Oscar Handlin, a Harvard
scholar, who died in September at the age of 95. In the first lines of his 1951
classic, "The Uprooted,"Handlin declared: "Once I thought to write a history of
the immigrants in America. Then I discovered that the immigrants were American
history." The story he told was of peasants "thrust away" from what had been a
stable existence for generations "and carried cruelly to a distant land, and set
to labor, unrewarding labor." Whether on the prairies or in the cities, the
immigrants of the transatlantic wave - Handlin dates it from 1820 to 1920 -
suffered alienation and isolation. But, in an epic individual struggle repeated
millions of times, the newcomers made homes and communities, and they bred
children who became more American than they had ever imagined possible (or had
ever intended).

This is the story of Francis Ford Coppola's Vito Corleone in "The Godfather," or
of Sam Krichinsky, the grandfather in Barry Levinson's film "Avalon," who lands
in Baltimore magically on the Fourth of July amid fireworks and the red, white
and blue. It is the real-life story of little Annie Mooreof County Cork, the
first registered passenger to pass through the immigration station at Ellis
Island, arriving on New Year's Day 1892. She married a baker who worked at New
York's Fulton Fish Market, and they had 11 children in the tenements of Lower
Manhattan. Her story, like all of these stories, was resurrected after the fact.
Moore spent decades forgotten in an unmarked grave, but bronze statues were
erected both at her port of departure in Ireland and at Ellis Island to
commemorate the centennial of her voyage.

The great transatlantic migration became heroic only in retrospect. The
hostility and fear, the segregation and deportations, have been airbrushed away
in the popular imagination to be replaced by domesticated family lore. The story
begins with deracination and ends with the finding of a new home, the building
of a new hearth. Becoming American is a natural, inevitable occurrence.

In our national memory, immigration is a journey from danger to safety.

In the present, immigration is a story of disequilibrium brought about by
strangers. When immigration meets a national loss of confidence, as in this time
of economic crisis, the byproduct can be outright fear.

In the stories of here and now, the journey is reversed; immigration becomes a
passage from safety to danger.

Consider the case of Robert Krentz, who was gunned down in March 2010 while
working his 35,000-acre ranch in an area of Arizona that sees a lot of illegal
traffic from the Mexican border nearby. The crime remains unsolved, but many
assume that an illegal immigrant was responsible. Krentz instantly became a
martyr for proponents of tougher action against illegal immigration. Weeks after
his killing, Arizona enacted a law that would enable immigration dragnets by
state and local police in the name of public safety.

The old narrative of immigration has trained  us to think in terms of the
striving individual who triumphs against the odds. Expecting heroic feats, we
celebrate the successful immigrant entrepreneurs but do nothing about the
doctors, engineers and other highly skilled immigrants who are driving cabs
because their credentials aren't recognized here. Countries such as Canada and
Australia put us to shame by offering programs to help immigrants improve their
English and transfer professional credentials.

Our immigration stories make the newcomers the protagonists of the drama, so the
hosts become passive bystanders. How else could millions of low-skilled Mexicans
"take" jobs away from citizens of the world's richest country? In response, we
want to build a fence to keep them out rather than looking at what we did
economically and demographically to create a market for their labor.

When trouble develops, as it inevitably does, whether it is natives losing jobs
or an undocumented immigrant caught in a DUI, the protagonist, the individual,
takes the blame, and the host society becomes the innocent victim. And so the
contemporary narrative suffers from more than sins of omission. Our policy
debate is focused on the people who come to this country illegally, to the
exclusion of any other considerations.

The standard migration stories have failed to enlighten either the public or the
policymakers. We are left with false choices. We think that unauthorized
migrants either have to be made part of the family - citizens - or we have to
forcibly expel them from our home. The result is the kind of discourse we've
seen in the recent Republican presidential debates, where the candidates have
engaged in a game of one-upmanship to prove who is the toughest on immigration.
The electrified fence proposed, jokingly or not, by Herman Cain is an inevitable
outcome. Undocumented immigrants have never accounted for more than a third of
the foreign-born population, and today that share is less; but in our political
debates, they might as well be the whole of it.

The other extreme is no more helpful. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, for
example, seems to be waiting for an immigrant superman who will fix Wall Street
and Main Street all at once. He told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce last month
that "immigration reform based on economics rather than anything else" would
create thousands of jobs without costing a penny. Taking steps to increase the
flow of highly skilled immigrants, he said, "would do more to strengthen the
economy than anything that is being discussed in Washington today."

A debate that paints immigrants as either criminals or saviors is destined to
produce paralysis. Regardless of what proposals are implemented - legalization
for current unauthorized migrants or punishment, 10,000 Border Patrol agents or
20,000 - we'll never achieve a situation in which all entries are legal and
orderly and all newcomers are Americanized and upstanding. By dwelling on
perceived threats and promising to return to an idealized past, political
leaders compound the confusion and undermine the chances of anything working.

Making a success of immigration a century ago involved both newcomers and hosts
learning to manage the unfamiliar. It was a slow and sometimes painful process,
and success today requires nothing less.

outlook@washpost.com

Roberto Suro is a professor of public policy and director of the TomÃ¡s Rivera
Policy Institute at the University of Southern California. Marcelo
SuÃ¡rez-Orozco is an anthropologist and co-director of immigration studies at
New York University. They are  co-editors of "Writing Immigration: Scholars and
Journalists in Dialogue."

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Fanning the flame on immigration

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 797 words


What is it about the immigration issue that brings out the worst in politicians?

Neither Mitt Romney nor Rick Perry has a history of being an immigration
hard-liner. Romney supported George W. Bush's attempt at comprehensive
immigration reform in 2005, which included a (difficult) path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants. When I attended a dinner with Perry during his 2010
campaign for reelection as Texas governor, he was particularly passionate about
the need for Republican outreach to Hispanics.

Yet Romney has attackedPerry for allowing educational benefits in Texas for the
children of undocumented immigrants - calling this policy "a magnet to draw
illegals into the state." Perry has responded that Romney's Massachusetts
health-care reform permitted the medical treatment of undocumented immigrants,
which a Perry campaign spokesman calls an "illegal immigration magnet." In this
exchange, both campaigns have managed - extending the metaphor - to be
repellent.

It is one thing to debate techniques of enforcement along the United States'
southern border. Most of the Republican candidates seem to prefer construction
of a physical wall - a public-works program of questionable utility that would
make the Great Pyramid seem a minor, shovel-ready project in comparison. Herman
Cain wants the barrier electrified. Michele Bachmann proposes two walls, just in
case. Perry, who knows something about the vastness of Texas, seems flummoxed by
the absurdity of the whole idea.

But a wall, at least, is a defensive measure. Building it would be wasteful
instead of vicious. It is another matter to attack the provision of health and
education benefits. This approach to immigration policy imposes penalties on the
sick and injured, or on students who have often violated no law themselves. In
most ethical systems, both groups would merit particular sympathy. At the very
least, neither group deserves to be placed high on the enforcement target list.

Apart from moral considerations, the denial of basic public benefits to
undocumented immigrants and their children raises a number of practical
questions: How does it benefit the United States to purposely limit the
educational and life prospects of a whole category of students? Isn't it more
costly to provide health care in emergency rooms - where universal access is
federally mandated - than to permit treatment in public programs? Isn't public
health broadly undermined by untreated disease, whatever the legal status of
those who suffer from it?

Supporters of harsh restrictions argue that - however unpleasant - these
measures are necessary to end incentives for illegal immigration. But the whole
magnet theory is questionable. There is not much correlation between the level
of illegal immigration to a state and the breadth of its health and education
benefits. Immigrants generally do not come to the United States for the
pleasures of its emergency rooms, or expecting to need future cancer treatment,
but in pursuit of economic opportunity. In recent years, the dynamic Texas
economy has attracted a considerable number of illegal immigrants; the anemic
California economy has attracted fewer. The offer of in-state college tuition
rates for the children of undocumented workers has little to do with it.

Romney, Perry and the others are, unfortunately, reflecting current Republican
sentiments. Legitimate concerns - including overwhelmed public services in some
communities - and high unemployment have combined to heighten resentment against
illegal immigration. But it is the responsibility of political leaders to
address this issue without inflaming it. The cynical accommodation of anger
encourages serious division in a permanently diverse country. It is primarily
the fault of politicians when the immigration debate turns ugly.

Republicans have a direct interest in avoiding ugliness. Hispanic political
influence is not only increasing but concentrated in competitive states - a key
to electoral success in states such as Nevada, Colorado and Arizona. The recent
past offers encouragement to the GOP. In the 2004 election, Bush won more than
40 percent of the Hispanic vote. And President Obama has left a political
opening. Hispanic unemployment exceeds 11 percent, and the administration has
consistently discovered legislative priorities higher than immigration reform.
On issues of Hispanic concern, Obama's lip service has been deafening.

To gain a respectable level of Hispanic support, Republicans don't need to play
a sophisticated game of ethnic politics. They need to offer the realistic hope
of job creation and economic mobility. And one more thing. They need to stop
targeting the sick and aspiring.

Michael Gerson's email address is michaelgerson(at)washpost.com.
michaelgerson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Border Patrol stops transportation checks on north U.S. line

BYLINE: Gene Johnson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


SEATTLE - The U.S. Border Patrol has quietly stopped routinely searching buses,
trains and airports for illegal immigrants at transportation hubs along the
northern border and in the nation's interior, preventing agents from using what
had long been an effective tool for tracking down people here illegally.

Current and former Border Patrol agents said field offices across the country
began receiving the order last month.

The routine bus, train and airport checks typically involved agents milling
about and questioning people who appeared suspicious and had long been
criticized by immigrant rights groups. Critics said the tactic amounted to
racial profiling.

But agents said it was an effective way to catch unlawful immigrants, including
smugglers and possible terrorists. Often, those who evade detection head for the
nearest  public transportation to leave the area.

Halting the practice has baffled the agents, especially in some stations along
the northern border where the so-called "transportation checks" have been the
bulk of their everyday duties.

"Orders have been sent out from Border Patrol headquarters in Washington, D.C.,
to Border Patrol sectors nationwide that checks of transportation hubs and
systems located away from the southwest border of the United States will only be
conducted if there is intelligence indicating a threat," said a statement from
the union that represents Border Patrol Agents.

Those who have received the orders said agents may still go to train and bus
stations and airports if they have specific "actionable intelligence" of an
illegal immigrant there who recently entered the country. An agent in Washington
state said it is not clear how agents are supposed to glean such intelligence,
and even if they did, under the new directive they still require clearance from
Washington headquarters before they can respond.

"Border Patrol managers are increasing the layers of bureaucracy and making it
as difficult as possible for Border Patrol agents to conduct their core duties,"
the National Border Patrol Council's statement said.

Since receiving the directive, some agents who had been busy seven days a week
have little or no work to do, the agents said.

Doug Honig, spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union of Washington,
welcomed the news. "If the Border Patrol is indeed not boarding buses and trains
and engaging in the random questioning of people, that's a step in the right
direction," he said.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Blurred distinctions on immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 173 words


Roberto Suro and Marcelo Suarez-Orozco ["Give us your tired ... wait, keep them
out!," Outlook, Oct. 23] mixed issues of legal and illegal immigration
throughout their essay, a widespread practice that allows advocates to accuse
anyone proposing to control illegal immigration of being "anti-immigration."
Americans have irreconcilable views and ambivalence on immigration, they stated.

Not so fast. Americans cherish the triumphs of legal immigrants and welcome new
ones. At the same time, Americans are rightly concerned about the consequences
of recent massive illegal immigration. There is nothing contradictory in that.

The piece concluded with the observations that illegal immigration can never be
controlled and that our political leaders promise an "idealized past" and "dwell
on perceived threats," which compound the confusion. The solution offered is
"learning to manage the unfamiliar," whatever that means. The writers have
compounded a little confusion of their own on a complex and difficult topic.

Christopher Walsh, Arlington

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Mr. Gingrich's immigration crucible

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 514 words


WHAT A DIFFERENCE 11 weeks make. In September, the first time the Republican
presidential pack got into a scrape over immigration, no one paid much attention
when Newt Gingrich urged a "much more humane" alternative to dealing with
illegal immigrants than mass deportation. And no wonder: At the time, he was
stuck at about 5 percent in the polls. Now that Mr. Gingrich is leading - for
the time being - he is under fierce attack within the GOP for reprising the same
common-sense message.

In the candidates' debate on foreign policy Tuesday night, Mr. Gingrich, former
House speaker, repeated what he has said frequently: that undocumented
immigrants who have spent years in the United States, paid taxes and formed ties
should be granted some sort of legal status. Mr. Gingrich insisted his policy
would not amount to amnesty - a word that unhinges Republicans - since it would
not apply to recent arrivals and would stop short of granting citizenship.

His proposal is based on the unremarkable observation that it is lunacy to
imagine that 11 million people can be thrown out of the country or will simply
be blown across the border by gales of  truculence. But what should be a social
and economic truism is anathema in the GOP, whose hostility to the presence of
low-wage, Spanish-speaking workers in jobs Americans don't want has alienated
millions of Hispanic voters.

In an earlier debate, Texas Gov. Rick Perry brought the party's wrath upon his
head for rightly suggesting that it is heartless to deny opportunities to
undocumented youngsters who grew up and were educated in this country. Mr.
Gingrich, to his credit, said very much the same thing, formulating his argument
in what he clearly hopes are less incendiary terms.

"I don't see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to
adopt an immigration policy which destroys families that have been here a
quarter of a century," he said.

Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
attacked Mr. Gingrich for advocating amnesty, which they said would attract more
illegal immigrants, and Mr. Perry chimed in by saying the priority should be to
secure the border.

In fact, amnesty isn't the magnet; jobs are. Some 8 million undocumented workers
- about 5 percent of the U.S. labor force - are here largely because American
workers do not want low-wage, dirty and backbreaking jobs, particularly in
heavily agricultural states such as California and Texas. And despite Mr.
Perry's suggestion that the Southwest border is dangerous and out of control,
the fact is that it is less porous - as measured by plummeting numbers of
apprehensions - than it has been in 40 years, and crime in border cities has
nose-dived.

Republicans love talking about the border - no matter how quiet it gets - as a
way of avoiding the question that flummoxes them: what to do with the millions
of illegal immigrants who have already crossed. Mr. Perry was punished for
suggesting they should be treated like human beings. Now the question of illegal
immigration may be Mr. Gingrich's crucible, too.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Unlikely foes of Md. Dream Act

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1090 words


The 62-year-old Wheaton barber had earned a law degree in his native Thailand
and waited eight years for a visa so he could move to the United States and
begin a new life.

When he heard this year about the Maryland Dream Act, which would grant in-state
college tuition discounts to illegal immigrants, he was outraged.

"I did the full legal process," Anuchit Washirapunya, who is deaf and cannot
speak English, wrote on a notepad as he hunched in his barber's chair. "The
illegal students have no right to work or stay here."

Until recently, Maryland's legal and political battle over in-state tuition has
been seen as pitting young illegal immigrants against native residents. But in
the past few months, a petition drive by opponents of the measure has attracted
a small but growing number of legal immigrants, who say that they, too, are
being cheated.

The issue of what to do about the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the
United States has roiled Republican presidential debates. In recent years, it
has spawned national movements that advocate a range of solutions, including
forcing all illegal immigrants to return home and granting them all legal
amnesty.

The Dream Act, which was passed by both houses of the Maryland legislature in
April, was about to become law when an advocacy group called Help Save Maryland,
working with Republican lawmakers, launched an online campaign to try to prevent
it from being enacted. The drive garnered more than 100,000 electronic
signatures, resulting in the suspension of the law until a statewide public
referendum can be held next year.

One Marylander who clicked on the petition was Shakil Hamid, 44, an accountant
in Gaithersburg who emigrated legally from Bangladesh in 1977. He is an
enthusiastic member of Help Save Maryland, which opposes allowing illegal
immigrants to work, drive or receive a variety of public benefits.

"These people are taking seats in college away from our kids," Hamid said. "Why
should we reward their dishonest behavior?"

The issue upset him when he was a student at the University of Maryland in the
1980s, he said: "I have been looking for 25 years for someone to be on my side."

Such views are a minority among Maryland's immigrant population, which is
predominantly Hispanic and of Central American origin. Many such families
include both legal and illegal immigrants, depending on when and how they
arrived and whether they found a way to apply for residency. Often, illegal
immigrants arrived as children and grew up in the state. Their communities tend
to judge them on grounds other than legal status and wish them success.

Jesus Alberto Martinez, 55, is an ophthalmologist and U.S. Navy veteran in
Rockville who came from Colombia as a teenager, overstayed his tourist visa and
eventually became a U.S. citizen. He is an impassioned supporter of the Maryland
Dream Act and a plaintiff in a lawsuit, filed by immigrant advocacy groups
including Casa de Maryland, challenging the petition drive that halted the law's
enactment about four months ago.

"We need every immigrant kid in Maryland to be educated. If they go to college,
they earn more, pay more taxes and become better citizens," Martinez said. "If
promising high school students are denied the chance to continue, it is like
cutting off their wings. If we punish kids to pay for the sins of their parents,
we are only mortgaging our future as a competitive society."

The stalled measure would make illegal immigrants eligible for the lowest
possible tuition fees at all community colleges and universities in Maryland,
provided that they have graduated recently from high schools in the state and
that their families have paid taxes for three years. Supporters say that
foreign-born students with no hope beyond high school may drift into dead-end
jobs, crime or addiction.

Ricardo Alfaro, 22, an immigrant from El Salvador, recently graduated from
Montgomery College. His father, once a hospital administrator back home, works
in a meat-packing plant. Alfaro, who received treatment for bone cancer after
reaching the United States as a child, hopes to study medicine at the University
of Maryland but says that his family cannot afford to pay full tuition and that
his application for permanent residency is pending.

"I owe a lot to this country, which saved my life, and I want to become a doctor
so I can give something back," said Alfaro, who is also an activist in immigrant
student groups. "I am applying for scholarships, but I don't know what will
happen. I am not asking for a privilege that I didn't earn," he said. "I am
asking for a chance to give something back to this country."

Montgomery College, which has about 37,000 students from 170 countries, is at
the epicenter of the tuition battle. Unlike other two-year county colleges, it
offers all Montgomery County high school graduates the minimum tuition rate of
about $1,200 per semester, regardless of legal status. Out-of-state and visiting
foreign students pay up to $4,000. At the four-year state universities, tuition
is much higher, and the difference between in-state and out-of-state rates is
even greater.

Critics say that policies like Montgomery's drain state coffers and displace
legal students from other states who could pay more, but officials at the
college estimate that fewer than 1,000 of their students are in the United
States illegally, and they are more concerned about reducing the rate of
pre-graduation dropouts.

Legal immigrants and visiting foreign students at Montgomery, many of whom come
from Asia and Africa, expressed a combination of sympathy and resentment toward
illegal immigrants in their midst. Some said their determination should be
rewarded; others said they should have to pay the same as those who come from
other states and nations.

"Everyone wants to get an education, but you can't just come to this country
illegally and think everything is free. You have to be patient and legalize
yourself," said Josephine Beyam, 33, a nursing student. She arrived from the
Philippines in 2008 as a full-fledged resident after waiting at home for four
years, apart from her American husband, as the law required. Since enrolling,
she said, she has been paying off her student loans every month.

"We have been through thick and thin," Beyam said of her reunited family. "This
country is a blessing, and the government is very generous. If you are not born
here, you have to start from the beginning, but I accept that, because you can
still pursue your dreams."

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

The GOP's immigration rhetoric

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 588 words


NEARLY ALL THE Republican presidential hopefuls are now on record as wanting to
build a 2,000-mile-long fence on the U.S. border with Mexico - a wildly
expensive, staggeringly wasteful project that would do little to deter illegal
immigration. The candidates have coalesced around this chimera even though
illegal crossings, as measured by apprehensions by U.S. Border Patrol along the
Southwestern frontier, are at their lowest level in 40 years.

Consider the profligacy. About a third of the Mexican border has been fenced,
and the price tag for finishing the remaining 1,400 miles or so is variously
estimated at $22 billion (the New York Times); $30 billion (Texas Gov. Rick
Perry); or much more, according to government projections based on maintenance
and repairs over the fence's 25-year life expectancy. In general, those
estimates exclude the cost of land acquisition, as well as the potentially
severe environmental damage that fencing would inflict in some areas.

Now consider effectiveness. Last year, U.S. officials reported more than 4,000
breaches of the existing 650 miles of fencing. A video posted on YouTube
illustrates the vulnerability, showing two young women scaling the fence in less
than 18 seconds. And the Border Patrol considers hundreds of miles of frontier
to be virtually impassable as it is, owing to remote, difficult terrain and deep
river canyons.

Mr. Perry, a border-state governor, grasps the futility of trying to barricade
every mile. Lately, though, he has played to immigration hard-liners by saying
he'd "shut down" the border within 12 months of taking office, whatever that
means. He's also distinguished himself as a flip-flop artist, telling a New
Hampshire crowd Tuesday that he would deport every illegal immigrant detained in
the country. Never mind that he said in September that it was heartless to deny
opportunity to illegal immigrants who grow up in the United States.

Perhaps Mr. Perry was trying not to be outdone by Rep. Michele Bachmann
(R-Minn.), who says she'd deport all 11 million illegal immigrants, in stages.
Presumably, that includes the 8 million who make up more than 5 percent of the
U.S. work force, meaning Ms. Bachmann would likely cripple the nation's
hospitality industry and trigger a food crisis by robbing farms and processing
plants of workers.

Even Newt Gingrich, who has rejected mass deportations in favor of a "humane"
approach to illegal immigrants, has shifted into get-tough mode. Although he
still says he'd let longtime undocumented immigrants remain in the country, he
wooed a conservative crowd in South Carolina by embracing the state's law that
authorizes officials to check the immigration status of anyone suspected of
lacking proper documentation, saying he'd complete the border fence within a
year of taking office, and pledging to cut funding to cities that don't enforce
federal immigration laws.

In the meantime, back on Planet Earth, the reality is that illegal border
crossings have plummeted. This is a result of a beefed-up presence of U.S.
forces on the Mexican border; the recession's impact on U.S. labor markets; and
better educational opportunities and plunging birth rates in Mexico.
Undocumented immigrants continue to live in the shadows, doing hard, dirty and
dangerous work that most Americans won't do, all the while paying taxes and
contributing to the economy. The plain fact is that the United States and
undocumented residents are mutually dependent, and no amount of Republican
campaign rhetoric is going to change that.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 7, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Manassas man key player in fake ID ring

BYLINE: Dana Hedgpeth

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 896 words


Illegal immigrants in Northern Virginia knew where to go if they needed a
high-quality fake green card or Social Security card: They found Eulalio A.
Cruz.

From his Manassas home, Cruz, 33, sent cellphone photos of customers to his
computer. He'd add addresses and birth dates, used the right kind of ink, and
printed the fakes on card stock with holographic images. Sets of documents went
for $120 a pop. He'd use a series of runners to make the exchanges.

Federal immigration officials say that Cruz, who this week pleaded guilty to
racketeering in federal court in Richmond, was a key player in one of the
largest and most sophisticated document mills they have uncovered. His Manassas
operation was part of 19 that ran in 11 states, stretching from Nashville to
Providence, R.I., officials said. Each year, the ring produced between 10,000
and 15,000 fake documents. They wired at least $1 million to the bosses in
Mexico.

As the federal and state governments continue to crack down on illegal
immigration, such document mills are becoming a growing obstacle. Immigrants,
seeking to skirt local and national laws, need the documents to work and drive.
Cruz's ring turned to violence, prosecutors said, to protect its turf from
rivals, just as drug dealers have done for decades.

Authorities say the ring Cruz worked for was unique. Far more sophisticated and
productive than most of the mom and pop shops selling fake documents, it
operated under a strict chain of command, covered a large geographic area and
produced realistic counterfeits.

"It was very much like a legitimate business," said James C. Spero, deputy
assistant director for the Homeland Security Investigations division of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "If you worked hard, you could work your
way up higher in the organization."

Cruz, prosecutors say, reported directly to the "national supervisor" on the
U.S. side of the operation: Israel Cruz Millan, who was known by his Spanish
nickname "El Muerto," which means "the dead one." Millan is awaiting trial.

Based in North Carolina, Millan was part chief operating officer, part enforcer,
authorities say. He held regular conference calls and insisted that cell
managers submit detailed inventory lists of their ink cartridges, paper and
other supplies, prosecutors allege. Managers provided biweekly sales reports.
One note from Nashville showed $4,150 in proceeds and $1,684 in expenses.

Each cell's success depended heavily on runners who sought out customers at
grocery stores, laundromats and bars, authorities said. Sometimes they even
passed out business cards advertising their services.

Proceeds were divided up. Runners, who were expected to deliver seven to 10
customers a week, typically got a few hundred dollars, attorneys involved in the
case said. Managers got a fixed salary of between $300 and $400 a week. Millan
took a cut, and the rest of the money went to Mexico.

The cells used code names to hide their activity. Social Security cards, printed
in blue ink, were known as "smurfs," authorities said. "New ones" meant a
customer wanted a green card. They called the business cards "18s," because
that's how many fit on a sheet.

Workers who didn't follow the boss's strict protocol or didn't sell enough fake
documents were punished, federal officials said. They were spanked, had their
eyebrows shaved or were forced to wear weights.

Stealing from the organization was the "ultimate no-no," one prosecutor said.

In October, Millan hosted a conference call with managers from across the
country, according to court papers. He told them that one worker had pocketed
the proceeds from selling fake Social Security cards. Millan beat the man so the
group could hear his screams, authorities said.

"The point was to say, 'I'm in charge. Nobody steals from me and this
organization, or this is what will happen to you,' " said Neil H. MacBride, U.S.
attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, whose office is prosecuting the
case.

The group also turned to violence to protect its turf.

In 2009, members of the ring posed as customers buying fake identification cards
from competitors and arranged to meet them at a house in Richmond, according to
court papers. They bound the men's hands, feet and mouth with duct tape and beat
them with a bat, authorities say. One of Millan's crew put the barrel of a gun
in one man's mouth and warned him to stay out of their selling area.

In Little Rock, authorities said, a competitor was left for dead after a group
working for Millan lured the man and one of his partners to an abandoned
trailer, where they were attacked and beaten.

"They resorted to brutal, ruthless violence to support the criminal enterprise,"
MacBride said.

Federal agents said they received a tip about Millan's document ring and moved
in in November in an effort involving about 250 officers in nearly a dozen
states.

In all, 27 people were arrested on a range of charges including making and
selling false documents, gun possession, racketeering, kidnapping, and, in one
case, murder. Sixteen people, including Cruz, pleaded guilty in connection with
the ring. Two defendants are fugitives in Mexico.

Millan is expected to go on trial later this year.

In Cruz's Manassas home, authorities found more than 100 fraudulent documents as
well as printing equipment, card stock with holographic images and "18s."

hedgpethd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 13, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 569 words


ARIZONABorder Patrol agents killed assisting chase

Two Border Patrol agents rushing to help capture suspected illegal immigrants
were killed Thursday when their sport-utility vehicle entered a marked railroad
crossing and was hit by a freight train.

The crash happened in a rural farming area near Interstate 8 and the town of
Gila Bend, about 69 miles southwest of Phoenix.

Eduardo Rojas Jr. and Hector Clark were trying to position themselves on a road
north of some other agents who were trying to capture the group, said
Supervisory Agent Kenneth Quillin, spokesman for the Border Patrol's Yuma
sector.

The suspects were on foot, and none has been arrested, Quillin said. "We do see
groups [of illegal immigrants] on a regular basis traveling through this area."

The crash happened at a railroad crossing that is marked but does not have
railroad crossing arms, he said.

The Union Pacific train with 75 cars was going about 62 mph when it hit the SUV,
pushing it about half a mile along the tracks.

Before the collision, the train engineers saw the SUV on the access road and
sounded the train's horn, said Detective Aaron Douglas of the Maricopa County
Sheriff's Office, which along with the FBI is investigating the deaths.

Union Pacific said in a statement that its crew had no warning that the SUV
would turn in front of the train. It did not elaborate.

- Associated Press

NEW YORK2 held in terror plot after weapons sting

New York police arrested two North African-born men in a sting operation after
they bought a hand grenade and guns in order to attack synagogues, kill Jews and
blow up the Empire State Building, authorities said Thursday.

Algerian Ahmed Ferhani, 26, and Mohamed Mamdouh, 20, a Moroccan-born U.S.
citizen, were arrested after they bought three pistols, ammunition and an inert
grenade from an undercover officer, concluding a seven-month sting operation,
police and Manhattan prosecutors said.

New York has remained a target for al-Qaeda, and police went on heightened alert
after the May 1 raid in which U.S. Special Operations troops killed al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.

Wednesday's arrests foiled the 13th planned attack by militants on New York City
since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

They were charged under state terrorism statutes and, if convicted, face up to
life in prison. They were also charged with hate crimes.

- Reuters

CONNECTICUTProm invitationgets senior banned

A high school headmaster won't budge from her decision to bar a senior from the
prom after he asked a girl to the dance by posting an invitation in big
cardboard letters on the side of the school.

Shelton High School Headmaster Beth Smith said Thursday that James Tate's
punishment is the result of a well-publicized policy outlining consequences for
anyone getting into trouble at school after April 1.

"This regulation is reinforced over the course of the spring," Smith said. "This
unfortunate situation is the result of one of those consequences."

Early last week, Tate and two friends went to the school and posted 12-inch-tall
cardboard letters outside the main entrance, where everyone would see them when
arriving for school.

The message said: "Sonali Rodrigues, Will you go to prom with me? HMU - Tate."
HMU means "Hit me up," or "Call me."

Rodrigues said yes. But Tate and his two friends were given one-day in-house
suspensions by Smith and were barred from the June 4 prom.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 3, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Rights groups sue over Ga. law

BYLINE: Kate Brumback

SECTION: A section; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 422 words


ATLANTA - Civil liberties groups on Thursday asked a judge to block a Georgia
law that cracks down on illegal immigration, saying that the measure violates
state and federal law.

A coalition of local and national groups say they "face an imminent threat of
harm" if the new law is enforced. The groups filed a lawsuit asking to have the
the law declared unconstitutional and to block state authorities from enforcing
it.

Gov. Nathan Deal (R) signed the measure into law last month. Most parts of it
are set to take effect July 1.

"The Georgia General Assembly carefully vetted a piece of legislation that
ensured a constitutional product," Deal spokeswoman Stephanie Mayfield said.
"When filed, the lawsuit will be handled by the attorney general's office, and
the governor fully expects a ruling in the state of Georgia's favor."

The measure authorizes law enforcement to check the immigration status of a
suspect who cannot provide identification and to detain and hand over to federal
authorities anyone found to be in the country illegally. It also penalizes
people who, during the commission of another crime, knowingly transport or
harbor illegal immigrants and makes it a felony to present false documents or
information when applying for a job.

Georgia's law has some provisions that echo those in a law enacted last year in
Arizona and is similar to another enacted this year in Utah.

A federal judge blocked the most controversial parts of Arizona's law last year
after the Justice Department sued, saying the law intrudes on the federal
government's exclusive powers to regulate immigration.

A federal appeals court judge upheld the decision and Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer
(R) has said she plans to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.

The American Civil Liberties Union and other civil liberties groups filed a
complaint saying that the Utah law was an unconstitutional burden to legal
immigrants and too much like portions of Arizona's immigration law. A federal
judge last month temporarily blocked that law, citing similarities to the most
controversial parts of Arizona's law. A hearing is set for mid-July to determine
whether the law can go into effect.

Another section of the Georgia law set to be phased in starting in January will
require many businesses to check the immigration status of new hires. An Arizona
law with the same requirement was upheld last week by the U.S. Supreme Court.
The lawsuit filed Thursday does not take issue with that part of the Georgia
law.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 19, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

A worker's death raises tensions in 'Twilight' town

BYLINE: Manuel Valdes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 779 words


FORKS, Wash. - Benjamin Roldan Salinas, a forest worker in the country
illegally, leapt into the frigid Sol Duc River to escape a pursuing U.S. Border
Patrol Agent, disappearing into the fast-moving waters.

For more than three weeks, his family, friends and volunteers - including other
illegal immigrants - scoured the dense forest along the swollen river's banks
for any sign of him.

The Border Patrol suspected that Salinas had survived and fled. Still, as many
as 150 people at a time continued to look.

"They believed he was out there somewhere because he hadn't gone home," said
Sgt. Brian King of the Clallam County Sheriff's department.

The search ended June 4 when a family friend spotted the 43-year-old Salinas's
bloated, decomposing body entangled in roots downstream, according to the
sheriff's report.

His death heightened tensions in what has become a protracted engagement between
the Border Patrol and the immigrant population of Forks - the small, remote
Washington town best known as the fictional home of the vampire series
"Twilight."

"We talk about Arizona, Texas and the southern border . . . it's here. It's in
our back yard," said Forks Mayor Bryon Monohon, about immigration enforcement
efforts in his town. "It really is just an atmosphere of fear."

Border Patrol agents have questioned citizens and arrested illegal immigrants
leaving the Forks courthouse. They've chased migrants working as pickers for the
decorative floral industry.

The crackdown has spurred immigrants and their allies to develop a warning
system using phones and text messages any time a Border Patrol car is spotted,
according to interviews with Border Patrol officials, town leaders, and
immigrant advocates.

The agency says that it is simply following its mandate: Enforcing the country's
immigration laws, protecting the border and shoreline from terrorists, drug
smugglers and other illegal activity. Forks is just another locale where
immigration laws are being violated, officials said.

"We continue to go out there and do the same mission as we would right along the
border," said Border Patrol agent Chris Dyer, after a patrol of the town in
March. "Our style doesn't really change. I think they just don't understand the
full scope of our duties."

The northwest border was thrust into the spotlight when Ahmed Ressam, an
Algerian national who was convicted on multiple counts for his millennium plot
to bomb Los Angeles International Airport, was caught by Customs and Border
Protection agents in 1999 as he drove off a ferry in Port Angeles, Wash., with
explosives in the trunk of his car.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, President George W. Bush ordered CBP to beef up its
presence on the U.S.-Canada border, almost twice as long as the U.S.-Mexico
border. In 2007, the federal government began increasing immigration enforcement
efforts in Washington state and along the border.

Before that, Monohon said, the Border Patrol was rarely seen in Forks.

Border Patrol enforcement practices common on the southern border, such as
highway checkpoints, were implemented, annoying residents on the Olympic
Peninsula, the area's congressman and local authorities. Agents also conducted
more Northwest-accented actions, including checking cars on ferries. Objections
mounted and the road checkpoints were cut back. Agents still board passenger
buses bound for Seattle as part of their routine security efforts.

The Border Patrol is authorized to conduct enforcement actions within 100 miles
of the border. There are about 30 officers on the peninsula, the mayor said.

"I understand . . . that it's not right for people coming unchecked. But it's
not our community's failure. It's a failure of the entire country, that we have
to try to rectify somewhere, somehow," Monohon said. "But at the same time,
there are still civil rights issues. It's very disturbing that we have people
just up and disappear. But it's just Forks, we're a long ways away and nobody
pays attention."

According to the sheriff's office, Forest Service and Border Patrol, Salinas and
a woman were returning from a day harvesting salal, a shrub used in flower
arranging. They were stopped by a Forest Service officer, who then called the
Border Patrol.

Forest Service spokeswoman Donna Nemeth said the officer suspected Salinas and
the woman were harvesting salal illegally. When a Border Patrol officer arrived,
Salinas ran and was chased.

Salinas was last seen jumping into the river. The woman was arrested on an
immigration violation and was sent to the Tacoma detention center. She was later
released.

- Associated Press

Associated Press photographer Ted Warren contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 21, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 451 words


Lee Hockstader                    John McCain'sburning words

Once upon a time, Sen. John McCain was one of the few nationally known
Republicans whose M.O. did not include bashing illegal immigrants for possible
electoral gain. But spooked by the xenophobia rampant in the GOP's base, McCain
has joined his party's mainstream in race-baiting, immigrant-hating rhetoric.
Over the weekend,  he cited "substantial evidence" that some of the wildfires
that have ravaged hundreds of thousands of acres in Arizona this month "have
been caused by people who have crossed our border illegally."

In fact, there is not even a shred of evidence of this. And in trying to defend
himself Monday, McCain made that very point. He issued an explanatory memo that
makes clear that his assertion was based on absolutely nothing.

"For years," said the statement, attributed to McCain's communications director,
"federal, state and local officials have stated that smugglers and illegal
immigrants have caused fires on our southern border." Ah, the old "for years"
dodge. The release quotes various officials (one from 2006) as offering a
variety of explanations for fires past and present, including the possibility
that some may have been set as diversions by illegal border-crossers.

And the "substantial evidence" that the current, hugely destructive fires were
set by illegal immigrants? Well, not so much. On Sunday, a U.S. Forest Service
official told CNN that the blaze was probably caused by an "escaped campfire" -
and that there was no reason to think illegal immigrants were behind it.

For months McCain has been insisting that sweeping immigration reform (of the
sort he championed back before his party turned on him because of it) is
impossible until the border is secure. He said the same thing last weekend.

But as McCain has been told repeatedly by the Border Patrol and other agencies,
the frontier with Mexico is now more secure and less porous than it has been in
years, thanks to huge additions of agents and resources initiated by President
George W. Bush and sustained by President Obama. Illegal crossings are down
dramatically, and in many sectors, bored agents patrol terrain where crossers
are few and far between. Illegal crossings have been cut in half since 2005.

But McCain hates to be bothered by the facts. For him, it's politically
expedient, and safer, to hew to the Republican orthodoxy, which prefers to paint
the border as out of control. But by appeasing the xenophobes in the Republican
base, McCain and Co. are fanning the flames of racial hatred in the Southwest
and beyond. And there really is substantial evidence of that.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 25, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

An immigrant's secret

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 324 words


Regarding the June 23 Style story "Burying the lead in the biggest story of his
life":

So The Post spiked the story about a former employee who is an undocumented
immigrant and is hiding behind the specious claim that "we will not comment on
individual personnel matters out of respect for the privacy of our employees."

Is this the best The Post can do? What happened to leading by example, no matter
how uncomfortable it may be?

The Post's official response is no better than the evasive comments of others
that The Post exposes (former Prince George's County executive Jack B. Johnson
and former representative Anthony Weiner perhaps being the best recent
examples).

I suspect the response won't withstand scrutiny and that The Post will be
compelled to report on itself further in the interest of candor.

Peter J. Rose, Fredericksburg

l

I applaud Jose Antonio Vargas for sharing his personal story. Unfortunately,
instead of taking this as an example of why immigration laws are broken, many
are taking this as an opportunity to bash the man and blame their own problems
on those "illegal aliens."

As someone who went through an ordeal to stay legally in this country, and who
has six months left on her visa, I know that  it is far from easy to obtain
legal status. I came to California from Europe, not to pursue the American Dream
but because my boyfriend was here. I followed my heart and enrolled in school.

Immigration lawyers and other people have told me my best bet to keep my legal
status is to marry an American citizen.

Apart from that, it is not enough to find an employer who loves you. You have to
find a human resources manager who is willing to deal with government
conditions, regulations and deadlines regarding work visas. It's real mayhem.

I can only dream about what I could accomplish if I had more time. As much as I
love this country, I will pack my bags and leave when my visa expires.

Margarita Kitova, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 29, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

Md. tuition law may be halted

BYLINE: Aaron C. Davis

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1011 words


Growing frustration with illegal immigration, rising public debt and an
effective Internet campaign to gather voters' signatures have put Maryland
conservatives on the cusp of a victory to delay and possibly repeal a new law
that would give undocumented immigrants in-state college tuition breaks.

Maryland's version of the DREAM Act would more than halve tuition rates for
undocumented immigrants at Maryland colleges and universities. For a four-year
degree, the plan could cost the state $40,000 per student, and Maryland
officials have estimated that hundreds of undocumented high school graduates
would apply for the aid.

But a successful petition drive led by a handful of Maryland Republican
lawmakers appears all but certain to stall the effort.

Opponents say they are on pace to turn in a combined 100,000 signatures by
Thursday, even though state elections officials say they have certified most of
the nearly 56,000 needed to suspend the law and send it to a statewide
referendum in November 2012. The law had been scheduled to take effect Friday,
but it has been suspended while officials await a final tally on the signatures.

"People want to enforce immigration law, not skirt around it," said Del. Neil C.
Parrott (R-Washington). "This was a highly divisive bill with bipartisan
opposition that barely passed. It's important to allow the residents of Maryland
to have the final say."

The law was approved narrowly in April by the state's legislature and was signed
into law last month by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D), making Maryland at least the
10th state to offer in-state tuition breaks to its undocumented students.

But the law appears to also be the first in Maryland that voters will decide at
the polls in 20 years. The last law petitioned to a statewide referendum, which
ensured abortion rights in the state, was affirmed by voters in 1992.

The signature-gathering effort to repeal the tuition law is expected to draw
court challenges. But the rare success that opponents appear to be having in
easily crossing the threshold for a referendum has sparked debate in Annapolis
about whether Maryland's Democratic leadership overreached in approving the
measure.

In addition to Republicans, thousands of Democrats have signed on to oppose the
aid for immigrants in the party's strongholds of Baltimore and Prince George's
County.

"A referendum is extremely rare and certainly a statement of the times we are
in," said Don Norris, chairman of the public policy department at the University
of Maryland-Baltimore County.

"With a bad economy and lots of people being angry, I think this is most clearly
related to the economy. But we'll see. Immigration has never been a mainstream
issue in Maryland. Maybe that is changing and this will push it to the
forefront."

Michael Fix, an immigration expert at the Urban Institute in the District, said
that if voters in a traditionally blue state such as Maryland repeal the law, it
could affect debates in other states and possibly the debate in Congress about
whether to move forward with a national DREAM Act.

"There is a lot of noise on this issue right now, and it's hard to sum up what's
going on nationally," Fix said, noting that the Supreme Court recently rejected
an opportunity to review whether a similar law in California was legal and that
lawmakers in the Senate keep pushing for a vote on a federal law.

"A repeal as a result of a referendum in Maryland would have national salience,"
he said.

Kim Propeack, advocacy director for CASA of Maryland, which lobbies for
immigrant rights, said that if the petition effort is successful, it will throw
plans for many undocumented immigrants who graduated from Maryland high schools
this spring into limbo and leave college out of reach for many financially.

Under the law, students who can prove that they have attended Maryland high
schools for at least three years and that their parents or guardians have begun
paying taxes would be allowed to begin courses this fall at community colleges
at in-state rates.

Those who go on to earn an associate's degree could transfer to a four-year
institution at in-state rates. At the University of Maryland, tuition was $8,415
for in-state students, compared with $24,830 for out-of-state students.

Propeack said that legal challenges to the referendum effort are likely and
predicted that voters would ultimately see the many benefits of the law.

"We look forward to refocusing the issue not on the number of signatures and
petitions, but on the benefits to so many of Maryland's kids," she said.

Legal challenges are expected to focus in part on a new online tool opponents
built and used to secure tens of thousands of signatures.

In preparation for a possible referendum effort against same-sex marriage
legislation that died this year in Maryland, Parrott paid about $2,500 of his
own money to build a tool that has eliminated many clerical errors that
routinely doom signature-gathering drives in Maryland.

Because signatures can be rejected if they do not match voter rolls, the online
tool prints out a Maryland voter's name and information exactly as it is listed
in registration records. A voter  only needs to sign the petition as printed and
mail it to the campaign.

More than a third of the 47,288 signatures validated for the referendum have
come from the online tool, according to the State Board of Elections.

Last month, the American Civil Liberties Union of Maryland wrote a letter asking
the elections board to scrutinize the tool.

It could not only "determine the fate of the DREAM Act petition effort," the
letter read, "but could also dramatically change the petition process in
Maryland going forward, opening many more state and local laws to petition
challenges in the future."

Hopefully that's the case, said Parrott, who has recouped his $2,500 in
donations from opponents of the tuition law.

"There's always a question of how can we make it easier for people to get
involved in the process. This computer program does that well, so get involved."

davisa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 15, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

In Maryland, a referendum on a dream

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 948 words


OPPONENTS OF Maryland's Dream Act - the law that would grant in-state tuition
discounts to undocumented immigrants provided they attend a Maryland high school
and they or their parents pay taxes - appear to have gathered well over 100,000
petition signatures. Barring judicial intervention or other unforeseen twists,
that's more than enough to suspend the law's implementation and put it up for a
referendum on the 2012 ballot.

There is little surprise in the opponents' success, especially given the
relative technological ease of online petition drives. That helped produce
thousands of signatures, with an assist from what one organizer called the
"passion and rage" surrounding a measure that would give a leg up to
undocumented immigrants while so many citizens are hurting.

Times of economic duress have traditionally fed such anti-immigration fervor in
America, in the past directed at Irish, Italians, Chinese and others seen as
outsiders. Maryland's jobless rate of 6.8 percent, while much lower than the
national average, remains almost double its level before the recession. In the
Free State, as elsewhere, many Americans worry that any government benefits
extended to undocumented immigrants may somehow result in a zero-sum calculus,
depriving financially stressed citizens of assistance to which they are
rightfully entitled.

The concerns about Maryland's Dream Act are understandable; they're also
misplaced. They fail to recognize that the law is overwhelmingly in the state's
interest. Implement it, and thousands of ambitious, promising youngsters who
have grown up in Maryland will have a chance to realize their potential as
productive, taxpaying members of society. Repeal it, and those same youngsters
will swell the ranks of the underclass, paying less in taxes, consuming more in
services and living lives soured by the frustration of unrealized potential.

The demographic targeted by the Dream Act consists largely of teenagers who were
brought by their parents to the United States, often as young children. Many
have relatives who are citizens. They have grown up speaking English and are
loyal to their adoptive country, attending and graduating from high school and
regarding themselves as American in most or every way.

Their undocumented status is not their fault, and there is no precedent in
American history for punishing children for the actions of their parents. Having
invested, in some cases, $200,000 in state, local and federal funds into
educating undocumented students from kindergarten through high school, why would
Maryland want to cut short their development by putting college out of their
reach?

Unfortunately, that is the reality now. Undocumented immigrants seeking to
attend the University of Maryland at College Park in the academic year starting
in September would be required to pay the out-of-state rate of $26,026 in
tuition and fees. Even if they have attended Maryland public schools all their
lives - even if they are straight-A students, debating champions or star
athletes - they are ineligible for the in-state rate of $8,655.

Opponents of the measure include every Republican in the state legislature, plus
a handful of Democrats. They argue that granting tuition breaks to illegal
immigrants would cost the state's university system heavily in terms of lost
tuition revenue. In fact, the cost issue is a red herring.

No more than a few hundred undocumented students are thought likely to qualify
for the discounted tuition annually. That's a drop in the ocean of roughly
26,000 new students who enter Maryland's four-year colleges and universities
each year. Moreover, the Dream Act specifies that undocumented students would
not be included in the tally of enrolled in-state residents, so they would not
displace a single Maryland student. Tellingly, none of Maryland's college or
university presidents oppose enrolling undocumented students.

By 2016, the Dream Act would cost the state just $3.5 million, according to
nonpartisan state legislative analysts. But that modest investment would be more
than offset by the future income the state (and the nation) would realize from
better educated residents who would be qualified for higher-paying jobs and pay
more in taxes.

Last year, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that opening
the door of higher education to undocumented immigrants would increase national
revenue by $2.3 billion over 10 years and cut the deficit by $1.4 billion.

Opponents argue that the Dream Act will make Maryland a magnet for further
illegal immigration, thereby stiffening competition for jobs that native
Marylanders could fill. In fact, numerous studies have shown that immigrants
don't steal jobs; they create them by expanding the scope of economic activity.
That's particularly true of better-educated immigrants.

But why provide higher education to students who are not legally employable upon
graduation? First, the reality is that undocumented immigrants - an estimated 7
million of them nationwide - do hold jobs; legal or not, they are in demand in
the workplace. Second, some of the students who would benefit from the measure
are in the process of applying for green cards and may eventually qualify as
permanent residents and citizens. Why limit their education?

Finally, it's foolish to assume that Congress will indefinitely ignore 11
million undocumented immigrants, most of whom are deeply embedded in American
communities and the economy. When Congress finally recognizes reality - and,
yes, grants amnesty to undocumented immigrants with deep roots and clean records
here - it is in everyone's interest that as many as possible are
college-educated.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 25, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

America's tranquil border

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 607 words


IMMIGRATION SKEPTICS are fond of portraying the southwestern border as lawless
and violent, a sort of Spanish-accented version of Pakistan's tribal areas. In
this fantasy dystopia, cascades of illegal immigrants cross the frontier,
running roughshod over outmanned and outgunned U.S. Border Patrol agents.

It's a colorful narrative, designed to scare Americans while deflecting reform
of the nation's broken immigration system. How can we discuss sweeping change,
let alone amnesty for millions of undocumented immigrants, the purveyors of fear
argue, while chaos reigns along the border?

But the lawless border portrayed by lawmakers such as Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas
and Sen. John McCain of Arizona, border state Republicans, is a fairy tale.
Illegal border crossings have nose-dived to their lowest levels in many years
and are projected to plunge even further. Many segments of the southwest border
are so quiet that border patrol agents spend their days surveying barren
landscapes devoid of activity.

What's more, as a recent New York Times  article illustrated, the shrinking
demand to sneak across the border from Mexico is not only a function of
America's anemic economy, tougher state laws on illegal immigration or the
17,700 Border Patrol agents assigned there, nearly  double the number in 2004.
It can be traced also to economic, demographic and policy shifts inside Mexico
itself.

In fact, such a broad array of factors is depressing the rate of illegal
immigration from Mexico that even a surge in the American economy is not apt to
drive the numbers of undocumented border crossers back up to the levels of the
early- to mid-2000s, when a half million or more flooded into the country each
year.

Those factors include sharply dwindling Mexican fertility rates and family
sizes, which have shrunk the numbers of potential job seekers; higher gross
domestic product and family incomes, which have expanded incentives for Mexicans
to make a living at home; and rising educational levels, which are broadening
hope and opportunities for Mexicans who want to move up the economic ladder.

At the same time, the Times reported, U.S. consular officials in Mexico have
eased rules governing the issuance of tourist and temporary agricultural visas,
meaning that thousands more Mexicans are able to enter the United States
legally. Rejection rates for Mexicans seeking tourist visas have fallen to just
11 percent from 32 percent before 2008, the Times reported..

Those are salutary trends. Another development - less positive but equally
effective at dissuading the undocumented - is the growth of violent Mexican drug
cartels that prey on migrants as they head north for the border. As reported by
The Post's William Booth and Nick Miroff, migrants from Central America have
been particular targets of the cartels, which have murdered some and
press-ganged others into service. Many Central Americans now think it is too
dangerous to attempt to cross Mexico into the United States.

The southwest border is hardly watertight; few international land boundaries
are. But all indications, including plummeting apprehensions by the beefed-up
Border Patrol, are that illegal border crossings have been cut in half in the
past five or six years.

The effect of all this must be depressing for peddlers of anecdotes and spinners
of tall tales about the border. But the plain facts are simply are not as
hair-raising as anti-illegal-immigration Republicans would have Americans
believe. Like it or not, the border is a much safer and better monitored place
than it has been in many years, and the trend lines promise more of the same.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 30, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

The myth of the 'tranquil' border

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 251 words


The July 25 editorial "America's tranquil border" correctly observed that anemic
U.S. job growth has reduced the incentive for some illegal immigrants to cross
our southwest border. Yet tranquil is hardly how many Texans describe their
border communities.

Illegal crossings remain a feature of border life, and violent criminals are
among those who exploit America's porous border. Attacks on U.S. law enforcement
are rising, according to the Texas-based intelligence firm STRATFOR, and
shootouts disturb the tranquility all too often.  Nor would most Texans describe
Mexican drug cartels as "less positive but equally effective at dissuading the
undocumented." Texans have great sympathy for those preyed upon by traffickers
in drugs and human beings, and we find no utility in their brutality.

Instead of outsourcing border security to Mexican drug cartels, Texans would far
prefer that the federal government do its job. More than 1,100 miles of our
southwest border are not under "operational control" as defined by U.S. Customs
and Border Protection. Texans see that as a breach of trust and a failure of
federal responsibility.

I have introduced legislation to help secure our southwest border, as well as
improve our ports of entry to speed legitimate trade and travel between Mexico
and the United States.  Until Washington makes our border a much higher
priority, "tranquility" will remain a vision uprooted from reality.

John Cornyn, Washington

The writer (R-Tex.) is a member of the U.S. Senate.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 20, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Drawing the line

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 471 words


CRITICS BLASTED the administration's reassessment of deportation priorities as
an affront to the rule of law. Some immigration advocates hailed it as a
potential panacea for tens of thousands of undocumented immigrants.

It is likely to be neither - not the unauthorized power grab that some fear or
the far-reaching change that some hope for.

Over the next few months, the administration will review 300,000 or so cases in
the deportation pipeline. Individuals with criminal records - especially those
with convictions for violent crimes - will remain high priorities for removal,
as will those who have repeatedly and illegally tried to enter the country.
People caught attempting to cross the border illegally will continue to be
turned away.

But at least some people who have been law-abiding residents except for their
illegal entry will get to stay. This includes those who were brought here as
children and so-called Dream Act youth who have graduated from U.S. high schools
and have earned or are pursuing college degrees. It includes military veterans
or those with immediate family members who have served. And it includes gay and
lesbian foreign nationals whose spouses are U.S. citizens or permanent legal
residents.

Deportation proceedings against such people will be indefinitely suspended, and
these factors will be weighed when determining whether to initiate proceedings
against others in the future. But this administration - or the next - could
still initiate deportation proceedings down the road.

The administration also announced that those who are permitted to stay may apply
for work permits. Critics latched on to this as proof that the administration
was circumventing the will of Congress, which has repeatedly refused to enact
amnesties. But immigration law already allows the executive branch to award work
permits to certain undocumented immigrants. The initiative does not change the
eligibility criteria. Some who win the opportunity to stay may find themselves
unable to obtain permission to work - and that is where supporters of the
president's changes may be sorely disappointed.

Critics are wrong to label the administration's move as an "amnesty" - a reward
for scofflaws. There is no green card or citizenship oath at the end of this
process. The kind of  comprehensive reforms needed to address problems in the
immigration system can be authorized only by Congress. In the meantime, the
administration's initiative is a lawful and sensible step.

The executive branch has broad discretion in deciding which immigration cases to
pursue, and the administration has correctly determined that not all
undocumented immigrants are the same. The nation does not have the means or the
will to deport 11 million undocumented immigrants; it ought to concentrate on
those who really are causing trouble.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      September 2, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Illegal immigration boils up as litmus test for GOP voters

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;and Amy Gardner

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1076 words


KEENE, N.H. - Mitt Romney opened his town hall meeting here talking about the
economy - his thoughts on growing business, getting government out of the way -
just as he does nearly every other campaign event. But when he opened last
week's forum for questions, the first voter he called on didn't seem concerned
about any of that. He wanted to know the Republican presidential candidate's
stance on border security.

A similar scene played out in South Carolina a few days later, when Rep. Michele
Bachmann (R-Minn.) attended a town hall meeting she assumed would center on the
economy, jobs and the federal deficit - only to see the assembled voters react
most passionately to her comments on illegal immigration.

Polls might not suggest it, and the candidates might not be catering to it, but
immigration is an issue that voters won't let the GOP White House hopefuls
escape.

Republican primary voters keep bringing up immigration as the candidates
campaign in back yards, opera houses and recreation halls across Iowa, New
Hampshire and South Carolina. To a sizable chunk of those who will pick the
GOP's presidential nominee, immigration is an urgent issue, even a litmus test.

"Immigration is not even close to the top issue for most Republicans today, but
it is an issue that is heavy with symbolic importance to Republican voters,"
said GOP pollster Jon Lerner, who advised Tim Pawlenty until he dropped out of
the race last month. "If a candidate is squishy on immigration, that
symbolically suggests that he's probably unreliable on a whole host of other
conservative issues."

The view in the Republican Party on immigration has shifted dramatically to the
right since 2006, when President George W. Bush proposed an overhaul that would
have combined a legalization plan with tighter border security.

The issue is likely to take on even greater significance in the race for the
Republican nomination with the recent entrance of Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who
oversees the nation's biggest border state and who has a longer and more
complicated record on immigration than his opponents.

Since entering the race, Perry has taken a tough stance on the issue.

"Once we secure the border, we can have a conversation about immigration reform
in this country, but not until," Perry told reporters after a campaign stop last
month in South Carolina. "You must have the federal government putting the
resources, the boots on the ground, the aviation assets in the air, and secure
that border so that we know that the border is secure before we have a
conversation about any immigration reform."

Perry's history with the border is more nuanced than that. He has long advocated
a more seamless border between his state and Mexico, and he has traveled there
to drum up business for his state. In 2007, he called the proposed construction
of a fence between the United States and Mexico "idiocy," saying "it absolutely
would not work."

Ray Sullivan, Perry's communications director, said that remains Perry's
position.

"Fencing a 2,000-mile border is not practical," Sullivan said. "The governor
does and has always supported what he calls 'strategic fencing' in urban and
high-trafficked areas."

During Perry's first year in office, he signed a law allowing any student who
has lived in Texas for three years and graduates from a Texas high school to pay
in-state tuition at state colleges, regardless of their citizenship status.

The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support but now is criticized by
some Republicans as a precursor to the federal DREAM Act, a Democratic proposal
to create a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants brought into the
country as children.

Last year, Perry criticized Arizona's tough new immigration enforcement law,
saying that it "would not be the right direction for Texas."

Sullivan said Perry's stances made sense for Texas, pointing out that many
Texans have economic, cultural and family ties across the border. "Texans have a
very close and perhaps unique perspective on border issues," he said.

Some conservatives have begun attacking Perry on immigration. "He's just a
little bit too much like George Bush," Ann Coulter recently said on Fox News.

On immigration, Romney's position is to secure the border before considering
comprehensive reform. At the town hall in Keene, he said that means to "turn off
the magnet."

"Employers in the U.S. who knowingly hire people who are here illegally - that's
the magnet," he said. "So we have to crack down on employers that hire illegals,
make it easy for them to determine who's here legally and who's not, and then
crack down on those who hire illegals."

Bachmann, too, wants to crack down on those who are in the United States
illegally. On a recent five-day campaign swing, she was asked about immigration
at virtually every stop. At one, a town hall meeting in Charleston, S.C., she
elicited the most passionate response of the evening when she took a question on
immigration.

Bachmann promised to build a fence along "every mile, every yard, every foot,
every inch" of the nation's southern border, to "have the back" of enforcement
agents, and to put an end to the provision of federal benefits to illegal
immigrants.

But she really got her audience going with a series of lamentations about the
border that places her to the right of her opponents.

"On the southern border, we are dealing with a narco-terrorist state today in
Mexico," Bachmann said. "Because 70 percent of narcotics are coming to the
United States are coming from Mexico. Mexico is in a very different place right
now. We are seeing criminals, felons, drugs, we're seeing contagious diseases
coming into our country. What is wrong with our government that it isn't
stopping this from coming into the nation?"

The applause was loud, yet the man who asked the question, Rich Wiedenhoft, left
unsatisfied.

"The very town I live in is a sanctuary city, and I'm very ashamed of that,"
Wiedenhoft, 63, an Air Force retiree, said later in an interview. "I served in
the military for 20 years defending the flag. And I resent people coming in here
and taking advantage of us. I consider them invaders."

So which candidate might appeal more than Bachmann?

"That," he said, "is what I keep going to these meetings to find out."

ruckerp@washpost.com

Staff researcher Alice Crites and polling director Jon Cohen contributed to this
report. Gardner reported from South Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      September 2, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Illegal immigration boils up as litmus test for GOP voters

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;and Amy Gardner

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1076 words


KEENE, N.H. - Mitt Romney opened his town hall meeting here talking about the
economy - his thoughts on growing business, getting government out of the way -
just as he does nearly every other campaign event. But when he opened last
week's forum for questions, the first voter he called on didn't seem concerned
about any of that. He wanted to know the Republican presidential candidate's
stance on border security.

A similar scene played out in South Carolina a few days later, when Rep. Michele
Bachmann (R-Minn.) attended a town hall meeting she assumed would center on the
economy, jobs and the federal deficit - only to see the assembled voters react
most passionately to her comments on illegal immigration.

Polls might not suggest it, and the candidates might not be catering to it, but
immigration is an issue that voters won't let the GOP White House hopefuls
escape.

Republican primary voters keep bringing up immigration as the candidates
campaign in back yards, opera houses and recreation halls across Iowa, New
Hampshire and South Carolina. To a sizable chunk of those who will pick the
GOP's presidential nominee, immigration is an urgent issue, even a litmus test.

"Immigration is not even close to the top issue for most Republicans today, but
it is an issue that is heavy with symbolic importance to Republican voters,"
said GOP pollster Jon Lerner, who advised Tim Pawlenty until he dropped out of
the race last month. "If a candidate is squishy on immigration, that
symbolically suggests that he's probably unreliable on a whole host of other
conservative issues."

The view in the Republican Party on immigration has shifted dramatically to the
right since 2006, when President George W. Bush proposed an overhaul that would
have combined a legalization plan with tighter border security.

The issue is likely to take on even greater significance in the race for the
Republican nomination with the recent entrance of Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who
oversees the nation's biggest border state and who has a longer and more
complicated record on immigration than his opponents.

Since entering the race, Perry has taken a tough stance on the issue.

"Once we secure the border, we can have a conversation about immigration reform
in this country, but not until," Perry told reporters after a campaign stop last
month in South Carolina. "You must have the federal government putting the
resources, the boots on the ground, the aviation assets in the air, and secure
that border so that we know that the border is secure before we have a
conversation about any immigration reform."

Perry's history with the border is more nuanced than that. He has long advocated
a more seamless border between his state and Mexico, and he has traveled there
to drum up business for his state. In 2007, he called the proposed construction
of a fence between the United States and Mexico "idiocy," saying "it absolutely
would not work."

Ray Sullivan, Perry's communications director, said that remains Perry's
position.

"Fencing a 2,000-mile border is not practical," Sullivan said. "The governor
does and has always supported what he calls 'strategic fencing' in urban and
high-trafficked areas."

During Perry's first year in office, he signed a law allowing any student who
has lived in Texas for three years and graduates from a Texas high school to pay
in-state tuition at state colleges, regardless of their citizenship status.

The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support but now is criticized by
some Republicans as a precursor to the federal DREAM Act, a Democratic proposal
to create a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants brought into the
country as children.

Last year, Perry criticized Arizona's tough new immigration enforcement law,
saying that it "would not be the right direction for Texas."

Sullivan said Perry's stances made sense for Texas, pointing out that many
Texans have economic, cultural and family ties across the border. "Texans have a
very close and perhaps unique perspective on border issues," he said.

Some conservatives have begun attacking Perry on immigration. "He's just a
little bit too much like George Bush," Ann Coulter recently said on Fox News.

On immigration, Romney's position is to secure the border before considering
comprehensive reform. At the town hall in Keene, he said that means to "turn off
the magnet."

"Employers in the U.S. who knowingly hire people who are here illegally - that's
the magnet," he said. "So we have to crack down on employers that hire illegals,
make it easy for them to determine who's here legally and who's not, and then
crack down on those who hire illegals."

Bachmann, too, wants to crack down on those who are in the United States
illegally. On a recent five-day campaign swing, she was asked about immigration
at virtually every stop. At one, a town hall meeting in Charleston, S.C., she
elicited the most passionate response of the evening when she took a question on
immigration.

Bachmann promised to build a fence along "every mile, every yard, every foot,
every inch" of the nation's southern border, to "have the back" of enforcement
agents, and to put an end to the provision of federal benefits to illegal
immigrants.

But she really got her audience going with a series of lamentations about the
border that places her to the right of her opponents.

"On the southern border, we are dealing with a narco-terrorist state today in
Mexico," Bachmann said. "Because 70 percent of narcotics are coming to the
United States are coming from Mexico. Mexico is in a very different place right
now. We are seeing criminals, felons, drugs, we're seeing contagious diseases
coming into our country. What is wrong with our government that it isn't
stopping this from coming into the nation?"

The applause was loud, yet the man who asked the question, Rich Wiedenhoft, left
unsatisfied.

"The very town I live in is a sanctuary city, and I'm very ashamed of that,"
Wiedenhoft, 63, an Air Force retiree, said later in an interview. "I served in
the military for 20 years defending the flag. And I resent people coming in here
and taking advantage of us. I consider them invaders."

So which candidate might appeal more than Bachmann?

"That," he said, "is what I keep going to these meetings to find out."

ruckerp@washpost.com

Staff researcher Alice Crites and polling director Jon Cohen contributed to this
report. Gardner reported from South Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      September 9, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 481 words


Florida          Craft's moon launch reset for Friday

High winds at Cape Canaveral forced NASA to scrub the Thursday launch of its
GRAIL mission to the moon. NASA said the next two launch opportunities will be
Friday morning.

The two mirror-opposite spacecraft that comprise the Gravity Recovery and
Interior Laboratory mission are to arrive at the moon on New Year's Eve and New
Year's Day - a schedule that is not expected to change even if there are further
weather delays. GRAIL-A and GRAIL-B will spend three months making 12 polar
orbits of the moon each day.

Scientists predict the mission will provide a comprehensive map of the moon's
gravitational field, allowing them to better calculate the composition of its
crust, mantle and core and adding to their understanding of the evolution of
rocky planets.

- Los Angeles Times

New Mexico          Governor: Relatives were undocumented

New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, who has drawn national attention and criticism
from immigrant advocacy groups for trying to stop illegal immigrants from
getting driver's licenses, has acknowledged her paternal grandparents came to
the U.S. illegally.

"I know they arrived without documents, especially my father's father," the
Republican said Wednesday in an interview in Spanish with KLUZ-TV, the
Albuquerque Univision affiliate.

Martinez has long acknowledged her Mexican heritage. But when asked previously
about reports that her grandfather was an illegal immigrant, her office has said
Martinez was unsure of his status since he abandoned the family when her father
was young.

- Associated Press

Edwards trial rescheduled for January:Ex-presidential candidate John Edwards's
trial on campaign finance charges has been delayed until January, giving his
defense team the time it says it needs to comb through more than 400,000 pages
of material turned over by the government. The former North Carolina senator was
charged in June with using about $1 million in under-the-table payments from
political supporters to hide his pregnant mistress, Rielle Hunter, during his
2008 run.

Longshore workers attack port: Hundreds of longshore workers stormed the Port of
Longview in Washington, overpowered security guards, damaged rail cars and
dumped grain at the center of a labor dispute that has spread to Seattle and
Tacoma ports, officials said Thursday.

Containment lines block wildfire flames: Authorities said Thursday that active
flames from a massive Central Texas wildfire are behind containment lines and
some residents evacuated from unburned areas could return to their homes. The
Bastrop County fire has been the most catastrophic of nearly 180 wildfires that
have erupted across Texas this week in an outbreak that's left nearly 1,700
homes statewide in ruins, killed four people and forced thousands to evacuate.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

The GOP's nonsense on immigration

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 974 words


WHEN QUIZZED on the problem of illegal immigration at their debate the other
night, the Republican presidential hopefuls were by turns vague, evasive,
confused, contradictory and - in the notable case of Rep. Ron Paul of Texas, who
opposes a border fence because it might prevent law-abiding Americans from
withdrawing their savings and fleeing to Mexico in a crisis - harebrained.-

If a majority of the GOP aspirants agreed on anything, it was that nothing
meaningful can be done about the nation's dysfunctional immigration system and
the presence of 11 million undocumented immigrants until the southern border is
"secure." And as Texas Gov. Rick Perry asserted, "It is not safe on that
border."

That sounds very grave. There's just one problem: The border today is more
secure than it has been in years, according to virtually every yardstick
accepted by Republican and Democratic administrations for decades. Illegal
crossings, as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, are at their lowest level
in 40 years, and rates of nearly all measurable crimes are plummeting in border
communities.

In truth, then, the real message on immigration from most of the candidates is
this: We can't fix the broken system, or deal with illegal immigrants until,
well, ever. Because even if we understand that 11 million people cannot be
deported and must be granted some form of amnesty - the dreaded word! - our
conservative base will punish us if we admit it, let alone undertake it.

Mr. Perry struck first, accusing President Obama of possessing terrible
intelligence, or being an "abject liar," for telling a crowd in El Paso that the
border is safer than it's ever been. In fact, it's Mr. Perry whose relationship
to the truth is  at arm's length. In his El Paso speech, Mr. Obama merely
claimed "important progress" on securing the border, which is statistically
undeniable, and he cited the huge additional resources the federal government -
starting with President George W.  Bush - has dispatched there in recent years.

Beyond that, Mr. Perry had nothing significant to contribute to the conversation
on immigration. That may be because his positions are in fact much more closely
aligned with Democratic views, and  reality, than his own party's hard-line
stance.

Mr. Perry has opposed fencing the entire 2,000-mile border, correctly labeling
it a "preposterous idea" that wouldn't deter many illegal crossers. He favors a
sensible guest worker program to meet the labor market's demand, a proposal that
many Republicans regard as amnesty by another name. And he was the nation's
first governor to sign legislation extending tuition breaks to the blameless
children of illegal immigrants who attend  colleges and universities. That in
particular is an act of heresy for most of today's GOP politicians.

Then there was Mitt Romney, whose position on the issue is a sterling example of
incoherence. The former Massachusetts governor twice declared that "we ought to
have a fence" running the length of the border, but he acknowledged that any
fence would be highly porous and ineffective. That amounted to a pledge to spend
billions of dollars to no meaningful effect.

Aside from opposing amnesty, the former Massachusetts governor had no ideas - or
none he cared to share - about dealing with the 11 million undocumented
immigrants already here. But he did stress the need to crack down on employers
and tuition breaks that he said provide a "magnet" attracting illegal immigrants
in the first place - an oblique shot at Mr. Perry.

In fact, the real magnet for illegal immigrants has been the U.S. economy, which
has generated many low-wage jobs that the vast majority of Americans have not
wanted. And the core problem has been Washington's failure to devise a workable
system to provide an adequate and legal supply of labor.

Among the other major Republican candidates, there wasn't much more insight or
logic on offer. Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota ducked two straight questions
on what to do about the  11 million. Former senator Rick Santorum of
Pennsylvania said that he loved immigrants - his father and grandfather, to name
two - but that any discussion of the 11 million undocumented ones should come
later.

Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman Jr. advocated unspecified "punishment" for the
undocumented, while helpfully offering a reminder that they are "human beings"
and avoiding any explicit mention of his long-standing support for some form of
amnesty.

And then there was Ron "Don't Fence Us In" Paul.

As usual, no one in the Republican pack bothered to define what they mean by
"securing" the border, the reason being that those goal posts will never stop
moving.

Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry want more manpower and technology on the border. But
they never mention that Border Patrol deployments have already tripled over the
past 15 years, not counting 1,000 more officers being recruited and trained in
the current year, let alone the addition in recent years of thousands more boots
on the ground from an alphabet soup of other federal agencies plus the National
Guard.

Ms. Bachmann wants "a fence on every part of that border," by which we assume
she means the 1,350 miles not already fenced. But fences are costly and easily
defeated (think ladders and tunnels). More to the point, they are utterly
irrelevant to the 40 percent or more of undocumented immigrants who enter the
United States legally, then overstay their visas.

If there was one candidate who dared say something sensible, it was former House
speaker Newt Gingrich. Maybe being stuck near the bottom of the pack in the
polls gave him courage to mention the unmentionable: There must be "a much more
humane way" of dealing with illegal immigrants, Mr. Gingrich said, than
imagining America can "deport millions of people." Amen.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 24, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

GOP opponents pile on Perry's DREAM act

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A section; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1001 words


Texas Gov. Rick Perry was hardly trying to strike a radical note a decade ago
when he signed the Texas DREAM Act, the now-controversial law granting in-state
college tuition to illegal immigrants brought to Texas as children.

But the law has suddenly become a sharp point of departure, separating Perry
from his GOP presidential rivals as they compete for the conservative vote.

"If you say that we should not educate children who have come into our state for
no other reason than they have been brought there by no fault of their own, I
don't think you have a heart," Perry said at a Republican debate in Florida on
Thursday night.

That touched a nerve among many conservative voters and prompted a retort Friday
from former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney that "if you're opposed to
illegal immigration, it doesn't mean you don't have a heart, it means you have a
heart and a brain."

Since entering the presidential race six weeks ago, Perry has hovered at the top
of the polls, in large part due to his tough talk and tea party backing. But his
opponents lately have focused attention on his moderate stances, including what
they say is his weakness on immigration - not only because of the DREAM Act but
because he opposes building a fence along the entire southern border.

Early in his governorship, Perry advocated for more unfettered transportation
across the U.S.-Mexico line and health services that could span both sides of
the border. At the time, he pointed to the DREAM Act as a sign of his commitment
to improving education for minorities.

"We must say to every Texas child learning in a Texas classroom, 'We don't care
where you come from, but where you are going,' " Perry said shortly after the
bill passed in 2001, according to his Web site. "And that vision must include
the children of undocumented workers."

But the landscape on immigration has changed with the Sept. 11, 2001, terror
attacks, an increase in drug-related crime across the border and rising
opposition to illegal immigrants. And Perry's tone on some immigration issues
has shifted.

This year, he backed a bill barring "sanctuary cities" - communities that adopt
policies declining to share information with federal immigration authorities.
During Thursday's debate, he noted that his state invested $400 million into
border security.

But he has maintained his support for the DREAM Act, which over the past decade
has provided tuition breaks to more than 32,000 students attending Texas
colleges. The law sparked a national movement to pass a federal version, which
has been championed by President Obama and became a bitterly contested issue
that failed in Congress last year.

Perry has said he opposes the federal version, calling it "amnesty" because it
includes a path to citizenship. The Texas law does not have such a provision.
Rather, its supporters said it was intended to reduce the barriers to higher
education for children brought to the country illegally by their parents or
other adults.

The measure applies to undocumented students who have graduated from a Texas
high school, lived in the state for three years and signed an affidavit
promising to seek legal status. They can become eligible for scholarships and
pay in-state tuition rather than international student rates, which are
sometimes double and triple the resident fees.

The law was the first of its kind when it passed a decade ago - now about a
dozen states have such laws, and one is under consideration in Maryland - and it
drew overwhelming support from both parties in the Texas legislature.

Repeated attempts to repeal it have failed, including one this year. Even some
members of the state's vast tea party network say that they have no problem with
it.

"We in Texas have a very long record of being neighbors to Mexico," said Clint
Cook, a spokesman for the Texas Tea Party Alliance. "Yeah, you could say that
some taxpayer dollars are being used, but at the same time those kids graduate
from college and go on to create money for the economy."

Last year, Texas education officials estimate that illegal immigrant college
students received about $9.5 million in state financial aid. And the Texas
Higher Education Coordinating Board said that last year more than 16,000
students were in the program - an uptick from previous years but still a small
fraction of the more than 1.3 million students attending state colleges and
universities.

Critics of the law say they have grown increasingly frustrated as the economy
has deteriorated and more illegal immigrants sign up for discounted tuition.
They say it takes seats away from qualified legal students and that taxpayers
should not be forced to subsidize the education of those in the country
illegally.

Maria Martinez, executive director of the Immigration Reform Coalition of Texas,
a nonprofit that advocates for stricter immigration enforcement and opposes the
Texas DREAM Act, speculated that Republicans who take a soft tack on these
issues are probably doing so under a misguided attempt at winning Latino votes.

"Politicians tend to try to be all things to all people, and Perry probably
thinks if you have a big tent rather than stand on your principles, that will
get you elected," said Martinez. But at a time of high unemployment and
dwindling resources, "you just can't tell me you'll win any popularity contests
as a politician having that position."

The bill was introduced by Rick Noriega, a former Democratic state
representative from the Houston area, who was inspired to act after meeting an
ambitious young high school graduate from El Salvador. The graduate was cutting
lawns rather than attending college because he had lived in the state illegally
since age 14.

Today, the student is a U.S. citizen and "he's working as an aviation mechanic
for Continental Airlines, has a house, is looking for a wife and complains that
his taxes are too high," Noriega said. "If that isn't American, I don't know
what is."

sandhya@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 24, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Illegal immigrants, illegal benefits

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 256 words


The Sept. 18 editorial "Hopes, dreams and Policy 45003" praised Montgomery
College for being an outlier in giving taxpayer-subsidized tuition benefits to
illegal aliens. The college is an outlier because it is an outlaw, a point the
editorial did not address.

Federal law prohibits such benefits unless they are specifically provided by a
state legislature. Likewise, Maryland law requires that tuition be based on a
student's lawful residence, which illegal aliens are unable to establish in the
state. The Maryland Dream Act, which specifically provides in-state or in-county
tuition rates for illegal aliens, is on hold and may be subject to a referendum
by voters on Election Day 2012. But the trustees of Montgomery College seem to
want to write their own rules, no matter the law.

For The Post to say that opponents of this illegal policy "enjoy bashing illegal
immigrants" is inappropriate and uncivil. We and the citizens and legal
residents who oppose this policy want public officials to obey the law and not
abuse the public office entrusted to them. This fight is as much about the
misguided political appointees governing Montgomery College as it is about
taxpayer handouts to immigrant lawbreakers.

Tom Fitton, Washington

The writer is president of Judicial Watch, which is representing the sponsor of
the drive to place the Maryland Dream Act on the 2012 ballot. The group also is
representing three taxpayers in the legal challenge to Montgomery College's
policy granting in-state tuition to illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 5, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 467 words


Illinois          County defies U.S. on immigrant felons

The release of more than 40 Cook County felons suspected of being illegal
immigrants has created fierce debate about the defiance of a federal program
aimed at deporting criminals.

Criminals suspected of being in the country illegally are to be held after they
serve their sentences or post bail so that their immigration status can be
checked. Other localities have refused to cooperate in cases involving
misdemeanors; Cook County is the first to refuse to hold felons.

"It puts residents at risk, and it puts my police officers at risk," said Rod
Craig, mayor of Hanover Park in suburban Chicago, who is livid about the release
of three suspected illegal immigrants charged with assaulting two officers and
trying to take one of their guns.

Jesus Garcia, the commissioner who sponsored the ordinance, said it is
"upholding our system of justice."

- Associated Press

TRANSPORTATION          Fast-track screening in trials at 4 airports

Select frequent fliers who agree to share personal information with the
Transportation Security Administration began using lower-hassle security lines
Tuesday in a trial program at four U.S. airports.

The voluntary program in Atlanta, Miami, Detroit and Dallas-Fort Worth is open
to travelers who are enrolled in Delta Air Lines' and American Airlines'
frequent-flier programs, which collect personal information, or one of three
government-run traveler programs: Global Entry, NEXUS and SENTRI.

Those passengers get a chance - not a guarantee - that they can move through
lines faster and avoid removing their shoes, belts or light coats while keeping
laptops and liquids in their bags.

- Associated Press

Food labels requested:An advocacy group based in St. Louis, the Center for Food
Safety, filed a petition Tuesday asking the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
require labeling of any food product that contains genetically modified
ingredients. The agency has 180 days to respond and will have to create a
comment period. An estimated 60 percent of processed food on American grocery
shelves contains genetically modified ingredients. The FDA is also considering
whether to approve genetically modified salmon.

Mich. welfare cuts postponed:A federal judge on Tuesday temporarily halted a
major round of cuts in Michigan's welfare program, saying the state did a poor
job of notifying people that  they would no longer receive cash benefits. A
stricter four-year cap on cash payments took effect Oct. 1. Notices were not
sent until Sept. 11 to recipients being cut off. The temporary injunction said
new notices must be sent and must include information on a recipient's right to
ask for a hearing to appeal the loss of benefits.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 9, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

In Alabama, apprehension

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1758 words


Trailer by trailer, yard sale by yard sale, and pew by empty pew, a poor but
tightknit immigrant community on Alabama's breezy Gulf Coast is rapidly
disintegrating.

This time it is not a tornado or hurricane uprooting families and scattering
them to the winds. It is a new state law, largely upheld last week by a federal
district judge, that seeks to drive illegal immigrants from the state by
curtailing many of their rights, punishing anyone who knowingly employs, houses
or assists them, and requiring schools and police to verify immigrants' legal
status.

Other states, including Arizona, Georgia and Colorado, have passed similar laws
in the past several years in a growing trend by state legislatures to crack down
on illegal immigration within their borders in the absence of comprehensive
federal action. But Alabama's new law is the toughest passed so far, and it is
the only one to withstand federal lawsuits and other legal challenges, allowing
it to take virtually full effect.

Across Alabama, news of the court ruling has swiftly spread panic and chaos
among trailer parks and working-class areas where legal and illegal immigrant
families from Mexico and Central America - as many as 150,000 people, by some
estimates - live and work at jobs their bosses say local residents largely
refuse to do.

In Foley, a sprawling seaside resort town where hundreds of Hispanic immigrants
work in restaurants, sod farms and seafood industries, many families last week
were taking their children out of school, piling their furniture into trucks,
offering baby clothes and bicycles on front lawns for sale and saying tearful
goodbyes to neighbors and co-workers they might never see again.

"This is the saddest thing I have experienced in my 18 years as a priest," said
the Rev. Paul Zoghby, who ministers to a large Hispanic flock at St. Margaret of
Scotland Church. "We've already lost 20 percent of the congregation in the past
few weeks, and many more will be gone by next week. It is a human tragedy."

After evening Mass on Thursday, families mingled worriedly in the church lobby,
asking how to get help and debating where to flee.

"I have a cousin in Nashville. Maybe we'll try there," said a muscular
construction worker, holding a sleeping infant in his arms.

Others said they planned to head for Texas or Florida, where the laws are not as
strict. None wanted to return to Mexico, where they said wages are pitifully low
and violent crime is a constant threat.

Tough choices

Many such families have legal and illegal members, which presents them with
wrenching choices. One illegal couple's daughter, born in the United States,
just won a college scholarship; another such couple's daughter was recently
engaged to a local boy. Both decided they would flee Alabama anyway, reluctantly
putting family unity and safety before individual opportunities.

"This law has shattered all our dreams," said Maria, 35, a house cleaner and
mother of two from central Mexico, weeping and clutching at her husband for
support in a church meeting room. An illegal immigrant, she asked her last name
not be used. "We do the jobs no one else wants to do. We pay taxes. We do not
harm anyone. Now the government says they don't want us here, but we have
nowhere to go. All the doors are closing on us. We can't even drive a car
without being afraid. I cannot believe this is God's will."

The new law passed the state legislature in June after an unprecedented
Republican sweep of both chambers last year and the election of a Republican
governor, Robert Bentley. Amid a sustained economic slump and rising
unemployment, this political majority finally gave longtime advocates of a
crackdown on illegal immigrants the votes they needed.

Sponsors of the measure are unapologetic about its tough provisions. The law
makes it a criminal offense for an illegal immigrant to register a car, pay a
utility bill or rent an apartment, and it similarly penalizes anyone who hires,
shelters or signs a contract with an illegal immigrant.

As its backers see it, the law is a long-overdue panacea that will open up
thousands of jobs to struggling Alabamans squeezed out of the market by cheap
illegal labor. They also hope the law - after surviving legal challenges by the
Justice Department and other groups - will pressure the federal government to
overhaul its immigration system.

"I have no doubt that this is the best thing for the long-term economic health
of our state and no doubt that this is what a majority of the people of Alabama
wants," said state Sen. Scott Beason, chief sponsor of the measure. "We have
almost 10 percent unemployment, and we need to put our people to work. I
understand there are concerns, but the law needs to be given a chance."

Despite such assertions, the law has aroused condemnation and concern from an
assortment of Alabamans, including some unusual allies. White farmers, including
conservative Republicans, complain that their field crews have fled and that
their crops will rot on the vine. Black church and civil rights leaders, whose
communities suffer from high unemployment, decry the law as a reprise of
Alabama's racist history.

"These Republican politicians are running for office on Christian values, but
this law is in blatant disregard of Christian values. It is bringing back the
shameful and ugly past of our state," said the Rev. Roger Price, pastor of
Birmingham's iconic 16th Street Baptist Church, which was bombed in 1963  during
the civil rights conflict.

"I admit we have an immigration problem," he said, "but this is not the way to
solve it."

Local government officials in heavily Hispanic communities have also expressed
worry, confusion and indignation over aspects of the law. Some police officials
privately say they are uncomfortable about how far they should go in checking
drivers' legal status. Some school officials are upset about the effect the law
has had on Hispanic parents who fear they will be deported while their children
are in class.

William Lawrence, the principal of Foley Elementary School, said frightened
immigrant families withdrew 25 students last week, even though all the children
were U.S. citizens. He said the Hispanic community was swept by rumors that
parents would be arrested when they came to collect their children. Many
families asked teachers and others to act as their children's emergency drivers
or legal guardians.

"We are doing all we can to reassure parents that their kids are safe, and
things have calmed down some, but this was extremely wrong," Lawrence said. "I
hope our lawmakers did not do it deliberately. They won, because now people are
leaving. But there is no reason to create such terrible fear of parents being
separated from their children."

Alabama, a largely agricultural state, has long relied on seasonal Mexican farm
laborers to harvest peaches, tomatoes and other crops under temporary guest
worker visa programs. What has made the past decade different, officials said,
is a surge of illegal immigrants who have put down roots, taken permanent jobs
at low wages and drained public health and education budgets. Officials estimate
the state spends about $280 million per year on public services for illegal
immigrant families.

Republican lawmakers said they want to bolster the national guest worker program
to return to an orderly legal flow of foreign field laborers, but a number of
farm owners interviewed last week said that the program was cumbersome and
inadequate and that they could not find local American workers willing to toil
long hours in hot fields.

"There is a lot of heavy lifting and manual labor, and you are out there in the
sun and the rain. It is just not attractive to Americans," said Mac
Higginbotham, an official with the Alabama Farmers Federation.

The group represents about 40,000 farmers and opposed the new immigration law.

"We have people losing 40 to 60 percent of their crops this season,"
Higginbotham said. "The law is affecting everyone."

Residents' reactions

In Foley, some residents have been frustrated by the influx of Hispanic
immigrants, especially those that are illegal. Some longtime parishioners left
St. Margaret when it initiated a formal ministry to Hispanics. A few Hispanic
church members mentioned incidents such as drivers yelling that they should go
home or pharmacists demanding to see proof of legality before filling
prescriptions.

"If I were Mexican, I would probably want to come here, too, but they need to
become citizens in a legal way and pay taxes like the rest of us," said Mary
Reinhart, a Foley resident who works at a resort near the beach.

People "start businesses that undercut everyone because they work so much
cheaper with illegals," she said. "There needs to be more regulation and a
proper way to make them legal."

But there was also an outpouring of sympathy and sadness from longtime
inhabitants of Foley toward Hispanic families they had gotten to know as
neighbors, co-workers, tenants or employees. Even some who said they opposed
illegal immigration and supported the new law seemed to feel conflicted about
seeing families they had come to know and like suddenly leaving.

At a Mexican restaurant where Zoghby, the pastor, treated several Mexican
families to farewell tacos and beer Thursday, a gray-haired customer came over
and hugged one of the departing guests.

At a half-empty trailer park where several Hispanic families were packing up on
Friday, the longtime manager, Tom Boatwright, watched glumly.

"They are my very best renters," he said. "They are hardworking and never cause
trouble. I really hate to see them go."

A mile away, in a development of new houses, one Mexican family was loading a
decade's worth of belongings into a pickup truck and a neighboring family had
spread clothing, toys, furniture and bed linens out on the lawn for sale. A
stream of people pulled up in cars and trucks to browse, most of them white
Alabamans. Several said they supported the new law or wanted to see the border
shut down, but all treated the Mexican families with cordial familiarity.

"I don't know what to think. The law is supposed to be doing one thing, but it
seems to be doing the opposite," said Lisa Snow, a grandmother who was rifling
through baby clothes at the yard sale. Snow said she had just lost her office
job but was sorry that the Mexican families were losing everything. "It just
feels very personal now," she said.

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 23, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Give us your tired . . . wait, keep them out!

BYLINE: Roberto Suro;Marcelo Suárez-Orozco

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1511 words


This is what immigration used to be: the Statue of Liberty, your grandparents'
journey across the ocean and the institution that made our country great.

This is how it can seem today: out of control, breaking the law and stealing
American jobs.

Those are not necessarily two sides of a debate. Americans are very capable of
exalting immigration in the past even while fearing it in the future. But we
need to move away from that paradox in order to manage immigration in the
present.

We've been locked in a stalemate over immigration for more than a decade.
Political polarization is certainly at fault. So are the many people - including
anyone who eats vegetables or uses a computer - who benefit economically from
the status quo. But our public disagreements are matched by private conflicts.
When it comes to immigration, we are not only a divided nation - we have a
divided brain.

The national ambivalence is evident. A Gallup survey this year found that a
majority of Americans, 53 percent, said it was "extremely important" for the
government to halt the flow of illegal immigrants at the border. Yet an even
larger majority, 64 percent, said that illegal immigrants already in the country
should be allowed to remain and become U.S. citizens if they meet certain
requirements.

On the stump, this paradox is captured by a formulation favored by President
Obama and many other politicians: "We are a nation of immigrants, and we are a
nation of laws." Even in the marketplace of truisms, that one is not
particularly useful for crafting public policy.

In vowing to fight the Obama administration's court challenges to his state's
"strongest in the nation" immigration law, Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley said
recently, "As a physician, I would never ask a sick person if he or she was
legal or illegal." Nonetheless, he proclaimed his "sworn duty" to uphold a law
that would require schools to check the status of pupils.

One explanation for how we live with such irreconcilable views lies in the
stories we tell about migration. Simply put, we have contradictory narratives of
past and present. Our history does not connect to our future. We love
immigration looking backward, but we are apprehensive looking forward.

The master builder of the historical narrative was Oscar Handlin, a Harvard
scholar, who died in September at the age of 95 . In the first lines of his 1951
classic, "The Uprooted," Handlin declared: "Once I thought to write a history of
the immigrants in America. Then I discovered that the immigrants were American
history." The story he told was of peasants "thrust away" from what had been a
stable existence for generations "and carried cruelly to a distant land, and set
to labor, unrewarding labor." Whether on the prairies or in the cities, the
immigrants of the transatlantic wave - Handlin dates it from 1820 to 1920 -
suffered alienation and isolation. But, in an epic individual struggle repeated
millions of times, the newcomers made homes and communities, and they bred
children who became more American than they had ever imagined possible (or had
ever intended).

This is the story of Francis Ford Coppola's Vito Corleone in "The Godfather," or
of Sam Krichinsky, the grandfather in Barry Levinson's film "Avalon," who lands
in Baltimore magically on the Fourth of July amid fireworks and the red, white
and blue. It is the real-life story of little Annie Moore of County Cork, the
first registered passenger to pass through the immigration station at Ellis
Island, arriving on New Year's Day 1892. She married a baker who worked at New
York's Fulton Fish Market, and they had 11 children in the tenements of Lower
Manhattan. Her story, like all of these stories, was resurrected after the fact.
Moore spent decades forgotten in an unmarked grave, but bronze statues were
erected both at her port of departure in Ireland and at Ellis Island to
commemorate the centennial of her voyage.

The great transatlantic migration became heroic only in retrospect. The
hostility and fear, the segregation and deportations, have been airbrushed away
in the popular imagination to be replaced by domesticated family lore. The story
begins with deracination and ends with the finding of a new home, the building
of a new hearth. Becoming American is a natural, inevitable occurrence.

In our national memory, immigration is a journey from danger to safety.

In the present, immigration is a story of disequilibrium brought about by
strangers. When immigration meets a national loss of confidence, as in this time
of economic crisis, the byproduct can be outright fear.

In the stories of here and now, the journey is reversed; immigration becomes a
passage from safety to danger.

Consider the case of Robert Krentz , who was gunned down in March 2010 while
working his 35,000-acre ranch in an area of Arizona that sees a lot of illegal
traffic from the Mexican border nearby. The crime remains unsolved, but many
assume that an illegal immigrant was responsible. Krentz instantly became a
martyr for proponents of tougher action against illegal immigration. Weeks after
his killing, Arizona enacted a law that would enable immigration dragnets by
state and local police in the name of public safety.

The old narrative of immigration has trained  us to think in terms of the
striving individual who triumphs against the odds. Expecting heroic feats, we
celebrate the successful immigrant entrepreneurs but do nothing about the
doctors, engineers and other highly skilled immigrants who are driving cabs
because their credentials aren't recognized here. Countries such as Canada and
Australia put us to shame by offering programs to help immigrants improve their
English and transfer professional credentials.

Our immigration stories make the newcomers the protagonists of the drama, so the
hosts become passive bystanders. How else could millions of low-skilled Mexicans
"take" jobs away from citizens of the world's richest country? In response, we
want to build a fence to keep them out rather than looking at what we did
economically and demographically to create a market for their labor.

When trouble develops, as it inevitably does, whether it is natives losing jobs
or an undocumented immigrant caught in a DUI, the protagonist, the individual,
takes the blame, and the host society becomes the innocent victim. And so the
contemporary narrative suffers from more than sins of omission. Our policy
debate is focused on the people who come to this country illegally, to the
exclusion of any other considerations.

The standard migration stories have failed to enlighten either the public or the
policymakers. We are left with false choices. We think that unauthorized
migrants either have to be made part of the family - citizens - or we have to
forcibly expel them from our home. The result is the kind of discourse we've
seen in the recent Republican presidential debates, where the candidates have
engaged in a game of one-upmanship to prove who is the toughest on immigration.
The electrified fence proposed, jokingly or not, by Herman Cain is an inevitable
outcome. Undocumented immigrants have never accounted for more than a third of
the foreign-born population, and today that share is less; but in our political
debates, they might as well be the whole of it.

The other extreme is no more helpful. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, for
example, seems to be waiting for an immigrant superman who will fix Wall Street
and Main Street all at once. He told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce  last month
that "immigration reform based on economics rather than anything else" would
create thousands of jobs without costing a penny. Taking steps to increase the
flow of highly skilled immigrants, he said, "would do more to strengthen the
economy than anything that is being discussed in Washington today."

A debate that paints immigrants as either criminals or saviors is destined to
produce paralysis. Regardless of what proposals are implemented - legalization
for current unauthorized migrants or punishment, 10,000 Border Patrol agents or
20,000 - we'll never achieve a situation in which all entries are legal and
orderly and all newcomers are Americanized and upstanding. By dwelling on
perceived threats and promising to return to an idealized past, political
leaders compound the confusion and undermine the chances of anything working.

Making a success of immigration a century ago involved both newcomers and hosts
learning to manage the unfamiliar. It was a slow and sometimes painful process,
and success today requires nothing less.

outlook@washpost.com

Roberto Suro is a professor of public policy and director of the Tomás Rivera
Policy Institute at the University of Southern California. Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
is an anthropologist and co-director of immigration studies at New York
University. They are  co-editors of "Writing Immigration: Scholars and
Journalists in Dialogue."

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 28, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Fanning the flame on immigration

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 804 words


What is it about the immigration issue that brings out the worst in politicians?

Neither Mitt Romney nor Rick Perry has a history of being an immigration
hard-liner. Romney supported George W. Bush's attempt at comprehensive
immigration reform in 2005, which included a (difficult) path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants. When I attended a dinner with Perry during his 2010
campaign for reelection as Texas governor, he was particularly passionate about
the need for Republican outreach to Hispanics.

Yet Romney has attacked Perry for allowing educational benefits in Texas for the
children of undocumented immigrants - calling this policy "a magnet to draw
illegals into the state." Perry has responded that Romney's Massachusetts
health-care reform permitted the medical treatment of undocumented immigrants,
which a Perry campaign spokesman calls an "illegal immigration magnet." In this
exchange, both campaigns have managed - extending the metaphor - to be
repellent.

It is one thing to debate techniques of enforcement along the United States'
southern border. Most of the Republican candidates seem to prefer construction
of a physical wall - a public-works program of questionable utility that would
make the Great Pyramid seem a minor, shovel-ready project in comparison. Herman
Cain wants the barrier electrified. Michele Bachmann proposes two walls, just in
case. Perry, who knows something about the vastness of Texas, seems flummoxed by
the absurdity of the whole idea.

But a wall, at least, is a defensive measure. Building it would be wasteful
instead of vicious. It is another matter to attack the provision of health and
education benefits. This approach to immigration policy imposes penalties on the
sick and injured, or on students who have often violated no law themselves. In
most ethical systems, both groups would merit particular sympathy. At the very
least, neither group deserves to be placed high on the enforcement target list.

Apart from moral considerations, the denial of basic public benefits to
undocumented immigrants and their children raises a number of practical
questions: How does it benefit the United States to purposely limit the
educational and life prospects of a whole category of students? Isn't it more
costly to provide health care in emergency rooms - where universal access is
federally mandated - than to permit treatment in public programs? Isn't public
health broadly undermined by untreated disease, whatever the legal status of
those who suffer from it?

Supporters of harsh restrictions argue that - however unpleasant - these
measures are necessary to end incentives for illegal immigration. But the whole
magnet theory is questionable. There is not much correlation between the level
of illegal immigration to a state and the breadth of its health and education
benefits. Immigrants generally do not come to the United States for the
pleasures of its emergency rooms, or expecting to need future cancer treatment,
but in pursuit of economic opportunity. In recent years, the dynamic Texas
economy has attracted a considerable number of illegal immigrants; the anemic
California economy has attracted fewer. The offer of in-state college tuition
rates for the children of undocumented workers has little to do with it.

Romney, Perry and the others are, unfortunately, reflecting current Republican
sentiments. Legitimate concerns - including overwhelmed public services in some
communities - and high unemployment have combined to heighten resentment against
illegal immigration. But it is the responsibility of political leaders to
address this issue without inflaming it. The cynical accommodation of anger
encourages serious division in a permanently diverse country. It is primarily
the fault of politicians when the immigration debate turns ugly.

Republicans have a direct interest in avoiding ugliness. Hispanic political
influence is not only increasing but concentrated in competitive states - a key
to electoral success in states such as Nevada, Colorado and Arizona. The recent
past offers encouragement to the GOP. In the 2004 election, Bush won more than
40 percent of the Hispanic vote. And President Obama has left a political
opening. Hispanic unemployment exceeds 11 percent, and the administration has
consistently discovered legislative priorities higher than immigration reform.
On issues of Hispanic concern, Obama's lip service has been deafening.

To gain a respectable level of Hispanic support, Republicans don't need to play
a sophisticated game of ethnic politics. They need to offer the realistic hope
of job creation and economic mobility. And one more thing. They need to stop
targeting the sick and aspiring.

Michael Gerson's email address is michaelgerson(at)washpost.com.
michaelgerson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 29, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Border Patrol stops transportation checks on north U.S. line

BYLINE: Gene Johnson

SECTION: A section; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 417 words


SEATTLE - The U.S. Border Patrol has quietly stopped routinely searching buses,
trains and airports for illegal immigrants at transportation hubs along the
northern border and in the nation's interior, preventing agents from using what
had long been an effective tool for tracking down people here illegally.

Current and former Border Patrol agents said field offices across the country
began receiving the order last month.

The routine bus, train and airport checks typically involved agents milling
about and questioning people who appeared suspicious and had long been
criticized by immigrant rights groups. Critics said the tactic amounted to
racial profiling.

But agents said it was an effective way to catch unlawful immigrants, including
smugglers and possible terrorists. Often, those who evade detection head for the
nearest  public transportation to leave the area.

Halting the practice has baffled the agents, especially in some stations along
the northern border where the so-called "transportation checks" have been the
bulk of their everyday duties.

"Orders have been sent out from Border Patrol headquarters in Washington, D.C.,
to Border Patrol sectors nationwide that checks of transportation hubs and
systems located away from the southwest border of the United States will only be
conducted if there is intelligence indicating a threat," said a statement from
the union that represents Border Patrol Agents.

Those who have received the orders said agents may still go to train and bus
stations and airports if they have specific "actionable intelligence" of an
illegal immigrant there who recently entered the country. An agent in Washington
state said it is not clear how agents are supposed to glean such intelligence,
and even if they did, under the new directive they still require clearance from
Washington headquarters before they can respond.

"Border Patrol managers are increasing the layers of bureaucracy and making it
as difficult as possible for Border Patrol agents to conduct their core duties,"
the National Border Patrol Council's statement said.

Since receiving the directive, some agents who had been busy seven days a week
have little or no work to do, the agents said.

Doug Honig, spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union of Washington,
welcomed the news. "If the Border Patrol is indeed not boarding buses and trains
and engaging in the random questioning of people, that's a step in the right
direction," he said.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 30, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Blurred distinctions on immigration

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 173 words


Roberto Suro and Marcelo Suarez-Orozco ["Give us your tired ... wait, keep them
out!," Outlook, Oct. 23] mixed issues of legal and illegal immigration
throughout their essay, a widespread practice that allows advocates to accuse
anyone proposing to control illegal immigration of being "anti-immigration."
Americans have irreconcilable views and ambivalence on immigration, they stated.

Not so fast. Americans cherish the triumphs of legal immigrants and welcome new
ones. At the same time, Americans are rightly concerned about the consequences
of recent massive illegal immigration. There is nothing contradictory in that.

The piece concluded with the observations that illegal immigration can never be
controlled and that our political leaders promise an "idealized past" and "dwell
on perceived threats," which compound the confusion. The solution offered is
"learning to manage the unfamiliar," whatever that means. The writers have
compounded a little confusion of their own on a complex and difficult topic.

Christopher Walsh, Arlington

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 25, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Mr. Gingrich's immigration crucible

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 517 words


WHAT A DIFFERENCE 11 weeks make. In September, the first time the Republican
presidential pack got into a scrape over immigration, no one paid much attention
when Newt Gingrich urged a "much more humane" alternative to dealing with
illegal immigrants than mass deportation. And no wonder: At the time, he was
stuck at about 5 percent in the polls. Now that Mr. Gingrich is leading - for
the time being - he is under fierce attack within the GOP for reprising the same
common-sense message.

In the candidates' debate on foreign policy Tuesday night, Mr. Gingrich, former
House speaker, repeated what he has said frequently: that undocumented
immigrants who have spent years in the United States, paid taxes and formed ties
should be granted some sort of legal status. Mr. Gingrich insisted his policy
would not amount to amnesty - a word that unhinges Republicans - since it would
not apply to recent arrivals and would stop short of granting citizenship.

His proposal is based on the unremarkable observation that it is lunacy to
imagine that 11 million people can be thrown out of the country or will simply
be blown across the border by gales of  truculence. But what should be a social
and economic truism is anathema in the GOP, whose hostility to the presence of
low-wage, Spanish-speaking workers in jobs Americans don't want has alienated
millions of Hispanic voters.

In an earlier debate, Texas Gov. Rick Perry brought the party's wrath upon his
head for rightly suggesting that it is heartless to deny opportunities to
undocumented youngsters who grew up and were educated in this country. Mr.
Gingrich, to his credit, said very much the same thing, formulating his argument
in what he clearly hopes are less incendiary terms.

"I don't see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to
adopt an immigration policy which destroys families that have been here a
quarter of a century," he said.

Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
attacked Mr. Gingrich for advocating amnesty, which they said would attract more
illegal immigrants, and Mr. Perry chimed in by saying the priority should be to
secure the border.

In fact, amnesty isn't the magnet; jobs are. Some 8 million undocumented workers
- about 5 percent of the U.S. labor force - are here largely because American
workers do not want low-wage, dirty and backbreaking jobs, particularly in
heavily agricultural states such as California and Texas. And despite Mr.
Perry's suggestion that the Southwest border is dangerous and out of control,
the fact is that it is less porous - as measured by plummeting numbers of
apprehensions - than it has been in 40 years, and crime in border cities has
nose-dived.

Republicans love talking about the border - no matter how quiet it gets - as a
way of avoiding the question that flummoxes them: what to do with the millions
of illegal immigrants who have already crossed. Mr. Perry was punished for
suggesting they should be treated like human beings. Now the question of illegal
immigration may be Mr. Gingrich's crucible, too.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 28, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

Unlikely foes of Md. Dream Act

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1097 words


The 62-year-old Wheaton barber had earned a law degree in his native Thailand
and waited eight years for a visa so he could move to the United States and
begin a new life.

When he heard this year about the Maryland Dream Act, which would grant in-state
college tuition discounts to illegal immigrants, he was outraged.

"I did the full legal process," Anuchit Washirapunya, who is deaf and cannot
speak English, wrote on a notepad as he hunched in his barber's chair. "The
illegal students have no right to work or stay here."

Until recently, Maryland's legal and political battle over in-state tuition has
been seen as pitting young illegal immigrants against native residents. But in
the past few months, a petition drive by opponents of the measure has attracted
a small but growing number of legal immigrants, who say that they, too, are
being cheated.

The issue of what to do about the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the
United States has roiled Republican presidential debates. In recent years, it
has spawned national movements that advocate a range of solutions, including
forcing all illegal immigrants to return home and granting them all legal
amnesty.

The Dream Act, which was passed by both houses of the Maryland legislature in
April, was about to become law when an advocacy group called Help Save Maryland,
working with Republican lawmakers, launched an online campaign to try to prevent
it from being enacted. The drive garnered more than 100,000 electronic
signatures, resulting in the suspension of the law until a statewide public
referendum can be held next year.

One Marylander who clicked on the petition was Shakil Hamid, 44, an accountant
in Gaithersburg who emigrated legally from Bangladesh in 1977. He is an
enthusiastic member of Help Save Maryland, which opposes allowing illegal
immigrants to work, drive or receive a variety of public benefits.

"These people are taking seats in college away from our kids," Hamid said. "Why
should we reward their dishonest behavior?"

The issue upset him when he was a student at the University of Maryland in the
1980s, he said: "I have been looking for 25 years for someone to be on my side."

Such views are a minority among Maryland's immigrant population, which is
predominantly Hispanic and of Central American origin. Many such families
include both legal and illegal immigrants, depending on when and how they
arrived and whether they found a way to apply for residency. Often, illegal
immigrants arrived as children and grew up in the state. Their communities tend
to judge them on grounds other than legal status and wish them success.

Jesus Alberto Martinez, 55, is an ophthalmologist and U.S. Navy veteran in
Rockville who came from Colombia as a teenager, overstayed his tourist visa and
eventually became a U.S. citizen. He is an impassioned supporter of the Maryland
Dream Act and a plaintiff in a lawsuit, filed by immigrant advocacy groups
including Casa de Maryland, challenging the petition drive that halted the law's
enactment about four months ago.

"We need every immigrant kid in Maryland to be educated. If they go to college,
they earn more, pay more taxes and become better citizens," Martinez said. "If
promising high school students are denied the chance to continue, it is like
cutting off their wings. If we punish kids to pay for the sins of their parents,
we are only mortgaging our future as a competitive society."

The stalled measure would make illegal immigrants eligible for the lowest
possible tuition fees at all community colleges and universities in Maryland,
provided that they have graduated recently from high schools in the state and
that their families have paid taxes for three years. Supporters say that
foreign-born students with no hope beyond high school may drift into dead-end
jobs, crime or addiction.

Ricardo Alfaro, 22, an immigrant from El Salvador, recently graduated from
Montgomery College. His father, once a hospital administrator back home, works
in a meat-packing plant. Alfaro, who received treatment for bone cancer after
reaching the United States as a child, hopes to study medicine at the University
of Maryland but says that his family cannot afford to pay full tuition and that
his application for permanent residency is pending.

"I owe a lot to this country, which saved my life, and I want to become a doctor
so I can give something back," said Alfaro, who is also an activist in immigrant
student groups. "I am applying for scholarships, but I don't know what will
happen. I am not asking for a privilege that I didn't earn," he said. "I am
asking for a chance to give something back to this country."

Montgomery College, which has about 37,000 students from 170 countries, is at
the epicenter of the tuition battle. Unlike other two-year county colleges, it
offers all Montgomery County high school graduates the minimum tuition rate of
about $1,200 per semester, regardless of legal status. Out-of-state and visiting
foreign students pay up to $4,000. At the four-year state universities, tuition
is much higher, and the difference between in-state and out-of-state rates is
even greater.

Critics say that policies like Montgomery's drain state coffers and displace
legal students from other states who could pay more, but officials at the
college estimate that fewer than 1,000 of their students are in the United
States illegally, and they are more concerned about reducing the rate of
pre-graduation dropouts.

Legal immigrants and visiting foreign students at Montgomery, many of whom come
from Asia and Africa, expressed a combination of sympathy and resentment toward
illegal immigrants in their midst. Some said their determination should be
rewarded; others said they should have to pay the same as those who come from
other states and nations.

"Everyone wants to get an education, but you can't just come to this country
illegally and think everything is free. You have to be patient and legalize
yourself," said Josephine Beyam, 33, a nursing student. She arrived from the
Philippines in 2008 as a full-fledged resident after waiting at home for four
years, apart from her American husband, as the law required. Since enrolling,
she said, she has been paying off her student loans every month.

"We have been through thick and thin," Beyam said of her reunited family. "This
country is a blessing, and the government is very generous. If you are not born
here, you have to start from the beginning, but I accept that, because you can
still pursue your dreams."

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 1, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

The GOP's immigration rhetoric

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 595 words


NEARLY ALL THE Republican presidential hopefuls are now on record as wanting to
build a 2,000-mile-long fence on the U.S. border with Mexico - a wildly
expensive, staggeringly wasteful project that would do little to deter illegal
immigration. The candidates have coalesced around this chimera even though
illegal crossings, as measured by apprehensions by U.S. Border Patrol along the
Southwestern frontier, are at their lowest level in 40 years.

Consider the profligacy. About a third of the Mexican border has been fenced,
and the price tag for finishing the remaining 1,400 miles or so is variously
estimated at $22 billion (the New York Times); $30 billion (Texas Gov. Rick
Perry); or much more, according to government projections based on maintenance
and repairs over the fence's 25-year life expectancy. In general, those
estimates exclude the cost of land acquisition, as well as the potentially
severe environmental damage that fencing would inflict in some areas.

Now consider effectiveness. Last year, U.S. officials reported more than 4,000
breaches of the existing 650 miles of fencing. A video posted on YouTube
illustrates the vulnerability, showing two young women scaling the fence in less
than 18 seconds. And the Border Patrol considers hundreds of miles of frontier
to be virtually impassable as it is, owing to remote, difficult terrain and deep
river canyons.

Mr. Perry, a border-state governor, grasps the futility of trying to barricade
every mile. Lately, though, he has played to immigration hard-liners by saying
he'd "shut down" the border within 12 months of taking office, whatever that
means. He's also distinguished himself as a flip-flop artist, telling a New
Hampshire crowd Tuesday that he would deport every illegal immigrant detained in
the country. Never mind that he said in September that it was heartless to deny
opportunity to illegal immigrants who grow up in the United States.

Perhaps Mr. Perry was trying not to be outdone by Rep. Michele Bachmann
(R-Minn.), who says she'd deport all 11 million illegal immigrants, in stages.
Presumably, that includes the 8 million who make up more than 5 percent of the
U.S. work force, meaning Ms. Bachmann would likely cripple the nation's
hospitality industry and trigger a food crisis by robbing farms and processing
plants of workers.

Even Newt Gingrich, who has rejected mass deportations in favor of a "humane"
approach to illegal immigrants, has shifted into get-tough mode. Although he
still says he'd let longtime undocumented immigrants remain in the country, he
wooed a conservative crowd in South Carolina by embracing the state's law that
authorizes officials to check the immigration status of anyone suspected of
lacking proper documentation, saying he'd complete the border fence within a
year of taking office, and pledging to cut funding to cities that don't enforce
federal immigration laws.

In the meantime, back on Planet Earth, the reality is that illegal border
crossings have plummeted. This is a result of a beefed-up presence of U.S.
forces on the Mexican border; the recession's impact on U.S. labor markets; and
better educational opportunities and plunging birth rates in Mexico.
Undocumented immigrants continue to live in the shadows, doing hard, dirty and
dangerous work that most Americans won't do, all the while paying taxes and
contributing to the economy. The plain fact is that the United States and
undocumented residents are mutually dependent, and no amount of Republican
campaign rhetoric is going to change that.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Getting toughon Gitmo

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 588 words


SINCE EARLY IN his administration, President Obama has been bedeviled by
lawmakers intent on frustrating his pledge to close the Guantanamo Bay detention
center and determined to tie his hands when dealing with detainees. Congress
decreed that no Defense Department funds could be used to transfer terrorism
suspects into the United States - even those who had been ordered released by
federal judges or destined for federal court prosecutions. No Defense funds
could be used to build or buy a prison on U.S. soil to house detainees.
Intimidated by fearmongering, even Democrats embraced these obnoxious
provisions. The president essentially stood by, grousing quietly.

Congress is again moving to renew - and in some cases, ratchet up - many of
these restrictions. This time - in the wake of the successful military operation
that killed Osama bin Laden - the president seems willing to fight. It's about
time.

The House last week passed a defense authorization bill that contained
provisions that essentially bar the president from prosecuting Guantanamo
prisoners in federal court and limit his flexibility in transferring detainees
to third countries. A last-minute amendment requires all foreign nationals
accused of acts of terrorism - apparently even those captured in the future on
U.S. soil - to be tried only in military commissions.

The president responded with what appears to be his first veto threat in
connection with detainee restrictions. He is right to reject what the
administration called the "dangerous and unprecedented challenge to critical
executive branch authority." He also is justified in fighting against the
attempt to strip federal courts from his anti-terrorism arsenal. "Presidents of
both political parties - including Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush,
Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush - have leveraged the flexibility and strength
of our Federal courts to incapacitate dangerous terrorists and gather critical
intelligence," a White House statement said.

Mr. Obama should extend his intervention in the legislation to two other
provisions. House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard "Buck" McKeon
(R-Calif.) has introduced a much-needed update of the original Authorization for
the Use of Military Force(AUMF). The new AUMF largely tracks the Obama
administration's own definition of terrorism suspects as those who "are part of
or substantially support" al-Qaeda, the Taliban and associated forces; it
authorizes the president "to use all necessary and appropriate force during the
current armed conflict" against these enemies. Yet the White House argues that
the new AUMF "would effectively recharacterize [the conflict's] scope and would
risk creating confusion regarding applicable standards." If Mr. Obama is worried
that the new AUMF is unwieldy, he should negotiate for specific parameters, such
as a clause that would require congressional action to renew the authorization.

Mr. Obama should also engage in discussions over Mr. McKeon's proposal to
establish a permanent legal structure to govern the review process for detainees
who are held without trial. Mr. Obama issued an executive order this year that
establishes such a protocol - an approach that is preferable to Mr. McKeon's in
that it includes more robust protections for current detainees, including the
right to legal representation. But it makes no provision - as Mr. McKeon's
proposal does - for the possibility of future captures. And it lacks the
heightened legitimacy that comes from congressional endorsement.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 31, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Getting toughon Gitmo

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 596 words


SINCE EARLY IN his administration, President Obama has been bedeviled by
lawmakers intent on frustrating his pledge to close the Guantanamo Bay detention
center and determined to tie his hands when dealing with detainees. Congress
decreed that no Defense Department funds could be used to transfer terrorism
suspects into the United States - even those who had been ordered released by
federal judges or destined for federal court prosecutions. No Defense funds
could be used to build or buy a prison on U.S. soil to house detainees.
Intimidated by fearmongering, even Democrats embraced these obnoxious
provisions. The president essentially stood by, grousing quietly.

Congress is again moving to renew - and in some cases, ratchet up - many of
these restrictions. This time - in the wake of the successful military operation
that killed Osama bin Laden - the president seems willing to fight. It's about
time.          The House last week passed a defense authorization bill that
contained provisions that essentially bar the president from prosecuting
Guantanamo prisoners in federal court and limit his flexibility in transferring
detainees to third countries. A last-minute amendment requires all foreign
nationals accused of acts of terrorism - apparently even those captured in the
future on U.S. soil - to be tried only in military commissions.          The
president responded with what appears to be his first veto threat in connection
with detainee restrictions. He is right to reject what the administration called
the "dangerous and unprecedented challenge to critical executive branch
authority." He also is justified in fighting against the attempt to strip
federal courts from his anti-terrorism arsenal. "Presidents of both political
parties - including Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton,
and George W. Bush - have leveraged the flexibility and strength of our Federal
courts to incapacitate dangerous terrorists and gather critical intelligence," a
White House statement said.           Mr. Obama should extend his intervention
in the legislation to two other provisions. House Armed Services Committee
Chairman Howard "Buck" McKeon (R-Calif.) has introduced a much-needed update of
the original Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). The new AUMF
largely tracks the Obama administration's own definition of terrorism suspects
as those who "are part of or substantially support" al-Qaeda, the Taliban and
associated forces; it authorizes the president "to use all necessary and
appropriate force during the current armed conflict" against these enemies. Yet
the White House argues that the new AUMF "would effectively recharacterize [the
conflict's] scope and would risk creating confusion regarding applicable
standards." If Mr. Obama is worried that the new AUMF is unwieldy, he should
negotiate for specific parameters, such as a clause that would require
congressional action to renew the authorization.            Mr. Obama should
also engage in discussions over Mr. McKeon's proposal to establish a permanent
legal structure to govern the review process for detainees who are held without
trial. Mr. Obama issued an executive order this year that establishes such a
protocol - an approach that is preferable to Mr. McKeon's in that it includes
more robust protections for current detainees, including the right to legal
representation. But it makes no provision - as Mr. McKeon's proposal does - for
the possibility of future captures. And it lacks the heightened legitimacy that
comes from congressional endorsement.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 25, 2011 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Stuck in the mi ddle

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr.

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 2076 words


What is a campaign platform that most Americans would support but will never get
a chance to vote for?

Don't call it "marriage," but give gay couples the same rights and
responsibilities as heterosexual ones. Reduce the federal budget deficit with
spending cuts, modest changes to Medicare and Social Security, and tax
increases, particularly for the wealthy. Reform immigration laws so they don't
punish the children of illegal immigrants for their parents' misdeeds, but also
increase border security and make it harder for employers to hire illegal
workers.

An agenda like this would never get anywhere because politically moderate ideas,
though generally popular among voters, rarely get traction in Washington. This
past week, President Obamadumped his down-the-middle deficit-reduction planfrom
this summer for one beloved by Democrats and reviled by Republicans. Centrist
candidates, such as former Utah governor and current GOP presidential contender
Jon Huntsman Jr., struggle to get above 1 percent in the polls. A Pew Research
Center survey in the midst of the debt-ceiling debatefound that a whopping 68
percent of Americans wanted lawmakers to compromise, yet the parties fought
until the very end.

In our current system, partisans on the left and the right have great sway over
the candidates on the ballots, as well as their positions. Moderates complain
that they are usually forced to choose between a conservative ideologue and a
liberal ideologue, both of whom won their primaries by making a bunch of
promises that mean they can't support bipartisan legislation.

Centrists tend to think that the path to bipartisan politics lies in civility,
grass-roots organizing and candidates who magically emerge from the political
center. But in today's politics, that may not be enough.

Moderates may not like the tactics of the left and the right, but if they want
to have an impact on our major political debates, they need to learn from the
extremes and borrow their methods. Here's how:

Make candidates sign a pledge

Grover Norquist, the head of the conservative Americans for Tax Reform, has for
two decades not just asked candidates to oppose new taxes, he has demanded that
they sign an anti-tax pledge. In nearly every Republican congressional primary,
one of the candidates signs the pledge, leading his opponents to the same. One
bizarre result: The Democratic president of the United States pleading with
Republicans to back the renewal of a payroll tax cut by acknowledging the power
of the Norquist pledge.

"I know that some of you have sworn oaths to never raise any taxes on anyone for
as long as you live," Obama saidin a speech this month to a joint session of
Congress. "Now is not the time to carve out an exception and raise middle-class
taxes, which is why you should pass this bill right away."

But there is no Norquist of the staunchly moderate, in part because no one has
figured out how to be "staunchly moderate."

One group, calledNo Labels,is trying to build a grass-roots movement to force
the parties to the middle. This organization has support from Howard Schultz,
the chief executive of Starbucks, who says he's so frustrated with partisanship
that he won't donate to either party and is encouraging Americans to no longer
support the two-party system. Another group,Americans Elect, wants to put
together a nonpartisan ticket.

No Labels touts the importance of compromise in Washington. But the group's
agenda includes statements such as "America should be free from discrimination
and should embrace the principle of equal opportunity" - which sounds good, but
is difficult to translate into action. Americans Elect wants to have citizens
pick the most important issues for candidates to focus on in the 2012 election.
But will this survey find anything new? It will probably show - like nearly
every recent poll - that jobs and the economy are the biggest concerns for most
voters.

"No Labels is organized to deal with the 'politics of problem solving.' In
today's world it's the politics that get in the way of our solving our pressing
issues. We need to create the space so that our leaders can work across the
aisle with one another," said Nancy Jacobson, a longtime Democratic fundraiser
who is one of the founders of No Labels. In an e-mail message, she added: "We
are not a centrist, liberal or conservative group. We have no ideology. We
instead are an attitude and approach to politics."

Centrists complain about partisanship and rancor; more than anything, they want
politics to be conducted civilly. But moderation and civility, while perhaps
virtues, are not organizing principles for politics.

There are plenty of bipartisan policy ideas out there: the Simpson-Bowles
deficit-reduction plan, the creation of a national infrastructure bank,
health-care proposals to fight obesity, redistricting to ensure that
congressional districts are not heavily packed with members of one party or the
other.

To be effective, centrists need to be as rigidly devoted to these
middle-of-the-road ideas as Norquist is to his anti-tax pledge. In fact, they
need their own candidate pledge.

"My pledge is to never vote for anyone stupid enough to sign a pledge - thereby
abdicating their governing responsibilities in a period of incredibly rapid
change and financial stress," wrote New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman in
a July column titled "Make Way for the Radical Center."

But pledges require candidates to be specific and transparent about their views
on key issues. That's why, for example, some conservative Republicans demand to
know if a candidate will oppose tax increases, and some Democrats want to know
if a candidate will support abortion rights.

By choosing to sign a "pledge of moderation," candidates for Congress and the
White House would affirm their support for a centrist agenda, or at least parts
of it. Much like with Norquist's pledge, a candidate's refusal to endorse
bipartisan ideas could send a signal to voters.

Raise real money

For congressional candidates, there's an obvious barrier to signing a centrist
pledge: the primary election. Conservative Republicans would probably work to
defeat any candidate who said he would back a tax increase. A candidate who
wanted to increase teacher pay would get more backing from teachers unions than
one passionate about expanding charter schools.

That's why centrists need to borrow another lesson from the left and right and
create strong, well-funded political groups to support their candidates.

Most members of Congress, particularly in the House, vote primarily along
partisan lines. In part, this is because if you're trying to fund a campaign or
get volunteers for one, being hyper-partisan works. Groups that are very
conservative or very liberal give heavily to politicians who support their
causes.

"Some of these candidates can only lose in the primaries, so it puts them in a
tough position" in dealing with bipartisan legislation, said Trey Grayson, who
lost in a Senate primary to Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and is now head of Harvard's
Institute of Politics.

Meanwhile, the more centrist part of the electorate often limits its political
participation to voting every two years.

At a recent No Labels event, Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget and a supporter of some centrist groups, urged
moderate voters to call members of Congress who back centrist legislation and
thank them. "They will hear you loud and clear if you say thank you," she said.

Yes, that would help. But a powerful centrist movement needs to provide
something more politically useful than a nice phone call. It needs money. To
compete, centrists should create formal political organizations with enough
money to hire organizers and strategists, run television commercials, and give
real support to help centrist candidates get elected and stay in office.

Americans Elect has opted against getting involved in congressional races or the
2012 presidential primary process. It is instead focused on launching an
independent candidate for president, hoping that such a bid could put key issues
on the agenda. There are some challenges to this approach, even beyond the long
odds of getting someone outside of the two parties elected. If your goal is to
combat partisanship and promote moderate ideas, the White House may not be the
ideal focus. The most partisan person in Washington is rarely the president.
General elections - in which the candidates must court voters in the center -
make sure of that.

"As the two major parties become more divided, it tends to make it more
difficult for a third party, because people are very afraid to waste their
vote," said Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University who has
studied the growing gap between the parties. "You feel like if you vote for a
third party or independent, you are helping your least-preferred candidate win."

Schultz's idea not to donate directly to candidates may be even more
counterproductive. Money isn't going to disappear from politics, so having
voters in the center stop contributing to their preferred politicians would
realistically make it harder for moderate candidates to compete.

"In effect, he's punishing the good guys and the bad guys," Norman Ornstein, a
congressional scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, said of Schultz.
"What I would like to see is someone say, 'I'm looking for real solutions, not
cheap shots,' and trying to find bipartisanship leaders and give them money, and
actively discourage giving money to people who say outrageous things and
demagogue."

Find your own Rush Limbaugh

Political discourse is shaped increasingly by figures who don't hold elected
office. In this area, the centrist movement has made more progress: Americans
Elect and No Labels do have major financial backing, even if they're not using
it to support specific candidates yet. Friedman and Schultz are powerful voices,
and think tanks such as the New America Foundation and Third Way churn out ideas
that centrists can adopt.

But conservatives have figures such as Rush Limbaugh calling them to arms to
oppose Democratic ideas. Liberals have labor unions organizing Democrats in
states such as Wisconsin to protest the actions of Republican governors. The
centrist movement, on the other hand, is not organized enough to really affect
legislative debates.

To compete with the political extremes, the center needs a group of leaders
ready to fight for moderation. It also could benefit from some kind of permanent
policy arm to evaluate legislation and determine if bills in Congress are
centrist and deserve support.

The message from the centrist leaders probably couldn't just be "Washington is
broken," as many moderates repeatedly cried during the debt-ceiling debate. If
Obama is trying to compromise and Republican leaders aren't, or vice versa, the
centrists need to be candid about that.

Moderate groups, particularly Americans Elect, seem to think that the time for
the center to emerge is during the campaign next year. But the current debate
over jobs and spending seems to offer a more immediate opportunity.

They've already missed a recent chance. Over the summer, Obama and House Speaker
John Boehner (R-Ohio) were negotiating a major deficit-reduction deal, the kind
of bipartisan agreement that centrists were calling for. But the talks
collapsedas both men faced intense criticism from their political bases; the
episode showed the weakness of the political center. Obama is now offering a
much more traditionally liberal deficit-reduction deal, full of tax increases
that Republicans oppose. Moderates have criticized him, but he appears to have
little choice after the failure of the broader deal with Boehner. And liberals,
unlike moderate groups, have a real infrastructure they can use to help Obama in
2012.

On jobs, high-profile moderates could demand that both the White House and
Congress consider middle-of-the-road ideas for getting people back to work. In
the last major debate, they were mostly drowned out by people with very strong
affiliations on the right or the left who wore their partisan labels - and the
pledges they had signed - proudly.

"Centrist" could be a powerful label, too. But to change politics, the political
center needs to define what that moniker truly means.

baconp@washpost.com

Perry Bacon Jr. covers politics for The Washington Post.

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 26, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The tightening border

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 482 words


HERE'S SOME NEWS: When the current fiscal year ends this week, illegal border
crossings from Mexico, as measured by apprehensions carried out by a massively
beefed-up Border Patrol, will fall to their lowest level since 1972. You read
that right. The southwestern border - the very same frontier portrayed by
Republicans as so wildly out of controlthat it rules out any serious discussion
of immigration reform - is in fact more tightly controlled than at any time
since President Richard M. Nixon's first term. Now here's a suggestion: Wouldn't
it be novel if Republicans, who are at least partly responsible for this
dramatic success, acknowledged it? And wouldn't it also be honest?

Although final numbers won't be available for a few more days, it appears that
captures of illegal border crossers will be in the range of 325,000 for fiscal
2011. That is down 50 percent since 2008; 70 percent since 2006; and 80 percent
since 2000, when 1.6 million undocumented immigrants were picked up after
crossing the border. Also, new technology means fewer people can sneak over the
border undetected.

It was a Republican president, George W. Bush, who began the buildup, doubling
the number of Border Patrol officers at the border since 2002.

That force - now 18,000-strong - has played a role in deterring illegal
crossings, as have the anemic U.S. economy; improvements in the Mexican economy
and schools; and more liberal issuance of visas by the U.S. consulate in Mexico
City. The Obama administration has kept up the pressure by continuing the Bush
buildup and, until recently, getting tough with deportations.

Yet GOP presidential candidates and members of Congress continue to paint the
border as chaotic and crime-ridden. As far as we can tell, none of them has
publicly recognized the impressive gains at the border. Instead, most call for
impractical, far-reaching - and hugely expensive - security measures. They
justify those steps (when they bother with justification) with random anecdotes,
sweeping (and often unprovable) assertions and obsolete data.

It's worth asking Republicans a few questions. Is it really worth spending
billions of dollars to build a fence across the entire  2,000-mile Mexican
border, as several GOP candidates have said? Would they really revive the
project to construct a so-called virtual electronic fence, which was abandoned
last year after $575 million was spent to erect camera and radio towers covering
just 58 miles of the border in Arizona, amid criticism that the system never
worked?

Surely, there is a point of diminishing returns to such spending, particularly
with illegal crossings plummeting. It's time for the GOP to declare victory,
claim credit and move to the next stage - fixing the system and providing a path
to legal status for 11 million undocumented immigrants who, like it or not, have
become an integral part of the nation's fabric.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Border arrests fall sharply, U.S. says

BYLINE: Nick Miroff;William Booth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1227 words

DATELINE: MEXICALI, MEXICO


MEXICALI, Mexico - Arrests of illegal migrants trying to cross the southern U.S.
border have plummeted to levels not seen since the early 1970s, according to
tallies released by the Department of Homeland Security last week, a historic
shift that could reshape the debate over immigration reform.

The Border Patrol apprehended 327,577 illegal crossers along the U.S.-Mexico
border in fiscal year 2011, which ended Sept. 30, numbers not seen since Richard
Nixon was president, and a precipitous drop from the peak in 2000, when 1.6
million unauthorized migrants were caught. More than 90 percent of the migrants
apprehended on the southwest border are Mexican.

The number of illegal migrants arrested at the border has been dropping over the
past few years but appears to be down by more than 25 percent this year.

Experts say that Border Patrol apprehensions are a useful marker for estimating
the total flow of illegal migrants, though imprecise because the U.S. government
has no idea how many are not caught. But coupled with census and labor data from
both countries that show far fewer Mexicans coming to the United States and many
returning home, it appears that the historic flood of Mexican migration north
has slowed dramatically.

"We have reached the point where the balance between Mexicans moving to the
United States and those returning to Mexico is essentially zero," said Jeffrey
Passel, a senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, whose conclusion was
shared by many migration experts.

Such a steep drop in illegal crossings gives supporters of immigration reform
ammunition to argue that now is a good time to tackle the issue.

GOP presidential contenders Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney have been sparring
over the estimated 11 million people living illegally in the United States.
Gingrich says it would be heartless to kick out migrants who have worked and
raised families here for years, while Romney blasted Gingrich for supporting
"amnesty" for illegal residents but has not given a clear answer on what he
would do.

In Congress, comprehensive immigration reform has been sidelined, stuck between
those who would not allow illegal migrants to remain and others who are pushing,
like President Obama, to create a "pathway" to legal status, but not necessarily
citizenship.

The lower number of apprehensions supports the Obama administration's contention
that the border is more secure than ever - that the doubling of Border Patrol
agents since 2004, along with hundreds of miles of new fence, cameras, lights,
sensors and Predator drones, has helped slow theillegal flow northward.

But those who say the border remains out of control can point to the fact that
hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants still try to make the crossing every
year.

Fewer in search of shelter

At the Casa Betania migrant shelter in a rough section here in the sprawling
border city of Mexicali, manager Jorge Verdugo has seen a steep decline in the
number of ragged men who arrive each afternoon looking for a meal, a shower and
a safe place to sleep.

Five years ago, the shelter's 42 beds were always full. But on a recent
afternoon, the place was mostly empty. At the other migrant shelter across town
- for women and children - there was only one guest.

"The change has been drastic," Verdugo said.

Data from Mexican surveys show that the amount of money sent home from the
United States is falling, from a peak of $24 billion in 2007 to $21 billion last
year, according to Mexico's Central Bank.

For the first time, according to U.S. census data, the growth of the Hispanic
population in the United States is being fueled more by births than by
immigration. Hispanics remain by far the fastest-growing group in the nation.

Reasons for the downturn in migration are both obvious and complex.

Surging violence in Mexico has made the journey more perilous, and smugglers
have increased their fees, now charging $3,000 for a quick hop from Mexicali.

Increased enforcement and tough new laws against illegal immigrants in Arizona
and Alabama are daunting, and some Mexicans are seeing better conditions at
home.

But immigration experts say the No. 1 cause of the steep drop is the U.S.
economy, which dipped into a recession in 2008 and continues to see sluggish
growth.

"The arrests on the border are moving like the U.S. economic cycle," said Juan
Luis Ordaz, senior economist for the Bancomer Foundation. Ordaz and colleagues
say Mexican and U.S. data suggest that the number of Mexican migrants arriving
each year in the United States has been cut in half since 2005 - and that
poverty rates for Mexican migrants living in the United States have grown to 30
percent from 22 percent in 2007.Especially hard hit in the economic downturn -
and the busting of the real estate bubble - were the home-building and
construction industries, which employ an outsize number of illegal workers.
"Migration has decreased because employment opportunities in the United States
are not good. Fewer migrants have full-time jobs. Hours are reduced. Wages are
lower. The amount of money they send home is less," said German Vega of the
College of the North in Tijuana. "And another reason is organized crime." Vega
referred to the sensational news in Mexico of mass graves filled with the bodies
of migrants and wave of kidnappings and extortion of those trying to cross
north.

An even more difficult trip

Many Mexicans say it has become much more difficult to cross illegally into the
United States. A group of men gathered on the sidewalk outside the shelter in
Mexicali explained their plan. They had a stack of Google Maps  printouts
showing the local topography, as well as the latest weather report. It called
for mist and low fog in the Imperial Valley, which the men said would help
shield them from Border Patrol night-vision cameras. They would also wear black
clothing and pieces of sponge or carpeting on their feet to avoid leaving prints
in the sand.

"Some of these men try three, four or five times to get across, and then they
give up," Verdugo said. "It's much harder now because of all the surveillance."

According to Verdugo, most of the Mexican men who come through the shelter now
are deportees, not fresh arrivals from the south. With jobs, children and homes
in the United States, they talk about getting back in with single-minded
determination.

Mexican officials, meanwhile, have seized on the lower numbers as evidence that
life is better in Mexico and that fewer citizens are seeking a life north of the
border.

Foreign investment in Mexico is relatively strong, and the country has one of
the healthiest economies in Latin America. Inflation is under control. The
exchange rate is stable. University and technical college enrollments are up.
Families are having fewer children.

At least one man at the Mexicali shelter, Juan Carlos Vela, 28, said he had
decided Mexicali was far enough for him.

He had found a job making $75 a week in a brick factory, twice as much as the
going wage for similar work down south in his home state of Durango, where he
said there have been so many drug cartel gun battles lately "I can't let my
daughters outside."

"Mexicali seems pretty quiet; I like it here," Vela said. "Might as well forget
about the American dream and get on with my life."

miroffn@washpost.com

boothb@washpost.com

Researcher Gabriela Martinez contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 25, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Stuck in the mi ddle

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr.

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 2104 words


What is a campaign platform that most Americans would support but will never get
a chance to vote for?

Don't call it "marriage," but give gay couples the same rights and
responsibilities as heterosexual ones. Reduce the federal budget deficit with
spending cuts, modest changes to Medicare and Social Security, and tax
increases, particularly for the wealthy. Reform immigration laws so they don't
punish the children of illegal immigrants for their parents' misdeeds, but also
increase border security and make it harder for employers to hire illegal
workers.

An agenda like this would never get anywhere because politically moderate ideas,
though generally popular among voters, rarely get traction in Washington. This
past week, President Obama  dumped his down-the-middle deficit-reduction plan
from this summer for one beloved by Democrats and reviled by Republicans.
Centrist candidates, such as former Utah governor and current GOP presidential
contender Jon Huntsman Jr., struggle to get above 1 percent in the polls. A Pew
Research Center survey in the midst of the debt-ceiling debate found that a
whopping 68 percent of Americans wanted lawmakers to compromise, yet the parties
fought until the very end.

In our current system, partisans on the left and the right have great sway over
the candidates on the ballots, as well as their positions. Moderates complain
that they are usually forced to choose between a conservative ideologue and a
liberal ideologue, both of whom won their primaries by making a bunch of
promises that mean they can't support bipartisan legislation.

Centrists tend to think that the path to bipartisan politics lies in civility,
grass-roots organizing and candidates who magically emerge from the political
center. But in today's politics, that may not be enough.

Moderates may not like the tactics of the left and the right, but if they want
to have an impact on our major political debates, they need to learn from the
extremes and borrow their methods. Here's how:

Make candidates sign a pledge

Grover Norquist, the head of the conservative Americans for Tax Reform, has for
two decades not just asked candidates to oppose new taxes, he has demanded that
they sign an anti-tax pledge. In nearly every Republican congressional primary,
one of the candidates signs the pledge, leading his opponents to the same. One
bizarre result: The Democratic president of the United States pleading with
Republicans to back the renewal of a payroll tax cut by acknowledging the power
of the Norquist pledge.

"I know that some of you have sworn oaths to never raise any taxes on anyone for
as long as you live," Obama said in a speech this month to a joint session of
Congress. "Now is not the time to carve out an exception and raise middle-class
taxes, which is why you should pass this bill right away."

But there is no Norquist of the staunchly moderate, in part because no one has
figured out how to be "staunchly moderate."

One group, called  No Labels, is trying to build a grass-roots movement to force
the parties to the middle. This organization has support from Howard Schultz,
the chief executive of Starbucks, who says he's so frustrated with partisanship
that he won't donate to either party and is encouraging Americans to no longer
support the two-party system. Another group,  Americans Elect, wants to put
together a nonpartisan ticket.

No Labels touts the importance of compromise in Washington. But the group's
agenda includes statements such as "America should be free from discrimination
and should embrace the principle of equal opportunity" - which sounds good, but
is difficult to translate into action. Americans Elect wants to have citizens
pick the most important issues for candidates to focus on in the 2012 election.
But will this survey find anything new? It will probably show - like nearly
every recent poll - that jobs and the economy are the biggest concerns for most
voters.

"No Labels is organized to deal with the 'politics of problem solving.' In
today's world it's the politics that get in the way of our solving our pressing
issues. We need to create the space so that our leaders can work across the
aisle with one another," said Nancy Jacobson, a longtime Democratic fundraiser
who is one of the founders of No Labels. In an e-mail message, she added: "We
are not a centrist, liberal or conservative group. We have no ideology. We
instead are an attitude and approach to politics."

Centrists complain about partisanship and rancor; more than anything, they want
politics to be conducted civilly. But moderation and civility, while perhaps
virtues, are not organizing principles for politics.

There are plenty of bipartisan policy ideas out there: the Simpson-Bowles
deficit-reduction plan, the creation of a national infrastructure bank,
health-care proposals to fight obesity, redistricting to ensure that
congressional districts are not heavily packed with members of one party or the
other.

To be effective, centrists need to be as rigidly devoted to these
middle-of-the-road ideas as Norquist is to his anti-tax pledge. In fact, they
need their own candidate pledge.

"My pledge is to never vote for anyone stupid enough to sign a pledge - thereby
abdicating their governing responsibilities in a period of incredibly rapid
change and financial stress," wrote New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman in
a July column titled "Make Way for the Radical Center."

But pledges require candidates to be specific and transparent about their views
on key issues. That's why, for example, some conservative Republicans demand to
know if a candidate will oppose tax increases, and some Democrats want to know
if a candidate will support abortion rights.

By choosing to sign a "pledge of moderation," candidates for Congress and the
White House would affirm their support for a centrist agenda, or at least parts
of it. Much like with Norquist's pledge, a candidate's refusal to endorse
bipartisan ideas could send a signal to voters.

Raise real money

For congressional candidates, there's an obvious barrier to signing a centrist
pledge: the primary election. Conservative Republicans would probably work to
defeat any candidate who said he would back a tax increase. A candidate who
wanted to increase teacher pay would get more backing from teachers unions than
one passionate about expanding charter schools.

That's why centrists need to borrow another lesson from the left and right and
create strong, well-funded political groups to support their candidates.

Most members of Congress, particularly in the House, vote primarily along
partisan lines. In part, this is because if you're trying to fund a campaign or
get volunteers for one, being hyper-partisan works. Groups that are very
conservative or very liberal give heavily to politicians who support their
causes.

"Some of these candidates can only lose in the primaries, so it puts them in a
tough position" in dealing with bipartisan legislation, said Trey Grayson, who
lost in a Senate primary to Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and is now head of Harvard's
Institute of Politics.

Meanwhile, the more centrist part of the electorate often limits its political
participation to voting every two years.

At a recent No Labels event, Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget and a supporter of some centrist groups, urged
moderate voters to call members of Congress who back centrist legislation and
thank them. "They will hear you loud and clear if you say thank you," she said.

Yes, that would help. But a powerful centrist movement needs to provide
something more politically useful than a nice phone call. It needs money. To
compete, centrists should create formal political organizations with enough
money to hire organizers and strategists, run television commercials, and give
real support to help centrist candidates get elected and stay in office.

Americans Elect has opted against getting involved in congressional races or the
2012 presidential primary process. It is instead focused on launching an
independent candidate for president, hoping that such a bid could put key issues
on the agenda. There are some challenges to this approach, even beyond the long
odds of getting someone outside of the two parties elected. If your goal is to
combat partisanship and promote moderate ideas, the White House may not be the
ideal focus. The most partisan person in Washington is rarely the president.
General elections - in which the candidates must court voters in the center -
make sure of that.

"As the two major parties become more divided, it tends to make it more
difficult for a third party, because people are very afraid to waste their
vote," said Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University who has
studied the growing gap between the parties. "You feel like if you vote for a
third party or independent, you are helping your least-preferred candidate win."

Schultz's idea not to donate directly to candidates may be even more
counterproductive. Money isn't going to disappear from politics, so having
voters in the center stop contributing to their preferred politicians would
realistically make it harder for moderate candidates to compete.

"In effect, he's punishing the good guys and the bad guys," Norman Ornstein, a
congressional scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, said of Schultz.
"What I would like to see is someone say, 'I'm looking for real solutions, not
cheap shots,' and trying to find bipartisanship leaders and give them money, and
actively discourage giving money to people who say outrageous things and
demagogue."

Find your own Rush Limbaugh

Political discourse is shaped increasingly by figures who don't hold elected
office. In this area, the centrist movement has made more progress: Americans
Elect and No Labels do have major financial backing, even if they're not using
it to support specific candidates yet. Friedman and Schultz are powerful voices,
and think tanks such as the New America Foundation and Third Way churn out ideas
that centrists can adopt.

But conservatives have figures such as Rush Limbaugh calling them to arms to
oppose Democratic ideas. Liberals have labor unions organizing Democrats in
states such as Wisconsin to protest the actions of Republican governors. The
centrist movement, on the other hand, is not organized enough to really affect
legislative debates.

To compete with the political extremes, the center needs a group of leaders
ready to fight for moderation. It also could benefit from some kind of permanent
policy arm to evaluate legislation and determine if bills in Congress are
centrist and deserve support.

The message from the centrist leaders probably couldn't just be "Washington is
broken," as many moderates repeatedly cried during the debt-ceiling debate. If
Obama is trying to compromise and Republican leaders aren't, or vice versa, the
centrists need to be candid about that.

Moderate groups, particularly Americans Elect, seem to think that the time for
the center to emerge is during the campaign next year. But the current debate
over jobs and spending seems to offer a more immediate opportunity.

They've already missed a recent chance. Over the summer, Obama and House Speaker
John Boehner (R-Ohio) were negotiating a major deficit-reduction deal, the kind
of bipartisan agreement that centrists were calling for. But the talks collapsed
as both men faced intense criticism from their political bases; the episode
showed the weakness of the political center. Obama is now offering a much more
traditionally liberal deficit-reduction deal, full of tax increases that
Republicans oppose. Moderates have criticized him, but he appears to have little
choice after the failure of the broader deal with Boehner. And liberals, unlike
moderate groups, have a real infrastructure they can use to help Obama in 2012.

On jobs, high-profile moderates could demand that both the White House and
Congress consider middle-of-the-road ideas for getting people back to work. In
the last major debate, they were mostly drowned out by people with very strong
affiliations on the right or the left who wore their partisan labels - and the
pledges they had signed - proudly.

"Centrist" could be a powerful label, too. But to change politics, the political
center needs to define what that moniker truly means.

baconp@washpost.com

Perry Bacon Jr. covers politics for The Washington Post.

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 26, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

The tightening border

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 485 words


HERE'S SOME NEWS: When the current fiscal year ends this week, illegal border
crossings from Mexico, as measured by apprehensions carried out by a massively
beefed-up Border Patrol, will fall to their lowest level since 1972. You read
that right. The southwestern border - the very same frontier portrayed by
Republicans as so wildly out of control that it rules out any serious discussion
of immigration reform - is in fact more tightly controlled than at any time
since President Richard M. Nixon's first term. Now here's a suggestion: Wouldn't
it be novel if Republicans, who are at least partly responsible for this
dramatic success, acknowledged it? And wouldn't it also be honest?

Although final numbers won't be available for a few more days, it appears that
captures of illegal border crossers will be in the range of 325,000 for fiscal
2011. That is down 50 percent since 2008; 70 percent since 2006; and 80 percent
since 2000, when 1.6 million undocumented immigrants were picked up after
crossing the border. Also, new technology means fewer people can sneak over the
border undetected.

It was a Republican president, George W. Bush, who began the buildup, doubling
the number of Border Patrol officers at the border since 2002.

That force - now 18,000-strong - has played a role in deterring illegal
crossings, as have the anemic U.S. economy; improvements in the Mexican economy
and schools; and more liberal issuance of visas by the U.S. consulate in Mexico
City. The Obama administration has kept up the pressure by continuing the Bush
buildup and, until recently, getting tough with deportations.

Yet GOP presidential candidates and members of Congress continue to paint the
border as chaotic and crime-ridden. As far as we can tell, none of them has
publicly recognized the impressive gains at the border. Instead, most call for
impractical, far-reaching - and hugely expensive - security measures. They
justify those steps (when they bother with justification) with random anecdotes,
sweeping (and often unprovable) assertions and obsolete data.

It's worth asking Republicans a few questions. Is it really worth spending
billions of dollars to build a fence across the entire  2,000-mile Mexican
border, as several GOP candidates have said? Would they really revive the
project to construct a so-called virtual electronic fence, which was abandoned
last year after $575 million was spent to erect camera and radio towers covering
just 58 miles of the border in Arizona, amid criticism that the system never
worked?

Surely, there is a point of diminishing returns to such spending, particularly
with illegal crossings plummeting. It's time for the GOP to declare victory,
claim credit and move to the next stage - fixing the system and providing a path
to legal status for 11 million undocumented immigrants who, like it or not, have
become an integral part of the nation's fabric.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 4, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Border arrests fall sharply, U.S. says

BYLINE: Nick Miroff;William Booth

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1242 words


MEXICALI, Mexico - Arrests of illegal migrants trying to cross the southern U.S.
border have plummeted to levels not seen since the early 1970s, according to
tallies released by the Department of Homeland Security last week, a historic
shift that could reshape the debate over immigration reform.

The Border Patrol apprehended 327,577 illegal crossers along the U.S.-Mexico
border in fiscal year 2011, which ended Sept. 30, numbers not seen since Richard
Nixon was president, and a precipitous drop from the peak in 2000, when 1.6
million unauthorized migrants were caught. More than 90 percent of the migrants
apprehended on the southwest border are Mexican.

The number of illegal migrants arrested at the border has been dropping over the
past few years but appears to be down by more than 25 percent this year.

Experts say that Border Patrol apprehensions are a useful marker for estimating
the total flow of illegal migrants, though imprecise because the U.S. government
has no idea how many are not caught. But coupled with census and labor data from
both countries that show far fewer Mexicans coming to the United States and many
returning home, it appears that the historic flood of Mexican migration north
has slowed dramatically.

"We have reached the point where the balance between Mexicans moving to the
United States and those returning to Mexico is essentially zero," said Jeffrey
Passel, a senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, whose conclusion was
shared by many migration experts.

Such a steep drop in illegal crossings gives supporters of immigration reform
ammunition to argue that now is a good time to tackle the issue.

GOP presidential contenders Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney have been sparring
over the estimated 11 million people living illegally in the United States.
Gingrich says it would be heartless to kick out migrants who have worked and
raised families here for years, while Romney blasted Gingrich for supporting
"amnesty" for illegal residents but has not given a clear answer on what he
would do.

In Congress, comprehensive immigration reform has been sidelined, stuck between
those who would not allow illegal migrants to remain and others who are pushing,
like President Obama, to create a "pathway" to legal status, but not necessarily
citizenship.

The lower number of apprehensions supports the Obama administration's contention
that the border is more secure than ever - that the doubling of Border Patrol
agents since 2004, along with hundreds of miles of new fence, cameras, lights,
sensors and Predator drones, has helped slow the illegal flow northward.

But those who say the border remains out of control can point to the fact that
hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants still try to make the crossing every
year.

Fewer in search of shelter

At the Casa Betania migrant shelter in a rough section here in the sprawling
border city of Mexicali, manager Jorge Verdugo has seen a steep decline in the
number of ragged men who arrive each afternoon looking for a meal, a shower and
a safe place to sleep.

Five years ago, the shelter's 42 beds were always full. But on a recent
afternoon, the place was mostly empty. At the other migrant shelter across town
- for women and children - there was only one guest.

"The change has been drastic," Verdugo said.

Data from Mexican surveys show that the amount of money sent home from the
United States is falling, from a peak of $24 billion in 2007 to $21 billion last
year, according to Mexico's Central Bank.

For the first time, according to U.S. census data, the growth of the Hispanic
population in the United States is being fueled more by births than by
immigration. Hispanics remain by far the fastest-growing group in the nation.

Reasons for the downturn in migration are both obvious and complex.

Surging violence in Mexico has made the journey more perilous, and smugglers
have increased their fees, now charging $3,000 for a quick hop from Mexicali.

Increased enforcement and tough new laws against illegal immigrants in Arizona
and Alabama are daunting, and some Mexicans are seeing better conditions at
home.

But immigration experts say the No. 1 cause of the steep drop is the U.S.
economy, which dipped into a recession in 2008 and continues to see sluggish
growth.

"The arrests on the border are moving like the U.S. economic cycle," said Juan
Luis Ordaz, senior economist for the Bancomer Foundation. Ordaz and colleagues
say Mexican and U.S. data suggest that the number of Mexican migrants arriving
each year in the United States has been cut in half since 2005 - and that
poverty rates for Mexican migrants living in the United States have grown to 30
percent from 22 percent in 2007.Especially hard hit in the economic downturn -
and the busting of the real estate bubble - were the home-building and
construction industries, which employ an outsize number of illegal workers.
"Migration has decreased because employment opportunities in the United States
are not good. Fewer migrants have full-time jobs. Hours are reduced. Wages are
lower. The amount of money they send home is less," said German Vega of the
College of the North in Tijuana. "And another reason is organized crime." Vega
referred to the sensational news in Mexico of mass graves filled with the bodies
of migrants and wave of kidnappings and extortion of those trying to cross
north.

An even more difficult trip

Many Mexicans say it has become much more difficult to cross illegally into the
United States. A group of men gathered on the sidewalk outside the shelter in
Mexicali explained their plan. They had a stack of Google Maps  printouts
showing the local topography, as well as the latest weather report. It called
for mist and low fog in the Imperial Valley, which the men said would help
shield them from Border Patrol night-vision cameras. They would also wear black
clothing and pieces of sponge or carpeting on their feet to avoid leaving prints
in the sand.

"Some of these men try three, four or five times to get across, and then they
give up," Verdugo said. "It's much harder now because of all the surveillance."

According to Verdugo, most of the Mexican men who come through the shelter now
are deportees, not fresh arrivals from the south. With jobs, children and homes
in the United States, they talk about getting back in with single-minded
determination.

Mexican officials, meanwhile, have seized on the lower numbers as evidence that
life is better in Mexico and that fewer citizens are seeking a life north of the
border.

Foreign investment in Mexico is relatively strong, and the country has one of
the healthiest economies in Latin America. Inflation is under control. The
exchange rate is stable. University and technical college enrollments are up.
Families are having fewer children.

At least one man at the Mexicali shelter, Juan Carlos Vela, 28, said he had
decided Mexicali was far enough for him.

He had found a job making $75 a week in a brick factory, twice as much as the
going wage for similar work down south in his home state of Durango, where he
said there have been so many drug cartel gun battles lately "I can't let my
daughters outside."

"Mexicali seems pretty quiet; I like it here," Vela said. "Might as well forget
about the American dream and get on with my life."

miroffn@washpost.com

boothb@washpost.com

Researcher Gabriela Martinez contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 23, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

An immigrant-run economic engine

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 222 words


In countering a recent Post editorial on immigration [letters, May 18], Rep.
Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) contended that if the administration enforced immigration
laws, "we could open up millions of jobs for unemployed legal workers."

As The Post well noted, however, the majority of American-born workers are
unwilling to take the low-skill jobs many immigrants fill in landscaping,
hospitality, poultry processing and other industries. Immigrant workers actually
fill gaps in American labor markets and help to preserve and create more jobs.
Economists have calculated that for each job an immigrant fills, an additional
job is created.

The added value and productivity of immigrants are also typically overlooked.
For instance, a large number of immigrants from Mexico (50.3 percent) have at
least a high school diploma to two years of college preparatory education.
Immigrants tend to take jobs in which their skills are far superior to the tasks
they undertake, thus enhancing their value to their employers and the economy.
In addition, immigrants often take entry-level jobs, enabling native-born
workers to be promoted to supervisory or management positions.

Overall, the wages of immigrant workers generate new consumers and businesses,
increase tax revenue, and help fuel the nation's economic growth.

Alejandro Becerra, Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Foreign labor's skill level on rise

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 923 words


Highly skilled temporary and permanent immigrants in the United States now
outnumber lower-skilled ones, marking a dramatic shift in the foreign-born
workforce that could have profound political and economic implications in the
national debate over immigration.

This shift in America's immigration population, based on census data, is
summarized in a report released Thursday by the Brookings Institution. It found
that 30 percent of the country's working-age immigrants, regardless of legal
status, have at least a bachelor's degree, while 28 percent lack a high school
diploma.

The shift had been in the works for the past three decades, a period that has
seen a dramatic increase in the population born outside the United States. But
in 2007 the percentage of highly skilled workers overtook that of lower-skilled
workers.

The trend reflects a fundamental change in the structure and demands of the U.S.
economy, which in the past decades transformed from an economy driven by
manufacturing to one driven by information and technology. The report also
offers a new perspective on the national immigration discourse, which tends to
fixate on low-skilled, and often illegal, workers.

"Too often the immigration debate is driven by images on television of people
jumping over fences," said Benjamin Johnson, executive director of the American
Immigration Council, an immigrant advocacy organization. "The debate has been
stuck in the idea that it's all about illegal and low-skilled workers."

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, an
organization that advocates for tighter immigration restrictions, said the
report raises other concerns.

"It seems, based on this and other studies, that we've got an oversupply of
highly skilled workers coming into this country," he said, adding that the
study's findings were not surprising. "New college graduates are faring very
poorly on the labor market, and what the report is telling us is that we're
bringing in a high number of workers to compete with them."

The study based its findings on the 2009 American Community Survey, administered
by the Census Bureau, as well as data from the bureau's Current Population
Survey that date from 1980.

As the number of working-age immigrants in the United States has swelled, from
14.6 million in 1994 to 29.7 million in 2010, the numbers of highly skilled and
lower-skilled immigrants have risen, but the highly skilled sector has risen
faster, according to the report. Among the causes are the recent rise in the
number of international students and of temporary H-1B visas, for which a
bachelor's degree is usually required, the report said.

The shift accelerated in the past decade, with nearly a third of working-age new
arrivals in the 2000s coming with college degrees, the report said.

The report found that immigrants' skill levels varied in different geographic
locations, with coastal cities and established "gateway" metropolitan areas
attracting more highly skilled immigrants, while areas near the U.S.-Mexico
border draw more low-skilled immigrants.

Workers from Mexico and Central America tend to be lower skilled, while India,
China and the Philippines send many more highly skilled workers than
lower-skilled one, said Audrey Singer, a senior fellow at Brookings who co-wrote
the study.

With its universities, international agencies, hospitals and technology
companies, the Washington metropolitan area is one of the top magnets for
educated immigrants, with 189 highly skilled immigrant workers for every 100
lower-skilled ones, according to the study.

"D.C.'s pretty diverse in terms of skills they're bringing in and where they're
coming from," Singer said.

Other high concentrations of college-educated immigrants include San Jose and
Seattle.

The study also found that half of highly skilled immigrants in the United States
are working in jobs for which they are overqualified.

"Education credentials and language are big hurdles," said Matthew Hall, a
University of Illinois sociology professor who co-wrote the report.

Many immigrants find their degrees and certifications from abroad are not
recognized here.

Luma Ghalib, 42, trained as a doctor in her native Iraq and then went to New
Zealand for more training. When she moved to the United States a decade ago, she
had to start from scratch.

"When you come here, you know it's not going to be easy," she said, adding that
she spent several years redoing her basic medical training and retaking exams in
the United States before specializing in endocrinology.

The Fredericksburg resident said she has no regrets about the five additional
years of study that allowed her to live and work as a doctor here.

"It's a fair country, unlike a lot of countries," she said. "If you're a
hardworking person, you get to where you need to be going."

Some employers may say they prefer immigrants to native-born workers. When Samir
Kumar needs to hire employees for his Northern Virginia-based IT business, he
often looks overseas. Not only do workers from India and Ukraine have the
required training, but their expectations are lower, he said.

"They actually don't demand a very high amount of salary, and the expectations
are kind of grounded and they don't jump around so much" between companies, said
the 39-year-old Ashburn resident, an immigrant from India. U.S.-born technology
and business analysts are hard to find and hard to retain, he said, while
immigrants with the same skills and education "are much easier to manage."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 23, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

An immigrant-run economic engine

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 222 words


In countering a recent Post editorial on immigration [letters, May 18], Rep.
Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) contended that if the administration enforced immigration
laws, "we could open up millions of jobs for unemployed legal workers."

As The Post well noted, however, the majority of American-born workers are
unwilling to take the low-skill jobs many immigrants fill in landscaping,
hospitality, poultry processing and other industries. Immigrant workers actually
fill gaps in American labor markets and help to preserve and create more jobs.
Economists have calculated that for each job an immigrant fills, an additional
job is created.

The added value and productivity of immigrants are also typically overlooked.
For instance, a large number of immigrants from Mexico (50.3 percent) have at
least a high school diploma to two years of college preparatory education.
Immigrants tend to take jobs in which their skills are far superior to the tasks
they undertake, thus enhancing their value to their employers and the economy.
In addition, immigrants often take entry-level jobs, enabling native-born
workers to be promoted to supervisory or management positions.

Overall, the wages of immigrant workers generate new consumers and businesses,
increase tax revenue, and help fuel the nation's economic growth.

Alejandro Becerra, Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 9, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Foreign labor's skill level on rise

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 923 words


Highly skilled temporary and permanent immigrants in the United States now
outnumber lower-skilled ones, marking a dramatic shift in the foreign-born
workforce that could have profound political and economic implications in the
national debate over immigration.

This shift in America's immigration population, based on census data, is
summarized in a report released Thursday by the Brookings Institution. It found
that 30 percent of the country's working-age immigrants, regardless of legal
status, have at least a bachelor's degree, while 28 percent lack a high school
diploma.

The shift had been in the works for the past three decades, a period that has
seen a dramatic increase in the population born outside the United States. But
in 2007 the percentage of highly skilled workers overtook that of lower-skilled
workers.

The trend reflects a fundamental change in the structure and demands of the U.S.
economy, which in the past decades transformed from an economy driven by
manufacturing to one driven by information and technology. The report also
offers a new perspective on the national immigration discourse, which tends to
fixate on low-skilled, and often illegal, workers.

"Too often the immigration debate is driven by images on television of people
jumping over fences," said Benjamin Johnson, executive director of the American
Immigration Council, an immigrant advocacy organization. "The debate has been
stuck in the idea that it's all about illegal and low-skilled workers."

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, an
organization that advocates for tighter immigration restrictions, said the
report raises other concerns.

"It seems, based on this and other studies, that we've got an oversupply of
highly skilled workers coming into this country," he said, adding that the
study's findings were not surprising. "New college graduates are faring very
poorly on the labor market, and what the report is telling us is that we're
bringing in a high number of workers to compete with them."

The study based its findings on the 2009 American Community Survey, administered
by the Census Bureau, as well as data from the bureau's Current Population
Survey that date from 1980.

As the number of working-age immigrants in the United States has swelled, from
14.6 million in 1994 to 29.7 million in 2010, the numbers of highly skilled and
lower-skilled immigrants have risen, but the highly skilled sector has risen
faster, according to the report. Among the causes are the recent rise in the
number of international students and of temporary H-1B visas, for which a
bachelor's degree is usually required, the report said.

The shift accelerated in the past decade, with nearly a third of working-age new
arrivals in the 2000s coming with college degrees, the report said.

The report found that immigrants' skill levels varied in different geographic
locations, with coastal cities and established "gateway" metropolitan areas
attracting more highly skilled immigrants, while areas near the U.S.-Mexico
border draw more low-skilled immigrants.

Workers from Mexico and Central America tend to be lower skilled, while India,
China and the Philippines send many more highly skilled workers than
lower-skilled one, said Audrey Singer, a senior fellow at Brookings who co-wrote
the study.

With its universities, international agencies, hospitals and technology
companies, the Washington metropolitan area is one of the top magnets for
educated immigrants, with 189 highly skilled immigrant workers for every 100
lower-skilled ones, according to the study.

"D.C.'s pretty diverse in terms of skills they're bringing in and where they're
coming from," Singer said.

Other high concentrations of college-educated immigrants include San Jose and
Seattle.

The study also found that half of highly skilled immigrants in the United States
are working in jobs for which they are overqualified.

"Education credentials and language are big hurdles," said Matthew Hall, a
University of Illinois sociology professor who co-wrote the report.

Many immigrants find their degrees and certifications from abroad are not
recognized here.

Luma Ghalib, 42, trained as a doctor in her native Iraq and then went to New
Zealand for more training. When she moved to the United States a decade ago, she
had to start from scratch.

"When you come here, you know it's not going to be easy," she said, adding that
she spent several years redoing her basic medical training and retaking exams in
the United States before specializing in endocrinology.

The Fredericksburg resident said she has no regrets about the five additional
years of study that allowed her to live and work as a doctor here.

"It's a fair country, unlike a lot of countries," she said. "If you're a
hardworking person, you get to where you need to be going."

Some employers may say they prefer immigrants to native-born workers. When Samir
Kumar needs to hire employees for his Northern Virginia-based IT business, he
often looks overseas. Not only do workers from India and Ukraine have the
required training, but their expectations are lower, he said.

"They actually don't demand a very high amount of salary, and the expectations
are kind of grounded and they don't jump around so much" between companies, said
the 39-year-old Ashburn resident, an immigrant from India. U.S.-born technology
and business analysts are hard to find and hard to retain, he said, while
immigrants with the same skills and education "are much easier to manage."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Audit: Undocumented workers collect $4.2 billion in tax credits

BYLINE: Lisa Rein

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 411 words


The Internal Revenue Service allowed undocumented workers to collect $4.2
billion in refundable tax credits last year, according to a new audit - almost
quadruple the sum five years ago.

Although undocumented workers are not eligible for federal benefits, the report
released Thursday by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
concludes that federal law is ambiguous on whether these workers qualify for a
tax break based on earned income called the additional child tax credit.

Taxpayers can claim this credit to reduce what they owe in taxes, often getting
refunds from the government. The vagueness of federal law may have contributed
to the $4.2 billion in credits, the report said.

The IRS said it lacks the authority to disallow the claims.

Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee,
announced Friday that he plans to examine the refunds.

"The disconcerting findings in this report demand immediate attention and action
from Congress and the Obama administration," Hatch said in a statement. "With
our debt standing at over $14.5 trillion and counting, it's outrageous that the
IRS is handing out refundable tax credits . . . to those who aren't even
eligible to work in this country."

Wage earners who do not have Social Security numbers and are not authorized to
work in the United States can use what the IRS calls individual taxpayer
identification numbers. Often these result in fraudulent claims on tax returns,
auditors found.

Their data showed that 72 percent of returns filed with taxpayer identification
numbers claimed the child tax credit.

The audit recommended that the IRS seek clarification on the law and check the
immigration status of filers with taxpayer identification numbers.

IRS officials, in response to a draft of the report, agreed to consult with the
Treasury Department on the law. But they said they have no legal authority to
demand that filers prove their legal status when the tax agency processes
returns.

Changes to tax law are partly to blame for the explosion in refunds for
additional child tax credits in recent years, auditors found. Before 2001,
filers needed to have three or more children to qualify - and to owe more Social
Security taxes than earned income credits.

But those requirements have been eliminated and the allowable refund for each
child doubled. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 also made the
refund easier to get, auditors found.

reinl@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 3, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Audit: Undocumented workers collect $4.2 billion in tax credits

BYLINE: Lisa Rein

SECTION: A section; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 411 words


The Internal Revenue Service allowed undocumented workers to collect $4.2
billion in refundable tax credits last year, according to a new audit - almost
quadruple the sum five years ago.

Although undocumented workers are not eligible for federal benefits, the report
released Thursday by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
concludes that federal law is ambiguous on whether these workers qualify for a
tax break based on earned income called the additional child tax credit.

Taxpayers can claim this credit to reduce what they owe in taxes, often getting
refunds from the government. The vagueness of federal law may have contributed
to the $4.2 billion in credits, the report said.

The IRS said it lacks the authority to disallow the claims.

Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee,
announced Friday that he plans to examine the refunds.

"The disconcerting findings in this report demand immediate attention and action
from Congress and the Obama administration," Hatch said in a statement. "With
our debt standing at over $14.5 trillion and counting, it's outrageous that the
IRS is handing out refundable tax credits . . . to those who aren't even
eligible to work in this country."

Wage earners who do not have Social Security numbers and are not authorized to
work in the United States can use what the IRS calls individual taxpayer
identification numbers. Often these result in fraudulent claims on tax returns,
auditors found.

Their data showed that 72 percent of returns filed with taxpayer identification
numbers claimed the child tax credit.

The audit recommended that the IRS seek clarification on the law and check the
immigration status of filers with taxpayer identification numbers.

IRS officials, in response to a draft of the report, agreed to consult with the
Treasury Department on the law. But they said they have no legal authority to
demand that filers prove their legal status when the tax agency processes
returns.

Changes to tax law are partly to blame for the explosion in refunds for
additional child tax credits in recent years, auditors found. Before 2001,
filers needed to have three or more children to qualify - and to owe more Social
Security taxes than earned income credits.

But those requirements have been eliminated and the allowable refund for each
child doubled. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 also made the
refund easier to get, auditors found.

reinl@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 2, 2010 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

Video: American Mosaic: Stories of immigration with Mekbib Gebertsadik

BYLINE: Annie Gowen,Mekbib Gebertsadik

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 201 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post reporters and guests explore our American histories.
How did you get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.


Washington Post reporters and guests explore our American histories. How did you
get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.

_______________________

Annie Gowen: Have an interesting story? Share it with us.

_______________________

Annie Gowen: Mekbib Gebertsadik is an award-winning artist who immigrated to the
U.S. on a diversity visa in 2001 from Ethiopia. He achieved wide-ranging success
-- living full-time off his art with his own studio -- while in his home country
but has had trouble replicating his success here. He now works nights at FedEx.

_______________________

Annie Gowen: Where do you find inspiration for your African inspired art now
that you have left Ethiopia?

_______________________

Annie Gowen: Describe your transition from a full-time artist in Addis to one
that has struggled to make in the U.S. Has that been difficult for you?

_______________________

Mekbib Gebertsadik:

_______________________

Annie Gowen:

_______________________

Annie Gowen: Talk a little bit about your views on the immigrant experience from
your own life.

_______________________

Annie Gowen: Visit his personal site and view more.

_______________________

Annie Gowen: Or know someone who does? Share it with us now.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 9, 2010 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

Video: American Mosaic: Stories of immigration with Angelos Agok

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour,Angelos Agok

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 177 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post reporters and guests explore our American histories.
How did you get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.


Washington Post reporters and guests explore our American histories. How did you
get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: Have a story? Share it with us at mosaic@wpost.com

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour:

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour:

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour:

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour:

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: let not ambiguity dispirit youlet not the blowing winds
extinguish the firenot even at the verge of deathnever say goodbye 'cause the
dawn is here.From Angelos Agok's war memoir. This poem was written in 1993 in
Kerepi, Eastern Equatoria during the Sudan's Peoples Liberation Army Military
campaign codenamed "Operation Jungle Storm". Agok has written a number of poems
including; Yearning for Freedom, Reflections, You've Seen, Your Eyes, Dream of
Dreams, walk in the summer and others. Agok's original work was mostly in
Arabic.

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: If you or someone you know has an interesting story to tell,
please e-mail us.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    December 16, 2010 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

American Mosaic: DREAM ACT student Anngie Gutierrez

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam,Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 311 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post reporters and guests explore our American histories.
How did you get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.


Washington Post reporters and guests explore our American histories. How did you
get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Welcome to American Mosaic: Know someone who would like to
chat? Do you want to be featured? E-mail us some info and we'll be in contact.

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Anngie Gutierrez knows how bodies decompose. She can deduce
from a skeleton whether the person who died was a man or a woman. In her high
school forensics biology class, she has learned to determine time and cause of
death. The 17-year-old Bladensburg High School junior readily admits her
siblings do not share her taste for decomposition: "I am the weird one in the
family." Gutierrez wants to become a medical examiner or a forensic
investigator, like the investigators she loves to watch on "CSI." But unlike her
two brothers and her sister who were born in the United States, she was born in
Guatemala - and is undocumented. Thousands of high-school and college-age
student-immigrants are lobbying Congress, introducing themselves to citizens by
scheduling meals together and performing acts of public service to draw
attention to the DREAM Act - a measure that seeks to provide legal papers for
undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were
children. Gutierrez's parents, who also are undocumented, brought her here when
she was 8 years old.

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Love of forensics

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Anngie's view of America

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Remember much about Guatemala?

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: DREAM Act

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: How does it feel?

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: What if DREAM Act doesn't pass?

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Where do you want to study?

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     February 2, 2011 Wednesday 1:30 PM EST

Video: American Mosaic: Stories of immigration with Jehan Harney

BYLINE: Jehan Harney,Brigid Schulte

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 94 words



HIGHLIGHT: Jehan Harney, an Egyptian filmmaker, will be online to discuss the
latest news of what's happening in Egypt, as well as her immigration to the
United States.


Jehan Harney, an Egyptian filmmaker, will be online to discuss the latest news
of what's happening in Egypt, as well as her immigration to the United States.

_______________________

Brigid Schulte: Welcome to American Mosaic. Have a story to tell us? E-mail us
at mosaic@wpost.com

_______________________

Brigid Schulte: Jehan Harney's story

_______________________

Brigid Schulte: Coming to America

_______________________

Brigid Schulte: Jehan's films

_______________________

Brigid Schulte: What's going on in Egypt?

_______________________

Brigid Schulte: Trials and hardships

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     February 15, 2011 Tuesday 6:26 PM EST

Abduction suspect in country illegally: Authorities;
Abduction suspect in country illegally: Authorities

BYLINE: Matt Zapotosky

LENGTH: 271 words



HIGHLIGHT: The man arrested for briefly abducting a woman whose car he hid
inside at a Prince George's County gas station was deported from the U.S. in
February 2009 and had apparently made his way back into the country illegally,
authorities said Tuesday.


The man arrested for briefly abducting a woman whose car he hid inside at a
Prince George's County gas station was deported from the U.S. in February 2009
and had apparently made his way back into the country illegally, authorities
said Tuesday.

Miguel Angel Morales-Iraheta, 32, was ordered removed from the U.S. by an
immigration judge on Oct. 1, 2007. He was taken to El Salvador on Feb. 27, 2009,
after he finished serving prison time on a different criminal charge in
Maryland, according to authorities, sources and court records.

When Morales-Iraheta was arrested in connection with Sunday's incident, his
fingerprints came up as a match in Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Secure
Communities program, which helps federal authorities identify illegal immigrants
that are booked on local criminal charges, authorities said.

ICE spokesman Ross Feinstein said ICE has lodged a detainer on Morales-Iraheta,
which means he will remain in federal custody after his local charges are
adjudicated. He also faces an open warrant for first-degree rape in Montgomery
County, authorities said.

In Sunday's incident, Morales-Iraheta climbed into the back seat of a car a
woman left unlocked at a gas station in the 2300 block of University Boulevard,
authorities said. After the woman pulled away, Morales-Iraheta wrapped his arms
around her neck and ordered her to drive, but she was able to escape at a red
light.

Police later spotted Morales-Iraheta run a red light in the woman's car. They
gave chase, and Morales-Iraheta crashed and was arrested, authorities said.
Online court records show he was charged with theft and robbery.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Deportation delay brings celebration

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 554 words


Residents of a Bethesda condominium complex who waged a relentless campaign for
weeks to prevent the deportation of a beloved building engineer were ecstatic to
hear yesterday that Immigration and Customs Enforcement has granted a deferral
to Marco Antonio Rua, permitting him to remain in the country.

Residents of the Wisconsin, whose campaign on behalf of Rua was profiled
recently  in  The Washington Post, said they planned to hire Rua back as soon as
he received a work permit. Rua's attorney said that ought to happen relatively
quickly.

"Here's my statement - yaaayyyyy!!!" said Marcia Weinberg, a board member at the
condominium and a resident. "I am also proud of America, because at times like
this, you can get very upset and angry, and I knew America was better than the
way it was being shown and the way it was showing itself. This gives me a
renewed faith in my country and its sense of righteousness and also in its
compassion."

Rua, 43, and his 17-year-old daughter, Andrea Rua, a stand-out freshman at
Montgomery College, said they were ordered to leave the country in September
after a family immigration petition was denied. Because the Ruas had entered the
country under what is known as a visa-waiver program, they did not have the
right to a court hearing. The only hope, residents of the Wisconsin decided, was
for immigration authorities to grant them a deferral.

Rua, who has provided  handyman services to the residents of the complex for 15
years, received an outpouring of support once he revealed that he had been
ordered to leave. Residents, who include Sen. Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii), wrote
letters and signed petitions asking that the deportations be deferred. Rep Chris
Van Hollen (D-Maryland) and Sen Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Maryland) obliged
residents by writing letters to the Department of Homeland Security, and
residents said those efforts probably played an important role in the
government's decision to allow Rua and his daughter to remain in the country.

Julia M. Toro, Rua's attorney, said that because Rua's wife, Liliana, had
recently been issued a green card, Rua and his daughter would now be able to
apply for permanent residency themselves. Had they been forced to leave the
country in December, as ICE officials had initially demanded, the chance  to
reenter the country could have been delayed - possibly by years.

Although Liliana Rua was also undocumented, an immigration judge in Baltimore
recently allowed her to remain in the country to care for two U.S. citizens who
depended on her - her mother, who has leukemia, and her 9-year-old son, Renzo,
who was born in the United States. Effectively, Toro said, the judge had granted
Liliana Rua a green card. A number of residents from the Wisconsin went to
Baltimore to show their support at the court hearing.

Marco and Andrea Rua said in interviews that they were overwhelmed by the good
news - and greatly relieved.

"Hanukkah comes tomorrow, and, in the Jewish tradition, there was this small
band of people called the Maccabees who saw an injustice and decided something
needed to be done about it," Weinberg said, drawing an analogy between the
religious tale and the campaign that residents of the complex had waged on
behalf of the Ruas. "The strength of a group united is pretty amazing."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 4, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The GOP's imagined Latino base

BYLINE: EDWARD SCHUMACHER-MATOS;Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 721 words


I don't know Lamar Smith, but I feel as if I do. The Texas Republican, who is
likely to chair the House Judiciary Committee in the next Congress, writes often
to disagree with my columns.

I respect Smith for his consistency, especially on immigration. If all
representatives voted their consciences, I suspect that two-thirds of current
House members would legalize most unauthorized immigrants in the country. Not
Smith.

He seems convinced that we should deport even the youths who came illegally with
their parents but later prove their worth to the nation by going to college or
joining the military. President Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
appear intent on forcing a vote this month on the Dream Act, which would give
these youths a path to citizenship.

But if Smith isn't cynical, he does engage in political wishful thinking. In a
Nov. 27 column in The Post ["The GOP's other Election Day victory"], he wrote
that hard-line immigration views are winning over so many Hispanics that it
paints "a very bright picture" for the Republican Party. If Smith believes this,
he is whistling in the dark, and the tune isn't "The Eyes of Texas." It is "Over
the Rainbow."

Smith cites the national exit polling after last month's midterm election that -
despite the Arizona law and immigrant-bashing by many Republicans - gave the GOP
38 percent of the Latino vote. This is indeed a big improvement on the 31
percent the exit poll gave John McCain against Obama in 2008.

But Smith is making two politically fatal mistakes. One is that the midterm
result is far below the 44 percent of the Hispanic vote that George W. Bush got
in 2004, and within the range of the mid-30s that Republicans regularly receive.
Significantly, it is nowhere near the 45 percent that party strategists know
they need to compensate in the future for the declining Anglo share of the vote.

The second concerns the exit poll itself. It tends to overcount the Latino and
African American vote as Republican. Only the poll's trends are valuable, as the
same poor measures are used in each election. Even Bush's 44 percent, reported
widely as fact for six years, is suspect.

Warren Mitofsky, former head of the national exit poll, recognized as much after
the 2004 election. A Latino-only exit poll by the William C. Velasquez Institute
put the Bush number at 31 percent, a huge difference.

Last month, Matt Barreto of the University of Washington and Gary Segura of
Stanford carried out a survey similar to an exit poll in eight heavily Hispanic
states. The night before the polls closed, they sampled early voters and highly
likely voters who had cast ballots in the past. Sharron Angle, who may have run
the nation's most reprehensible campaign against Latino immigrants, was said by
the national poll to have won an incredible 30 percent of the Latino vote
against Reid. She won 8 percent in the poll by the two academics.

The spread is similar in almost every state. To confirm who might be right,
Barreto and Segura are studying just-released official vote records and applying
a widely accepted statistical technique called "ecological inference" that
courts use in voting-rights lawsuits.

So far, they have found that in the two counties that make up 95 percent of the
Latino vote in Nevada, 94 percent of Latinos voted for Reid. In the five
counties that make up nearly 90 percent of the Latino vote in Arizona, they
estimate that Gov. Jan Brewer won 12 percent for reelection, and not the totally
unbelievable 28 percent that the national poll gave her for the state.

Barreto and Segura's results coincide with what was being universally reported
on the ground.

The national poll is good at projecting how states vote but was never meant to
measure votes by race or ethnicity. It samples precincts, not people, and even
then not randomly. It grossly misses Latino voters, especially Spanish speakers,
who are heavily concentrated in only some precincts, mostly urban ones. It
overcounts the few, acculturated high-income Latinos who live in mostly white
suburbs.

Still, I wish Lamar Smith had been right, though for other reasons. Latinos need
a Republican Party that reaches out to them, but on the old grounds of work
ethic and family values. That party, however, seems to be history.

edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 5, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Distorting the immigration and political views of America's Voice

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 246 words


In his Nov. 27 op-ed, "The GOP's other Election Day victory," Rep. Lamar Smith
(R-Tex.) called America's Voice a "pro-amnesty advocacy group" that "admitted"
that Republicans can tout the electoral victories of Hispanic candidates on Nov.
2 as evidence that the Republican Party has overcome its problems in reaching
out to Hispanics.

Both of these assertions are erroneous.

First, we do not support "amnesty." Our support for comprehensive immigration
reform includes strong border security, a crackdown on illegal hiring and
bad-actor employers, and a means for those here illegally to come forward, pass
background checks, learn English and pay their full share of taxes as a way to
work toward eventual citizenship.

Second, the "admission" that the victories by some Republican Hispanics mean the
GOP doesn't have a problem with Latino voters and need not change course on
immigration policy was taken out of context.

The article that Mr. Smith quoted, which I wrote, concluded with the following
analysis: "To attract a percentage of Latino voters that would make them a
viable national party able to compete for the White House in 2012, Republicans
will have to repair the anti-Hispanic image they've been cultivating so
enthusiastically up until now. And they don't seem to be making much progress at
the moment, given the chorus of voices calling for mass deportation that's about
to take over the House of Representatives."

The writer is a senior adviser at America's Voice.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Spanish lessons for the GOP

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 721 words


Newt Gingrich is learning Spanish. Bless his heart.

This is the same person who three years ago called Spanish "the language of
living in a ghetto." He quickly apologized and last week hosted his own forum on
Latino issues. The only profile in semi-courage among the Republican
presidential wannabes, Gingrich even says what no other major Republican is
willing to utter.

"We are not going to deport 11 million people," he said at the forum. "There has
to be some zone between deportation and amnesty."

There is. It is called comprehensive immigration reform. Or at least the
motherhood-and-apple-pie Dream Act, which congressional Republicans are blocking
this week. But we knew this was going to happen.

Gingrich represents something new at the top of the party, especially compared
with the likes of Mitt Romney and Mike Huckabee. Like Saint Peter before the
crow of the cock, they conveniently forget their earlier support for legalizing
most unauthorized immigrants.

Jeb Bush is reemerging from his shell, too. The favorite Anglo of many Latinos,
Bush has a Mexican wife, is simpatico and really does habla Espaol - fluently.
He accuses both parties of playing politics with immigration but stops short of
pushing reform like his brother George did. Jeb's Latino strategy has been to
nurture his star pupil, Florida Sen.-elect Marco Rubio.

Add other newly elected Republican Latinos to the launches of Fox News Latino
and the Heritage Foundation's Libertad.org, and suddenly making nice with
Hispanics has become an incipient Republican cottage industry.

Let us hope it grows enough to shut down the hateful rhetoric and demonizing of
Latinos by too many Republicans in recent years. Who cares if the change is done
out of political self-interest? Latinos are an estimated 16 percent of the
population and growing faster than the rest.

So to help the Grand Old Party, let me explain why even its enlightened leaders
will fail if they don't understand why what happens to unauthorized immigrants
is so crucial to Latinos. It is all about culture and family values.

The Republican kick-'em-out crowd may say their concern is legal and economic -
exaggerated but real concerns - but many studies show that cultural fear is a
strong and possibly overriding force. The fear is a natural one of being overrun
by Spanish speakers and a foreign culture,  whether the immigrants are here
legally or not.

Hispanics are assimilating as did immigrant groups before them, and much of the
country has come to see diversity as a fundamental American value. Gingrich
knows this. But the deportation advocates have cowed the Republican Party with a
message of rejection and hate that most Latinos take personally.

In a Pew poll released just before the midterm election, 61 percent of Latinos
said that discrimination against Hispanics was a "major problem," up from 54
percent just three years ago. Nearly 80 percent oppose the papers-please Arizona
law.

The fear of deportation is so palpable among Latinos that fully 52 percent of
those surveyed told Pew they worry "a lot" or "some" that they, a family member
or a close friend could be deported. Among immigrants, the proportion shot up to
68 percent. Even a third of native-born Latinos shared this gut-wrenching fear.

Meanwhile, unauthorized immigrants aren't the single men of yore. Two-thirds of
the unauthorized adults are married or live with a partner, and nearly half live
with children. This compares with 21 percent of native-born American adults who
live with children.

You kick out one unauthorized adult, in other words, and you are likely to break
up a family. The children of 37 percent of the adults, moreover, are U.S.
citizens.

This and a Christian sense of forgiveness are among the reasons the culturally
powerful Catholic Church and even the national organization of Hispanic
evangelical church leaders, who are mostly Republican, support a path to
citizenship.

Sure, some Latinos are kick-'em-out, too. Rubio, for example, recently turned
his coat and joined them, but he is Cuban American. Cubans don't worry about
deportation; they get automatic political refugee status if they sneak in
illegally.

In the Pew poll, only 13 percent of Latinos agreed with deporting the
unauthorized. That is not a good base from which to grow the Republican Party.

edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 287 words


Some of the region's best bloggers share work on the All Opinions Are Local
blog. Below, one of last week's posts.

Ever wonder why white opposition to darker-skinned immigrants seems to be
centered in outer suburbs such as Prince William and Stafford counties? An
analysis of new Census data provides the answer.

The reason, the American Community Survey reports, is that immigrants from Latin
America and other places are flocking to small towns and outer suburbs rather
than concentrating in the center of large cities, as had been the case for
immigrants for the last two centuries.

According to a New York Times report, Los Angeles County, a traditional Hispanic
draw, showed little immigrant growth while immigration exploded in suburban
Newton County outside of Atlanta. Closer to home, Stafford County saw its
immigrant population triple during the past decade. Other Virginia hot spots are
Prince William and Loudoun. The Times noted that many Hispanics are drawn to
outer suburbs by lower living costs as well as by once-plentiful construction
jobs that went bust with the recession.

This helps to explain why Stafford County is proposing to get tough on illegal
immigrants, and why Prince William County, led by board of supervisors chairman
and rising state politician Corey A. Stewart, cracked down starting in 2007.

Prince William's law prodded many Hispanics to leave the county, regardless of
their immigration status or citizenship, because they felt they were being
profiled by police. Stewart wants to take the Prince William experience
statewide with his "Virginia Rule of Law" campaign.

The sad truth is that these settlement patterns are sparking racism that had
seemed to be abating in America.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Editor's Query Tell us about a time when ... a show-and-tell didn't go exactly
as planned

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. W16

LENGTH: 243 words


In my fourth-grade public school class, our teacher decided that we were going
to get some culture in Brooklyn. So instead of the usual educational television
with puppets (this was the pre-Muppet era), we had opera piped into our
classroom one afternoon per week, for instance.

And our show-and-tell time was devoted to reports with visual aids on foreign
countries.

When my turn came, I decided to be somewhat original and wrote a report on
immigrants in the early 20th century and their positive impact on U.S. culture.
I included a picture cut out from Time magazine showing what I captioned "a
typical immigrant with his wife."

The photo was of an angular-faced, bearded man and his wife wearing a big furry
hat. My show-and-tell was a big success -- and all of the kids commented on the
terrific photo.

Later that evening, my father told me that my teacher had called the house to
tell him and my mother that they needed to go over my show-and-tell
presentations with me.

Turns out my "typical immigrants" were the founder of the Soviet Union, Vladimir
Lenin, and his wife.

Phyllis Peres,

Takoma Park

New query

Tell us about a time whenyou learned you weren'tas smart as you'd thought.

If you have a 100 percent true story taken from your own experience concerning
the above query, send it to queries@washpost.com or The Washington Post
Magazine, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071. Include your daytime phone
number. Recount your story in 250 words or fewer.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 4, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Taking away immigrant students' chance to 'Dream'

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 291 words


I read with outrage the statements of Maryland House Minority Leader Anthony J.
O'Donnell (R-Calvert) on the Maryland "DREAM" act ["Md. to weigh own 'DREAM'
tuition act," Metro, Dec. 30]. He argued against giving in-state college tuition
benefits to undocumented immigrants who have attended Maryland high schools.

As a recent graduate of a Prince George's County high school, I know from
personal experience what the state is missing by not encouraging talented
immigrant students to attend college here.

I am a U.S. citizen and lifelong Maryland resident, now attending the University
of Maryland. A close friend of mine came to the United States from China when he
was 8 years old. In his time here, he learned to speak English and adopted
American values. We took AP American Government together. When he returned to
China for a visit, he was repulsed by the corruption, censorship and the absence
of democracy he saw there.

Yet, because of his parents' inability to navigate the immigration system in the
United States, he was unable to get U.S. citizenship. After our senior year of
high school, he left for Canada, where he became a citizen and is now attending
the University of Toronto. He's in the school's prestigious engineering science
program.

Our state and, indeed, our country, have lost an intelligent student who
believed in the American system as much as any citizen and who could have
contributed much to this country.

I've met other immigrant students, and I believe that students who have grown up
in the United States and attended our schools become part of our culture. Their
hearts and minds belong to America, as much as those of native-born Americans
do. Why should we treat them any differently?

Maia Werbos,  College Park

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

For National Guard, a new mission along the border

BYLINE: Nick Miroff

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1296 words


On the dusty hilltops west of U.S. Interstate 19, National Guardsmen with M-4
rifles peer down from camouflage tents and surveillance posts, so close to the
border fence they can almost watch TV through the windows of Mexican homes on
the other side.

The troops are members of the Arizona National Guard and Arizona Air National
Guard, sent by the Obama administration last summer amid heightened concerns
about lawlessness and spillover drug violence along the border. Of the 1,200
Guardsmen deployed to the U.S.-Mexico divide, 560 are here in Arizona, where
lawmakers pushed hard for a larger military deployment during a statewide
crackdown on illegal immigration last year.

"We are extra eyes and ears," said Brig. Gen. Jose Salinas of the Arizona
National Guard. "We're out in the open, trying to act as a deterrent, ready to
respond to any kind of weird incident out there."

Salinas said the one-year National Guard mission is a stopgap measure to give
U.S. Customs and Border Protection time to hire more agents. But worsening
cartel violence in Mexico and several high-profile killings on the U.S. side
have raised calls for more National Guardsmen along the border, even though
illegal immigration and crime in the region have declined.

Border-state legislators from both parties -  particularly after the Dec. 14
killing of a Border Patrol agent just north of Nogales - say they view the U.S.
military presence as a long-term necessity, despite rules that mostly limit the
Guardsmen to watching the fence line and prevent them from making arrests or
seizing drugs.

"The border with Mexico is our third front, after Afghanistan and Iraq," said
Rep. Ted Poe (R-Tex.), who has proposed legislation allowing border-state
governors to send 10,000 Guardsmen to the area. "Whether you want to call it a
war zone, or whatever, we need the National Guard because of criminal violence
along the border."

Human rights organizations and policy analysts say the U.S. military deployment
endangers civilians and is wasteful, pointing to FBI statistics showing that
crime in many areas on the U.S. side is at its lowest point in years.

Drug violence has killed more than 30,000 people in Mexico in the past four
years, and the country's powerful trafficking gangs have turned Mexican towns
along the U.S. border into bloody urban battlefields.

Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), whose district includes the state's southeast
corner, where 58-year-old rancher Robert Krentz and his dog were shot and killed
in March, said the troops help keep the mayhem on the other side.

"Mexican and American authorities have gone after cartel kingpins, and because
of the disruption, these gangs are going after each other," Giffords said.
"We're seeing tremendous violence along the border that we haven't seen in the
past."

Once overwhelmed and understaffed, U.S. Customs and Border Protection has been
on a hiring binge in recent years, increasing its number of agents from 10,000
in 2004 to more than 20,500 today, Department of Homeland Security figures show.
Meanwhile, the number of suspected illegal immigrants apprehended by the Border
Patrol has plunged more than 60 percent, from a high of 1.1 million in fiscal
2004 to fewer than 447,500 last fiscal year.

High unemployment in the United States is a major reason for the decrease,
experts say. Although fewer illegal migrants are crossing and several large
urban areas have become safer, drug seizures have increased and tougher
enforcement is pushing traffickers into more remote rural areas. That has led to
several high-profile killings that have fueled fears of encroaching violence.

The most recent came Dec. 14, when Border Patrol agent Brian Terry was killed in
a shootout with a group of bandits devoted to robbing drug smugglers and
immigrants. Four suspects were arrested in the killing, and a fifth is the
target of an ongoing manhunt.

It was the seventh shooting this year on rancher David Lowell's 32,000-acre
property outside Rio Rico, where the jagged Tumacacori Mountains are traversed
with south-north smuggling trails snaking out of Mexico. Two years ago, a man
working for Lowell found a human head inside a plastic bag on a nearby ridge.

"We never found the body that went with it," said Lowell, 82.

Like many landowners here, Lowell said he would like to see a larger and more
muscular military deployment in the region. "I think that if there were a
battalion of troops in Arizona and they did unpleasant things to people that
were breaking the law, the trouble would stop overnight," he said.

The 1,200 National Guard troops are stationed at strategic points along the
2,000-mile border, including both urban and unfenced remote rural areas. But
they are under orders to avoid interacting with civilians on either side, and
they do not make apprehensions, said Salinas, who oversees the partnership with
the Border Patrol and other DHS agencies in his state.

Instead, the troops stand lookout near trafficking hot spots and report illegal
crossings to nearby Border Patrol agents, who make the arrests and narcotics
seizures.

Salinas said he could not discuss his troops' use-of-force policies, citing
security protocols. But the Guardsmen are fully armed, as they would be in any
combat environment, he said. "In the event something happens out there, our
soldiers and airmen understand the rules of use of force," he said.

That is another point of concern for critics of the U.S. military presence. In
1997, U.S. Marines tasked with similar border-guard duties shot and killed an
American high school student near Redford, Tex., who was carrying a .22-caliber
rifle as he tended a herd of goats, an incident that prompted a suspension of
troop patrols.

"There is a tendency for military to think that they're looking at an enemy, and
that's a recipe for disaster," said George Withers, a senior fellow at the
Washington Office on Latin America, a group that tracks U.S. policy in the
region.

Between 2006 and 2008, the Bush administration assigned as many as 6,000
Guardsmen to assist Border Patrol agents in a similar capacity and to help with
border fence improvements as well as other security enhancements. Withers said
the current troop deployment fulfills more of a political need, rather than a
practical one.

"We're treating the National Guard as a kind of 'super police,' and it's just
wrong," he said. "Police are trained to use minimum force to enforce the laws.
The military is trained to use overwhelming lethal force to win wars."

Some Mexican officials have criticized the troop deployment as an unnecessary
"militarization" of the border. But Arturo Sarukhan, Mexico's ambassador to the
United States, said that sending National Guard troops to the border was "a
sovereign decision of the U.S government" and noted that Mexico's military is
widely deployed along its border as well.

Still, Sarukhan said he thought "other U.S. agencies are better suited to engage
with their Mexican counterparts in confronting transnational organized crime
operating on both sides of our border."

Sarukhan said he is also concerned about troops from both countries working in
such close proximity, where demarcation lines are not always clear and
cross-border communication is often lacking.

"We have our armed forces doing drug interdiction and securing the border on our
side, and that could lead to unfortunate mistakes," he said.

In Nogales, activists say the soldiers' presence makes the area appear under
siege.

"They say they're here because it's a dangerous area, but we live here," said
Gustavo Lozano, a coordinator of the group Fronteras Desiguales, which advocates
for migrants and against racial profiling of Latinos in the United States. "I
feel less safe with them here," he said.

miroffn@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Follow that citizenship dream - to Canada

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 117 words


I read with amusement Maia Werbos's lamentation that she "read with outrage"
statements arguing against giving in-state tuition benefits to "undocumented"
immigrants in Maryland. She cited the story of a friend who apparently left the
country and became a Canadian citizen because of his parent's "inability to
navigate the immigration system of the United States" ["Taking away immigrant
students' chance to 'Dream,' " letters, Jan. 4].

If the implication is correct that the friend left the country and became a
Canadian citizen because, as a noncitizen, he could not get a lower tuition
cost, it doesn't sound as if he "believed in the American system as much as any
citizen." At least, not this citizen.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 14, 2011 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrant convictions are upheld

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 898 words


Judges in Virginia may not use an obscure writ to reopen the cases of immigrants
who say they weren't told that a criminal conviction could lead to their
deportation, the Virginia Supreme Court ruled Thursday.

The high court's ruling came in an Alexandria case in which a Circuit Court
judge revisited a 12-year-old case involving a permanent legal resident from
Liberia. The defendant had pleaded guilty to embezzling $15,000, and was
sentenced to one year in jail. Even immigrants with legal status, or "green
cards," are subject to deportation for crimes involving sentences of a year or
more, and when the man applied for citizenship years later, he was ordered
deported.

The man, Emmanuel Morris, said his attorney told him in 1997 that his plea would
not affect his permanent residency. Revisiting the case in 2009, Alexandria
Circuit Court Judge Donald M. Haddock reduced Morris's sentence to 364 days,
making him ineligible for deportation. Similarly, a Norfolk Circuit Court judge
in 2009 retroactively reduced permanent resident Wellyn Chan's 2005 sentence for
misdemeanor assault from a year to 360 days.

More recently, a General District Court judge in Loudoun County has vacated the
convictions of people who say their attorneys didn't tell them of the
immigration consequences of their pleas, allowing them to restart their cases
over the objections of prosecutors there.

Immigration lawyers in Virginia were heartened by the U.S. Supreme Court's
ruling in Padilla v. Kentucky, which found that failing to advise a defendant of
immigration implications was a violation of the Sixth Amendment right to
effective counsel. But Virginia's rules on post-trial relief are strict: a
21-day period to file post-trial motions, and up to two years to file a habeas
corpus motion, which may be filed only by a defendant in custody.

So lawyers in the commonwealth filed writs of "coram vobis," meaning the "error
before us." They argued that the original defense attorneys' failure to tell
their clients, and the court, of any immigration consequences was a factual
error that required the case to be reopened.

The Virginia Supreme Court rejected that argument. In a ruling joined by the
entire court, Justice Donald W. Lemons wrote that "ineffective assistance of
counsel does not constitute an error of fact for the purposes of coram vobis."

Lemons addressed the Padilla issue, saying that "while Morris and Chan may have
suffered ineffective assistance of counsel according to Padilla, and may have
been successful had they timely filed petitions for writs of habeas corpus,
neither did so." Neither defendant learned of the problems their convictions
would cause them until years after they had completed their sentences.

"This is the right result," Alexandria Commonwealth's Attorney S. Randolph
Sengel said. "If it does nothing else, hopefully this decision will curtail the
filing of these writs in state courts in Virginia and put issues of immigration
consequences of old criminal convictions in the proper forum, which is the
federal immigration court."

But Mary Holper, a former immigration lawyer in Virginia and now a law professor
and immigration clinic director at the Roger Williams University School of Law,
said the state court made a mistake. "The Virginia Supreme Court has effectively
rendered the U.S. Supreme Court's powerful Padilla decision useless in the
state," she said.

Holper said the suggestion that these issues be handled in immigration courts is
misplaced. "Once someone has an aggravated felony conviction," Holper said,
"there's no 'dealing with it' in deportation proceedings. It means mandatory
deportation."

Morris's attorney, Jennifer S. Varughese, said she was considering an appeal to
the U.S. Supreme Court, which she said recognized the harshness of federal
immigration courts in its Padilla ruling.

Morris was a refugee from the civil war in Liberia and obtained permanent legal
resident status. He acknowledged that while employed at a Sears store, he was
part of a buy-and-return scam. Haddock suspended all but one month of his
one-year sentence and ordered him to pay $15,000 restitution, which he did.

Morris married, became a pastor, a father of four and active social worker in
North Carolina. Deportation proceedings against him were delayed, not dropped,
when he appealed his old Alexandria case, and they are set to resume in March,
Varughese said.

She said Haddock recognized that Morris had paid his debt to society, and the
judge wrote that he would have sentenced Morris to 364 days in 1997 if he had
been aware of the immigration situation. "It would be a travesty for him to
return to Liberia," leaving his family and ministry behind, Varughese said.

Dan Kesselbrenner, executive director of the National Immigration Project of the
National Lawyers Guild, said that state courts nationwide have taken a mixed
approach on whether Padilla  should apply retroactively and that states have
different rules on how long defendants have to revisit their convictions.

"But in a world with common sense," Kesselbrenner said, "you wouldn't have
prosecutors going in and appealing a one-day sentence reduction."

Loudoun Chief Deputy Commonwealth's Attorney James P. Fisher said that the
ruling was "a victory for the rule of law" and that "this should stop the flow
of petitions that have continued to roll into our courts in Loudoun."

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Administration giving up on full 'virtual fence' on border

BYLINE: Jeremy Pelofsky

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 251 words


The Obama administration canceled Friday the troubled, billion-dollar "virtual
fence" project along the U.S. border with Mexico and said it will turn to other
security measures to better guard the desert region.

The SBInet project, begun in 2006 and run by Boeing, was designed to pull
together video cameras, radar, sensors and other technologies to catch illegal
immigrants and smugglers trying to cross the porous border.

But it faced setbacks, missed deadlines and cost overruns. The Department of
Homeland Security said the project spent $1 billion to cover just 53 miles in
Arizona.

In its place, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said, commercially
available surveillance systems, unmanned aerial drones, thermal imaging and
other equipment will be used. This new approach should cost less than $750
million to cover the rest of Arizona's border, some 323 miles, the department
said.

"This new strategy is . . . a more effective balance between cost and
capability," Napolitano said in a statement.

The Obama administration has been under pressure to beef up security to stem the
flow of illegal immigrants crossing the U.S.-Mexico border and halt the
smuggling of drugs and weapons.

Last year, President Obama signed a $600 million bill to fund  1,500 new Border
Patrol agents, customs inspectors and law enforcement officials along the border
and to pay for two more unmanned drones.

Additionally, he ordered about 1,200 National Guard troops to the southwest
border to help with security.

- Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 22, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The helping hands career women need

BYLINE: ;Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 798 words


This is the story of four ambitious professional women and a maid.

The women are Amy Chua, Meg Whitman, Sonia Chang and my wife. They don't share a
single maid but a common theme, one true for most hard-charging professional
women: Domestic help has been critical in their success as workers and mothers.

This is the case regardless of whether they use American child-rearing practices
or the Asian ones that Chua addresses in her provocative new book, "Battle Hymn
of the Tiger Mother." And in America today, domestic help usually means an
immigrant, often here illegally.

Women's liberation, of course, doesn't owe its success to immigrant maids. But
they helped. In 1970, just 40 percent of married women with children
participated in the labor force; in 2007, 69 percent did. The number of domestic
workers grew right behind it, according to the International Labor Organization.
Unskilled African American women, meanwhile, largely turned against being the
household help, and after 1970, according to the Domestic Workers United union,
the field became dominated by droves of arriving immigrants.

The number of domestic workers grew right behind it, according to the
International Labor Organization and the Pew Hispanic Center's reading of census
numbers. One domestic workers union found that the composition of maids changed
from African-American-dominated to immigrant-dominated around 1970.

A study last year by Patricia Cortes, an economist at Boston University, found
that low-skilled immigration has allowed women in the top 25 percent  of female
wage earners to work longer hours at the office, if only because they use a maid
a few hours a week to help with cleaning. Cortes found that the most highly
skilled women, such as doctors, lawyers and MBAs, use cheap immigrant labor
extensively at home, allowing them to put in the 50- and 60-hour workweeks that
have helped more of these women break the glass ceiling and get top jobs.

This was the story behind Meg Whitman's rise to CEO of eBay and her candidacy
last year for governor of California. Whitman was leading in the polls until it
was revealed in September that she had fired her longtime Latina housekeeper for
being undocumented.

It was not only Hispanics who abandoned Whitman but also Anglo female
professionals and ladies who lunch. Their reliance on the Latina housekeeper,
who is now iconic in California, led them to see Whitman as disloyal.

This is where my wife comes in. She is a New Yorker, and the Latina maid is
entrenched there and in other big cities, too. Years ago, when our two daughters
were small, we hired a young Paraguayan woman, Mabel Galeano, as a nanny and
housekeeper. My wife was a senior music executive who worked late and traveled a
lot, as did I.

We soon learned that Mabel was in the country illegally. We sponsored her for a
green card and helped her take English and computer courses, in part because my
wife felt that she owed her career success to Mabel: My wife didn't have to rush
to the day-care center before 6 p.m. or forgo business trips. When home, she was
able to focus on our daughters and not on chores.

Today, Mabel is a U.S. citizen with her own family and a good job managing the
household staffs of wealthy families.

Working Asian mothers have the same work-life concerns, as Sonia Chang attests.
She is a 38-year-old Korean American brand manager for Samsung, and I happen to
be sitting next to her on a plane as I write this.

For her business trip to London, Chang has left her 3-year-old son with her
husband and an elderly Korean babysitter. Still, Chang is worried, and she
wonders whether their family should move to Korea so that grandparents can help
with the children as she tries to move up the career ladder. Asians
traditionally rely on extended family for help, but the moving around of modern
careers is ending that practice for them as it has ended it for many Americans.

Much recent discussion about Amy Chua's book has centered on whether her Asian
parenting practices are too harsh. But separate from that, it's a serious issue
that the U.S. economy will suffer if talented American women leave their jobs or
cut back on their hours because of a lack of affordable help at home.

All this suggests a serious need to legalize the immigrant domestic workers here
illegally and to set up a temporary worker program for more.  It also suggests
that women, who favor legalization more than men, need to speak up in the
immigration debate.

Chua is a distinguished Yale law professor who had a Chinese nanny for her
children. She was previously best known for a book in which she found that the
major empires of history rose when they were tolerant to immigrants and declined
when they weren't. Somewhere, maids fit into that.

edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

BYLINE: MATT MILLER

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 620 words


It was the eloquent, post-partisan, uniter-not-a-divider President Obama who
appeared in the House chamber Tuesday night. It was his second State of the
Union address, but the first with the lift and vision of his best campaign
speeches.

Obama managed to frame the initiatives he proposes in terms that were all but
impossible to argue with. Who, after all, wants to fall behind China? Who
doesn't want our schools to be the best? Who prefers crumbling bridges to
non-crumbling ones? Who doesn't like economic growth? Who does like outdated and
needless government regulations?

It is by now a cliche to say that Obama found his presidential voice in the
moving tribute he gave to the victims of the Tucson massacre. He used that voice
to frame issues in such a way that even his most implacable Republican opponents
had to applaud.

There were too many examples of this rhetorical legerdemain to note them all.
One of my favorites was the way he talked about immigration. He lumped together
what had been seen as two distinct questions - whether to allow more highly
trained foreign students to stay in the country on "high-tech" visas after they
graduate, a measure popular among some business sectors; and whether to allow
the children of illegal immigrants to remain here if they fulfill certain
requirements under the stalled Dream Act. How was a pro-business Republican
supposed to react? Obama made it difficult to applaud the one without also
applauding the other.

Rare is the State of the Union speech that truly soars. This one didn't. But it
seemed to chart ways to get over, under, around and through some of the
roadblocks obstructing Obama's policy proposals.

Republicans could make a good case that these were just liberal ideas with new,
post-partisan packaging. But critics still have to deal with the fact that it
was a pretty package indeed.

I'm always hopeful on State of the Union night, and always disappointed.
President Obama was stirring in his call to renew the American dream in an era
when we need to raise our game. But his proposals don't come close to shaking up
the status quo in ways that can make good on his vision.

Take education, the key to the future. Everyone knows teachers matter most. If
this really were a Sputnik moment, the president wouldn't merely implore young
Americans to "become a teacher" because "your country needs you." He'd vow to
make teaching the most attractive profession in America for talented young
people, the way top-performing school systems in Singapore, Finland and South
Korea do. On our current course, we'll instead continue recruiting teachers from
the bottom two-thirds of college classes, while serious nations offer the
training, pay and prestige that lures top talent to the classroom, with superior
results.

Or take the long-term deficit mess. A domestic spending freeze that saves $400
billion over 10 years grabs headlines and sounds big. But government will spend
$45 trillion over that period, so we have a bold call to shave less than 1
percent from projected federal spending. "Painful"? You decide.

There's plenty more in this vein. I love Obama's vision and wish I could
believe. But between his speech, and Rep. Paul Ryan's pinched response, the
truth remains this: Neither party has a political strategy that includes solving
the country's biggest problems. Both major parties have strategies for winning
elections while pretending to solve them, which is something very different. The
historian Richard Hofstadter argued that the role of third-party movements in
America is to sting like a bee and then die - because after proving a big enough
constituency exists for needed reform, their agenda gets co-opted. Let the
stinging begin. . .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant database failed to catch suspect before rape

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1544 words


Salvador Portillo-Saravia, a member of the MS-13 street gang, was charged with
raping an 8-year-old girl at her Fairfax County home last month. But he never
should have been in Fairfax in the first place.

Federal officials deported Portillo-Saravia, of Sterling, to El Salvador in
2003, and he sneaked back in illegally. Now, officials are wondering why a
much-touted federal program didn't catch him before the rape.

Four weeks before the crime, Portillo-Saravia was in the Loudoun County jail for
public intoxication. That's when the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
program, called Secure Communities, should have identified him as an illegal
immigrant and he should have been taken into custody.

Loudoun authorities ran Portillo-Saravia's fingerprints through a federal
database, but despite the 2003 deportation, nothing was found. He was released
after 12 hours behind bars.

Portillo-Saravia, 29, is now the subject of a manhunt by local police and
federal marshals.

Officials involved with Secure Communities and immigration experts said the
incident points to confusion about how the program should work and to gaps in
the immigration database. Many people who were deported before 2005, including
Portillo-Saravia, are not in the fingerprint database, ICE officials said.

Jail officials in Virginia and Maryland who have relied on the program said they
were not aware of the gap in the database.

"I was under the impression that everybody they had contact with was in the
system," said Michael L. Wade, the sheriff in Henrico County, Va.

"Secure Communities is a very good program, but it's not a magic solution and
shouldn't be sold that way," said Jessica Vaughan, a senior policy analyst at
the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that advocates
tighter immigration controls. "This is why you do go after low-level offenders,
because it can turn out they are a threat to public safety."

Secure Communities was rolled out in October 2008 amid much fanfare as a way to
transform immigration enforcement, ICE officials said then. Jails would
fingerprint all arrestees, not just those suspected of being in the country
illegally. Those prints would run through FBI and Department of Homeland
Security databases, and ICE would flag immigration offenders for possible
deportation.

But it didn't work in Portillo-Saravia's case.

Loudoun jail deputies submitted Portillo-Saravia's fingerprints on Nov. 21 and
received a "no match" message. Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for ICE, said Loudoun
then should have done a manual record check or contacted ICE if the person was
"foreign-born and of concern to local law enforcement."

Loudoun Sheriff Stephen Simpson was frustrated by Hale's response. Simpson said
that ICE advertised the program as a way to electronically check all people
arrested as soon as they are fingerprinted, eliminating the need for additional
investigation.

"Nobody's ever heard of calling for a manual check," he said. "The point of the
program was it replaced the need to do what they now say we should have done."

He added, "We did everything we were supposed to do."

If deputies investigate after a "no match," he said, "that's when we start
getting ourselves in trouble" by raising the issue of racial profiling.

Other local officials agreed that it would be too much of a burden to do a
manual check.

"Unless we hired an additional cadre of 20 to 50 deputies, it would be an
impossible task," Fairfax County Sheriff Stan Barry said.

Said Mary Lou McDonough, director of the Prince George's County jail: "We
process about 25,000 people a year. There's no way I'm going to second-guess" a
"no match" result. "They either have a federal detainer or they don't. If they
don't, they go."

Even though Portillo-Saravia had been deported, ICE officials said, he wasn't in
their IDENT database, which has fingerprint and biometric data for more than 91
million people. Fingerprints before 2005 were taken the old-fashioned way, by
rolling ink-stained fingertips on a card, ICE said, so people deported before
2005 may not be in the electronic system.

From 2001 to 2005, the United States deported more than 751,000 people,
according to ICE statistics. ICE officials do not know how many of those people
were fingerprinted manually and are not in the database.

Hale said that, as a result of the Portillo-Saravia case, ICE will send a
reminder to all program participants that they should consider taking extra
steps, such as requesting a manual records check or contacting ICE directly, if
they receive a "no match" message but still suspect an immigration violation.

Simpson said he sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
and Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) calling for ICE to place an automatic detainer on
all people who are deported, in case they return to the country.

Secure Communities is used by 986 jurisdictions in 38 states, including every
jail in Virginia and the jails in Prince George's, Frederick, Queen Anne, St.
Mary's and Anne Arundel counties in Maryland. It is not used in jails in the
District. By 2013, ICE hopes to have the technology hooked up in jails
nationwide, with the intent of detaining and deporting illegal immigrants
convicted of crimes.

In slightly more than two years, jails nationwide have submitted 5.5 million
sets of fingerprints through Secure Communities, resulting in the deportation of
more than 58,000 people, according to ICE statistics.

The program remains controversial, with some law enforcement officials saying
that the prospect of deportation discourages immigrants from cooperating with
police or reporting crime.

Arlington is trying to remove itself from the program - Virginia State Police
signed up the entire state in 2009 - because officials think it threatens public
safety by promoting distrust between police and the immigrant community, the
county's board declared in a resolution last fall.

Secure Communities overcame the concerns of some sheriffs, such as Simpson and
Barry, by allowing checks of every arrestee, to avoid racial-profiling
accusations. If an illegal immigrant was arrested in a serious crime, had a
conviction or a pending detainer, or had been deported, ICE would notify the
jail to hold him for pickup by immigration authorities when he was due to be
released.

ICE said Portillo-Saravia illegally entered the country in 2000. He was deported
in October 2003 after what ICE called an encounter with the Prince William
police gang unit. It is not known when he reentered the country, but reentry is
a federal offense.

When Portillo-Saravia was arrested Nov. 21 on a public intoxication charge,
Simpson said, his department sent Portillo-Saravia's fingerprints to the ICE
database.

"We never heard anything from them," he said. "By law, if we don't have anything
to hold them on, then away they go. We didn't know any more about him than he
was arrested. We had no reason to believe he was a gang member. There was no
other reason for him to be on our radar screen. Why it didn't hit, I don't have
a clue."

On Dec. 26, Portillo-Saravia was visiting a home on Cardigan Square in
Centreville with a friend. Fairfax police said Portillo-Saravia's friend was
dating a woman who lived there. The woman has an 8-year-old daughter.

Fairfax Detective Darrin DeCoster said Portillo-Saravia went to the girl's room
and sexually assaulted her at 10:30 a.m., while other people were in the house.
No one heard the attack, but the girl reported it to her mother that day, and
"we do have evidence to support that allegation," DeCoster said.

Vaughan, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said the case "illustrates a
number of the pros and cons of the Secure Communities program," such as that
"ICE has not been giving the local users of Secure Communities enough
information on how they should handle these 'no matches' when they happen.
Leadership in that [ICE] office acts like it's apologetic, pandering, instead of
getting out and using it more actively."

The fact that Portillo-Saravia's prints weren't in the database indicates that
"maybe there is a large class of people who aren't," Vaughan said.

Vaughan, who said she studied gang and immigration issues closely in Northern
Virginia in 2005 and 2006, said the Secure Communities program isn't clear on
how jails should respond to a "no match" message. "Having Secure Communities
doesn't relieve the local officers of the responsibility of asking foreign
nationals questions," she said. "That's a policy choice the sheriff is making.
But that may be a faulty impression based on what he got from ICE."

Michele Waslin, a senior policy analyst at the Immigration Policy Center, which
has raised concerns about Secure Communities, said it was "ridiculous" for ICE
to say Loudoun should have done further checks on Portillo-Saravia. "The fact is
they did everything right, but he didn't appear."

Waslin added, "This is what they're pushing as the answer to everything. Clearly
it's not. That's why it's important for police to have good relations with their
communities, so people share information with them, maybe tell them who's not
here legally. But if you're scaring everybody in the community, because they're
afraid you're going to deport them, you're not going to get that information."

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 534 words


Sens. David Vitter (R-La.) and Rand Paul (R-Ky.) introduced a proposal last week
to amend the Constitution "so that children born in the United States are only
considered automatic citizens if one parent is a U.S. citizen, one parent is a
legal immigrant, or one parent is an active member of the Armed Forces. They
could also follow the traditional naturalization process to attain citizenship."

As a preliminary matter, recall that Paul ran as a "constitutional
conservative." Apparently, that did not mean he was enamored of maintaining
elements of the Constitution that have operated since the Civil War. There is
nothing conservative about a radical constitutional revision, the need for which
has yet to be established.

Usually when a constitutional amendment is proposed there is some agreement that
a problem exists of such magnitude that the Constitution should be altered.
Here, the amendment is offered in search of a problem.

Proponents of repealing birthright citizenship argue that scores of illegal
immigrants come here to have "anchor babies," who can then help their parents
establish citizenship. Recall the cringe-inducing comments of Sen. Lindsey
Graham, who posited that "people come here to have babies. They come here to
drop a child. It's called 'drop and leave.' " Aside from the grotesque imagery,
the problem with this assertion is that it's largely false.

Immigration studies by the Pew Hispanic Center and Douglas Massey of the Mexican
Migration Project have demonstrated that the drivers for immigration are jobs
and family reunification. Roughly 80 percent of immigrant mothers in 2008-09 had
been in this country since 2005, and 90 to 95 percent were here more than a year
before having a child. Moreover, a child cannot under federal immigration law
help a parent attain citizenship until that child is 21. Pregnant women are not,
en masse, stumbling over the Rio Grande in search of the closest obstetrics
wing.

A recent Migration Policy Institute study suggested that the consequences of
declaring that children born in the States to illegal immigrants are themselves
illegal would, by 2050, lead to a 44 percent increase in the illegal immigrant
population. And with each generation the number grows.

Given the paucity of evidence that birthright immigration is a significant
issue, the hurdle of enacting a constitutional amendment and the negative
consequences that would follow from repeal of birthright citizenship, Dan
Griswold of the Cato Institute doesn't think the Vitter-Paul proposal is going
anywhere. As long as Americans understand that "anchor baby" immigration is not
a "widespread phenomenon," he contends, the idea won't get much traction.

There is also the moral question. At issue are children who had no say in their
parents' decisions. They know no country other than the United States. And
Vitter and Paul want to go searching for these children, presumably deny them
employment and/or benefits, and expel them so that we will dissuade other adults
from coming here?

It is this sort of unreasoned and extreme idea that raised concerns about Paul's
judgment during the campaign. Those of us who criticized him, unfortunately, may
turn out to be prescient.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 4, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Minorities quickly become the new majority

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 326 words


Prince William County's Hispanic and Asian populations nearly tripled in the
past decade and the number of blacks doubled, transforming the county into a
majority minority jurisdiction, according to data released Thursday by the
Census Bureau.

The county's overall population grew by 40 percent, topping 400,000. Almost a
third of those residents are under the age of 18, crowding schools in Prince
William's fast-growing western end. Many of the newcomers are immigrants or the
children of immigrants.

In some Linton Hall elementary schools, "there are 60 different languages being
spoken," said Prince William County Supervisor W.S. Covington III
(R-Brentsville).

Non-Hispanic whites now make up just under half the county's population. In
2000, they accounted for 65 percent of the residents.

By contrast, the percentage of Hispanics soared over the past decade. They now
account for about 20 percent of the population compared with 2000, when
Hispanics made up about 10 percent.

Their numbers might have been even higher if the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors hadn't begun requiring police officers to check the immigration
status of anyone arrested. The controversial policy prompted thousands of
Hispanics to move out of the county between 2007 and 2009, according to recent
studies by the University of Virginia and the Migration Policy Institute.

The new census numbers found that the county's black and multiracial populations
have doubled.

Prince William's western suburbs experienced dizzying growth over the past
decade, with Linton Hall increasing by 28,000 residents and Gainesville by
7,200. On the opposite end of the county, Woodbridge lost 87 percent of its
population, according to the data.

County supervisors have passed various resolutions in the past decade to stall
growth until more schools and roads could be built. Residential growth has been
halted in the western end until three new schools open this fall.

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Suspect in rape held in Texas

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 375 words


A man wanted on rape charges in Fairfax County - who had been released from
custody in Loudoun County a month before the assault because of a gap in
immigration databases - was captured Sunday in Houston, Fairfax police said
Monday.

Salvador Portillo-Saravia was being held in a Houston jail pending extradition
to Fairfax. His case has highlighted flaws in the Secure Communities program,
which is meant to keep dangerous illegal immigrants off the street.

Authorities said that Portillo-Saravia, 29, was a member of the street gang
MS-13 and that he had been picked up by gang officers in Prince William County
in 2003 and deported to El Salvador.

Portillo-Saravia sneaked back into the United States and was arrested again in
Loudoun in November. Loudoun sheriff's deputies submitted his fingerprints
through the Secure Communities program. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement
database should have flagged him as having been deported, and he should have
remained jailed.

But Portillo-Saravia's prints came back with a "no match." Charged only with the
misdemeanor of being drunk in public, Portillo-Saravia was released after 12
hours in the Loudoun jail.

About a month later, on the day after Christmas, he was accused of raping an
8-year-old girl in her home in Centreville. A massive manhunt began.

When it was revealed last week that Portillo-Saravia had been in the Loudoun
jail a month earlier, ICE disclosed that the fingerprints of many deportees
obtained before 2005 had not been taken electronically and are not in the
database. Participants in the Secure Communities program, which includes every
jail in Virginia, said they were unaware that the database was not
comprehensive.

ICE officials said they were reviewing their files to see how manually inked
fingerprints can be scanned into the database used by the Secure Communities
program. U.S. Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) sent a letter to ICE asking for a
report on how the problem can be fixed.

Fairfax Police Officer Don Gotthardt said that agents with ICE in Washington and
Houston, federal marshals and Fairfax detectives were involved in tracking and
capturing Portillo-Saravia. He is charged with forcible rape and forcible sodomy
in the Dec. 26 attack on the girl.

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Tuition hearingdraws emotions

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 1082 words


They watch music videos on YouTube, crave chicken sandwiches from McDonald's and
load up on Advanced Placement classes at school. They have spent most of their
young lives in Maryland, striving for success at local high schools. But because
they are undocumented immigrants, when it comes time to graduate, they must pay
three times the tuition charged to fellow classmates to attend one of the
state's public colleges and universities.

Immigration advocates and dozens of students made highly personal appeals to a
state Senate committee Wednesday, asking lawmakers to treat these teenagers as
they would any other graduate of a Maryland high school: by giving them in-state
tuition breaks.

A bill introduced by Sen. Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George's) would offer
in-state tuition to undocumented immigrants who attended at least two years of
high school in Maryland and whose parents pay taxes. Students would have to
express an intent to apply for legal status in the United States.

"This bill holds the hopes and dreams of hundreds of students," a Prince
George's County high school senior, Jacqueline Midence, told the committee.
Midence arrived from El Salvador in 2007 and is part of her school's National
Honor Society. "Most of us here today did not have a choice in coming to the
United States. The choice that I have made is to contribute."

But with tensions running high nationwide over illegal immigrationand fierce
competition for admission to the University of Maryland and other four-year
institutions, advocates may have to accept a compromise backed by Senate
leaders.

"We've got to find a way to accommodate the interests of these constituents no
matter how they got here but also recognize that there are people whose
grandparents and parents played by the rules and now cannot get into one of
Maryland's four-year colleges," said Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller Jr.
(D-Calvert).

Ten other states, including California, Illinois, New York and Texas, have
in-state tuition measures on the books. A bill similar to the one being
considered in Maryland passed both chambers in 2003, but it was vetoed by
then-Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R).

Strong opposition remains among Republican lawmakers, who have introduced a
series of measures this session that target illegal immigrants.

At the Senate hearing Wednesday, Sen. Bryan W. Simonaire (R-Anne Arundel) said
he has reservations about using taxpayer money to subsidize "those who have not
come to America properly. There is no law in Maryland prohibiting them from
going to college. This bill is just trying to give them a break."

That sentiment was echoed by a group of citizens opposed to the bill who also
attended the hearing.

"I have no problem with these kids going to college," said Bernadette Sgorski of
Harford County. "But I do not want my taxpayer dollars used to subsidize their
tuition."

The measure has the backing of the University System of Maryland, a coalition of
religious leaders and county executives Isiah Leggett (D) of Montgomery and
Rushern L. Baker III (D) of Prince George's, both of whom testified at the
hearing.

"Our investment in our students should not end with a high school diploma,"
Baker said in prepared remarks.

But even some Democrats are concerned about giving coveted in-state seats to
undocumented immigrants because it could deny spaces to other state residents.

"It's important to give opportunities to these kids who are here through no
fault of their own," said Sen. Brian E. Frosh (D-Montgomery). "But it makes me
uncomfortable to the extent those opportunities come directly at the expense of
somebody else who qualifies for admission."

Sen. Joan Carter Conway (D-Baltimore), chairman of the education committee, said
she plans to offer a compromise that would provide reduced-rate tuition at
community colleges, regardless of immigration status. Students who receive
associate degrees could then transfer to a four-year institution and pay
in-state rates.

For the students who have the most at stake, the push to change the law is all
about affordability.

"Some of us want to be someone in the future, and not just anyone. I don't just
want to be working at McDonald's," said Ivette, a Silver Spring high school
senior enrolled in AP literature who aspires to be a psychologist. Like other
students interviewed, Ivette agreed to talk only on a first-name basis out of
concern about potential legal liabilities stemming from being identified.

Many of the students say they cannot rely on their parents for financial help.
Their mothers and fathers clean offices, repair houses or work in restaurants
for little more than minimum wage.

Karolina, who graduated from a Montgomery high school in 2008, babysits and
helps her mother clean houses to cover the cost of classes at Montgomery
College. She was inspired to pursue a career in nursing after volunteering at
Holy Cross Hospital and hopes to transfer to the nursing program at the
University of Maryland, Baltimore.

For Karolina, the fate of the bill has huge financial implications: the
difference between $7,100 for in-state students and $25,000 for out-of-state
ones.

Karolina, who arrived from Peru a decade ago, choked up when talking about how
she would pay the full fare.

"It's like a big rock that you carry wherever you go," she said.

Federal law prohibits states from providing in-state rates to undocumented
immigrants unless these rates are offered to all students. States that provide
in-state tuition have gotten around the prohibition by basing eligibility on
attendance at a local high school - not residency - an approach upheld by the
California Supreme Court.

But there are conflicting practices and legal interpretations within Maryland.

Conservative legal group Judicial Watch sued Montgomery College in January over
its practice of offering discounted tuition rates to undocumented immigrants who
have graduated from county high schools. The group alleges that the college's
policy violates federal law and has cost taxpayers millions in lost tuition
fees.

Prince George's Community College, in contrast, makes undocumented immigrants
pay full tuition  because of a 2006 attorney  general's opinion, which is not
legally binding. The attorney general said the college "lacks the authority to
waive the out-of-county tuition rates for undocumented aliens." State law, the
opinion says, "does not afford the board the discretion to determine whether to
charge such rates in this situation."

marimowa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

New details emerge in attack on U.S. immigration agents in Mexico

BYLINE: William Booth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 455 words


MEXICO CITY - As his fellow officer was dying in the seat beside him after
gunmen ambushed their vehicle this week, U.S. special agent Victor Avila,
wounded himself, telephoned the U.S. Embassy here to shout that they were under
attack.

New details emerged Friday from U.S. officials on Tuesday's  daylight assault
against two U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.

Avila and Jaime Zapata were traveling in an armored Chevrolet Suburban with
diplomatic license plates on a popular four-lane highway four hours north of
Mexico City. They were returning from a meeting with fellow agents in Monterrey,
who had met them at a halfway point near San Luis Potosi to exchange technical
equipment.

According to U.S. officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of
security protocols, Zapata and Avila were pursued by armed gunmen in civilian
clothes riding in several vehicles.

The agents were forced to the side of the road and, when their passenger-side
window briefly opened, the assailants fired several rounds into their vehicle,
fatally shooting Zapata, who was driving, and wounding Avila in the leg.

The agents got the window closed again, and Avila called the security detail at
the U.S. Embassy. The gunmen opened fire at the vehicle again but could not
penetrate its bulletproof armor and glass. Investigators counted more than 80
shell casings near the SUV.

U.S. Embassy officials said neither Avila nor Zapata was armed and so did not
return fire. The Mexican government forbids U.S. federal agents to carry
weapons, exempting only officials involved in protective services.

At a memorial service for Zapata on Friday, U.S. Ambassador Carlos Pascual spoke
of Avila's "steadfastness and courage" as he called in the attack after the
gunmen aimed at his head through the window.

The armored vehicle and Avila's phone call saved his life. Mexican federal
police quickly arrived, followed by a helicopter that flew Avila to a hospital.
He was later flown to Ben Taub General Hospital in Houston and is now recovering
at home. Zapata's body was returned to his family in Texas.

At the memorial service, ICE Assistant Director Lou Alvarez called Zapata "a
great agent." He vowed that Zapata's death would not be forgotten as U.S. and
Mexican authorities seek his killers.

Investigators are searching for both a motive and the identity of the
assailants, who escaped. It is unclear whether the agents were followed or
targeted, or whether they were victims of a criminal gang that wanted to steal
the car or rob them. Several reports have suggested that the Zetas drug cartel
was responsible, but U.S. law enforcement officials warned that it was too early
in the investigation to pinpoint a culprit.

boothb@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Ex-ICE intelligence chief under investigation

BYLINE: Andrew Beckerby Andrew Becker

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 624 words


Several agents with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, including the
former head of the agency's intelligence office, are subjects of an internal
inquiry into alleged personal misconduct, sources say.

James M. Woosley, who was ICE's assistant director for intelligence, was
relieved of his position, according to a Department of Homeland Security
official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the probe is ongoing.
Several other mid- to low-level ICE employees are also subjects of the
investigation. The probe surrounding Woosley has to do with travel receipts and
a subordinate, sources said.

Woosley's departure precipitated a shuffle of ICE leadership, with a new
intelligence director and a new chief of immigration enforcement and removal
operations quickly named. ICE officials announced the changes to employees
earlier this month.

ICE spokesman Brian P. Hale said the agency and the Department of Homeland
Security's inspector general initiated the probe of alleged misconduct
"involving a small number of employees," but he declined to comment further
until the investigation is complete.

"Agency programs are unaffected by the investigation, and the office in question
will continue normal operations," Hale said in a statement.

Woosley could not be reached for comment.

The personnel changes came about a week before two ICE agents based at the U.S.
Embassy in Mexico City were shotFeb. 15 as they drove to the capital from
Monterrey in northern Mexico. One agent, Jaime Zapata, died from his injuries.
Funeral services were held Tuesday in Texas, and Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano, U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and ICE Director John
Morton attended.

Woosley worked in federal law enforcement for 28 years, mostly with the former
Immigration and Naturalization Service, according to his biography, which has
been removed from ICE's Web site. He had assignments in Washington, El Paso, Los
Angeles, Tucson and Phoenix, as well as attache offices in South and Central
America.

Before he was appointed in June 2009 to lead ICE intelligence efforts, Woosley
directed the agency's Arizona field intelligence group in Tucson. Earlier posts
included a stint as ICE's interim director for intelligence, assistant regional
INS director in Laguna Nigel, Calif., and INS deputy assistant commissioner for
intelligence.

At a special hearing before the House Intelligence Committee in August 2006,
Woosley testified about an intelligence-gathering program that gleaned
information from hundreds of thousands of immigrants detained annually by ICE.
The information was shared with the FBI, the intelligence community and other
federal agencies.

James M. Chaparrohas replaced Woosley as ICE intelligence chief. Until recently,
Chaparro ran the agency's enforcement and removal operations. According to his
biography, he previously served as deputy undersecretary for operations at the
Homeland Security office of intelligence and analysis, and as director of the
Human Smuggling and Trafficking Center, among other posts.

Last March, Chaparro came under fire for a leaked memo he wrote shortly after
taking over the agency's detention and removal operations. The internal e-mail,
made public by The Washington Post, outlined tactics to increase deportation
numbers, including the use of quotas.

Gary Mead replaces Chaparro as the head of enforcement and removal operations.
Mead retired from ICE in 2008 and became a criminal justice and immigration
consultant, but returned in November 2009 to the agency and served in various
leadership roles.

Andrew Becker is a reporter for the Center for Investigative Reporting, a
nonprofit news organization based in Berkeley, Calif. He can be reached at
abecker@cironline.org

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 351 words

SPACE STATION

Astronauts performmaintenance on walk

A pair of visiting astronauts ventured out on a spacewalk Monday at the
international space station, tackling a variety  of maintenance jobs and an
experiment to capture the invisible vacuum of space.

The spacewalk was interrupted after two hours when a robotic work station shut
down in the orbiting lab.

For nearly a half-hour, the station arm was motionless, with spacewalker Stephen
Bowen stuck on its end, gripping a broken pump that needed to be moved.

Finally, two astronauts operating the robot arm got another computer station
working, and the operation resumed.

This was the first of two spacewalks planned for Discovery's farewell flight.

The biggest job involved the relocation of the failed ammonia coolant pump. It
was replaced last summer in a series of  spacewalks. Back then, the space
station residents ran out of time before they could secure the broken device in
its proper place. NASA hopes to return the pump on one of the two remaining
shuttle flights.

- Associated Press

MISSISSIPPI

Suit accuses firm of biasagainst non-immigrants

A Mississippi company that pleaded guilty to conspiracy related to the nation's
largest workplace raid on illegal immigrants is facing a lawsuit accusing it of
discriminating against non-immigrants who applied for jobs.

A discrimination lawsuit filed Friday in U.S. District Court on behalf of four
black women claims the company gave preferential treatment to Latino applicants
and workers, many of whom were illegal immigrants from Mexico. The lawsuit seeks
class-action status.

Immigration agents detained nearly 600 illegal immigrants at Howard Industries'
electrical transformer plant in Laurel in 2008. It was the largest such raid in
U.S. history. The company pleaded guilty last week to conspiracy to violate
immigration laws and was fined $2.5 million.

The lawsuit claims the firm not only knew it was hiring illegal immigrants, but
instructed some on how to get false identities. A woman who answered the phone
at Howard said the company had no comment on the lawsuit.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A Tea Party of Mad Hatters

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 800 words


Here in Washington, the immigration debate is in stalemate. But in Kansas, there
has been a breakthrough.

This striking achievement came about this week during a meeting of the state
House Appropriations Committee on efforts in Kansas to shoot feral swine from
helicopters. Republican state Rep. Virgil Peck suddenly had an idea. "Looks like
shooting these immigrating feral hogs works," he commented, according to a
recording posted by the Lawrence Journal-World. "Maybe we have found a
[solution] to our illegal immigration problem."

Brilliant! Shooting immigrants from helicopter gunships! Why didn't they think
of that in Congress?

There are a few logistical problems with Peck's idea, including the fact that
Kansas isn't a border state. But maybe Oklahoma and Texas will grant overflight
rights for immigrant-hunting sorties.

Peck, the Republican caucus chairman for the state House, later suggested his
brainstorm was a joke, although he also defended himself: "I was just speaking
like a southeast Kansas person."

Kansans may be surprised to learn that the immigrant-shooting idea was offered
in their names, but they wouldn't be the only Americans getting unwelcome news
from their state legislators now that many Tea Party types have come to power.

When Louis Brandeis called state legislatures "laboratories of democracy," he
couldn't have imagined the curious formulas the Tea Party chemists would be
mixing in 2011, including: a bill just passed by the Utah legislature requiring
the state to recognize gold and silver as legal tender; a Montana bill declaring
global warming "beneficial to the welfare and business climate of Montana"; a
plan in Georgia to abolish driver's licenses because licensing violates the
"inalienable right" to drive; legislation in South Dakota that would require
every adult to buy a gun; and the Kentucky legislature's effort to create a
"sanctuary state" for coal, safe from environmental laws.

In Washington, the whims of the Tea Party lawmakers have been tempered, by
President Obama and Senate Democrats, but also by House Republican leaders who
don't want the party to look crazy. Yet these checks often do not exist in state
capitols. Though many of the proposals will never become law, the proliferation
of exotic policies gives Americans a sense of what Tea Party rule might look
like.

Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker's attempt to strip public-sector unions of their
power has gained national attention, as have various states' efforts to imitate
Arizona's immigration crackdown. Arizona, meanwhile, moved on to an attempt to
assert its authority to nullify federal law; the last time that was tried, we
had the Civil War.

Less well known is what's going on in Montana. Legislators there have introduced
several bills that would nullify federal law, including health-care reform, the
Endangered Species Act, gun laws and food-safety laws. Under one legislative
proposal, FBI agents couldn't operate in the state without the permission of
county sheriffs. Legislators are also looking into a proposed resolution calling
on Congress to end membership in the United Nations.

A "birther" bill, similar to proposals in various other states, would require
presidential candidates - they're talking about you, Obama - to furnish proof of
citizenship that is satisfactory to state authorities. Montana has also joined
the push in many states to restore the gold standard, and a Montana House
committee approved legislation invalidating municipal laws against anti-gay
discrimination.

Then there's House Bill 278, authorizing armed citizens' militias known as "home
guards." With the home guards mobilized, Montana would no longer have to fear a
Canadian invasion. And while Montana repels the barbarians from Alberta, New
Hampshire is contemplating a state "defense force" to protect it from the
marauding Quebecois.

Some of the proposals are ominous: South Dakota would call it justifiable
homicide if a killer is trying to stop harm to an unborn child.

Some are petty: Wyoming, following Oklahoma, wants to ban sharia law, even
though that state's 200-odd Muslims couldn't pose much of a sharia threat.

Some are mean-spirited: Iowa would allow business owners to refuse goods and
services to those in gay marriages.

Some are fairly harmless: Arizona took actions to make the Colt Single Action
Army Revolver the official state firearm and to create a Tea Party license
plate.

And some are just silly: A Georgia bill would require only "pre-1965" silver and
gold coins for payment of state debts.

Even if the Tea Party gets its way in the legislature, it won't be easy to stop
residents of Georgia from using their greenbacks - at first. But compliance will
undoubtedly increase once the state calls in those helicopter gunships from
Kansas.

danamilbank@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 21, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Not enough fingerprints

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 411 words


AFTER MAKING an arrest, a law enforcement agency typically runs a suspect's name
through a national database to check if he is wanted for another crime or in
another jurisdiction. Makes sense. So why are states and municipalities balking
at checking an alleged offender's immigration status through the federal Secure
Communities program?

Secure Communities was started during the Bush administration and expanded under
President Obama as a means to help law enforcers determine whether arrestees are
wanted for immigration violations. Some 1,000 jurisdictions in 38 states use the
program. Some, including the District, have resisted, arguing that the program
could lead to racial and ethnic profiling and scare immigrants from cooperating
with police.

Those concerns are legitimate when it comes to a federal program that deputizes
local officers to be immigration snoops; that would pave   the way for officials
to harass those whose only offense is that they look foreign-born.

Secure Communities is something else. It authorizes an immigration check only if
someone has been charged. Even then, confirmation of illegal status rightly does
not automatically trigger deportation. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
focuses on those with convictions for serious felonies including violent crimes;
it has neither inclination nor resources to deport suspects with otherwise clean
records who have been arrested for low-level infractions.

But while making sense in concept, the program has problems in its current form.
The Secure Communities database contains only digitized fingerprints taken after
2005. Old-fashioned ink fingerprints are not routinely part of the database, and
in some cases individuals who should have at least been given a second look have
been released. In one example, an undocumented immigrant sneaked back into the
country after being deported in 2003. Because the database did not flag the
deportation, the man, believed to be part of the notorious MS-13 gang, was
released after spending the night in jail for public drunkenness. He is accused
of raping an 8-year-old Fairfax County girl after leaving police custody.

ICE officials say they have redoubled their efforts to make the database
comprehensive and to implement other improvements. The efficiency and efficacy
of Secure Communities should be probed in congressional hearings, and the agency
should be given a realistic but aggressive deadline for fully integrating the
database.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Schools to limit visa renewals

BYLINE: Robert Samuels

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 429 words


Prince George's school officials traveled to the Philippines and other countries
in 2005, searching for teachers who could meet stricter standards called for in
the federal No Child Left Behind Act.

Since then, the school system has amassed more than 1,000 foreign nationals as
employees - the vast majority of whom are dependent on special visas allowing
them to work in the United States.

Many of those foreign employees are now consulting a lawyer. They contend that
the school district, faced with the prospect of cutting about 1,300 positions,
is creating an unfair standard for laying off teachers recruited from foreign
countries - a group that is largely made up of Filipinos.

The concern grows from new standards released in closed-door meetings this
month. Prince George's will now renew the three-year visas only for teachers who
are in designated "critical" areas - such as special education, English as a
second language, and high school math and science.

The small number of teachers who specialize in other areas, such as pre-K
education or social studies, will not have their visas renewed.

"Where is the fairness?" asked Arnedo S. Valera, an immigration lawyer and
executive director of Migrant Heritage Commission. "They came to the Philippines
actively recruiting them, and they've performed well. Now, you're dismissing
them?"

Valera said his group is reviewing immigration laws to see whether this standard
is discriminatory.

Synthia J. Shilling, the school system's human resources director, said the
change affects a limited number of educators. The majority of the foreign
educators were recruited to teach in critical areas. Some have gained permanent
residency status and no longer need to be sponsored.

The school board has received applications for visa renewal from 83 employees
this year, about half of the foreign staff whose sponsorships are about to
expire.

Only four of those applications been denied so far, Shilling said.

The school system's $155 million budget gap had prompted a review of hiring
practices, Shilling said. The visa, known as the H1B, is contingent on employers
not being able to find citizens who can perform specific jobs.

Some of the positions held by foreign teachers could be reassigned to other
teachers at risk of being laid off. Shilling said no one would be asked to leave
until their visa expires, the last of which will be in 2014.

"This is a difficult process, and our employees have given wonderful service to
our schools,'' Shilling said. "The budget is absolutely the basis of this
decision.''

samuelsr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration agency to continuedenying gay spouses' petitions

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 398 words


U.S. citizens will not be able to obtain immigration benefits for same-sex
spouses who are foreign, federal authorities announced Wednesday, dashing the
hopes of gay-marriage advocates who had thought the Obama administration had
handed them a victory this week.

The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services resumed its practice
Wednesday of automatically rejecting applications from same-sex couples, after
the agency had been putting such applications on hold for more than a week.

Gay rights groups have long demanded that same-sex couples be given the same
rights as heterosexuals to sponsor their foreign national spouses for green
cards and obtain other immigration benefits.

They are barred, however, under the Defense of Marriage Act, which defines
marriage for the purposes of federal benefits as exclusively between a man and a
woman.

Last month, the Obama administration announced that it no longer thoughtthe
statute was constitutional but said the law would remain in place unless
repealed by Congress or invalidated by the courts. Still, immigration
authorities had put on hold the processing of applications from same-sex couples
until certain legal matters could be sorted out.

On Wednesday, Citizenship and Immigration Services spokesman Christopher S.
Bentley said the legal issues had been resolved, but he declined to elaborate.

"We have received the guidance which precipitated the hold," Bentley said in an
e-mail. "We are continuing to enforce the law per the President's directive."

The announcement brings to a close several days of confusion and speculation by
gay rights groups, which had thought the same-sex couples were getting a more
long-term reprieve. Rachel B. Tiven, executive director of the advocacy group
Immigration Equality, had hailed the hold as "a sign that relief is finally on
the way" for foreign nationals who face deportation because their same-sex
spouses cannot sponsor them for legal residency.

Steve Ralls, a spokesman for the group, said advocates had thought - based on
media reports and conversations with reporters - that the hold would remain in
place until the courts ruled on the federal ban. He said they were disappointed
Wednesday to learn that the old policy would continue.

"The reality is that because of [immigration officials'] announcement today,
there are going to be families torn apart," Ralls said.

sandhya@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 1, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Mexican drug cartel threatenedU.S. agents, lawmaker says

BYLINE: Alicia A. Caldwell

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 288 words


Mexican drug cartel members threatened to kill U.S. agents working on the
American side of the border last month, a Texas congressman said Thursday.

Republican Rep. Michael McCaul said a law enforcement bulletin was issued in
March warning that Mexican gangsters were overheard plotting to kill Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agents and Texas Rangers stationed along the border.
McCaul did not identify which cartels or what agency issued the bulletin.

Don Reay, executive director of the Texas Border Sheriff's Coalition, said
threats against U.S. law enforcement officials along the border are nothing new.

"We get almost periodic reports of some informant saying there is a bounty" on
U.S. authorities, he said. "We realize the potential is there, the threat is
there."

The latest bulletin warned of a plot to shoot at the agents with AK-47 assault
rifles from the Mexican side of the border.

Reay said he could not comment on the specific threat McCaul mentioned but said
it was proof that a serious security threat remains.

Members of Congress have asked the Obama administration to obtain what they call
"operational control" of the Mexican and Canadian borders. But they define that
as meaning no "unlawful entries into the United States," including drugs,
terrorists and illegal immigrants, a definition Homeland Security officials call
unrealistic.

More than 35,000 people have been killed in Mexico's drug war since President
Felipe Calderon began an offensive against the drug gangs shortly after taking
office in late 2006.

Numerous U.S. citizens have been caught up in the violence.

In February, ICE agent Jaime Zapata was fatally shot and agent Victor Avila was
wounded in a roadside ambush in Mexico.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Legislatorsin Md. race to wind upbusiness

BYLINE: John Wagner;Aaron C. Davis;Ann E. Marimow

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1331 words


The Democratic-led Maryland General Assembly strong-armed through a tax increase
on alcohol in the final hours of its 90-day session Monday while voting to grant
undocumented immigrants a break on college tuition.

The action on the two-high profile issues came on a chaotic day during which
lawmakers scrambled to complete work on dozens of bills before the legislature's
midnight adjournment.

The late-session bid to raise the sales tax on alcohol from 6 percent to 9
percent on July 1 brought howls of protest from Republicans, who accused House
Democratic leaders of running roughshod over the chamber's rules to enact the
tax increase.

The approximately $85 million generated from the alcohol tax increase would be
earmarked next year for disabilities programs and for school operating and
construction costs - all priorities in a tough budget year for Democratic
lawmakers, who hold large majorities in both chambers.

"Tyranny rises again, doesn't it?" said Del. Donald Dwyer (R-Anne Arundel)
during debate over the second of two bills needed to raise the alcohol tax .
"Once again, we've been stuffed. We're not honoring democracy."

By a 26 to 19 vote, the Senate approved the final bill to put the plan in place
shortly after 10:30 p.m.

At a time when many states are curtailing immigrants' rights, both the House and
Senate signed off on a compromise plan that will allow undocumented students who
have graduated from Maryland high schools to pay in-state tuition at the state's
colleges.

Lawmakers also gave Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) a much-needed win on one of his
legislative priorities, a bill that would steer about $70 million into public
and private venture-capital programs.

That is smaller than the $100 million O'Malley had proposed to pool from
insurance companies that agree to prepay their taxes at a discounted rate. But
he and Democratic allies said the fund would help create jobs.

The Senate passed the bill 34 to 12, turning aside Republican objections that
the plan was too complicated to be considering on the session's final day. The
House later voted 92 to 43 for the bill.

The flurry of activity came at the end of a 90-day session that had been more
notable for its legislative failures than successes. Last month, a bill to
legalize same-sex marriage fell a few votes short in the House.

Lawmakers also failed to embrace two of O'Malley's other leading priorities:
legislation to spur offshore wind developmentand to limit construction of most
new septic systems to reduce pollution leaching into the Chesapeake Bay.

"I think the size of the one and the sweep of the other made the General
Assembly kind of choke on those and refer them to summer study," O'Malley said
in a briefing with reporters.

That assessment rubbed some legislative leaders the wrong way.

Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller Jr. (D-Calvert) said the governor would
have been wise to have "choked" before surprising lawmakers by announcing his
plan to curtail septics in his State of the State address.

On offshore wind, Miller complimented O'Malley for proposing an ambitious plan
but said the governor "couldn't explain who was going to benefit." The bill
would have forced utilities to buy wind energy at a premium and then divide the
higher cost among ratepayers.

Even as O'Malley said he was disappointed in the failure of those measures, he
said he would be working the phones and meeting with lawmakers to salvage
elements of his agenda.

With only an hour to spare Monday night, the House gave final passage to one of
those - a bill to create reliability standards for Pepco and other utilities in
response to a series of extended outages, mostly in Washington's Maryland
suburbs. The bill, which would impose penalties of up $25,000 per day when
standards are not met, passed on a vote of 113 to 22, prompting loud cheers from
the Montgomery delegation on the floor.

The governor also helped to save a bill to provide operating subsidies to
horse-racing tracks, saying it was important for maintaining jobs in Maryland's
horse industry.

Several of the governor's lesser-known bills, including one setting up a
framework for an insurance exchange under President Obama's health-care reform,
had passed or were on track to pass. O'Malley has also claimed credit for
reforms to state worker pensions.

On Monday night, Senate and House negotiators successfully resurrected the
in-state tuition bill that earlier in the day had been declared dead.

Negotiators from the House and Senate agreed to strip the bill of language that
opponents said would make it too easy for students or their parents to avoid
providing proof of income tax filing as the measure requires.

Under the legislation, students would pay in-state rates at community colleges
first and then could transfer to a four-year institution after getting an
associate's degree and get the in-state rate. The measure passed the Senate 27
to 19. The House approved 74 to 65.

Immigrant-rights advocates and dozens of students who would benefit from the
bill watched from the House gallery, and erupted in cheers and applause after
the final vote. Wearing T-shirts with the message, "I am the Maryland Dream
Act," the students lined the hallway outside the chambers to thank legislators.

On Monday afternoon when the House passed the first of two bills to raise the
alcohol tax, almost every delegate opposed to the plan used a privilege to spend
two minutes explaining his or her vote on the floor. This tied up the chamber
for more than two hours, as a mostly partisan fight ensued - with some rural
Democrats siding with Republicans .

The spectacle at times resembled a game of legislative Whac-a-Mole.House Speaker
Michael E. Busch (D-Anne Arundel) would let an opponent speak for two minutes,
only to see a half-dozen more around the room spring to their feet to demand the
next two minutes.

Republicans built a litany of arguments against the increase. Their complaints
revolved mainly around a notion that the Democratic majority had "met in the
back room" and divvied up "the spoils" of the planned tax increase to benefit
urban areas.

On Monday night, when the House took up the second bill, Busch chose not to
recognize delegates as they repeatedly yelled out "Mr. Speaker," trying to draw
his attention so that they could explain their votes. A Democratic delegate who
served as parliamentarian ruled that Busch had the right to ignore them because
bill opponents were deliberately using repetitive tactics to slow down the bill.

Earlier on Monday, the Senate killed a measure that sought to extend
anti-discrimination protections to transgender people. On a vote of 27 to 20,
the chamber sent a bill back to committee that would have offered protections in
housing, employment and lending. The measure passed the House two weeks ago.

Equality Maryland, the state's leading lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
rights lobby, said it was "appalled" by the Senate action.

Meanwhile, a bill designed to protect severely ill Marylanders who use medical
marijuana for medical purposes was shipped to the governor late Monday. The
Senate gave final passage to the measure, which allows patients to use their
illness as a legal defense, on a 39 to 7 vote.

Environmentalists who typically hold considerable sway with Maryland's
Democratic majority saw their losses compounded as time ran out in the session.
In addition to rejecting O'Malley's offshore wind plan in recent days, the
legislature late Monday approved a measure to classify incineration of solid
waste as a renewable energy source on par with that of solar and wind.

The Sierra Club, Environment Maryland and others warned that bill would amount
to "cheating" on Maryland's law to generate 20 percent of its energy from
renewable resources. A measure backed by environmentalists that died in the
Senate would have created a near moratorium on drilling for natural gas in an
underground rock formation in Western Maryland.

wagnerj@washpost.com

davisa@washpost.com

marimowa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Latin American flair

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 428 words


â[#x20ac][#x192]Through the remainder of the month, museums, galleries and film
festivals are emphasizing Latin America. A photography show depicting Central
American immigrants, a gallery talk on 20th-century Latin American art, an
Argentine film and a tango gala are among the top events infusing a hint of
Latin flavor into April's happenings.

'Beyond the Labyrinth'

Marysol Nieves, curator of the Mexican Cultural Institute's exhibition "Beyond
the Labyrinth: Latin American Art and the FEMSA Collection," discusses how Latin
American artists have interpreted the artistic movements of the 20th century,
from cubism to abstractionism to contemporary art, in the new millennium. The
gallery talk will draw on the 50 works in the exhibit, which runs through June
18.

Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Mexican Cultural Institute, 2829 16th St. NW.
202-728-1628. _selfinstituteofmexicodc.org. Free.

'Destino'

Photographer Michelle Frankfurter's show "Destino" tells of the hardships of
Central American immigrants to the United States. At the official opening and
reception, see 25 black-and-white images that Frankfurter took of immigration
shelters in Mexico.

Friday at 6 p.m. The Gallery at Vivid Solutions, 2208 Martin Luther King Ave.
SE. 202-365-8392. vividsolutionsdc.com. Free.

'Hostage of Illusions'

If you didn't catch director Eliseo Subiela at last week's Filmfest D.C.
screenings of "Hostage of Illusions," there's still time to see the Argentine
film. Subiela's erotically charged tale follows an author who seems to be
escaping from the mob but is in fact running from the characters he has written
about.

Friday at 6:30 p.m. AMC Mazza Gallerie, 5300 Wisconsin Ave. NW. 888-996-4774.
_selffilmfestdc.org. $11.

Herndon Rotary tango gala

The 30-piece Pan American Symphony Orchestra plays tango music, and six
professional tango dancers demonstrate Argentina's national dance. The gala,
which benefits Haiti, also features a three-course dinner and Argentine wine, as
well as a silent auction.

April 23 at 6 p.m. Hyatt Regency Reston, 1800 Presidents St., Reston.
703-478-2800. _selfherndonrotary-tango.com. $100.

'Corridor' artist panel

The new show at the Art Museum of the Americas of work by 12 artists from
Washington and Baltimore doesn't focus primarily on Latin American art, but
there's still plenty of eclectic art, including photographs of coastal Peruvian
beaches. View the exhibition and hear the artists speak about their work at a
museum-hosted panel.

April 29 from 2 to 5 p.m. Art Museum of the Americas, 201 18th St. NW.
202-458-6016. museum.oas.org. Free.

- Jess Righthand

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

DMV policy costs legal resident her job

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 914 words


Hirut Bekele had never heard of Carlos Martinelly-Montano, the undocumented
Bolivian immigrant charged with killing a nun in a drunken driving accident in
August.

But last month, their worlds collided when Bekele, an Ethiopian woman living in
Reston, tried to get her driver's license renewed in Virginia.

As she had done for years, Bekele, 32, took her work permit, which she is
legally allowed to renew each year, to the Department of Motor Vehicles. In
previous years, the DMV would issue her a new license based on the work permit.
But last month, it said no.

Figuring there was some mistake, Bekele visited multiple DMVs in Centreville and
elsewhere in Fairfax, to no avail. And that is how she learned
thathttp://www.governor.virginia.gov/news/viewRelease.cfm?id=360Virginia had
stopped issuing driver's licenses to immigrants who have only work permits - a
decision sparked by the arrest of Martinelly-Montano, who had a valid work
permit even though he was in deportation proceedings.

When Bekele, a tollbooth operator who worked all over Northern Virginia for a
contract company, told her employer she no longer had a valid driver's license,
she got laid off. Bekele said her employer needed her to be able to drive
because she had to carry money to and from tollbooths, and it would not be safe
to use public transportation. Also, she said, she sometimes had to travel to
several tollbooths in a day to relieve other operators.

Bekele, a single parent with a 3-year-old daughter, said she is about a month
away from being homeless. She said she cannot understand how the federal
government can say she is legally allowed to work in the country while the State
of Virginia effectively makes it impossible for her to work.

"I have a work permit from the government," Bekele said in an interview. One
option for her would be to move to the District or Maryland to get a license.
Both jurisdictions issue licenses on the basis of valid work permits.

But Bekele said she cannot afford to move because she is heavily dependent on a
nonprofit group called Reston Interfaith that helps with her rent and child
care.

"Why should I move?" she demanded. "It's not my fault."

Jorge E. Figueredo, director of racial justice and immigrants' rights at the
ACLU of Virginia, said he has come across dozens of recent cases of legal
immigrants being denied driver's licenses in Virginia, and two other cases of
immigrants - one from Tunisia and the other from Pakistan - who were denied
licenses on identical grounds as Bekele.

"The federal government recognizes me as a legal resident of the U.S.A., but the
State of Virginia refused to do so," said Muhammad Hamza, 48, of Falls Church,
who was turned down in October when he tried to use his work permit to renew his
driver's license.

As a result, Hamza, who is from Pakistan, said it had become difficult for him
to even get to doctor's appointments: "The driver's license is not only a permit
for driving but a basic identity in the country," Hamza said in an e-mail.
"Without this ID, I even cannot operate my own bank account."

Bekele, like Hamza, has a peculiar immigration status known as "withholding from
removal." When Bekele applied for asylum some years ago, she was turned down.
That meant she had to be deported. But an immigration judge stayed the
deportation because Bekele presented credible fears that she would be persecuted
if she returned to Ethiopia.

Under her "withholding from removal" status, Bekele can legally work in the
United States while the federal government tries to find another country besides
Ethiopia to accept her. Given that that rarely happens, people in Bekele's
situation end up staying in the country indefinitely.

Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency,
declined to discuss the specifics of Bekele's legal status but said, "ICE makes
genuine efforts to effectuate removal to third countries in such cases."

Until that happens, "individuals granted withholding of removal are authorized
to be granted employment authorization by the Department of Homeland Security,"
he added.

The Virginia DMV has asked people who cannot prove their identity to contact a
hotline, but when Bekele called, she was told that her immigration status was
listed as "under review" and that she was not eligible for a driver's license.

Because the federal government is technically required to keep trying to
resettle her, said Jason Dzubow, a Washington lawyer who is helping Bekele, "I
suppose one could argue that Hirut's ability to remain in the U.S. is 'under
review' because DHS can continue to look for a third country to send her to, but
I have never heard of DHS removing someone like her to a third country."

Taylor Thornley, a spokeswoman for Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R), said she could
not comment on Bekele's case in particular but defended the state's decision to
keep driver's licenses out of the hands of immigrants who can only provide a
work permit - known officially as an employment authorization document.

"We believe that the decision to not accept the I-766 Employment Authorization
Document is in the best interest of Virginia's citizens," she said in an e-mail.

"As Gov. McDonnell has said before, having a driver's license is a privilege,
and we must ensure that documents accepted as proof of legal presence are
reliable. It is our hope that the Department of Homeland Security will work with
this individual who unfortunately falls into a rare category."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Virginia changes law on licenses

BYLINE: -Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 224 words


Iirut Bekele had never heard ofCarlos Martinelly-Montano, the undocumented
Bolivian immigrant charged with killing a nun in a drunken driving accident in
August.

But last month, their worlds collided when Bekele, an Ethiopian woman living in
Reston, tried to get her driver's license renewed in Virginia.

As she had done for years, Bekele, 32, took her work permit, which she is
legally allowed to renew each year, to the Department of Motor Vehicles.

In previous years, the DMV would issue her a new license based on the work
permit. But last month, it said no.

Figuring there was some mistake, Bekele visited multiple DMVs in Centreville and
elsewhere in Fairfax, to no avail.

And that is how she learned
thathttp://www.governor.virginia.gov/news/viewRelease.cfm?id=360Virginia had
stopped issuing driver's licenses to immigrants who have only work permits - a
decision sparked by the arrest of Martinelly-Montano, who had a valid work
permit even though he was in deportation proceedings.

When Bekele, a tollbooth operator who worked all over Northern Virginia for a
contract company, told her employer she no longer had a valid driver's license,
she got laid off. Bekele said her employer needed her to be able to drive
because she had to carry money to and from tollbooths, and it would not be safe
to use public transportation.

-Shankar Vedantam

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 9, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Washington area appointments and promotions for May 9Washington area
appointments and promotions for May 9

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1058 words

Companies

IntegrityOne Partners of the District named William McElhaney, former IT
official with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, federal strategist.

CSC of Falls Church named AlisounMoore, former director of health systems
management at Northrop Grumman, vice president and general manager for NPS's
civil group health services division.

Quinn Evans Architects of the District named Larry Barr president, Steven Jones
executive vice president, and Elisabeth Knibbe and Jeffrey Luker vice
presidents.

QinetiQ North America of McLean named Scott Goldstein, former chief technology
officer and senior vice president of the systems engineering and advanced
technology group at ManTech International, senior vice president and general
manager of the national systems business unit with the company's mission
solutions group.

The Midtown Group of the District named Tasha Manzano vice president of
government services.

Marriott Marquis of the District named William Wallace director of sales and
marketing.

BNA of Arlington named Lisa Fitzpatrick chief marketing officer and John H. Camp
chief technology officer.

Howard Consulting Group of the District named Emily Passini, former political
director with the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, director of public
affairs.

Versar of Springfield named Cynthia A. Downes executive vice president, chief
financial officer and treasurer.

NERA Economic Consulting of the District named Anne E. Smith and W. David
Montgomery senior vice presidents in the energy, environment and network
industries practice.

Perkins+Will of the District named Andrew Rashid associate principal.

Nathan Associates of Arlington named Lisa Yarmoshuk vice president for strategy
and development and Paul Moore vice president for planning and operations.

The Judge Group of the District named Paul Brown managing director.

NJVC of Vienna named Vince Minerva senior vice president for market management.

Associations/nonprofits

Washington Hospital Center of the District named Susan Eckert senior vice
president of nursing and chief nursing executive and Tonya Washington vice
president of nursing operations.

Capital Area Asset Builders of the District named Steve W. Pearlman president,
Te-Mika Warner vice president, Nancy Register treasurer and Pamela Banks
secretary. The following were elected board members: Lee Davenport, Anna Flores,
Marcus Johnson, Latresa McLawhorn and Diana Meyer.

The American Society of Nuclear Cardiology of Bethesda named Kathleen B. Flood
chief executive.

The Nature Conservancy of Arlington named David Blood, Shona L. Brown, Craig O.
McCaw and Margaret C. Whitman to its board of directors.

The Licensing Executives Society of Alexandria named Marie Escobar, former
director of the American Chiropractic Foundation, education program and content
manager.

American Councils for International Education of the District named Miriam
Parel, former vice president for strategic partnerships at the Points of Light
Institute, chief strategy and development officer.

The National Stone, Sand & Gravel Association of Alexandria named Pam Whitted
senior vice president for legislative and regulatory affairs and Tim Reagan
senior vice president for member services.

The Independent Community Bankers of America of the District named James
Kendrick vice president for accounting and capital policy.

The Northern Virginia Conservation Trust of Annandale named Dennis Hertel, Greg
Evans, Mitch Bonanno and Margi Vanderhye to the board of directors.

Real estate

Federal Capital Partners of the District named David Ohlrich senior vice
president, Nikita Rao vice president, Rohit Mahyera senior project manager, Matt
Kirvan project manager and Will Simpson associate.

Federal Realty Investment Trust of Rockville named Michael Khouri director of
leasing.

Blake Real Estate of the District named Michael Seiter, former director of
engineering for the Grand Hyatt Kauai Resort in Hawaii, facilities manager at
Goodwill Industries International.

Communications

Gibraltar Associates of the District named John Procter, former vice president,
partner.

Financial

PNC Bank of the District named Terri J. Copeland market manager for community
development banking in this region.

First Virginia Community Bank of Fairfax named William Byers, former senior vice
president and community executive for Middleburg Bank in Reston, senior vice
president and chief lending officer.

Lockton Companies of the District named Travis E.J. Dutton vice president for
the retirement practice.

Cardinal Financial of Tysons Corner named David W. Frasier executive vice
president, director of audit.

Promontory Financial Group of the District named Stephen M. Hoffman managing
director.

Health care

Adventist HealthCare of Rockville named Renee Battle-Brooks and Bruce Robertson
to the board of trustees.

Legal

Sidley Austin of the District named Joseph A. Micallef partner in its
intellectual property litigation practice.

Wilson Elser of the District named Jodi V. Terranova, former associate, partner
in the medical malpractice practice group.

Morgan, Lewis & Bockius of the District named Arianne Callender, former deputy
oversight counsel to the House Committee on Homeland Security, of counsel in its
Food and Drug Administration and health-care practice.

Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell of the District named Roel Campos, former
commissioner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, national chair of the
securities regulation and enforcement practice.

Polsinelli Shughart of the District named Beverly A. Pheto senior policy adviser
in the public policy group.

Perkins Coie of the District named LeAnn J. Koch partner and Paul B. Smyth
attorney in the environment, energy and resources practice.

Ifrah Law of the District named David B. Deitch, formerly with the U.S.
Attorney's Office for the District, partner.

Jenner & Block of the District named Ajit V. Pai, former deputy general counsel
of the Federal Communications Commission, partner.

McGuireWoods Consulting of the District named former Virginia attorney general
Jerry W. Kilgore and former anchor/reporter Mark B. Hubbard to lead the crisis
and litigation communications practice.

Send information about promotions, appointments and personnel moves in the
Washington area to Appointments, Business News, The Washington Post, 1150 15th
St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071-5302, or to appointments@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

How ICE misleads on Secure Communities

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 287 words


The May 4 Metro article "Montgomery immigration enforcement launch is set,"
about the Secure Communities program in Montgomery County, mentioned Immigration
and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) many contradictory stories about the program
over its 21 / 2              years of existence.

Despite having acknowledged these missteps, ICE continues to spread
misinformation about Secure Communities, even in its statement to The Post:
"When the program was activated in any given area, ICE spokeswoman Barbara
Gonzalez said, it tended to first identify 'lower-level criminals as they are
first to complete their criminal sentence and come into ICE custody.' But over
time, she said the program usually identified an increasing number of
undocumented immigrants with links to violent crimes and a decreasing number who
had committed less-serious crimes."

This is patently incorrect. First, Secure Communities identifies individuals as
they are booked - long before they are serving a criminal sentence, if any.
Second, according to ICE's own statistics, the proportion of high-level
offenders that ICE has taken into custody via Secure Communities has not
increased over time. It has stayed almost exactly the same: about 32 percent of
all apprehensions in the program. Meanwhile, the proportion of arrests of
individuals who have no criminal history has doubled since the program's
initiation.

Across the board, the Secure Communities program has failed to meet its stated
priorities (to focus on "high-level offenders"), while the Department of
Homeland Security has danced around community concerns regarding the program's
design and operations.

Lena Graber, Washington

The writer is a policy associate at the National Immigration Forum.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Demagoguery 101

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 767 words


"I'm going to do my part to lead a constructive and civil debate on these
issues."

- Barack Obama, speech on immigration, El Paso, May 10

Constructive and civil debate - like the one Obama initiated just four weeks ago
on deficit reduction? The speech in which he accused the Republicans of
abandoning families of autistic and Down syndrome kids? The debate in which
Obama's secretary of health and human services said that the Republican Medicare
plan would make old folks "die sooner"?

In this same spirit of comity and mutual respect, Obama's most recent invitation
to civil discourse - on immigration - came just 11 minutes after he accused
opponents of moving the goal posts on border enforcement. "Maybe they'll need a
moat," he said sarcastically. "Maybe they want alligators in the moat."

Nice touch. Looks like the Tucson truce - no demonization, no cross-hairs
metaphors - is officially over. After all, the Republicans want to kill off the
elderly, throw the disabled in the snow and watch alligators lunch on illegal
immigrants.

The El Paso speech is notable not for breaking any new ground on immigration but
for perfectly illustrating Obama's political style: the professorial, almost
therapeutic, invitation to civil discourse, wrapped around the basest of
rhetorical devices - charges of malice compounded with accusations of bad faith.
"They'll never be satisfied," said Obama about border control. "And I understand
that. That's politics."

How understanding. The other side plays "politics," Obama acts in the public
interest. Their eyes are on poll numbers, political power, the next election;
Obama's rest fixedly on the little children.

This impugning of motives is an Obama constant. "They" play politics with
deficit reduction, with government shutdowns, with health care. And now
immigration. It is ironic that such a charge should be made in a speech that is
nothing but politics. There is zero chance of any immigration legislation
passing Congress in the next two years. El Paso was simply an attempt to gin up
the Hispanic vote as part of an openly political two-city, three-event campaign
swing in preparation for 2012.

Accordingly, the El Paso speech featured two other staples: the breathtaking
invention and the statistical sleight of hand.

"The [border] fence is now basically complete," asserted the president.
Complete? There are now 350 miles of pedestrian fencing along the Mexican
border. The border is 1,954 miles long. That's 18 percent. And only one-tenth of
that 18 percent is the double and triple fencing that has proved so remarkably
effective in, for example, the Yuma sector. Another 299 miles - 15 percent - are
vehicle barriers that pedestrians can walk right through.

Obama then boasted that on his watch 31 percent more drugs have been seized, 64
percent more weapons - proof of how he has secured the border. And for more
proof: Apprehension of illegal immigrants is down 40 percent. Down? Indeed, says
Obama, this means that fewer people are trying to cross the border.

Interesting logic. Seizures of drugs and guns go up - proof of effective border
control. Seizures of people go down - yet more proof of effective border
control. Up or down, it matters not. Whatever the numbers, Obama vindicates
himself.

You can believe this flimflam or you can believe the nonpartisan Government
Accountability Office. The GAO reported in February that less than half the
border is under "operational control" of the government. Which undermines the
entire premise of Obama's charge that, because the border is effectively secure,
"Republicans who said they supported broader reform as long as we got serious
about enforcement" didn't really mean it.

I count myself among those who really do mean it. I have little doubt that most
Americans would be quite willing to regularize and legalize the current millions
of illegal  immigrants if they were convinced that this was the last such
cohort, as evidenced by, say, a GAO finding that the border is under full
operational control and certification to the same effect by the governors of the
four southern border states.

Americans are a generous people. Upon receipt of objective and reliable evidence
that the border is secure - not Obama's infinitely manipulable interdiction
statistics - the question would be settled and the immigrants legalized.

Why doesn't Obama put such a provision in comprehensive immigration legislation?
Because for Obama, immigration reform is not about legislation, it's about
reelection. If I may quote the president: I understand that. That's politics.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Computer error halts immigration lottery

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 458 words


State Department officials said Friday that a computer glitch is forcing them to
scrap the results of an annual worldwide lottery for U.S. immigrant visas,
meaning tens of thousands of people who thought they were one step closer to
legally moving to the United States are out of luck, at least for now.

More than 14 million applicants entered a lottery last fall for one of 50,000
visas distributed as part of the annual Diversity Visa Lottery, designed for
people who would otherwise have little chance of legally entering the country.
The program doesn't require applicants to have a family or employer sponsor.

Each year, the State Department selects about 90,000 applicants and trims the
list down to 50,000 through an extensive series of interviews, background checks
and medical exams.

The lottery has been conducted by computer since its inception in 1994,
according to State Department officials.

David Donahue, deputy assistant secretary of state for visa services, said
Friday that a computer glitch discovered Thursday prompted the computer program
to unfairly select people who submitted applications in the first two days of
the 30-day application process, which ended Nov. 3. Applicants began checking
for the results of the lottery last week.

"These results are not valid because they did not represent a fair, random
selection of the entrants as required by U.S. law," Donahue said in a video
statement posted on the State Department Web site. "We sincerely regret any
inconvenience or disappointment this might have caused."

An in-house software coding error caused the glitch and has been fixed,
according to officials who were not authorized to speak on the record.

The State Department will hold a new lottery with the existing pool of
applicants and announce the winners by July 15, Donahue said. Applicants do not
need to reenter to be eligible, and no new applications will be accepted.

Winners of the erroneous lottery who aren't selected again will be able to
reapply next fall or in subsequent years, officials said.

Robert P. Deasy, director of liaison and information with the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, said the news would understandably disappoint
would-be immigrants.

"It's good that it was caught early, rather than further into the process, where
more of the steps to emigrate to the United States would have been taken -
resigning work, selling property, changing plans, building up hopes," Deasy
said.

Congress established the lottery program to attract people from countries with
lower rates of immigration to the United States. Immigrants from countries with
higher rates of U.S. immigration - including China, El Salvador, Haiti, India
and Mexico - are not eligible for the program.

ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Twisting truth on the border

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 918 words


AFRUSTRATED PRESIDENT Obama complained the other day that Republicans in
Congress have been moving the goal posts on border security, demanding ever more
unachievable levels of enforcement before they would consent to fixing the
nation's immigration system. Next, Mr. Obama joked, the GOP would demand a moat
across the U.S.-Mexican frontier - with alligators.

That line got a good laugh. In fact, Republican posturing on border security is
deadly serious, and worse than the president suggested. Even in the face of
overwhelming evidence that the border has become safer and less leaky, the GOP
would have the nation believe the opposite.

Using such scare tactics, Republicans are trying to distort the debate on
immigration and justify their opposition to reform.

Exhibit A for Republican distortion is Rep. Lamar Smith (Tex.), chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, who recently assigned a "failing grade" to U.S.
Customs and Border Patrol efforts along the Mexican border. Mr. Smith based his
"failing grade" on the fact that the Border Patrol classifies just 44 percent of
the nearly 2,000-mile border as being under "operational control." That sounds
bad, until you ask what it actually means. The answer: not much.

A case in point is the Marfa sector, a 510-mile stretch of desolate terrain in
southwestern Texas comprising more than a quarter of the frontier between the
United States and Mexico. According to the Border Patrol, just 10 percent of the
Marfa sector is under "operational control," meaning agents can reliably stop
crossers at or near the border.

But it also happens that the Marfa sector, owing to its isolation, sparse
population and forbidding, deep river canyons, is the least crossed, sleepiest
area of the entire southwest border. The Border Patrol arrests scarcely a dozen
people a day along the entire length of the sector, despite (or because of) the
700 agents assigned there, triple the 2005 number.

Adding hundreds more agents, as Republicans imply is necessary, would be a
massive waste of money - and still wouldn't guarantee "operational control,"
owing to the region's rugged topography and inaccessibility. Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, like her Bush administration predecessors, agrees
that total operational control is an unreachable goal. As Border Patrol
officials will tell you, Marfa and other lightly trafficked segments of the
southwestern frontier are the least of their problems and represent no
particular threat to America's security.

The fact is that the United States has established tighter control of the border
than at any time in recent memory. Serious crime is down dramatically in almost
every major American town along the frontier. As Rep. Silvestre Reyes, an El
Paso Democrat, pointed out, the six largest southwestern border cities have
lower crime rates - and, specifically, lower rates of murder, rape, robbery and
burglary - than the six largest cities in Ohio, home state of Republican House
Speaker John A. Boehner, whose spokesman said last week that immigration reform
was dead until violence at the border was checked.

Thanks largely to President Bush, the Border Patrol has almost doubled its
strength along the Mexican frontier since 2004. The 17,700 agents there now -
supplemented by drones, fencing, sensors and other technology - are a formidable
force. Other federal agencies and personnel, including thousands of agents and
analysts with Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Drug Enforcement
Administration, plus 1,200 National Guardsmen ordered to the border by Mr. Obama
last year, contribute to an increasingly muscular presence. Tighter border
security, combined with America's economic travails, has contributed to a
dramatic drop in illegal border crossings, reflected in the fact that
apprehensions along the border have been cut in half over the past five or six
years. The Border Patrol arrested fewer illegal crossers along the entire
frontier in the fiscal year that ended last July (448,000) than it apprehended
in the Tucson area alone in 2004 (492,000).

The border is not impenetrable; few land boundaries are.  But no number of boots
on the ground, and no amount of fence-building, will choke off the flow of
illegal immigrants entirely as long as employers demand their services in the
United States. Of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country, an
estimated 7 million hold jobs, despite the spike in unemployment of the past few
years.

Mr. Smith's strategy, and that of many Republicans, is to whittle away at the
problem through enforcement, not only at the border but in the workplace as
well. A growing movement among Republicans would also deny citizenship to the
U.S.-born children of undocumented immigrants. By making pariahs of the
undocumented millions, and by attrition, they believe America can eventually rid
itself of most illegal immigrants.

That strategy is a fantasy and a recipe for ongoing failure. Too many powerful
interests - not least, businesses that form a critical part of the GOP coalition
- will oppose it.  And the economic reality is that American-born workers,
increasingly well educated, are unwilling to take the low-skill jobs that many
immigrants fill in landscaping, hospitality, poultry processing and other
industries. Eleven million undocumented immigrants won't fade away from American
communities and the labor force. The dilemma of illegal immigration will remain
unresolved until Republicans enter into a dialogue based on facts, not fear.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2011 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Let no court rend asunder

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 335 words


PAUL WILSON DORMAN, a citizen of the United Kingdom, came to the United States
on a visitor's visa in 1996 and never left. He met an American man who became
his partner of 15 years. They have jointly purchased property and made out wills
with the other as beneficiary. In 2009 they entered into a civil union in New
Jersey.

Their lives were upended when Mr. Dorman was targeted for deportation after a
chance encounter with an immigration agent at an airport. Mr. Dorman, 52, does
not dispute that he has been in the country illegally but argues that he should
be allowed to stay because of his relationship with his partner.

The law allows foreign nationals to fend off deportation by proving they have
been in the country continuously for at least 10 years; substantiating a
relationship with a "qualifying relative"; and showing that deportation would
inflict an "extraordinary and extremely unusual hardship." Two immigration
courts concluded that  the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) precludes recognition
of his same-sex partner as a spouse.

DOMA has been an impediment to the rights of gay men and lesbians since its
inception in 1996. It  withholds from same-sex couples the legal protections,
obligations and privileges enjoyed by their heterosexual counterparts. Repeal
appears out of reach, but Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced in
February that the Justice Department would no longer defend DOMA in court, after
concluding that it is unconstitutional.

The attorney general has vacated the court decision and asked the Board of
Immigration Appeals whether Mr. Dorman's civil union makes him a "spouse" under
New Jersey law and whether, absent DOMA, he would be considered a "spouse" under
immigration law. Mr. Holder should erase any confusion by declaring a moratorium
on removal of foreign nationals in state-recognized same-sex unions until
federal courts determine DOMA's constitutionality. He should ensure that the
government is not focusing on breaking up otherwise law-abiding families.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Fingerprint database could get $10 million to fully digitize

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 640 words


The national electronic database of fingerprints, which is missing countless
sets of prints taken before 2005, could receive a $10 million infusion of funds
to digitize the old prints now sitting in card files across the country.

The gap in the IDENT database was exposed in January when The Washington Post
uncovered that a man wanted in the rape of an 8-year-old girl in Fairfax County
had been in the Loudoun County jail several weeks before the incident. And
although the man, Salvador Portillo-Saravia, had been deported from the United
States in 2003, when Loudoun jail officials checked his fingerprints in November
through the "Secure Communities" computer, there was no match reported, and he
was released.

Portillo-Saravia, identified by Fairfax police as a member of the street gang
MS-13, was arrested in Houston in February. He is awaiting trial in Fairfax on
forcible rape and forcible sodomy charges.

Immigration officials said that many people who were deported before 2005 were
fingerprinted the old-fashioned way, with inked fingertips rolled onto a card or
sheet, and an unknown number of those prints are not in the electronic database.
Now, fingerprints are taken in many local jails and federal facilities by
placing a person's hands on a computer scanning screen, which captures the
prints electronically.

Immigration officials also said that local jails should send them a second,
manual inquiry if they still have immigration-related suspicions about someone
whose prints come back with "no match." But as of January, many jail officials
in the Secure Communities program, both in Virginia and Maryland, said they were
unaware that the database was incomplete and didn't have the resources to run a
second, manual check on the many immigrants who come through their doors.

Rep. Frank Wolf (R) of Northern Virginia, a member of the House Appropriations
Committee and chair of its subcommittee overseeing the Justice Department
budget, sent a letter to federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement asking what
could be done to resolve the problem. On Tuesday, Wolf's proposal to provide $10
million to digitize old fingerprint cards was included in the budget reported
out of the House Appropriations Committee, and Wolf said he expects the funding
to survive the rest of the budget process.

"Why would somebody oppose this?" Wolf said. "It's not a special-interest issue.
I think the likelihood of it staying in the budget will be very, very high."

Wolf said he submitted the $10 million request "in order to maintain the safety
and protection of this area, but I think it's something that, frankly, should be
done nationwide."

ICE officials said they would not comment on pending legislation.

Dealing with immigration officials has been a tricky task for local law
enforcement agencies, who want to maintain good relations with immigrant
communities for purposes of hearing about and solving crime. The Secure
Communities program was seen as a neutral way to handle the problem, by running
the fingerprints of every person arrested through the national IDENT database to
see if the person has any immigration detainers or other related issues. Every
jail in Virginia is now participating.

Portillo-Saravia, 29, entered the country illegally in 2000 and was deported in
October 2003 after being picked up by gang detectives in Prince William County,
authorities said. But at some point he returned, which alone is a federal
offense. He was arrested for public drunkenness in Loudoun in November, run
through Secure Communities and released. He is accused of assaulting the girl in
her Centreville home on Dec. 26.

In March, in response to Wolf's letter, an ICE official said Portillo-Saravia's
inked fingerprints should have been entered in the IDENT database, "but the
agency policy . . . was not followed."

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Man pleads guilty in 'companion' case

BYLINE: June Q. Wu

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 416 words


A Korean man whose unlicensed business sent women to clubs and bars to flirt,
dance and pour drinks faces up to 10 years in prison after his attempt to quash
his competitors by turning them in to immigration authorities backfired,
authorities said.

Taesan Won, 37, of Annandale pleaded guilty Tuesday to harboring for private
financial gain at least six undocumented Korean women who worked for what
prosectors called an "outcall companionship business."

Won, who was arrested in May, will be sentenced Sept. 2, according to Neil H.
MacBride, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.

Since October, authorities said, Won operated a doumi, or helper, business
called Honey from his apartment.

Customers at karaoke clubs and bars would call Won when they wanted female
companions, court documents said. Won would send "attractive and
provocatively-dressed" women to "sing and dance, flirt with, entertain and pour
drinks," according to the statement of facts filed with Won's plea agreement.

The investigation, conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, is
part of a broader crackdown, according to Peter Carr, a spokesman for the U.S
Attorney's Office in Alexandria. Carr declined to comment on the number of such
businesses under investigation.

Won entered the United States on a nonimmigrant tourist visa in September 2010
and was not authorized to work during his stay, according to court papers.

About a month after Won opened Honey, according to court papers, a confidential
source told ICE agent John P. Torres that Won wanted to provide information
about competing businesses in Annandale that employed undocumented Korean women.

But an investigation revealed that Won himself recruited such women through
postings on Korean message boards. Many of the women who responded to the
advertisements were not authorized to work in the United States.

Won typically charged customers $70 an hour to spend time with the women,
keeping $20 in hourly profits for himself. Over the course of six months, Won
earned about $3,000 to $4,000 a month as the owner of Honey, the documents say.

Court documents allege that Won did not obtain a Virginia business license and
did not report wages and earnings to federal or state tax authorities.

Some of the women lived with Won, according to court documents, paying him $300
in monthly rent. He and a co-conspirator who ran another doumi business also
established a $100 per week sook-so, or dormitory, in Annandale for some women.

wuj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

ICE offers relief to Libyan students in U.S.

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 283 words


Libyan students in the United States who have suffered economic hardship because
of the unrest in their home country will be allowed to work more hours and
reduce their course load, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency
said Thursday.

"Students whose primary means of financial support comes from the Libyan
government or family members in Libya may now need to be exempt from the normal
student employment requirements to be able to continue their studies in the
United States and meet basic living expenses," Homeland SecuritySecretaryJanet
Napolitano said in a notice announcing the relief. ICE is the main investigative
arm of the Department of Homeland Security.

"The suspension of all commercial air travel to Libya, violence and uncertainty
at land borders, and an overall lack of security, have made it unfeasible for
students to safely return to Libya for the foreseeable future," she said.

To qualify, students must have been legally in the United States on Feb. 1 and
enrolled in an institution certified by ICE's Student and Exchange Visitor
Program. About 2,000 Libyan students are enrolled in U.S. schools.

Libya has been in a state of conflict since protesters rose up against the
government in February; since then, many business transactions have been
suspended, causing financial pressure on Libyans on both sides of the conflict.

The United States has extended similar considerations, known as temporary
protected status, to citizens of countries that are undergoing crises, allowing
them to work in the United States for a specific time. That period may be
extended if a crisis continues.

The relief for Libyan students is slated to end Dec. 31.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 12, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

When green didn't mean go

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 400 words


LAST MONTH, the U.S. State Department told some 22,000 foreign applicants that
they had won the jackpot - permission to immigrate to the United States and
reside and work here legally. Given that millions of foreigners apply for these
green cards every year, the winners' jubilation was understandable - but
short-lived. The State Department shortly discovered an error in the process and
informed the 22,000 via a Web page update that they were not, in fact, winners.

This green card program, also known as the annual diversity visa lottery,
excludes candidates from nations already heavily represented in the United
States, including China, India and Mexico. By broadening the class of immigrants
to include underrepresented countries such as Egypt, Ethiopia and Nigeria, it
gives hope to many seeking to escape oppressive regimes or severe economic
marginalization who otherwise would be unable to immigrate.

Some of those denied permanent residency have launched an online campaign - a
Facebook group called "22,000 Tears" - to protest the rescinding of their
winning lottery notifications. One of their advocates, a Los Angeles-based
immigration lawyer, is preparing a class-action lawsuit. We don't think that
legal action is justified or likely to succeed - but more can be done than
merely an internal State Department investigation into the technical glitch.

After the erroneous messages were delivered, State lawyers considered recourse
for the misinformed parties. But they determined that, unless directed by
Congress, Foggy Bottom possessed no latitude to extend legal immigration
designations to the disappointed candidates. Congress stipulates that only
50,000 lottery candidates from a random drawing may be awarded such diversity
visas each year.  State is not pressing Congress to act so that additional green
cards could be disseminated in this case. But we would.

The lottery error is more than a bureaucratic problem; it is a terrible
"Peanuts"-style pulling-of-the-football for those affected. The government has
no obligation to award the disappointed applicants visas - but why not do the
right and merciful thing? Between State and the Department of Homeland Security,
more than 1 million  green cards are issued annually, so 22,000 isn't a hefty
addition. The government could turn a mistake into an opportunity to show
inclusiveness and compassion for people from every quarter.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration agency to audit hiring at 1,000 companies

BYLINE: Kate Brumback

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 269 words


ATLANTA - Federal immigration authorities are beginning a new round of
investigations to make sure that businesses hire only people authorized to work
in the United States, focusing on companies vital to national security and other
government and economic functions.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Wednesday that it is notifying
1,000 companies that it will inspect their I-9 forms, which new employees
complete, along with documents the workers provide to show they are eligible to
work here.

"The inspections will touch on employers of all sizes and in every state in the
nation, with an emphasis on businesses related to critical infrastructure and
key resources," ICE said in a statement.

That includes sectors such as banking and finance, commercial nuclear reactors,
dams, water-treatment systems, government facilities, information technology,
telecommunications, and transportation systems.

"Our focus on businesses related to critical infrastructure and key resources
aligns with our priority as an agency to first and foremost minimize threats to
national security and public safety," said ICE spokeswoman Gillian Christensen.

ICE declined to name the businesses or give their locations. The companies were
selected for audits based on tips or intelligence that led ICE to believe they
may be engaging in improper hiring practices, Christensen said.

This is the fifth in a series of employer investigations, dubbed "I-9 audit
surges," by federal authorities. The action will bring the total number of I-9
audits for fiscal 2011 to 2,338, up from 2,196 the previous fiscal year.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Burying the lead in the biggest storyof his life

BYLINE: Paul Farhi

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 760 words


For almost 14 years, Jose Antonio Vargas carried a secret. A journalist skilled
in getting information from others, Vargas withheld some important news from his
American employers: He is an undocumented immigrant.

A native of the Philippines, he immigrated to the United States as a child and
never established legal status, even after he discovered his uncertain standing
when he applied for a driver's license as a teenager in California. He kept the
secret while employed with a series of news organizations, including The
Washington Post, where he worked with distinction, becoming part of a team of
reporters who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2008 for the newspaper's coverage of the
Virginia Tech shootings.

He went on to work for the Huffington Post and landed an exclusive interview in
September with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg that was published by the New
Yorker.

This week, Vargas, 30, revealed his personal story in perhaps the most public
way possible - via a 4,000-word account of his deception in the New York Times
Sunday magazine and a companion interview with ABC News.

"Over the past 14 years, I've graduated from high school and college and built a
career as a journalist, interviewing some of the most famous people in the
country," he wrote. "On the surface, I've created a good life. I've lived the
American dream.

"But I am still an undocumented immigrant. And that means living a different
kind of reality. It means going about my day in fear of being found out."

Vargas said he was putting himself at risk of potential deportation by publicly
acknowledging his illegal status because it was important to highlight the
plight of millions of undocumented immigrants in the United States.

Vargas, who has started an advocacy group, Define American, is promoting passage
of the DREAM Act, federal legislation that would grant permanent residency to
young illegal immigrants who came to the United States as minors.

Until last week, Vargas's article was scheduled to run in The Post's Outlook
section.

Vargas approached his old newspaper in March with the idea of writing a personal
account of his immigration and work history. The story underwent multiple drafts
and was on the verge of being published Sunday. The newspaper sent a
photographer, Bonnie Jo Mount, to New York to take pictures of Vargas to
accompany his piece.

But Executive Editor Marcus Brauchli killed the story several days before it was
scheduled to be published. "We made a considered judgment not to publish the
story," Brauchli said Wednesday. "We knew Jose would take his story elsewhere,
and we're not surprised he found a venue for his interesting account."

Brauchli declined to discuss the reasons for spiking Vargas's article.

Given the subject - a reporter's dishonesty about his personal life - The Post
subjected Vargas's story to an unusual degree of scrutiny. One red flag popped
up during weeks of checking: Vargas hadn't disclosed that he had replaced his
expired Oregon driver's license with a new one issued by Washington state. (The
license had enabled Vargas to pass airport security and to travel to distant
work assignments.) Vargas later conceded that he had withheld the information on
the advice of his attorney. The disclosure set off internal discussion about
whether the newspaper was getting the full story from its former reporter.

In a brief interview Wednesday, Vargas declined to discuss the matter. "I made a
decision that I wouldn't get into [discussing details about the story] at the
end of the day," he said. "I wanted The Post to run the story. They had to do
what they had to do, and so did I."

Vargas then contacted editors at the New York Times magazine. The newspaper
found his story so compelling after seeing a copy Wednesday, just 48 hours
before the magazine's June 26 issue was to close, that its editors decided to
rush the article into print.

This gave the story a singular distinction: It may be the first published by the
New York Times that was developed, fact-checked and substantially edited by
editors at The Washington Post.

Vargas reveals that he disclosed his secret to one editor at The Post, Peter
Perl. The assistant managing editor of newsroom personnel was, at the time,
Vargas's professional mentor. Perl, however, did not share this information with
his superiors. He declined to comment Wednesday.

In an official statement, Post spokeswoman Kris Coratti said of Vargas's
employment at the paper: "We will not comment on individual personnel matters
out of respect for the privacy of our employees."

farhip@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

The nation in briefThe nation in brief

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 244 words

CALIFORNIA

Phony recruiter gets3-year prison term

A Chinese national accused of pretending to be a U.S. Army recruiter to bilk
immigrants out of thousands of dollars was sentenced Wednesday to three years in
prison.

Yupeng Deng, 51, of El Monte, Calif., pleaded guilty to one count each of theft,
manufacturing deceptive government documents and counterfeiting an official
government seal.

Prosecutors say he recruited about 200 Chinese immigrants in California and
Georgia to join his bogus Army Reserve unit, telling them it could improve their
chances at U.S. citizenship.

- Associated Press

NEW YORK

Turtles on tarmacdelay JFK flights

About 150 turtles crawled onto the tarmac at New York's Kennedy Airport on
Wednesday in search of beaches to lay their eggs, delaying dozens of flights,
aviation authorities said.

The slow-motion stampede began about 6:45 a.m., and within three hours there
were so many turtles on Runway 4L and nearby taxiways that controllers were
forced to move departing flights. Delays averaged about 30 minutes, the FAA
said.

The terrapin migration happens every year at JFK, which is built on the edge of
Jamaica Bay.

- Associated Press

COLORADO

Rep. Polis, partnerto become parents

Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.) and longtime partner Marlon Reis said they are
expecting to become parents in September.

Polis is one of the few openly gay members of Congress. The couple did not say
whether they were adopting or using a surrogate mother.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 699 words

MARYLAND

Petitions submittedon tuition-break vote

Opponents of a new Maryland law to give undocumented immigrants in-state college
tuition breaks said they turned in more than twice as many signatures as needed
on Thursday night to suspend the law and force it to a statewide referendum.

The Maryland State Board of Elections has until July 22 to certify the
signatures, but it is likely that the opponents will know before then whether
they have succeeded. Elections officials plan to begin daily updates on the
board's Web site with the tally as it progresses.

The opponents need at least 55,736 signatures, or 3 percent of those who cast
ballots in the last statewide election, to push the measure to a vote in
November 2012.

The board has already certified 47,288 signatures, or more than four out of five
of those that opponents turned in last month. In addition, 74,980 signatures
were turned in on Thursday.

Del. Neil C. Parrott (R-Washington) and Del. Pat McDonough (R-Baltimore), who
led the signature-gathering effort, cast their haul as a success for Marylanders
who care about enforcing immigration laws and predicted that the state's voters
would reject the controversial measure.

The Maryland Catholic Conference said it launched a task force to begin
educating the state's Catholic congregations about why the tuition law "deserves
their support."

- Aaron C. Davis

THE DISTRICT

Robbery suspect shot multiple times

A suspect in an armored-car robbery on Michigan Avenue NE on Thursday morning
was shot multiple times, police said.

The suspect was taken to a hospital, police said. They did not say who shot the
suspect.

Police said they are seeking two black males in a gold four-door Cadillac
DeVille with Maryland tags in connection with the incident, which occurred in
the 200 block of Michigan Avenue about 11 a.m.

- June Q. Wu

Plunge from hotelan apparent suicide

A 47-year-old Alexandria woman whoplunged to her death from the 10th floor of
the W Hoteldowntown Wednesday night apparently committed suicide, authorities
said.

Witnesses told detectives that the woman had been drinking on the terrace of the
POV Lounge at the _blankhotel at 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW.

She climbed over a fence and onto a 10th-floor ledge above 15th Street,
witnesses told authorities. She was seen dangling from the ledge and then fell
to the pavement near the hotel's 15th Street entrance.

The Washington Post generally does not name people who commit suicide.

- Paul Duggan

Man gets 66 yearsin chat-line slaying

A D.C. Superior Court judge sentenced a Southeast Washington man to 66 years in
prison Thursday in the fatal shooting in 2009 of a District man, lured to his
fate via a meeting on an anonymous gay phone chat line.

Judge Lee F. Satterfield, chief judge of the court, sentenced Antwan Holcomb,
21, to prison after a jury convicted him in March of felony first-degree murder
in the slaying of Anthony Perkins, 29, also of Southeast Washington.

During the trial, prosecutors played a videotape of Holcomb telling a D.C.
homicide detective that he called the chat line and lured a man to a secluded
area to rob him.

Holcomb phoned the line Dec. 27, 2009, and spoke with Perkins. The two agreed to
meet and then drive together to an alley in the 2900 block of Fourth Street SE,
near the house where Holcomb was staying. Holcomb then pulled out a .380-caliber
handgun and shot Perkins once in the right temple. Perkins's body was found in
the driver's seat with the engine running.

Holcomb denied the shooting. No valuables were stolen from Holcomb, authorities
said. The only thing missing was a pack of cigarettes.

In total, the judge sentenced Holcomb to 88 years in prison, including 22 years
for other crimes.

- Keith L. Alexander

VIRGINIA

Motorcyclist killedin dump-truck crash

A motorcyclist was hit by a dump truck and killed Thursday morning in Alexandria
at Van Dorn Street and Taney Avenue, police said.

The initial police investigation indicated that the truck driver was northbound
on Van Dorn at 7:07 a.m. and turned right at Taney, striking the motorcyclist.
The motorcyclist was pronounced dead at the scene.

The victim's name is being withheld until relatives are notified.

- Patricia Sullivan

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 10, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Rubio's immigration letdown

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 771 words


Poor Marco Rubio. Florida's junior senator could have been a contender. Instead,
he's become a caricature.

In parts of the Hispanic community, Rubio is thought of as just another
ambitious politician who is willing to sell out Latinos to curry favor with
Anglo colleagues. That's what you hear from Internet chatter, letters to the
editor, Latino listservs and comments on Spanish-language media.

Just seven months after taking office, the Republicans' great Latino hope has
squandered the one thing that made him unique, interesting and valuable to his
party: the potential that he could help mend fences with disaffected Latino
voters alienated by the GOP's simplistic and mean-spirited approach to the
immigration issue.

In a recent poll by Latino Decisions and ImpreMedia, immigration was the No. 1
issue for Latino voters, topping jobs and the economy by more than 15 points.
More than half of the respondents said they know someone who is undocumented.
This issue hits close to home.

Over the past few years, Republicans have dug themselves into a hole with Latino
voters, and Rubio was supposed to help pull them out. It's one reason that
Beltway pundits continue to speculate whether he could wind up as the GOP's vice
presidential nominee in 2012 and whether this alone would be enough to persuade
Latinos to give Republicans a fair hearing.

This is what Rubio was supposed to bring to the party. Otherwise, what good is
he to his colleagues if he can only deliver votes - for instance, from Tea
Partyers - that would probably go to Republicans anyway?

Former Florida Republican Party chairman Al Cardenas believes that Rubio could
do the GOP a lot of good in 2012. Now head of the American Conservative Union,
Cardenas recently told Politico that putting Rubio on the presidential ticket
would "almost guarantee" a Republican victory.

Cardenas needs to get out more - out of Florida and, better yet, out to the
Southwest.

Rubio is becoming persona non grata among Latinos outside of the Cuban American
community, which represents only 3 percent of the Latino population in the
United States. Specifically, he is becoming intensely disliked by many
naturalized Mexicans and Mexican Americans, who make up as much as 67 percent of
the U.S. Latino population. Those voters could affect the electoral outcome in
battleground states such as Colorado and New Mexico, and in vote-rich states
such as Texas and California.

All this has happened because, since arriving in Washington, Rubio has followed
his party's pitiful example of dealing with the immigration issue in a clumsy,
reactionary and unimaginative way.

A few months ago, the Miami Herald reported that conservative activists in
Florida - including members of the Tea Party - were pushing Rubio to take a hard
line on immigration. They complained that the issue wasn't even listed on his
Web site and that Rubio hadn't co-sponsored any legislation to beef up
immigration enforcement.

So Rubio joined the feel-good but do-nothing effort in Congress - led by Rep.
Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) - to make it mandatory for businesses to participate in the
"E-Verify" program, which is supposed to tell them whether a Social Security
number is authentic. He even became a co-sponsor of the companion bill proposed
by Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). Republicans hope that Rubio's support will dull
the accusation that the legislation is anti-Latino because the measure could
discourage employers from hiring Latinos who are assumed to be in the country
illegally.

Rubio also supports the Arizona immigration law, which directs local and state
law enforcement to enforce federal immigration statutes. And, he told the
television network Telemundo, he opposes the reintroduced Dream Act, which would
give legal status to illegal immigrants who go to college or enlist in the
military, because he considers it "part of some broader effort to grant blanket
amnesty."

This self-proclaimed "son of exiles" has it all wrong. It's fine to be tough on
immigration, but you don't have to be predictable and shallow. When that
happens, people assume you're not really thinking through this issue but simply
following the herd and pandering to the special interests controlling your
party.

As a Latino conservative, Rubio was bound to struggle with the immigration
issue. Had he been too lenient on illegal immigrants, fellow conservatives would
have accused him of leading with his heart. Now that he's gone in the other
direction, fellow Latinos will accuse him of not having one.

Ruben Navarrette is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His e-mail
address is ruben@rubennavarrette.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Many Iraqis who worked forU.S. face long waits for visas

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 951 words


BAGHDAD - Heightened security concerns in the United States have stalled the
immigration process for tens of thousands of Iraqis who worked for the U.S.
government or American firms in Iraq and hope to move to the United States,
according to U.S. officials and refugee advocates.

A special program meant to distribute 25,000 visas to Iraqis who worked for the
U.S. government has admitted just 7,000 since it started in 2008, officials said
this week. In addition, the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, a global program
that also admits Iraqis, will admit about 6,000 Iraqis this year, down from
18,000 in fiscal 2010.

In a demonstration of the slowdown facing about 30,000 Iraqis, refugee advocates
said just 50 were granted entry to the United States through the programs in
April, compared with thousands in previous months. Officials at the U.S. Embassy
in Baghdad contacted this week did not dispute the figures and did not provide
more recent numbers.

American officials said there are no plans to end either program, but refugee
advocates complain that the U.S. government is reneging on promises made to
those who risked their lives during the war. Advocates have also said that
reprisal attacks on Iraqis who worked for the U.S. military or contractors will
probably increase as U.S. troops draw down across the country.

The programs "are, by almost every metric, a failure," said Kirk Johnson,
founder of the List Project, which tracks the status of Iraqis who worked for
U.S.-based entities. "There are a lot of open, unused slots every year that are
just sitting there because of complications."

Although several State Department officials acknowledged that sustained interest
in the programs and a small number of personnel and secure facilities to conduct
interviews are contributing to the backlog, they blamed most of the delay on
visa vetting procedures enacted in recent months by the Department of Homeland
Security.

Screeners now conduct more thorough background and biometric checks of
applicants, in addition to checks against several databases, according to DHS
officials familiar with the program. Also, officials said, new "pre-departure"
checks conducted shortly before a refugee is scheduled to leave for the United
States, are catching potentially disqualifying information that might arise
after an initial screening.

The results of some "pre-departure" checks have forced officials to physically
remove Iraqis from flights shortly before they head to the United States,
according to refugee advocates and embassy officials.

"There are a number of issues that need to be resolved before a person can be
admitted," Eric P. Schwartz, assistant secretary of state for the Bureau of
Population, Refugees and Migration, said in an interview. "Because of the
additional issues that arise, it by definition causes additional time
requirements."

Schwartz urged critics to remain patient. "Advocates for refugee protection also
have to be advocates for responsible security procedures," he said.

In May, lawmakers and security experts raised fresh questions about visa
security procedures after two Iraqis living in Kentucky were arrested on
terrorism charges. The men, admitted to the United States under the USRAP
program, were charged with sending cash, explosives and missiles to Iraq for use
against Americans.

Administration officials in Baghdad and Washington, congressional aides and
refugee advocates disputed suggestions of a direct link between the May arrests
and the slowdown, but some suggested that the enhanced screening contributed to
the arrests.

The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee is scheduled to
hold a hearing Thursday to review visa security issues. Although the hearing was
planned before the arrests, aides said lawmakers would probably point to them as
examples of potential security vulnerabilities.

About 80 percent of Iraqis admitted by the visa program served as translators
for the U.S. military, officials said. Ten percent of Iraqis admitted by USRAP,
the broader refugee program, worked for American businesses, according to
government statistics.

At least 22,000 people in Iraq are waiting to be admitted to USRAP, embassy
officials said. About 3,800 Iraqis living in Jordan are awaiting final security
interviews, and 8,500 Iraqis living in Syria have indicated interest. But the
Syrian government is withholding visas for Homeland Security officials needed to
conduct interviews there, U.S. officials said.

Among the tens of thousands waiting in Iraq are Haider Abduwahab and Ghassan
Enad. The men once served as bodyguards for NBC News crews but now protect a
nearly empty Baghdad hotel where hundreds of journalists roamed the hallways at
the start of the U.S. invasion. The lack of business gives them too much time to
sit and wonder whether they'll ever have a chance to leave Iraq and start over
in the United States.

"We feel like we're stuck. We don't know if we'll make it or not," Abduwahab
said.

Abduwahab, 35, applied for the refugee program in September 2009 and completed
all of the necessary interviews and medical tests within a year. He's in a
holding pattern as he waits to move to the United States with his wife, three
children and parents.

"Sometimes if you try to move to a safer place, you hesitate because they might
call and it'll be time to go," he said. "You might want to buy a new car or
perhaps open a small store, but you can't because you're waiting."

Enad, 31, applied for a visa in November 2009 and later received an e-mail with
a case number. An interview was scheduled, then canceled, and he hasn't heard
back since.

ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.com

Special correspondent Aziz Alwan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2011



CORRECTION: A July 13 Fed Page article about a backlog in visa applications for
Iraqis who worked for the U.S. government or American firms in Iraq incorrectly
said that a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee hearing
on visa security was scheduled for Thursday. The hearing was held Wednesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Fairfax County volunteer opportunities Fairfax County volunteer opportunities

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T27

LENGTH: 991 words


ESL and Immigrant Ministries needs volunteers to teach English to adult
immigrants in 11 areas in Northern Virginia. Training is provided. Classes begin
in September. Apply at www.eslim.org. 703-841-0292, office@eslim.org

The Hospital Elder Life Program at Inova Fairfax Hospital needs volunteers to
assist older hospitalized patients to stay mentally and physically active during
their hospital stays. Duties include helping patients with meals, walking,
stress reduction activities and cognitive stimulation. 703-776-6824,
susan.heisey@inova.org, www.inova.org/HELP.

The Literacy Council of Northern Virginia needs tutors to help adults learn to
speak, read and write English. A tutor is trained, matched with a student and
encouraged to meet with the student weekly for 90 minutes. No teaching or
foreign language skills are required. Training will be 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Aug.
13, 20 and 27 at the James Lee Community Center, 2855 Annandale Rd., Falls
Church. A $40 fee covers books, other materials and instruction. Call
703-237-0866, Ext. 111, www.lcnv.org.

Fancy Cats Rescue Team needs volunteers to help care for cats in their centers
in Petsmart stores in Springfield, Fair Lakes and Chantilly. Care includes
feeding, playing, brushing and cleaning cages. Morning and evening shifts are
available. Foster homes for cats are also needed. 703-961-1056,
www.fancycats.org.

Fairfax County's Volunteer Solutions needs volunteers to deliver Meals on Wheels
in Reston between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Deliver once a month or several times.
703-324-5406,
www.fairfaxcounty.gov/dfs/olderadultservices/volunteer-solutions.htm.

The Shepherd's Center of Fairfax-Burke needs volunteer drivers to provide free
rides to seniors for medical appointments and shopping trips. The driving
commitment is flexible. Office workers are also needed to work a 3-hour shift
twice a month. 703-323-4788, www.fairfax-burkesc.org, office@fairfax-burkesc.org

Reston Association's Weed Warriors need volunteers 13 and older to pull Japanese
stiltgrass and English ivy that has spread throughout the natural area in south
Reston, 10 a.m.-noon July 23. Meet at the natural area next to 11425 Running
Cedar Road, just past Foxcroft Way. Look for the Reston Association truck. Wear
long sleeves and long pants. Tools, gloves, snacks and water provided. Ha Brock,
703-435-7986.

Northern Virginia Family Service needs child-care volunteers for its
Transitional Housing Program. Volunteers will engage children in age-appropriate
recreational activities for a two-hour period. Shifts are once a month, and
training is provided. Background checks are required. Navara Jordan,
703-219-2193, njordan@nvfs.org

Inova Fair Oaks Hospital Auxiliary needs adult and teen volunteers to work in
its thrift shop near Fairfax Circle. The store is open 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Mondays-Saturdays. 703-273-3519, inovafairoakshospitalthriftshop@inova.org

Simple Changes, a therapeutic riding center, needs volunteers 14 and older to
help lead horses, walk alongside riders for safety and support and provide
general horse care. Corliss Wallingford, 703-402-3613, info@simplechanges.org,
www.simplechanges.org.

Treasure Shop, the Navy Marine Coast Guard Residence Foundation consignment
store in McLean, needs volunteers to assist in all aspects of the store,
including consignments, cashier, maintenance, organizing items and appraising.
Hansel Aguilar, 703-538-2994, hansel@vinsonhall.org,
media.vinsonhall.org/volunteer-application.

The Vinson Hall Retirement Community needs volunteers to work on its volunteer
concierge services team. Duties include delivering and unloading residents'
grocery bags, greeting and directing visitors and assisting with front desk
operations. Hansel Aguilar, 703-538-2994, hansel@vinsonhall.org,
media.vinsonhall.org/volunteer-application.

The 4Paws Rescue Team needs adult volunteers to take care of cats at the Fairfax
Petco. Volunteers spend 30 minutes one day a week cleaning the cages, giving the
cats fresh food and water, scooping the litter and playing with the cats.
Morning volunteers are urgently needed. Training is provided. A six-month
commitment is required. 703-715-6369.

The St. Mark English as a Second Language program needs volunteers for fall
assignments, helping adults learn computer skills or master English. Classes
meet at the St. Mark Christian Formation Center in Vienna. Volunteers work one
evening a week. Foreign language proficiency is not necessary.
st.mark.esl@gmail.com

Our Daily Bread needs volunteers to assist with data entry and other
administrative tasks in its office. Volunteers are also needed to serve as
financial mentors and to teach personal finance classes to families throughout
the county, especially in the Alexandria area. Training is provided.
703-273-8829, www.odbfairfax.org.

Fairfax County needs volunteers to provide respite care for family caregivers of
older adults who cannot be left alone. A commitment of six hours a month is
required. Volunteers are matched with families in or near their neighborhoods.
Support and training are provided. Kristin Martin, 703-324-7577,
kristin.martin@fairfaxcounty.gov

Guiding Eyes for the Blind needs puppy raisers willing to provide affection,
behavior training and socialization to puppies until they are old enough to be
professionally trained as guide dogs, which is usually 16 to 18 months. Training
and guidance are provided by experienced counselors. 866-GEB-LABS, Ext. 6408,
www.guidingeyes.org.

The Shepherd's Center of Oakton-Vienna needs volunteers to help provide services
to people 5o and older. Medical and companion drivers are needed. Web site
assistance is needed. 703-281-5088, www.scov.org.

-Compiled by Jean Mack

TO SUBMIT AN ITEM

E-mail: fxliving@washpost.comFax: 703-273-2836 Mail:Volunteers, Fairfax Living,
The Washington Post, 4020 University Dr., Suite 220, Fairfax, Va. 22030Details:
Items, published weekly on a space-available basis, are accepted from nonprofit
groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Fairfax County volunteer opportunities Fairfax County volunteer opportunities

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T20

LENGTH: 1115 words


ESL and Immigrant Ministries needs volunteers to teach English to adult
immigrants in 11 areas in Northern Virginia. Training is provided. Classes begin
in September. 703-841-0292, www.eslim.org, office@eslim.org

The Hospital Elder Life Program at Inova Fairfax Hospital needs volunteers to
assist older hospitalized patients to stay mentally and physically active during
their hospital stays. Duties include helping patients with meals, walking,
stress reduction activities and cognitive stimulation. 703-776-6824,
susan.heisey@inova.org, www.inova.org/HELP.

The Literacy Council of Northern Virginia needs tutors to help adults learn to
speak, read and write English. A tutor is trained, matched with a student and
encouraged to meet with the student weekly for 90 minutes. No teaching or
foreign language skills are required. Training will be 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Aug.
13, 20 and 27 at the James Lee Community Center, 2855 Annandale Rd., Falls
Church. A $40 fee covers books, other materials and instruction. 703-237-0866,
Ext. 111, www.lcnv.org.

The International Student Exchange needs host families for exchange students
during the 2011-12 school year. Students are screened, insured, speak English
and bring their own spending money. Host families provide room and board and
guidance. Students expect to share the household responsibilities and be
included in normal family activities. Couples, single parents and families
without children are encouraged to apply. Louise Hackman, 540-286-2529,
louisenva@cox.net, www.iseusa.com.

Ronald McDonald House in Falls Church needs volunteers, 18 and older, to do
administrative tasks, greet families and visitors, keep the house tidy, help
with fundraising events and more. Training is provided. Barbara Clarke,
703-698-7080, barbararmhc@vacoxmail.com, www.rmhc.greaterdc.org.

The Reston Association needs volunteers for the Reston Kids' Triathlon, 6
a.m.-noon Aug. 14, at the Ridge Heights Pool. Duties include assisting race
organizers and assisting young athletes in the swimming, biking and running
events. Ha Brock, 703-435-7986, habrock@reston.org

Fairfax County's Volunteer Solutions needs volunteers to deliver Meals on Wheels
in Reston between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Deliver once a month or several times.
703-324-5406,
www.fairfaxcounty.gov/dfs/olderadultservices/volunteer-solutions.htm.

The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society needs volunteers to help with the "Light The
Night" walk in Reston on Oct. 1. Complete the registration form and return it by
e-mail or fax. You will be contact by e-mail the week of the walk with the
necessary details. www.lightthenight.org/nca/localchapter/volunteer,
emily.lindamood@lls.org

Fairfax Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) will hold an information
session for people interested in becoming advocates for abused or neglected
children. 11 a.m.-noon Aug. 13, Reston Regional Library, 11925 Bowman Towne Dr.,
Reston. 703-273-3526, Ext. 22, ekosarin@casafairfax.org

Northern Virginia Family Service needs child-care volunteers for its
Transitional Housing Program. Volunteers will engage children in age-appropriate
recreational activities for a two-hour period. Shifts are once a month, and
training is provided. Background checks are required. Navara Jordan,
703-219-2193, njordan@nvfs.org

Inova Fair Oaks Hospital Auxiliary needs adult and teen volunteers to work in
its thrift shop near Fairfax Circle. The store is open 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Mondays-Saturdays. 703-273-3519, inovafairoakshospitalthriftshop@inova.org

Simple Changes, a therapeutic riding center, needs volunteers 14 and older to
help lead horses, walk alongside riders for safety and support and provide
general horse care. Corliss Wallingford, 703-402-3613, info@simplechanges.org,
www.simplechanges.org.

The 4Paws Rescue Team needs adult volunteers to take care of cats at the Fairfax
Petco. Volunteers spend 30 minutes one day a week cleaning the cages, giving the
cats fresh food and water, scooping the litter and playing with the cats.
Morning volunteers are urgently needed. Training is provided. A six-month
commitment is required. 703-715-6369.

Fancy Cats Rescue Team needs volunteers to help care for cats in their centers
in Petsmart stores in Springfield, Fair Lakes and Chantilly. Care includes
feeding, playing, brushing and cleaning cages. Morning and evening shifts are
available. Foster homes for cats are also needed. 703-961-1056,
www.fancycats.org.

The St. Mark English as a Second Language program needs volunteers for fall
assignments, helping adults learn computer skills or master English. Classes
meet at the St. Mark Christian Formation Center in Vienna. Volunteers work one
evening a week. Foreign language proficiency is not necessary.
st.mark.esl@gmail.com

Our Daily Bread needs volunteers to serve as financial mentors and to teach
personal finance classes to families throughout the county, especially in the
Alexandria area. Training is provided. 703-273-8829, www.odbfairfax.org.

Fairfax County needs volunteers to provide respite care for family caregivers of
older adults who cannot be left alone. A commitment of six hours a month is
required. Volunteers are matched with families in or near their neighborhoods.
Support and training are provided. Kristin Martin, 703-324-7577,
kristin.martin@fairfaxcounty.gov

The Fairfax County Department of Family Services needs volunteers to transport
older residents to medical appointments and to deliver Meals on Wheels in the
McLean, Springfield and Reston/Herndon areas. 703-324-5406,
www.fairfaxcounty.gov/dfs/olderadultservices.

Guiding Eyes for the Blind needs puppy raisers willing to provide affection,
behavior training and socialization to puppies until they are old enough to be
professionally trained as guide dogs, which is usually 16 to 18 months. Training
and guidance are provided by experienced counselors. 866-GEB-LABS, Ext. 6408,
www.guidingeyes.org.

The Shepherd's Center of Fairfax-Burke needs volunteer drivers to provide free
rides to seniors for medical appointments and shopping trips. The driving
commitment is flexible. Office workers are also needed to work a 3-hour shift
twice a month. 703-323-4788, www.fairfax-burkesc.org, office@fairfax-burkesc.org

The Shepherd's Center of Oakton-Vienna needs volunteers to help provide services
to people 5o and older. Medical and companion drivers are needed. Web site
assistance is needed. 703-281-5088, www.scov.org.

-Compiled by Jean Mack

TO SUBMIT AN ITEM

E-mail: fxliving@washpost.comFax: 703-273-2836 Mail:Volunteers, Fairfax Living,
The Washington Post, 4020 University Dr., Suite 220, Fairfax, Va. 22030Details:
Items, published weekly on a space-available basis, are accepted from nonprofit
groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Pr. William primary defies GOP stereotype

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 1419 words


In Prince William County, where thousands of Hispanics took to the streets four
years ago to protest some of the nation's toughest measures against illegal
immigrants, Republican voters will choose next month between two candidates for
state Senate - both of them Hispanic Americans.

But the Aug. 23 primary face-off between former Virginia GOP chairman Jeff
Frederick, whose mother emigrated from Colombia, and construction company owner
Tito Munoz, a Colombian immigrant who became a U.S. citizen three years ago,
offers more than just an ironic postscript to the immigration battles of 2007.
The race confronts Republican voters with a microcosm of the quandary bedeviling
the party nationally: How ideologically pure must GOP politicians be to win the
enthusiasm of tea party conservatives, and how far dare candidates lean toward
the center to win general elections?

The race in the 36th Senate District, which for the first time this year also
includes parts of Fairfax and Stafford counties, at first glance appears to have
Frederick in the role of the movement conservative with Munoz playing the more
moderate outsider.

In six years as a member of the House of Delegates from Prince William,
Frederick was a regular presence at events staged by the Family Foundation,
which has won legislative battles to tighten restrictions on abortion, keep
same-sex marriage illegal and require the posting of "In God We Trust" in public
schools.

Although Munoz includes his firm stance against all abortions in his stump
speeches ("I have 250 cousins - does that sound pro-life to you?" he says), he
also devotes much of his pitch to the plight of the poor. If elected, he says,
his chief goal would be to use state power to create jobs, improve traffic and
foster development along Route 1.

"The insiders don't know what it's like to be poor or struggling," said Munoz,
who left Colombia at 16 and became a U.S. citizen after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks. "I don't know everything about Richmond, but I have common
sense, and I know there are a lot of immigrants who are struggling to make it."

But the two men vying for a shot at longtime incumbent Toddy Puller (D) do not
fit neatly into boxes labeled "tea party conservative" and "moderate."

Munoz, 50, never thought of becoming a politician until 2008, when then-vice
presidential candidate Sarah Palin plucked him out of a crowd at a rally and
dubbed him "Tito the Builder," a Virginia version of "Joe the Plumber," the Ohio
man who became the rhetorical everyman of her campaign. Now, Munoz is being
touted as a promising leader by Ginni Thomas, wife of Supreme Court Justice
Clarence Thomas; winning support from former senator George Allen; and being
described by conservative media firebrand Andrew Breitbart as "one of the
greatest voices in the tea party."

As the accolades indicate, the race defies stereotypes: It is Munoz - the
political neophyte who admits he's still boning up on just what the state
legislature does - who is running with support from Virginia and national
Republican leaders.

That leaves Frederick, 35, who has not held public office since his short and
troubled reign as state party chairman, positioning himself as the outsider, the
renegade who promises to stand tall against those who would compromise their
conservative principles.

"It's a tough race for both of them," said Tom Whitmore, vice chairman of the
Prince William County Republican Committee. "Jeff is going to have to renew some
old relationships and repair some damage, but he still has grass-roots support
from people who see him as a champion for the social issues. Tito is a champion
to people who came here for freedom, but he's new to all this, and he's a new
citizen."

Although both men tout tea party-friendly positions on shrinking government and
rolling back taxes, Frederick now avoids mention of social issues.

"The pro-life people want freedom fighters, but my agenda is let's shrink
government and create jobs," Frederick said between houses as he knocked on
Republican voters' doors on a 104-degree afternoon in the Lorton section of
Fairfax. "The life issue is important to me, but it's not everything I am.

"I try to focus on issues that impact your daily life. Now, you can argue that
killing babies has an impact on daily life, but that's not what you're thinking
about when you're driving down the highway in heavy traffic," he said. "If
conservatives are going to govern, we have to have a coalition."

The notion of Frederick adopting the mantle of realist is startling to some
Republicans. Frederick was infamous in Richmond as a dynamic legislator who took
pride in resisting compromise and making flamboyantly headline-grabbing
statements, such as when he said that Barack Obama and Osama bin Laden "both
have friends that bombed the Pentagon."

Even now, he says he'd rather be known as an uncompromising conservative than as
a Republican. "Both parties have trouble with intellectual honesty, and they are
filled with people who choose power - real or perceived - over principle," he
told the Virginia Gentleman blog.

But as much as Frederick is known as a tough-talking idealist, his soft voice
and slight figure can seem pale compared with Munoz, who grabs audiences'
attention with his barrel-chested presence, his booming, heavily accented voice
and his frank admission that he's learning as he goes. "This is the first debate
of my life," he told a forum in Woodbridge last week.

Munoz's speeches are much more emotional than Frederick's, especially when he
talks about why he opposes illegal immigration, spinning a long tale about the
time when, as a boy in Colombia, he spent all night waiting outside a soccer
stadium to get the best seats in the cheap section, only to find that people
with connections had been allowed to jump the line.

"I felt cheated, I felt robbed, I felt violated," Munoz said. "Now you tell me
somebody else, somebody who jumped the line, is going to take my place in
America? Somebody who doesn't deserve the opportunity? Not possible."

At backyard barbecues, tea party enthusiasts embrace Munoz as a model of the
entrepreneurial, legal immigrant who eschews government aid. But as Frederick
knocks on doors, some other voters hear Munoz's Hispanic name and tell
Frederick, "That's all I need to hear."

"Tito is who he is," said Tim Murtaugh, a longtime political aide to top
Virginia Republicans who is working for Munoz. "He's the embodiment of the
American dream. Jeff is a failed politician who ran the state party into the
ground."

Frederick, who notes that he never lost an election and boasts that he "wasn't
in Richmond to make any friends," is under no illusions about the antagonism
many Republican leaders feel toward him. He expects a tough campaign from the
same people who ousted him as chairman in 2009, accusing him of mismanaging the
party and steering it too sharply to the right, focusing too heavily on gun
rights, immigration and abortion.

So far, however, those opponents are not putting their money behind their anger.
Frederick has raised nearly five times as much money as the newcomer, according
to the latest finance reports.

Munoz and Frederick have appeared together at only a couple of forums but are
already sniping at each other. Munoz rolls his eyes at Frederick's
identification as a Hispanic: "If you are born here in the United States and
have never lived in another country, how do you know what it is to be Hispanic?"
Munoz said.

Frederick says Munoz is simply not ready for the Senate. "At a minimum, people
seeking public office should know the responsibilities of the office they seek,"
he said. "Tito says this race is about America. No, it's not. It's about the
people of the 36th District."

Those people, like voters throughout Virginia, have a long history of staying
home for summer primaries. Whoever can turn out his supporters in August will
face a tough battle in November. The GOP didn't even field a candidate against
Puller four years ago; before that, she handily defeated Republican opponents.

Even some voters who disagree with Puller like her as a person. "I don't think
she's done any harm," said George Verzagt, 77, an insurance agent, when
Frederick knocked on his door to ask for support.

"Well, she does think that anything wrong with Virginia can be cured with higher
taxes," Frederick offered.

Verzagt was not swayed. "Well, I don't really pay taxes," he replied. "I make
very little. I'm very happy with the services here in Fairfax County."

marcfisher@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Couple without a country

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 459 words


ANTHONY JOHN MAKK may soon be thrown out of a country he has called home for
nearly the past two decades.

Born in Sydney, Australia, Mr. Makk has lived legally in the United States since
1993, but he lost his claim on a visa last October when he shut down his San
Francisco architectural art glass business to care for his ailing husband, who
is battling AIDS.

Although Mr. Makk applied for permanent residency status as the spouse of an
American citizen, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement denied his request
after it concluded that the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) forbids it from
recognizing Mr. Makk's 19-year relationship with Bradford Wells, whom he married
in Massachusetts seven years ago.

"The claimed relationship between the petitioner and the beneficiary is not a
petitionable relationship," the decision said. "For a relationship to qualify as
a marriage for purposes of federal law, one partner must be a man and the other
a woman." Mr. Makk, who is  Mr. Wells's sole caretaker, could be deported this
month.

Mr. Makk's case illustrates the profound injustices meted out by DOMA, which was
passed in 1996. The Obama administration this year denounced the Clinton-era law
as unconstitutional because it deprives same-sex couples equal protection of the
law. In April, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. put on hold the deportation
of a British man who has lived in the United States since 1996 but who never
obtained a green card or citizenship. The man, Paul Wilson Dorman, has been in a
committed same-sex relationship for 15 years and entered into a civil union with
his partner, a U.S. citizen, in 2009.

Mr. Holder asked an immigration court to determine whether Mr. Dorman should be
considered a "spouse" under New Jersey law and thus entitled to stay in the
country. Mr. Makk's deportation should also be put on hold, as should those
involving anyone in legally recognized same-sex relationships whose only
infraction involves immigration status.

It is not easy to win a reprieve from deportation based on marriage to a U.S.
citizen. All who make such a claim must not only show proof of their lawful
relationship but also that removal would cause an "extraordinary and extremely
unusual hardship." But the law at least allows heterosexual individuals to make
their cases; that opportunity should be extended to those in same-sex
relationships also. Immigration agents enjoy broad discretion and should make it
a priority to remove foreign nationals who have committed serious crimes - not
those, like Mr. Makk, who are otherwise law-abiding, contributing members of
society. Common sense and common decency will go a long way toward avoiding
indignities, but true justice will not be achieved until DOMA is wiped from the
books.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 19, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Advocated for immigrants from Central America

BYLINE: Adam Bernstein

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 1065 words


Saul Solorzano, who escaped the bloody tumult of civil war in his native El
Salvador and became a seasoned leader of an advocacy organization for Central
American refugees in Washington, died Aug. 17 at Washington Hospital Center. He
was 49.

Since 1994, Mr. Solorzano had been the top executive of the Central American
Resource Center, known as Carecen. His death, after falling down steps at his
home in Northwest Washington, was confirmed by Milly Rodriguez, Carecen's board
chairwoman and an official with the American Federation of Government Employees.

"Carecen is the most important anchor organization in our region for Central
Americans and, more importantly, Salvadoran immigrants," said Lori Kaplan,
executive director of the Latin American Youth Center in Washington.

"Without Carecen and Saul's leadership, many of our Salvadoran residents would
not have had a pathway to citizenship, would not have had access to affordable
housing and would not have been able to get the services and support that
Carecen provides them," Kaplan said. "Saul's long-term leadership was critical
to the strength of Carecen and its ability to help thousands of people over the
last several decades."

Mr. Solorzano helped expand Carecen's mission from helping immigrants seek
political asylum to helping them become permanent residents and U.S. citizens.

In addition to promoting civic engagement and economic development among the
region's tens of thousands of Salvadorans, Mr. Solorzano helped advocate
successfully for legislation that sought to improve the immigration prospects of
Central Americans, particularly refugees.

Most of the measures were imperfect, he said, but provided "a window of
opportunity to help people find a permanent solution."

Mr. Solorzano was one of the roughly 1 million Salvadorans who fled to the
United States and neighboring countries during a 12-year civil war between
violent leftist guerillas and a U.S.-backed military regime that engaged in
human rights abuses.

Before a truce in 1992, an estimated 75,000 Salvadorans died. Countless families
were torn apart.

Carecen was formed in 1981 to address the compelling needs of a generation of
Salvadorans who found themselves in the Washington area after being granted
temporary refugee status because of the war. Many lacked the skills or resources
to find housing, jobs and health care.

Long involved in aiding refugees, Mr. Solorzano joined Carecen in the early
1990s. He battled strong political forces intent on curbing immigration under
any circumstances, including an effort by some in Congress to end a 1990 program
that offered temporary refugee status to Salvadorans during the civil war.

"In El Salvador, they came here because five factions were going in and chopping
each other to pieces," then-Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) said on the Senate
floor in 1994, soon before he was poised to become chairman of an immigration
subcommittee. "And now that is all over. You have democratic elections. Have one
of them gone back? Not one."

The Clinton administration ended the temporary refugee program for the 200,000
Salvadorans living in the United States. Immigration officials said that there
would not be wide-scale deportations.

Regarded as a skilled political strategist, Mr. Solorzano formed partnerships
with members of Congress and other immigrant-rights groups to shape laws that
would provide chances for a green card.

He continued to oppose periodic efforts, most recently by the Bush
administration in 2005, to end special protections for Salvadoran immigrants
stemming from the 1980s civil war.

The initial protections were ordered by a federal judge after a class-action
lawsuit claimed that U.S. immigration officials had used threats and other forms
of rough treatment to discourage Salvadorans from applying for political asylum.

At times, Mr. Solorzano expressed the bitter feelings of many Salvadorans toward
the baffling standards used in deciding who achieved special rights in the
immigration process. Some, he said, thought that Nicaraguans seeking asylum from
the left-wing Sandinista regime were favored.

"In the 1980s, President Reagan said the Salvadorans were coming for economic
reasons, that we weren't political refugees," Mr. Solorzano told the Star-Ledger
of Newark in 2000. "Any Nicaraguan who showed up at the border and said he hated
the Sandinistas was granted asylum."

Saul Antonio Solorzano MagaÃ±a was born Oct. 14, 1961, in the capital of San
Salvador. His parents sold goods in a marketplace.

Rodriguez, the Carecen chairwoman, said Mr. Solorzano was studying to become an
electrician when he left to live with an aunt in Los Angeles. He sold tamales
and became increasingly drawn into refugee-aid efforts. He later became a U.S.
citizen.

Over the years, Mr. Solorzano was an outreach worker for a refugee center in
Hempstead, on Long Island, and a volunteer coordinator at the Spanish
Educational Development Center in Washington. In 1992, he was hired at Carecen
as associate director and soon became the public face of the organization as its
leader.

He sat on civil rights review panels in the District, raised money for
earthquake victims in Central America, campaigned against gentrification and
predatory lending practices that threatened the livelihood of low-income
Latinos, and spoke out against immigration raids on undocumented restaurant
workers.

He received a bachelor's degree in business management from the University of
the District of Columbia in 2002 and a master's in public administration from
American University in 2005.

Having long worked in advocacy and politics, he made an unsuccessful bid in
January for an at-large seat on the D.C. Council in a special election to
replace Kwame R. Brown (D), who became the council's chairman.

Survivors include his companion, Wendy Ramirez, and their daughter, Joan, both
of Washington; and four sisters.

In interviews, Mr. Solorzano spoke of the profound impact that Central American
immigrants have had in the larger community. Many of them play vital functions
in the service industry, in hotels and restaurants, or mowing lawns and cleaning
buildings.

Allowing them a way to achieve citizenship, he said, would improve their lives
by permitting them to make more money, buy homes and attend schools. "It means
more stability in the community," he told The Washington Post, "and less abuse."

bernsteina@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 105 words


The Aug. 18 editorial "Scare tactics on the border" incorrectly said that 44
percent of the Southwestern border with Mexico is not under "operational
control." According to the U.S. Border Patrol, 44 percent of the border is under
"operational control."

l

The Aug. 16 editorial "Couple without a country" incorrectly said that U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement denied Anthony John Makk's application for
lawful permanent residence. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services rendered
the decision. Also, while Mr. Makk is subject to removal proceedings beginning
Aug. 26, he is unlikely to be deported by the end of the month.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 22, 2011 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama team targets Hispanic voters

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1358 words


While most of Washington was embroiled in the debt-ceiling drama last month,
about 160 Hispanic leaders from across the country filed into the White House
one day, largely unnoticed.

For two days, they enjoyed full access to top presidential advisers, Cabinet
members and administration officials from across the government. Before the
participants left town, they received a glossy 33-page booklet detailing talking
points to be shared back home - 1.9 million Hispanics kept out of poverty by the
stimulus, $808 million in loans last year to Hispanic small businesses, and an
extra $1 billion directed to colleges with large numbers of Hispanic students,
to name a few.

The event was part of broader efforts by the White House and Obama's reelection
campaign to rekindle excitement among Hispanic voters, many of whom have turned
their backs on the president amid disappointment over his immigration policies.
Key to the strategy is shifting voters' attention beyond the caustic immigration
debate with data-driven appeals that show progress in other areas, while arguing
that Obama is better on immigration than any of his potential Republican foes.

The tensions - and the administration's aggressive efforts to soothe them -
reached a climax of sorts in a flurry of activity last week, with the
administration making a surprise announcement Thursday that it was giving
officials discretion to suspend certain deportation cases that have drawn fire
from critics, such as ones involving young people brought to the country in
early childhood.

The White House move came two days after immigrant advocates delivered tens of
thousands of petitions to Obama's reelection headquarters and other Democratic
Party offices demanding an end to the administration's aggressive deportation
policy.

Adding to Democrats' anxiety are signs that Republicans are trying to take
advantage of the strain between Obama and Hispanics.

Crossroads GPS, the pro-GOP group advised by Karl Rove, saturated
Spanish-language airwaves in key states last month with ads blasting Obama's
record. And one of the party's presidential front-runners, Texas Gov. Rick
Perry, brings a history of courting Hispanic voters. He even backed a law
granting in-state college tuition for many children of illegal immigrants.

The White House outreach strategy underscores the quandary facing Obama and his
aides, who are struggling to keep their hold on a voter bloc that was a key
piece of the president's 2008 coalition of minorities, young people and white
liberals and is expected to play an even greater role in deciding his
reelection.

Administration officials announced last week that they would host Hispanic
policy conferences in cities across the country. Some will be in key political
battlegrounds - with the first to take place this month in Orlando, home to a
large Puerto Rican community that is a prime target for the campaign's early
voter registration efforts.

"I understand the pain that our community is going through," said Labor
Secretary Hilda L. Solis, who is hosting policy roundtables with Hispanic
activists across the country as a top White House liaison to the community. But,
she added, "I think it's amazing how little people know of the good things that
this administration has done."

At her roundtables, Solis distributes handouts describing measures her agency
has taken to help Hispanics. At a meeting in Las Vegas this month, she gave out
literature about policies designed to improve safety conditions for Hispanic
workers. She said other announcements geared toward helping Hispanics would come
soon, although she declined to offer specifics.

Obama won two-thirds of the Hispanic vote in 2008 after pledging that
overhauling immigration policies would be a top priority in his first term.
While immigration does not always rank as the No. 1 issue for Hispanics,
activists say Obama's failure to pass legislation granting a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants, combined with a deportation program that has removed
more than 1 million illegal immigrants since 2009, has stirred deep
disappointment.

A majority of the Hispanic voters surveyed by the nonpartisan polling group
Latino Decisions said they know an illegal immigrant, and one-fourth said they
know someone who is facing deportation or has been deported.

Obama's job approval rating among Hispanics has plummeted since its high mark in
April 2009, according to Gallup, from 85 percent to 49 percent this month.

Administration officials say their outreach initiatives - many of which began in
2009 - are not coordinated with the campaign.

Still, the efforts coincide with recent moves by Obama's Chicago-based
reelection campaign to begin ramping up its grass-roots Hispanic operations in
key states.

The campaign recently named Solis's former chief of staff, longtime Denver
strategist Katherine Archuleta, as its national political director, touting her
as the highest-ranking Latina in the organization.

Archuleta and campaign manager Jim Messina met this month with Hispanic
organizers and volunteers in Las Vegas, and next month Archuleta plans to hold
similar meetings in Colorado, Florida and New Mexico.

Andres Ramirez, a Las Vegas-based Democratic strategist who met this month with
administration and campaign officials to discuss Hispanic outreach, said a
"hyper-obsession" with immigration issues has led many voters to overlook other
accomplishments - including the appointment of a Puerto Rican woman to the
Supreme Court.

"Most people forget that he appointed Sonia Sotomayor and how big of a deal that
was," Ramirez said.

In a twist, some activists think the cultural pull of immigration issues has
worked to Obama's benefit, because many Hispanics can relate to his being forced
to defend his citizenship by revealing his long-form birth certificate.

"They themselves have been targeted, and they know what it's like to have to
prove yourself," said Obama campaign volunteer Joe Perez, a 67-year-old veteran
who is canvassing Hispanic neighborhoods in Greeley, Colo.

Several leading Hispanic activists said the level of outreach from Obama's White
House far surpasses that of previous administrations, including that of
President George W. Bush, who heavily courted Hispanics and won 40 percent of
that vote in his 2004 reelection, unusually high for a Republican.

Obama's White House staffers have showered Hispanic community leaders with phone
calls, event invitations, and weekly e-mails that have been known to include
profiles of lesser-known Hispanic appointees. The White House has lavished
attention on Hispanic media.

The White House has lavished attention on Hispanic media, dispatching Obama and
other administration officials to frequent appearances on Univision and
Telemundo and inviting Hispanic bloggers to coveted encounters with Obama and
senior advisers. Obama has sat for some 30 interviews with Hispanic news outlets
- including one to be featured this fall in Latina magazine. In video aired
during Univision's annual "Premio lo Nuestro," a People's Choice Awards-style
music show, Obama rolled his R's as he peppered his feel-good message with
Spanish phrases.

But keeping Hispanics enthusiastic has gotten more difficult. They have been hit
harder than non-Hispanic whites in the recession, with unemployment in that
group topping 11 percent and home foreclosures devastating Hispanic-heavy
neighborhoods in Nevada and Florida.

And, despite frequent efforts to blame Republicans for blocking an immigration
bill, many Hispanics wonder why the president didn't push harder when his party
ran Congress.

"There's a lot of outreach, but I think what people are still getting frustrated
with is, okay, where are the outcomes in terms of policy?" said Arturo Vargas,
executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials and a regular participant in meetings with top White House officials.

"The White House feels they have done all this work in other areas on the
economy that they feel has benefited Latinos just like it's benefited most of
the country," he said. "But it hasn't been perceived that way in the community."

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 28, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

As Nevada diversifies, some push back against anti-immigrant rhetoric

BYLINE: Ashley Powers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: PAHRUMP, NEV.


PAHRUMP, Nev. - Andy Sanchez had just moved to this dusty outpost near Las Vegas
when a gust of anti-immigration furor tore the town asunder.

The town board voted in 2006 to make English the official language of Pahrump
and bar residents from flying a foreign flag without a U.S. flag near it. When a
couple hung Italian and Polish flags in protest, their house got egged.

"I didn't know that kind of racism was here," said Sanchez, 73, although the
ordinance was rescinded within a few months. "It broke my heart."

But last month, Sanchez was heartened when a group of residents launched a
recall campaign against a county official who sent e-mails that disparaged
Latinos. That's when Sanchez, a retired nurse, saw the new politics of Pahrump
on display.

The Pahrump Valley Times had obtained e-mails in which Assessor Shirley Matson,
a Republican, compared Latinos to "locusts," said pregnant Latinas were carrying
"anchor babies" and told the sheriff she was fearful of "Mexican/Latino,
non-English speaking" construction workers building a nearby jail.

Matson, who declined interview requests from the Los Angeles Times, said in a
letter to the community that "rarely does a day go by that a county resident
does not stop in to thank me for speaking out and ask me to hold my ground."

Yet the all-Republican county commission publicly excoriated her. The newspaper
demanded her resignation on its front page. Sanchez joined a group of local
activists trying to recall her. "As a public official, you cannot spread
hatred," he said at a recent signature-gathering event.

Residents say Nye County has always had a small but vocal anti-immigrant crowd.
But what has changed in a matter of years is the ferocity with which some
residents are pushing back - underscoring a recent demographic trend in Nevada,
where new and diverse residents have remade the swing state's complexion and
political culture.

Some of the recent outcry in Pahrump can be attributed to the incendiary nature
of Matson's comments, which repelled even supporters of tough border
enforcement. "You can't stereotype us because we're 'tea party' people here,"
said Commissioner Dan Schinhofen. "We can see when things are over the top."

But there is also a tonal shift in Pahrump and elsewhere in Nevada, where the
Latino population soared nearly 82 percent in the past decade. In 2000, nearly
two-thirds of state residents were white. Now, close to half are minorities.

In many ways, that mirrors what's unfolding nationwide: Latinos accounted for
more than half of U.S. population growth since 2000, and capturing their votes
is considered crucial in next year's presidential race. Several Republican White
House hopefuls have dispensed with their party's harsh anti-immigrant rhetoric,
if not its tough border policies.

"It's not just about the growth in Latinos," said Nevada political consultant
Andres Ramirez, who has worked on state redistricting. "It's a change in
philosophy of how people think."

The party diversity among Nevada's voters is split: Of about 1.3 million voters,
563,000 are Democrats, 460,000 are Republicans, and 360,000 are nonpartisan and
minor-party voters.

Nevada elected its first Latino governor last year, a Republican who won much of
his support from white voters. Immigrant-bashing, once a reliable rallying cry
for the Nevada GOP, now carries electoral risk, as nearly 27 percent of state
residents are Latino.

Just ask Sharron Angle, whose bid last year to unseat Democratic Sen. Harry M.
Reid was partly derailed by commercials depicting Latinos as menacing thugs -
although she did win deep-red Nye County.

Local Democratic Party chairwoman Jan Bearss views the backlash against Matson
as a backlash against the Pahrump of old. "A few years ago, I don't think this
would have happened."

Nevada's population boom transformed Nye County. In 1990, of the nearly 18,000
people living across its sun-baked valleys, about 7 percent were Latino. But as
newcomers rushed to Las Vegas for tourism and construction jobs, thousands of
people settled "over the hump" in Pahrump, the county's largest town and the
self-proclaimed "Heart of the New Old West."

Now, of the 44,000 people who call Nye home, roughly 14 percent are Latino. And
Latinos accounted for about 22 percent of the county's K-12 students in the
2009-10 school year. The growth also rerouted people from more diverse urban
areas to a frontier outpost known for legal brothels and feral politics (county
Libertarians recently held a Martin Luther King Jr. Day event at a gun range).
"The community itself became more diverse in opinion," said political consultant
Ramirez.

In Pahrump, the town board passed the English-only ordinance at a meeting where
people who spoke against it were booed. Sheriff Tony DeMeo refused to enforce
it, but some Latinos said they were afraid to speak Spanish in public. After a
few months - and a number of unflattering news reports - the board repealed the
ordinance.

The Matson episode has reopened some wounds.

Newly elected Matson has never publicly apologized for her comments. In her
letter, she calls her foes "hypocrites" who "think freedom of speech is okay
when they exercise it, but a conservative, well, that's altogether different."
She has rallied some supporters in town, although their sway will soon be
tested.

Stephanie Lopez, a homemaker who moved here from Las Vegas in 2005, is involved
in local politics and runs a popular Facebook page, "Positive Pahrump." When the
Matson controversy erupted, Lopez's husband, Jose, asked her to intervene. So
Lopez, 29, rounded up like-minded neighbors and started the recall drive.

Sanchez, the retired nurse, joined them. When he was a kid in Arizona, some
families wouldn't let him play at their homes. As an adult, he lived in Vegas
when it was considered the "Mississippi of the West" because of its poor
treatment of African Americans. When Lopez recently approached him about helping
with the recall, he didn't hesitate.

"She made Hispanics stand up and be counted," he said, wearing a T-shirt that
said "Adios Matson."

- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 200 words

CELEBVOCATE

An occasional look at the show-biz professionals flacking causes in exchange for
good karma. Tuesday's trouper:Gael Garcia Bernal

Venue: The National Press Club.

Cause: Latin American immigrants.

Bona fides: Mexican art-house heartthrob ("Y Tu Mama Tambien") who has twice
played Che Guevara ("The Motorcycle Diaries," miniseries "Fidel"); longtime
celebvocate for poverty, hunger and social justice causes.

What he wants: To shed light on the struggles of migrants trying to cross the
border into the United States.

How he looked: Shaggy ear-length hair, gray V-neck T-shirt, blazer.

How he sounded: Shy and apprehensive, at least when speaking English. Breaking
out the Spanish, Bernal was way more suave, drawing chuckles from the bilingual
speakers in the room.

Charming anecdote: While filming "The Invisibles," a series of documentaries
following the path of migrants, Bernal and his crew attempted to swim over the
border between Guatemala and Mexico, where, what do you know, it turns out he's
got some fans. "As we were approaching, there was this person on top of some
corn sacks and on the side of Guatemala," the actor recalled. "He stood up and
he said, 'Are you Che Guevara?' "

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The benefits of immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 210 words


Thanks for the thoughtful Sept. 12 editorial "The GOP's nonsense on
immigration." Unfortunately, the Republicans are not alone. The entire country
seems to have turned its attitude toward immigration the wrong way.

Immigration has made our country great, and blocking it hurts us.  We need
immigration. If we are smart, we will raise our immigration quotas dramatically.
Never mind amnesty; we should be recruiting.

We worry that we do not have enough young people to keep Social Security afloat.
We have them; they just aren't counted. They are here illegally because we have
barred them from coming legally. If they were here legally, more of them would
be paying into Social Security, and so would their employers.

Our housing market is in the dumps. Legal immigrants buy homes. We need new
people to support our housing market.

New immigrants don't just take jobs, they create them. One of the first things
many new arrivals do is start small businesses that create many jobs. We need
new immigrants for the jobs they create.

Welcoming immigrants will turn a profit for us, financially, socially and
spiritually. We need to stop this costly Fortress America nonsense and to behave
like the America we like to think we are.

John S. Warman, Rockville

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 615 words

Britain

Police seek sourcesof hacking stories

British police are seeking an "unprecedented" court order to force a newspaper
that has led coverage of the phone-hacking scandal engulfing Rupert Murdoch's
News Corp. to reveal its sources, the paper said Friday.

In a story on its Web site, the Guardian said London's Metropolitan Police were
seeking to use the Official Secrets Act to force two of its reporters to
disclose their confidential sources.

The act is designed to protect classified information and allows prosecutions
usually relating to matters of national security and espionage.

The Guardian's reports have helped keep the story at the top of the political
agenda in Britain and played a part in forcing News Corp. to close the
168-year-old News of the World tabloid.

- Reuters

Netherlands

Government to ban face-covering veils

The Dutch government said Friday that it will ban face-covering veils worn by
some Muslim women because these flout the Dutch way of life and culture.

Prime Minister Mark Rutte also announced tougher rules for immigrants and
asylum-seekers wanting Dutch nationality, who in future will have to show that
they have earned income and have not received financial assistance or benefits
for at least three years.

The country's reputation as relatively easy on immigration has changed in the
past decade, reflecting voter concerns over the large number of Muslim
immigrants. The new measures also reflect the influence wielded by populist
politician Geert Wilders, whose anti-Islam, anti-immigration Freedom Party is
the third largest in parliament.

- Reuters

Syria

17 slain as protestsenter seventh month

Syrian troops killed at least 17 people Friday in raids on anti-government
demonstrators, activists said, but failed to stop thousands from pouring into
the streets nationwide and taking their uprising against President Bashar
al-Assad's autocratic rule into a seventh month.

The activists reported demonstrations from the capital, Damascus, and its
suburbs to the southern province of Daraa, where the movement was born in
mid-March. Crowds also gathered in the eastern province of Deir al-Zour as well
as the province of Latakia on the Mediterranean coast and central regions.

The Friday protests - which have become a weekly ritual after the midday Muslim
prayer services - were held under the banner: "We will continue until we bring
down the regime."

- Associated Press

Rights court rules for Chavez opponent: A Venezuelan opposition leader was
cleared by an international court Friday to run against President Hugo Chavez in
2012. Centrist candidate Leopoldo Lopez had been banned from campaigning by
Venezuelan authorities who accuse him of corruption, but the Costa Rica-based
Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruled in his favor.

Iraq, Oman seek release of American hikers: Mediators from Iraq and Oman are
asking Iran to free two Americans convicted of spying. Omani officials said they
have a plane in Tehran to carry the pair out of the country if a
bail-for-freedom deal is reached. Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal were detained
along the Iran-Iraq border in July 2009 along with friend Sarah Shourd, who was
released last September. The Americans say they may have mistakenly crossed into
Iran while hiking.

Security forces, protesters clash in Bahrain: Security forces clashed with
thousands of mourners and opposition factions in Bahrain on Friday after a
funeral march for a man who relatives say died after inhaling tear gas fired at
Shiite-led protesters in the Persian Gulf kingdom. The skirmishes erupted
shortly after mourners joined in anti-government chants that included cries for
King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa to step aside.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 19, 2011 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 228 words

MARYLAND

Police seek driver in College Park death

Prince George's County police are seeking the driver of a red Honda that might
have struck and killed a pedestrian early Sunday in College Park.

The victim, described only as an unidentified man, was discovered by a passerby
at 3:45 a.m. at University Boulevard and Baltimore Avenue, police said. The man
was dead at the scene.

- Del Quentin Wilber

Federal immigration program is delayed

Federal officials have pushed back the date for the implementation of a
controversial immigration program in Montgomery County, county officials learned
this month. The program, called Secure Communities, would have U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement receive fingerprint data recorded by local law
enforcement.

In April, Montgomery officials learned that the program would start in the
county  Sept. 27. But on Sept. 8, an ICE official told county corrections
director Arthur M. Wallenstein that there is no longer a start date available.
ICE spokesman Ross Feinstein said federal officials want to ensure that
"resources and necessary infrastructure" are in place to support the initiative
and that the program will be implemented nationwide by 2013.

Council member Nancy Navarro (D-Eastern County), who opposes the program, said
that Secure Communities creates a "blanket of fear" and that she is happy with
the delay.

- Victor Zapana

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Perry plays a bit of political catch-up in New Hampshire

BYLINE: Amy Gardner

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H.


MANCHESTER, N.H. - Texas Gov. Rick Perry spent the weekend in this early-voting
state trying to revive a campaign damaged by shaky debate performances and to
lure back Republicans turned off by his views onimmigration and Social
Securithttp://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/rick-perry-and-his-socia
l-security-problem/2011/09/08/gIQAwGlRCK_blog.htmly.http://www.washingtonpost.co
m/blogs/the-fix/post/rick-perry-and-his-social-security-problem/2011/09/08/gIQAw
GlRCK_blog.html

At a series of traditional political stops across southern New Hampshire -
including three town-hall forums and a house party - Perry touted his record of
job creation as Texas governor. He forcefully defended his support of in-state
tuition for certain illegal immigrants. And he accused those who claim he wants
to dismantle Social Securityof "scare tactics."

"No one up there on that stage has a stronger record than I do when it comes to
illegal immigration," Perry told a rain-soaked crowd in Manchester, pushing back
against the narrative that his support for the Texas DREAM Act makes him too
soft on immigration for the Republican Party's most stalwart conservatives.

Perry, who rocketed to front-runner status shortly after declaring his bid for
the Republican presidential nomination seven weeks ago, has since been weakened
by those perceptions as well as his unsteady appearances in three nationally
televised debates. He has been out-muscled by the better-funded,
better-organized operation of his chief rival for the nomination, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney.

Even speculation over the past week about whether New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie
would jump into the racehas been viewed in some quarters as a vote of no
confidence in Perry's potential to challenge Romney from the right, as many had
hoped he would.

Whether Perry made headwayduring his two-day New Hampshire tour remains to be
seen. He told one crowd that he is boning up on economic matters by consulting
with former presidential candidate Steve Forbes, and he was scheduled to work on
debate preparation with policy experts on his drive to the Manchester airport
Saturday afternoon.

He catered to conservatives with promises to abolish the federal Energy and
Education departments and a pledge to hire an administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency "who is not there to make any friends."

But Perry drew moderate crowds of 150 or so and only polite applause with his
most pleasing lines, notably when he said the evidence is not "incontrovertible"
that climate change has been caused by man. He did not win over everyone with
his explanation that the Texas DREAM Act was a "Texas solution" - not
necessarily for every state.

"I don't understand why any governor would give preferential treatment to the
child of somebody who does not belong here rather than these guys here or his
grandchildren," said Dave Connors of Hampton, pointing to those seated around
him as he addressed Perry at one event. "It doesn't make sense."

Even at Perry's own events, Romney's superior organization was in evidence; on
Friday in Derry, Romney supporters handed out phony Perry jobs plans filled with
empty pages (along with Romney's own 160-page plan). And on Saturday, the roads
leading to one of Perry's town halls were festooned with dozens of Romney yard
signs (which two young Perry supporters worked feverishly to remove).

"I'm really right in line with Perry's principles," said Kevin Kimball, 53, of
Hampton, who works in human resources and attended Perry's first town hall of
the day. Like many who attended, Kimball is not thrilled with Romney's
moderation, notably his support for a health-care overhaul in Massachusetts that
served as a model for President Obama's plan.

"But I don't think Perry's quite as polished as Romney," Kimball said. "He's got
to get better."

Perry also caused a stir at his final tour stop by saying that he would consider
sending U.S. troops to Mexicoto fight drug violence.

"It may require our military in Mexico," Perry said in answer to a question
about drug violence along the southern border. In the back yard of New Hampshire
gubernatorial contender and tea-party activist Ovide Lamontagne, Perry offered
no details, and a spokesman, Robert Black, said afterward that Perry would work
with the Mexican government. But Black declined to specify whether Perry is
amenable to sending troops into Mexico with or without the country's consent.

"If he were president he would do what it takes," Black said.

The remarks prompted speculation about exactly what Perry meant and what the
implications might be for the nation's relationship with
Mexico.http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/perry-send-us-troops-to-mexico-to-
fight-drug-wars/2011/10/01/gIQA2qDGDL_story.html

The issue also opens the door to scrutiny of Perry's position on U.S. military
intervention generally. The governor has criticized Obama's management of
military operations in Afghanistan and elsewhere; on Saturday, at the same
campaign appearance where Perry made his remarks about Mexico, he promised never
to send troops into another country without a detailed plan for winning and
withdrawing quickly.

Pressed to explain Perry's remarks, Black, the spokesman, offered this: "Never
say never. Mexico has a problem. They have a significant problem with drug
cartels at war with each other. And that is a significant problem for the United
States."

gardnera@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

ICE analyst admits role in travel kickbacks

BYLINE: Andrew Beckerby Andrew Becker

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 611 words


A former intelligence analyst with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
pleaded guilty Thursday in federal district court in El Paso to stealing at
least $70,000 from the government as part of a travel receipt scheme and using a
diplomatic passport for personal trips to the Middle East.

Ahmed Adil Abdallat, 64, admitted to two counts of misuse of a diplomatic
passport and one count of conversion of public money as part of a plea
agreement, according to a statement from U.S. Attorney Robert Pitman. Six other
counts related to passport misuse were dismissed. Abdallat was arrested in
February.

Abdallat admitted that he submitted 13 travel vouchers between February 2009 and
September 2010 and received $116,392.34 in reimbursements for lodging, car
rentals and other expenses that included fraudulent receipts.

FBI Special Agent Shannon E. Enochs testified at a March bond hearing that, for
example, Abdallat would stay with a friend for a month but submitted fake
statements that he lodged at a hotel. He submitted one claim for more than
$6,000.

Though an exact amount has yet to be calculated, Abdallat agreed that the
government's loss was between $70,000 and $120,000.

He also used his diplomatic passport for personal travel to and from Jordan on
two occasions between 2007 and late 2010. Abdallat, a naturalized U.S. citizen,
is a native of Jordan and served in the Air Force there, reaching the rank of
colonel. As an ICE analyst, he was formerly stationed in the U.S. Embassy in
Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia.

Abdallat's plea is the latest development in a federal probe of a travel voucher
kickback scheme that involves at least two other ICE employees, including the
agency's former acting intelligence chief, James M. Woosley.

"ICE takes these matters very seriously, and we fully cooperated with the
investigation that led to Mr. Abdallat's conviction," ICE spokesman Brian P.
Hale said. He declined to comment on Woosley or any other employee. Abdallat was
fired in June.

The probe spans from El Paso to Washington, according to a federal official who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the ongoing matter. The
investigation is one of several recent corruption and misconduct cases in recent
months involving ICE staff members

Woosley, the highest-ranking ICE employee ensnared in the probe, was placed on
administrative leave Feb. 4 and resigned late last month, a Department of
Homeland Security official confirmed. His assistant, Leticia Rollerson, also has
quit. Neither has been arrested or publicly charged. An FBI agent testified that
the other ICE employees were subject to proceedings in another jurisdiction.

"Mr. Abdallat was working with at least two other individuals in Washington,
D.C., one of them being the Acting Assistant Director of Intelligence, James
Woosley," the FBI agent testified. "Basically, he was the approver for Mr.
Abdallat to go to Washington, D.C."

He said that Abdallat had sent an estimated $58,000 back to other ICE employees
in Washington who were involved in the scheme, including Woosley and Rollerson.

Daryl Fields, spokesman for the U.S. attorneys' office for the Western District
of Texas, said the plea agreement remains under seal. Phone calls to Abdallat's
attorney, Mary Stillinger, were not returned. Woosley and Rollerson could not be
reached for comment.

Abdallat, who remains in custody, faces up to 10 years in prison. The amount of
restitution will be determined at sentencing. A sentencing date has not been
set.

Andrew Becker is a reporter for the Center for Investigative Reporting, a
nonprofit news organization based in Berkeley, Calif. He can be reached at
abecker@cironline.org

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Fulfilling U.S. humanitarian obligations to assist refugees

BYLINE: - From the Partnership;for Public Service

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 301 words


Molly Groom

Chief, Refugee and Asylum Law Division, Office of the Chief Counsel, U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), Department of Homeland Security

Best known for: For the past 15 years, Groom has dedicated her career to helping
refugees. She oversees a team of 12 lawyers, who provide legal advice on
humanitarian issues for people inside and outside the United States. This
includes those who have been displaced by war, famine, and civil and political
unrest, or have been forced to flee their countries to escape the risk of death
and torture. Groom and her team work on a variety of legal issues, including
those involving refugee and asylum status, victims of human trafficking or other
violent crimes, and battered spouses, children and parents.

Government service: Groom has been the chief of the USCIS refugee and asylum law
division since 2002. She previously served as an associate general counsel with
the Justice Department's Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and spent
a year working as a legal adviser with the United Nations Transitional Authority
in East Timor,  gathering evidence of and prosecuting war crimes and abuses.
Groom began her career as an INS trial lawyer in New York.

Biggest challenge: Groom says the biggest challenge of her job is addressing the
misperception that providing protection for refugees comes at the expense of
ensuring  national security when "disciplined attention to our humanitarian
obligations and commitments is not only consistent with, but also advances, our
national security."

Quote: "I feel so lucky to be able to work on providing protection to those in
need. To be able to describe your job as helping the government do the right
thing in the field of protection is an amazing thing."

- From the Partnership

for Public Service

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

ICE trails suspected rights violators

BYLINE: Paloma Esquivel

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES - While most Americans are familiar with immigration officers who
patrol the U.S. border with Mexico, a lesser-known and relatively new
immigration project has another mission: pursing thousands of suspected war
criminals and human rights abusers.

Since its creation in 2009, the Human Rights Violators and War Crimes Center has
helped arrest a man living in Georgia who was allegedly part of a Serbian
paramilitary group that killed thousands during the Bosnian war. Its work also
led to a grocery store worker in Chicago wanted in Rwanda on charges of
genocide.

Another successful case: the arrests of two California men - one working as a
martial arts instructor and the other as a maintenance man - who were accused of
taking part in the massacre of at least 160 men, women and children during the
Guatemalan civil war.

Officials say the agency, which is part of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, is pursuing more than 1,900 suspects from about 95 countries. Some
of those sought within in the United States came legally, while others slipped
in or overstayed tourist visas.

The latter was the case with Carlos de Graca Lopes, former director of a prison
in Cape Verde. According to an indictment filed there, he ordered or carried out
the beating and torture of prisoners more than 150 times. While under
investigation in Cape Verde, he was granted a tourist visa to the United States,
where he quickly disappeared.

Nearly 10 years ago, Amnesty International issued a report calling the United
States a haven for torturers and identifying more than 1,000 suspected human
rights violators living in the country. At the time, federal officials invested
few resources to track them down, the rights group said. For decades, most
efforts in the area had been focused on deporting Nazi war criminals.

A unit of the Justice Department also pursues alleged offenders from Central
America, Bosnia, Rwanda and other countries.

Since it was created two years ago, the Human Rights Violators and War Crimes
Center has grown.

"As we began to be successful, we got more resources, more bodies," said ICE
unit chief Tom Annello. The ICE center now has about 28 full-time employees. The
names of more than 3,000 people suspected of human rights violations have been
collected and shared with U.S. agents and officials tasked with approving visas.

Often officials settle for minor charges that can result in deportation, hoping
more serious charges can be levied in the suspects' home countries. "We'll go
after them for visa fraud, perjury, jaywalking. We don't care," Annello said.

Even minor charges can require extensive investigation. Special Agent Brian
Andersen, who worked on the Lopes case, has traveled to Rwanda, Liberia and
elsewhere in Africa to investigate alleged war crimes.

Andersen, a onetime social studies teacher who got into law enforcement in the
late 1990s, said he has been deeply moved bythe work. "These are, in my opinion,
some of the most important cases that I have ever worked or that I will ever
work," he said.

- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Rubio on national ticket could be risky bet for GOP

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1314 words


Republicans who are eager to repair the party's battered image among Hispanic
voters and unseat President Obama next year have long promoted a single-barrel
solution to their two-pronged problem: putting Sen. Marco Rubio on the national
ticket.

The charismatic Cuban American lawmaker from Florida, the theory goes, could
prompt Hispanics to consider supporting the GOP ticket - even after a primary
contest in which dust-ups over illegal immigration have left some conservative
Hispanics uneasy.

But Rubio's role in recent controversies, including a dispute with the country's
biggest Spanish-language television network and new revelations that he had
mischaracterized his family's immigrant story, shows that any GOP bet on his
national appeal could be risky.

Democrats had already questioned whether a Cuban American who has voiced
conservative views on immigration and opposed the historic Supreme Court
nomination of Sonia Sotomayor, the first Latina justice, could appeal to a
national Hispanic electorate of which Cubans are just a tiny fraction but have
special immigration status. And Rubio's support in Florida among non-Cuban
Hispanics has been far less pronounced than among his fellow Cubans.

That ethnic calculus was further complicated by records, reported by The
Washington Postlast week, showing that Rubio had incorrectly portrayed his
parents as exiles who fled Cuba after the rise of Fidel Castro. In fact, their
experience more closely resembles that of millions of non-Cuban immigrants: They
entered the United States  21 / 2 years before Castro's ascent for apparent
economic reasons.

Rubio made the exile story a central theme of his political biography, telling
one audienceduring his Senate campaign, "Nothing against immigrants, but my
parents are exiles." A video, apparently produced for the conservative site
RedState.com, shows black-and-white footage of Castro as Rubio speaks.

Even after the new reports of his parents' entry, Rubio has said he remains the
"son of exiles," saying his parents had hoped to return to the island but did
not because of the rise of a communist state.

But in elevating exile roots over the apparent reality of his parents' more
conventional exodus, Rubio risks setting up a tension point with the country's
Hispanic voters - most of whom are Mexican American and have immigrant friends
or ancestors who did not have access to the virtually instant legal status now
granted to Cubans who make it into the United States.

"If he does take that mantle, there'll be a lot of clarification that he'll have
to make on a whole lot of issues," said Lionel Sosa, a longtime GOP strategist.

Hispanic voters are growing in importance and are expected to play a pivotal
role in deciding who wins the important presidential battlegrounds of Colorado,
Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona and Florida. Obama won two-thirds of the Latino vote
in 2008, signaling a shift away from the GOP since 2004, when President George
W. Bush won about 40 percent - an unusually high showing among Hispanics for a
Republican.

GOP strategists see an opening in Obama's sagging approval ratings and
frustration among Latinos over the administration's stepped-up deportations of
illegal immigrants. But they worry that window is closing amid sharp rhetoric in
recent weeks from the party's apparent presidential front-runner, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, who has accused Texas Gov. Rick Perry, his
chief rival, of being soft on illegal immigration for his support of in-state
college tuition for many immigrant children. Romney used a similar tactic in his
2008 presidential campaign, attacking Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) from the right on
immigration.

Adding to those concerns is a Rubio-related standoff between the top Republican
candidates and Univision, a Spanish-language TV network based in South Florida
whose news programs draw more viewers in many cities than English-language
broadcasts.

The candidates are refusing to participate in a potential Univision debate
slated for Jan. 29, two days before Florida's primary, citing a dispute between
network executives and Rubio's office over a July report on the 1987
drug-trafficking arrest of Rubio's brother-in-law.

Rubio's office said it was a "tabloid" story and unsuccessfully pushed for
Univision executives to kill it. Two months later, a Miami Herald report cited
unnamed network staff members and Rubio's office accusing Univision of a quid
pro quo, offering to soften or kill the story in exchange for Rubio agreeing to
appear on the network's Sunday public affairs show "Al Punto."

Univision denied the charge. But after the report, a group of Rubio allies
called on the GOP candidates to boycott the debate. The top candidates agreed,
meaning they will be spared a potential grilling on immigration by the network's
high-profile anchor, Jorge Ramos, an advocate for more liberal immigration laws.

But the dispute creates ill will between Rubio, who could become the most
powerful Hispanic political figure in the country, and one of the most cherished
Hispanic institutions in the United States - and one that happens to be based in
his home town.

"One of the big questions of 2012 is whether putting Marco Rubio on the ticket
can help the GOP make up lost ground with Latino voters," said Simon Rosenberg,
president of the pro-Democratic group NDN, which analyzes the Hispanic vote.
"Despite being Hispanic, looking at his overall record . . . he seems remarkably
ill-suited to be the one reaching out to the largely Mexican migrant community
in the key battleground states."

Several Hispanic Republicans and other experts on Latino politics said in
interviews that Rubio remains a potent force in the GOP. His presence on the
party's ticket could inspire enough ethnic pride to make up for cultural or
policy differences. But they said there is no guarantee.

"He would deliver Florida," home to the large and typically Republican-leaning
Cuban American population, said Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the
Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, a pro-GOP group that is planning
to air ads in Western states geared toward Hispanic voters. "In Colorado, Nevada
and New Mexico, he can have an impact. But can he deliver the Latino vote in
those states? No."

Some Republicans consider Rubio such a promising new star that they funded a
poll last month that tested, among other things, the senator's image among
Hispanic voters in key presidential battlegrounds. The survey, by the group
Resurgent Republic, found that most Hispanic voters outside Rubio's home state
aren't familiar enough with him to express a view. But in Florida, it showed
mixed results - with Obama viewed slightly more favorably than Rubio among
Hispanics and the senator viewed favorably by just 42 percent of non-Cuban
Hispanics.

Democrats predict that the numbers for Rubio would drop fast once more voters
learned his views. Rubio's allies say the survey shows that he could boost a
party whose support among Latinos is sinking but that could probably win the
presidency with just 40 percent of that electorate.

"Most Republican politicians would die for" his favorability rating among
non-Cuban Hispanics, said Whit Ayers, the GOP pollster behind the survey, who
worked for Rubio's campaign in 2010.

Rubio has said he does not want to run for vice president. His spokesman, Alex
Conant, declined to address that speculation. Instead, he reiterated the
senator's embrace of his heritage and his support for legal immigration.

"Sen. Rubio has always claimed to be both the son of immigrants and the son of
exiles," Conant said in an e-mail. "His family came to the country legally with
the intention of staying permanently, but with the hope of someday returning to
their homeland. They were unable to do that because of Castro, becoming exiles
like many other Cuban-Americans."

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Perry defends Texas'sin-state tuition program

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;Dan Balz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H.


CONCORD, N.H. - Texas Gov. Rick Perry offered a robust defense of a
controversial law grantingin-state college tuition breaksto some undocumented
immigrants on Friday, saying that his state's program helps those who might
otherwise become "tax wasters" contribute to society.

At the start of a day-long campaign swing in New Hampshire, Perry also tried to
brush aside controversies over earlier remarks questioning whether President
Obama was born in the United States and whether he will skip upcoming debates,
as an aide suggested this week.

Perry met with reporters shortly after filing the paperwork at the State Capitol
that makes official his candidacy in this state's first-in-the-nation primary,
which likely will be held  Jan. 10.

Asked whether he would make different immigration laws if he had the chance,
Perry said no.

"Texas had a decision to make: Are we going to kick these young people to the
curb and pay for their existence in our state through social programs or some
other type of government dollars - up to and including incarceration?" Perry
said. "Or are we going to require that they pursue United States citizenship and
pay full in-state tuition?"

Perry added, "Are we gonna create tax wasters or are we gonna create tax
payers?"

The in-state tuition law continues to dog Perry's candidacy, more than a month
after the issue was raised in a Florida debate. Former Massachusetts governor
Mitt Romney's campaign welcomed Perry to New Hampshire Friday by sending
reporters a research dossier on Perry's immigration record titled: "Rick Perry
brings his liberal illegal immigration policies to New Hampshire."

Romney was also campaigning in New Hampshire on Friday, and at an evening town
hall meeting in Manchester, he took a shot at Perry's immigration record.

"Some problems are hard: how to stop al-Qaeda and the jihadists from attacking
us around the world? That's hard," Romney told an audience of roughly 200 New
Hampshire voters. "How to stop people coming into our nation illegally? That's
not so tough. Build a fence, have enough people to patrol it and turn off the
magnets that draw people here illegally, like giving them in-state tuition."

Immigration has been one of several issues deflecting attention from Perry's
jobs record and economic plan. Perry was asked about his comments in two
interviews published earlier this week casting doubt on Obama's birthplace of
Honolulu.

Asked whether it was a mistake to be linking his campaign to the "birther"
movement, Perry said, "I don't consider making fun of something being a
mistake."

"Look, the president's the president, and that's a fact," he said. "I don't
think Americans see that as anything other than a distraction, just like I see
it as a distraction. . . . There are a lot of people in the country that want to
distract off of the best job-creation record in America."

Trying to separate himself from his rivals, Perry added, "Nobody - nobody on
that stage can talk about job creation like I can."

Perry's campaign aides have said this week that the governor may skip some
upcoming debates, but when pressed, Perry, whose campaign has suffered partly
because of uneasy debate performances, was noncommittal.

"I don't know," Perry said. "There's gonna be a lot of debates. Shoot, I may get
to be a good debater before this is all over with."

Perry read from prepared text as he made opening remarks to reporters. He
focused on his economic plan, which includes an optional flat income tax with a
rate of 20 percent. Perry held up a blue postcard to make the point that his tax
plan is far more simple than the current tax code.

"Granite Staters get it," Perry said. "They know that these aren't just a bunch
of talking points. . . . This isn't just nibbling around the edges. This isn't
just 'here's what I'd do if I was the president.' This is what I've done as the
governor of the second most-populous state in the nation."

Perry made an oblique swipe at Romney, who has been drawing support from many
establishment figures this fall.

"My campaign is certainly not a campaign of the establishment," Perry said.
"It's a campaign for Main Street and we're gonna bring opportunity back to Main
Street." Later,  he attacked Romney as a flip-flopper.

Recent polls show Romney with a solid lead over Perry, particularly in New
Hampshire, where,a CNN-Time poll this week showed Romney with 40 percent,
followed by Herman Cain at 13 percent, Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) with 12 percent and
Perry, 4 percent.

"I don't pay a lot of attention to polls," Perry said. "What I do pay attention
to are people. I'll put my record up with anybody on that stage in terms of job
creation, and that is what Americans care about."

Asked whether he could beat Romney here, Perry left no doubt.

"I'm not here just because I like to hang around with y'all," Perry said. "I'm
here to win."

ruckerp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

How are Google, GE and McDonald's alike?

BYLINE: - Robert Litan

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G02

LENGTH: 250 words


They were founded by an immigrant or the child of an immigrant. Immigrants not
only disproportionately start companies but are also especially successful in
launching high-growth high-tech firms. More than 40 percent of Fortune 500 firms
were founded by immigrants or their offspring.

A dizzying number of obstacles face immigrant entrepreneurs who want to study,
live or work in the United States. What a mistake. They don't take jobs; they
make them, and they do so at no cost to the government.

Two ideas would bring more entrepreneurs to the country. The first is the
Startup Visa Act, co-sponsored by Sens. John Kerry (D-Mass.) and Richard Lugar
(R-Ind.). Immigrant entrepreneurs would be screened for a temporary visa based
on the outside capital they had attracted or revenue from U.S. sales. Permanent
visas would be given once they hired enough U.S. workers.

A second idea would be to grant green cards to foreign students when they
receive their degrees from a U.S. university. Under current law, these students
must go home after graduation. What a waste! We ought to give these highly
trained individuals, who paid their way (or their governments did) to get here,
the right to stay and contribute to the innovation we need.

We should welcome those individuals who can make America and, ultimately, the
world a better place while creating more jobs for Americans.

- Robert Litan

Litan is vice president of research and policy at Kansas City-based Kauffman
Foundation, which studies entrepreneurship.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2011 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Drunken-driving case in which Catholic nun died is going to trial

BYLINE: Justin Jouvenal

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 969 words


When an illegal immigrant was accused last year of driving drunk and causing a
crash in Prince William County that killed a nun, the case unleashed a wave of
anger and became a touchstone for supporters of stricter immigration
enforcement.

With the murder trial of Carlos Martinelly-Montano set to begin in the county's
Circuit Court on Monday, the political reverberations of the case are still
playing out and will probably do so long after the verdict is read.

"The case has become a hallmark," said Claire Gastanaga, a former Virginia chief
deputy attorney general and a lobbyist for immigration advocacy groups. "It has
become a place holder for a lot of different things that people are unhappy
about with the immigration system."

Melissa Sanchez, Martinelly-Montano's attorney, said he is expected to plead
guilty to five of the six charges he faces but intends to plead not guilty to
the most serious charge, felony murder.

Police said Martinelly-Montano, 24, of Bristow slammed his car into another with
three nuns inside about 8 a.m. on Aug. 1, 2010. The crash on Bristow Road in
Bristow killed Sister Denise Mosier, 66, and seriously injured Sisters Connie
Ruth Lupton and Charlotte Lange. All three belonged to the Benedictine Sisters
of Virginia, who have a monastery in the town just west of Manassas.

At the time of the crash, Martinelly-Montano, who came to the United States from
Bolivia as a child, had awaited a deportation hearing for almost two years after
convictions in 2007 and 2008 for driving under the influence of alcohol. He was
not being held because immigration authorities did not deem him a flight risk
and there were few beds available at D.C. area detention centers.

The revelation prompted outrage and a flurry of changes. Prince William County
Supervisor Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who led the charge for increased
immigration enforcement in the county in 2007, released a statement saying
President Obama and Congress had "blood on their hands."

Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II (R) issued an opinion saying police
could inquire about a person's immigration status during stops or arrests,
Virginia changed the rules on issuing state IDs, and the Department of Homeland
Security launched a probe of Martinelly-Montano's case.

The DHS probe concluded that Martinelly-Montano's situation probably would not
be repeated today because the department is more aggressively deporting illegal
immigrants with criminal records. Immigration authorities say they have added
500 beds at detention facilities in the D.C. area and have decreased the time it
takes to get a hearing in cases in which someone is not being detained.

Stewart is skeptical. Prince William County filed a lawsuit in August to try to
determine the fate of 4,000 illegal immigrants it turned over to DHS. That case
is pending in federal court in Virginia.

"I would love to say there has been progress within DHS, but we can't say that
because we don't have the data," Stewart said.

Crystal Williams, the executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said the biggest change that has come about in the wake of the
Martinelly-Montano case is an aggressive crackdown on illegal immigrants who
have drunken driving records.

"There is a more categorical approach to anyone who has a drunk driving
violation. You're not seeing as much evaluation of individual cases," Williams
said. "It's drunk driving - he's done."

Some thought Martinelly-Montano's case might be Virginia's "Arizona moment":
Last year, the killing of a prominent rancher there sparked the passage of one
of the nation's strictest immigration enforcement laws. So far, that has not
happened.

This year, a bill that would have allowed police to check the immigration status
of people who were arrested was passed by Virginia's House of Delegates but
failed in a state Senate committee. Stewart said the bill should be reintroduced
during the next session, and he believes it could pass if Republicans wrest
control of the state Senate from Democrats.

Others think a backlash is building against such legislation.

They see Arizona's experience as a cautionary tale. Arizona has been hit by
protests and boycotts and had a dramatic decrease in the meetings and events
business after the law's passage. Some law enforcement officials also say such
laws hurt their relationship with immigrant communities.

In Prince William County, opponents of the county's strict enforcement policy
said it has caused immigrants to flee the area and has hurt property values.

"There is a lot more debate of the unintended consequences of these laws and how
they affect the community," said Ann Morse, who oversees immigration issues for
the National Conference of State Legislatures.

As the immigration debate simmers, the Benedictine sisters have decried the
politicization of the crash. Shortly after the accident, the nuns' spokeswoman
said Martinelly-Montano "deserves to be treated with respect." When
Martinelly-Montano's parents made an unexpected visit to the monastery last
year, the nuns told them they had forgiven him.

The two injured sisters have quietly gone about getting their lives back on
track. Both have recovered physically and have begun to work again. Lupton tends
the sisters' home in Bristow, while Lange is providing spiritual counseling for
hospital patients in Richmond and was recently honored by Commonwealth Catholic
Charities for her volunteer work.

The sisters declined to be interviewed pending the outcome of the trial, but
Dougal Hewitt, Lange's supervisor in her hospital work, said he has noticed a
change in her since that tragic morning.

"If anything, she is more committed to the sick, under-served and vulnerable,"
Hewitt said. "Her understanding of the preciousness of life is even deeper."

justin.jouvenal@wpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Felony murder conviction in 2010 crash that killed nun

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 638 words


An illegal immigrant who was charged with drunken driving last yearwhen he
struck a car carrying three nuns, killing one and injuring the others, was
convicted Monday of felony murder.

Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano's case ignited outrage and prompted calls for
stricter immigration enforcement.

During a hearing in Prince William Circuit Court, the facts of what happened
Aug. 1, 2010, were not in dispute: Martinelly-Montano swerved his Subaru into a
guardrail and then veered into the opposite lane on a slim, two-lane road in
Bristow, colliding with the nuns' blue Toyota.

Martinelly-Montano, who came to the United States from Bolivia as a child, had
twice been convicted of driving under the influence in the years before the
crash. At the time, he had been awaiting a deportation hearing for almost two
years.

The nuns, who belonged to the Benedictine Sisters, were on their way from
Richmond to Bristow for an annual retreat. Sister Denise Mosier was killed.
Sisters Charlotte Lange and Connie Ruth Lupton, both in their 70s, were badly
hurt.

Lange, the director of ministry at St. Mary's Hospital in Richmond, was driving
that morning. She testified that she had recently celebrated her 50th year as a
nun and had the drive to the retreat down to a "science" - take Interstate 95 to
Route 234. She saw the crash coming from a distance - the Subaru swerving into
her lane - and realized, "I couldn't come to the other side."

The aftermath was a haze of hospital visits and therapy for both sisters. Lange
has a metal plate in her right leg and has endured several surgeries on her
stomach - a result of the seat belt's impact, she said, among other injuries.
It's also affected her memory and hearing.

"I call it the 'new normal,' " she said. "I'm back at work. I'm tough."

Lupton lost her left thumb. She testified that her memory has deteriorated and
her hand injuries have made everyday tasks difficult. She recently used a walker
to get around and now uses a cane; she didn't need assistance before, she said.
Scars like "railroad tracks" climb up her back where pins hold together
vertebrae, she said.

At the start of the court proceedings on Monday, Martinelly-Montano pleaded
guilty to five charges stemming from the incident: involuntary manslaughter, two
counts of maiming while driving under the influence, driving on a revoked
license and a third DUI offense within five years.

But he went to trial before a judge on a charge of felony murder -
unintentionally killing someone while committing a felony. Because the
drunken-driving conviction was Martinelly-Montano's third, it is considered a
felony under Virginia law.

Defense attorneys argued that Martinelly-Montano's actions did not rise to the
level of a felony murder, and that he could not be convicted of both
manslaughter and felony murder.

In the end, Circuit Court Judge Lon E. Farris found Martinelly-Montano guilty in
what prosecutors said was a rare instance of the charge being applied in a
drunken-driving case.

Together, the charges carry a maximum sentence of 70 years in prison.
Martinelly-Montano is scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 3. Defense attorney Melissa
Sanchez said an appeal is likely.

Sister Cecilia Dwyer had been waiting for the sisters that day and was on the
other end of a frantic phone call from Lange. Before testifying Monday, she
looked at Martinelly-Montano and smiled. Family members said later that the
sisters - who have publicly and privatelyoffered forgiveness- have been writing
letters to Martinelly-Montano and that he has since turned to the Bible. His
mother, Maria Martinelly-Montano, said the Benedictine sisters have invited them
over for dinner.

Asked outside the courtroom about her smile, Dwyer said that it was her "natural
reaction" as an "extrovert."

"I don't know him," she said. "It was benevolence."

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

At Cedar Ridge, building a vibrant community

BYLINE: Alison Lake

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T51

LENGTH: 735 words


During an economic downturn, affordable housing programs run by counties such as
Fairfax are popular, particularly among immigrants in the region.

Yet Cedar Ridge Apartments in Reston is more than just a subsidized housing
complex: Its cultural makeup and the participation of nonprofit organizations
and corporations produce an unusually cohesive and vibrant community.

On a recent fall afternoon at Cedar Ridge, Sudanese and Egyptian women wrapped
in colorful scarves chatted on park benches as they watched their children play
on the monkey bars and slides. They shared home-brewed tea and cookies. Cedar
Ridge feeds children from about 80 Arabic-speaking families into Forest Edge
Elementary School next door, according to Fairfax County public schools.

While the women congregated with their children near the playground in the late
afternoons, before Muslim prayer time, men in white tunics and prayer caps
relaxed and talked at the picnic tables adjoining the community office.
Washington Flyer taxicabs lined Becontree Lake Drive, because many of the male
residents provide transportation services to and from Dulles International
Airport.

A dozen or so Cedar Ridge families moved here from the Nubian region of Africa.
Residents chat easily with their neighbors in Arabic and Nubian dialect,
regardless of whether they were born in Sudan or Egypt. Cedar Ridge is also home
to Hispanic and other immigrant groups.

Corporate and charitable contributions sustain a full-time resident assistance
program at Cedar Ridge. The community center hosts a daily after-school program
for teenagers and kids, along with a summer camp and community and holiday
celebrations. Freshta Nawabi, a native of Afghanistan, runs the community
office.

Nawabi, whose position is funded by nonprofit Reston Interfaith, is a one-stop
shop for residents' questions and ideas. Nawabi, who is quiet and approachable,
noted that "residents frequently speak to me in their own languages, thinking I
understand." She speaks Farsi, Urdu, Pashtu and English.

County residents apply to live at Cedar Ridge through the Fairfax County Rental
Program, run by the county Redevelopment and Housing Authority, which also owns
the property. Income requirements are not stringent, allowing a family of three
to make as much as $82,000. But residents present the community office with an
ongoing needs list, including job training, English language studies, food and
fuel assistance and translation.

"I think we are making strides in the community," said Abby Kimble,
communications director at Reston Interfaith, "and Freshta makes those
relationships happen, because people feel comfortable to approach her with
questions."

Reston Interfaith operates with grants and donations from corporations and
individuals. Volunteers from the organization also teach a citizenship class to
residents. Hanan Ahmed, 35, from Aswan, Egypt, completed the course in 2010 and
received her U.S. citizenship in December. The drive to gain U.S. citizenship is
high at Cedar Ridge, and most of Ahmed's female friends and neighbors have
graduated from the class or are currently participating.

Because Cedar Ridge feeds a significant Arabic-speaking population to Forest
Edge Elementary, county schools assigned Gigi Hammoud to work there, first as a
translator and later as a parent liaison. A native of Sudan, Hammoud assists
with parent-teacher conferences. She attributes the large North African
population at Cedar Ridge to the proximity of Adams Center, a large Northern
Virginia mosque.

"They like being close to the mosque, especially so the kids have that feeling
of belonging to a group," Hammoud said.

She also shares information with teachers and other students about the
community, educating them on Muslim customs such as fasting during Ramadan and
wearing of head scarves by female students.

As to why many Cedar Ridge residents have lived there almost a decade, "my sense
is that they knew each other from before they came to the U.S., or got to know
each other very well here," Hammoud said. "They take care of each other and each
other's kids. Dads are off Fridays, and I see a lot of them picking up the kids
from school."

Nawabi has seen the community help itself in significant ways. "I see
carpooling, babysitting for each other's kids and, in general, neighbor helping
neighbor, across ethnic lines. We have a diverse community here."

lakea@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

GOP rivals differ sharply on security issues

BYLINE: Dan Balz;Amy Gardner

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1317 words


The Republican presidential candidates clashed repeatedly over foreign policy
and national security issues Tuesday night, revealing clear differences on the
pace of withdrawal from Afghanistan, aid to Pakistan, the Iranian threat,
immigration, and the balance between protecting the homeland and preserving
civil liberties.

President Obama came in for sporadic criticism for his handling of foreign
policy throughout the debate. But the bulk of the time, beginning with the
opening question, was spent on issues that revealed fissures within the
Republican Party's coalition over how to deal with trouble spots around the
world.

The debate came at another time of change in the race for the Republican
nomination. For the first time, former House speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) assumed
one of the center positions onstage, an acknowledgment of his sudden rise in the
polls. He used his newfound status as the leader in two polls to effectively
display his experience in dealing with national security issues.

But an answer on immigration, in which he said he does not think that the nation
should deport many of the millions of immigrants who have been in the country
illegally for years, could put him at odds with some conservatives in his party
- the same issue that caused problems for Texas Gov. Rick Perry earlier this
fall. After the debate, Gingrich defended himself against possible criticism,
saying he was not advocating an amnesty program.

The tone of the debate, the 11th among the candidates this year, was largely
civil, and the session ranged widely on both domestic and international issues,
though there was no discussion of the European debt crisis and little attention
paid to China. Despite the differences that emerged, the majority of the
candidates offered a generally more hawkish view of the world than that
enunciated by the Obama administration.

In contrast to some previous debates, Tuesday's forum is likely to have only a
limited impact on the overall race. Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
once again delivered a solid performance.

Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) stood out by disagreeing most significantly with the other
candidates. Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman Jr. used the opportunity to take
on his rivals, especially Romney.

The debate was held at DAR Constitution Hall in the District and was sponsored
by CNN, the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute. CNN
anchor Wolf Blitzer served as the moderator, with questions from AEI and
Heritage scholars. Eight candidates participated. The others were business
executive Herman Cain, Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) and former senator Rick
Santorum (Pa.).

Romney, Huntsman spar

One of the sharpest exchanges came between Romney and Huntsman over Afghanistan.
Romney argued that Obama was moving too rapidly to bring out U.S. troops and
said he favors maintaining a substantial presence for several more years.

Asked his view, Huntsman said, "I totally disagree." He said money that is being
spent on the war in Afghanistan could be better used rebuilding the U.S.
economy.

"Are you suggesting, Governor, that we just take all our troops out next week or
what - what's your proposal?" Romney replied.

"Did you hear what I just said?" Huntsman responded. "I said we should draw down
from 100,000. We don't need 100,000 troops. We don't need 100,000 troops in
Afghanistan."

In the past, Romney has said he would hope to bring the troops home as soon as
possible, but with the qualifier that he would listen to the views of military
commanders.

The candidates fielded several questions about securing U.S. interests in
Pakistan, a nuclear state that has harbored terrorists but that has also
provided the United States with a steady stream of intelligence on al-Qaeda.

Bachmann and Perry clashed over whether the United States should continue
funneling aid to Pakistan, given its role in harboring terrorists. Perry said
that he would not send "one penny, period" until Pakistan demonstrates more
willingness to cooperate with American interests, but Bachmann, a member of the
House intelligence committee, retorted that Perry was "highly naive," given
Pakistan's possession of nuclear weapons and the threat of terrorists gaining
control of them.

Bachmann said Pakistan is "too nuclear to fail," arguing that the United States
must continue a relationship. But she also said: "We need to demand more. The
money that we are sending right now is primarily intelligence money to Pakistan.
It is helping the United States."

Gingrich on immigration

When the debate turned to immigration, it produced an answer from Gingrich that
will remain a topic of discussion. The former House speaker said that newly
arrived illegal immigrants should be expelled.

But for those who have been here for many years, he took a different view,
favoring a path to permanent residency, not citizenship.

"If you've come here recently, you have no ties to this country, you ought to go
home, period," Gingrich said. "If you've been here 25 years and you got three
kids and two grandkids, you've been paying taxes and obeying the law, you belong
to a local church, I don't think we're going to separate you from your family,
uproot you forcefully and kick you out."

Bachmann quickly criticized Gingrich for an idea she described as tantamount to
amnesty. "If I understood correctly, I think the speaker just said that we would
make 11 people - 11 million people who are here illegally now - legal."

On Iran, Cain said he would consider helping Israel in a military strike against
the Iranian regime if he believed that the Israelis had a credible plan that
would succeed. Perry called for tough sanctions against the Iranian central
bank. "When you sanction the Iranian central bank, that will shut down that
economy," he said.

Gingrich said he could agree with that. "I think it's a good idea if you're
serious about stopping them having nuclear," he said. "I mean, I think replacing
the regime before they get a nuclear weapon without a war beats replacing the
regime with war, which beats allowing them to have a nuclear weapon. Those are
your three choices."

Clash on civil liberties

The debate opened with a clash over the USA Patriot Act and the trade-off
between civil liberties and homeland security. Paul called the Patriot Act
"unpatriotic." He said that there is no need to "sacrifice liberty for security"
and that the criminal justice system had effectively dealt with Timothy J.
McVeigh, who was responsible for the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing.

Gingrich responded: "Timothy McVeigh succeeded. That's the whole point. Timothy
McVeigh killed a lot of Americans. I don't want a law that says after we lose a
major American city, we're sure going to come and find you. I want a law that
says, you try to take out an American city, we're going to stop you."

As part of the discussion, Santorum said he would support profiling "radical
Muslims" to prevent terrorist attacks. But he was quickly criticized by Paul,
who offered: "What if they look like Timothy McVeigh? He was a tough criminal."

In anticipation of Tuesday's debate, the Democrats mounted a full-court press to
preemptively challenge Romney and the Republicans and to promote the president's
foreign policy record. Polls show that the public gives Obama good marks on
foreign policy and terrorism, in contrast to low numbers on the economy and the
deficit.

National security adviser Thomas E. Donilon delivered a speech at the Brookings
Institution Tuesday in which he contrasted U.S. policy toward Iran before and
after Obama came to office.

Three years ago, he said, "Tehran believed, and many in the region believed,
that Iran was ascendant." Today, he argued, Iran's standing has declined.
"Rather than looking to Iran, people in these Arab countries are looking in the
opposite direction - towards universal rights, towards democracy," he said.

balzd@washpost.com

gardnera@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Gingrich may face backlash in Iowa over immigration

BYLINE: Philip Rucker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1178 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES


DES MOINES - Having just taken his place at the front of the Republican
presidential pack, Newt Gingrich now faces a potential backlash from
conservative activists here in Iowa over animmigration proposal that he called
"humane" but that his opponents quickly decried as providing "amnesty."

The former House speaker appears to have alienated some of the conservatives who
had warmed to his candidacy by saying Tuesday in a candidates debate that he
would allow millions of illegal immigrants who have settled in the United States
to become legal residents.

Republican leaders across Iowa - including grass-roots activists, county party
chairmen and a congressman - said on Wednesday that Gingrich could see an
erosion in his support here, just as Texas Gov. Rick Perry did when his moderate
immigration positions became clear.

Tim Albrecht, a top aide to Gov. Terry Branstad (R), said Gingrich's comments
will prove "toxic." He predicted that other candidates would "tear him up on
this issue."

"The climate changed for Newt Gingrich [Tuesday] night," added Albrecht, who
worked for Mitt Romney's 2008 campaign and is neutral now because he's working
for Branstad.

In Iowa in particular, immigration politics inspires passion among
conservatives. "They believe, as I do, that any form of amnesty is not
supported," said Ann Trimble-Ray, chairman of the Sac County Republican Party.
"If you have broken the law, then you need to pay the consequences of having
done so. If that means deportation, so be it."

She added: "We still respect Speaker Gingrich for all he is, which is a very
intelligent man who understands how the process works in the United States
government and is bringing a valuable perspective in many, many ways in this
race, but I think this probably is a deal breaker for some folks."

Brian Rosener, chairman of the Woodbury County Republican Party, said: "The only
conversation that needs to happen on the immigration issue is how to secure the
border. Any other discussion is, at some point, dangerous and irresponsible."

Gingrich's campaign moved to quell any possible uprising among supporters here.
Dan Seufferlein, who is coordinating Gingrich's efforts in eastern Iowa, said he
called a dozen conservative activists on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning to
explain the candidate's position. He said that only one activist mentioned
Gingrich's debate answer.

"I could be wrong, but my judgment is that this is manufactured outrage by some
of the other campaigns that are looking to stall his numbers and increase
theirs," Seufferlein said.

In the debate, Gingrich said: "If you've come here recently, you have no ties to
this country, you ought to go home. Period. If you've been here 25 years and you
got three kids and two grandkids, you've been paying taxes and obeying the law,
you belong to a local church, I don't think we're going to separate you from
your family, uproot you forcefully and kick you out."

During a visit here Wednesday, Mitt Romney seized on Gingrich's remarks and
accused his rival of offering "a new doorway to amnesty."

"I just think we make a mistake as a Republican Party to try to describe which
people who've come here illegally should be given amnesty to be able to jump
ahead of the line of the people who have been waiting in line," he said at a
news conference after a town hall meeting at a Des Moines insurance company.

"My view is that those people who have waited in line patiently to come to this
country legally should be ahead in line," Romney continued, "and those who've
come here illegally should not be given a special deal or a special accelerated
right to become a permanent resident or citizen."

Gingrich's campaign accused Romney and other opponents, including Rep. Michele
Bachmann (Minn.), of distorting Gingrich's position. "Governor Romney can
certainly shovel it, but that doesn't mean Iowa will believe it," Gingrich
spokesman R.C. Hammond said.

Gingrich used Twitter on Wednesday to take a swipe at Romney, sending a tweet to
the former Massachusetts governor: "Here's a trip down memory lane." Gingrich's
tweet included a link to a 2007 "Meet the Press" interview in which Romney
seemed to be open to permanent residency or citizenship for some illegal
immigrants. But Gingrich edited out the latter half of Romney's quote, in which
he said immigrants should not have "a special pathway . . . merely by virtue of
having come here illegally."

Just two months ago, Perry's standing fell in Iowa after he called "heartless"
those who opposed a Texas law that grants in-state tuition to some undocumented
immigrants. It was an open question whether Gingrich could suffer the same fate.

"Obviously the issue got ahead of Governor Perry before he could fully
articulate what it was all about, and that's the challenge for Newt Gingrich,"
said Matt Whitaker, Perry's Iowa campaign co-chairman. But, he added, "since we
don't have any perfect candidates, each one has got their unique issues that
voters are going to have to reconcile with their own beliefs."

Gingrich faces other hurdles, some of them organizational, including missing the
filing deadline in Missouri to have his name on the ballot.

Steve Deace, a conservative talk-radio host here, said Gingrich will not face
"Rick Perry-type fallout over his immigration remarks. He's smarter than Rick
Perry. Newt Gingrich didn't look into an audience of tea party supporters and
say, 'If you don't want to pay the college tuition of illegal aliens, you're
heartless.' That's just stupid."

The question, Deace said, is whether voters will decide they can trust Gingrich.

"For Newt Gingrich, there's two narratives: The good one is he's ready to lead,
he's got chutzpah, he's got brains and he's your huckleberry," Deace said. "The
bad narrative is he does commercials with [former Democratic House speaker]
Nancy Pelosi, he endorses [moderate GOP congressional candidate] Dede
Scozzafava, he supported the TARP and then he opposed it, he's been in
Washington too long. There's dueling narratives and it's his actions that will
determine which narrative Iowa voters see."

Rep. Steve King, a tea-party-aligned Republican who represents northwest Iowa
and whose endorsement has been coveted by many in the race, said Gingrich's
immigration views ran counter to "the rule of law - one of the essential pillars
of American exceptionalism."

"I think if Speaker Gingrich had that to do over again, he might couch his
language differently, at a minimum," King told Iowa Public Television.

Yet, this was Gingrich's do-over. He made virtually the same comments about
immigration at a September debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library,
where he said the United States must "find a way to deal with folks who are
already here, some of whom, frankly, have been here 25 years, are married with
kids, live in our local neighborhood, go to our church. It's got to be done in a
much more humane way."

The difference is that, back then, Gingrich was a single-digit candidate. But on
Tuesday night, he was a front-runner, and Iowans were paying attention.

ruckerp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

As remarks cause a stir, Gingrich stands his ground

BYLINE: Dan Balz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1212 words


Will Newt Gingrich's advocacy of a "humane" immigration policy come back to
haunt him in his bid to win the GOP presidential nomination? Or has the former
House speaker managed to find language that walks the fine line between
inflaming his party's conservative base and aggravating the relationship between
the GOP and the Latino community?

The early fallout suggests that the former House speaker has bitten off trouble
for himself, but Gingrich seems unperturbed. Asked how much concern he has that
the issue could hurt him in the upcoming caucuses and primaries, he responded in
an e-mail with customary self-confidence: "None."

The irony of the uproar over his comments is that he has made them before. Two
months ago, when the Republican candidates debated at the Ronald Reagan
Presidential Library, Gingrich used almost the same language he employed on
Tuesday, down to a call for a humane immigration policy.

No one cared much about what Gingrich said then, because few people considered
him a serious contender for the nomination. The focus that night was on former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and especially on Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who
was making his first debate appearance. How times have changed. Gingrich's words
now have resonance they didn't have then. He is dealing with the consequences.

Immigration remains the biggest long-term obstacle facing the GOP. An
overwhelmingly white party must find a way to expand its coalition if it hopes
to have success in a country that is growing more diverse by the day. The more
hawkish the GOP has become, the more it has diminished its chances to appeal to
Hispanics, the fastest-growing segment of the population.

Ever since President George W. Bush was unable to prod the party to support a
comprehensive immigration-reform policy that included a path to citizenship for
the roughly 11 million illegal immigrants in the country, Republicans have
marched almost in lock step on the issue, opposing amnesty or anything
resembling a path to legal status.

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) paid a huge price during his 2008 presidential
campaign when he joined a bipartisan effort to push for comprehensive reform.
The negative reaction nearly cost him the nomination.

This fall, Perry was dealt a significant setback over the issue. If he doesn't
win the Republican nomination - and the odds are long - he might look back and
conclude that it was the immigration issue that did him in. As governor, he
supported a policy that provides in-state college tuition to the children of
illegal immigrants who are Texas residents. Perry not only defended the policy
during GOP debates in September, but he drew the wrath of the right by calling
those who opposed it "heartless."

That is why what Gingrich said on Tuesday should be closely watched as the
campaign intensifies. Not only did he talk about the issue in a way that no
other presidential candidate has done this cycle, but he also seemed to put
himself at odds with Romney, whom he considers his principal rival for the nod.

The discussion unfolded in a fascinating way during the debate. CNN anchor Wolf
Blitzer drew Gingrich into the conversation by recalling that as a congressman
he had voted for the 1986 legislation, signed by President Ronald Reagan, that
has provided an amnesty policy as part of a program to toughen enforcement
against illegal immigration.

Gingrich was careful to say that other steps must be taken before dealing with
those who are already in the United States illegally, including tightening
border security and offering a guest-worker program.

Then Gingrich said this: "If you've come here recently, you have no ties to this
country, you ought to go home. Period. If you've been here 25 years and you got
three kids and two grandkids, you've been paying taxes and obeying the law, you
belong to a local church, I don't think we're going to separate you from your
family, uproot you forcefully and kick you out."

Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) was the first to disagree. But the more important
dissent came from Romney, who through his two presidential campaigns has taken a
hard line on those who are here illegally without ever being precise about how
he would send them back home or what provisions he would propose to allow them
to remain.

In the debate, Romney called amnesty a "magnet" that would make the problem
worse. "To say that we're going to say to the people who have come here
illegally that now you're all going to get to stay or some large number are
going to get to stay and become permanent residents of the United States, that
will only encourage more people to do the same thing."

Gingrich should have been smart enough to know the potential trouble he was
walking into, but because he has said it before, he may have underestimated the
impact his words would have. Whatever the case, he did not equivocate in his
response.

"I don't see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to
adopt an immigration policy which destroys families that have been here a
quarter-century," he said. "And I'm prepared to take the heat for saying let's
be humane in enforcing the law without giving them citizenship but by finding a
way to create legality so that they are not separated from their families."

Blitzer pressed Romney on whether he would consider allowing immigrants who have
been in the United States illegally for 25 years to stay. "I'm not going to
start drawing lines here about who gets to stay and who gets to go," Romney
responded. "The principle is that we are not going to have an amnesty system
that says that people who come here illegally get to stay for the rest of their
life in this country legally."

By Wednesday morning, Democrats were criticizing Romney for what they said was
his attack on a humane immigration policy. The quick and sharp reaction is a
signal that Democrats think Romney will be President Obama's challenger in the
general election.

What is more important is how Gingrich weathers the controversy. He demonstrated
Tuesday that he is more skillful in talking about the issue than Perry is, well
versed in the complexities and willing to stick his neck out.

That, however, may not be enough to prevent damage, and the Romney team appeared
eager to keep the focus on Gingrich's words.

As the controversy continued Wednesday, Gingrich tweeted out a link to a
10-point immigration plan that includes plenty of tough provisions he favors in
addition to his humane approach to some of those in the country illegally.

In his e-mail message, Gingrich explained why he wasn't concerned that the issue
could damage his candidacy. Romney, he said, "has been on both sides" of the
issue over the years. Bachmann, he argued, is distorting his position. And, he
added, the GOP politician most rabidly opposed to illegal immigration in recent
years, former congressman Tom Tancredo (Colo.), "got few votes for his
position."

Perhaps most important was his final statement. "I have been saying something
like this for several years in every town meeting where it comes up," he wrote.

If he is right, that he has been saying all this for a long time without
triggering a backlash, then he may be on relatively solid ground. But he may be
misjudging his party's base on the issue.

balzd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Still no love for whatzisname

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 768 words


Moderator Wolf Blitzer opened Tuesday's Republican debate by introducing himself
and adding, for some reason, "Yes, that's my real name." A few moments later,
the party's most plausible nominee for president said the following: "I'm Mitt
Romney, and yes, Wolf, that's also my first name."

But it's not. Mitt is the candidate's middle name. His first name is Willard.

And people wonder why this guy has an authenticity problem?

The debate, held at Washington's historic DAR Constitution Hall, was focused on
foreign policy. The subject matter seemed to offer Newt Gingrich, a former
speaker of the House, the opportunity to highlight his experience and perhaps
begin consolidating his sudden front-runner status. But if he expected to dance
rings around the others in the minefields of international politics, he was
mistaken.

Gingrich made only one mistake, but potentially it was a big one: He declined to
pander on immigration. Instead of parroting the draconian party line, he stated
the obvious fact that we're not going to expel millions of illegal immigrants
who have been in this country for years and become pillars of their communities.

You will recall that Rick Perry was leading in the polls when he, too, stumbled
by saying reasonable things about immigration. Perry called immigration
hard-liners heartless, while Gingrich encouraged the audience to be "humane."

Romney, as usual, took the right position to appeal to Republican voters. He
said Gingrich was wrong because "amnesty is a magnet" that attracts more illegal
immigrants.

Ron Paul had smart and important things to say about the Patriot Act, calling
the law "unpatriotic because it undermines our liberty" and arguing that "you
can still provide security without sacrificing our Bill of Rights." Gingrich, by
contrast, argued that the Patriot Act might need to be strengthened. Asked which
side of this debate she favored, Michele Bachmann said she was "with the
American people." I thought Gingrich and Paul were citizens, but never mind.

Bachmann then pulled the pin on one of the more nonsensical rhetorical grenades
that she regularly lobs at President Obama: that he "has essentially handed over
our interrogation of terrorists to the ACLU."

The record shows that Obama does not coddle terrorist suspects with the niceties
of liberal jurisprudence. Instead, he blows them to pieces with missiles fired
by Predator drones. It's possible to disagree on whether the administration's
program of targeted assassination is wise or effective, but no one can claim
it's soft.

Rick Santorum argued that we should be profiling Muslims for extra scrutiny at
airports and sparing travelers who are deemed to present lower risk. Herman Cain
said he favors a policy of "targeted identification" of potential terrorists, a
concept so subtle that it defied Cain's further attempts at explanation.

Romney got it right again, pledging "to protect the life, liberty and property
of American citizens and defend them from foes domestic and foreign" without
being specific about how this would be accomplished.

Perry had an interesting night. He stood by his promise not to send "one penny,
period," of U.S. aid to Pakistan until officials of that nation demonstrate
"that they have America's best interests in mind." Bachmann called this position
"highly naive," pointing out that Pakistan is "too nuclear to fail."

But Perry was undeterred. He went on to show a breathtaking lack of
understanding of what's happening in that part of the world, at one point saying
that "we've got Afghanistan and India working in concert right now to leverage
Pakistan." That one sentence succinctly captures Pakistani officials' deepest
fear - being sandwiched by two enemies - and why they continue to support
Taliban-affiliated militant groups that attack U.S. and Afghan forces.

Go home, Governor. Please.

Jon Huntsman had his best performance of the many debates held thus far, laying
out a vision of U.S. foreign policy that was informed, nuanced and reflective of
the real world rather than the make-believe world in which the campaign is
taking place. Maybe he'll be the next candidate to see a meteoric rise and fall
in his poll numbers. Pretty soon, though, we're going to run out of meteors.

Which leaves Romney still waiting for his party to show the love. He knows the
issues. He says all the right things. So why do Republicans keep getting
infatuated with these fire-breathing suitors who always, in the end, break the
GOP's heart?

Maybe voters just wonder about a guy who's willing to tailor everything to
please his audience. Even his name.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

'How can I not be thankful?'

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 866 words


The papaya, mango, coconuts and pineapple, scented with cinnamon, had simmered
for hours in an aluminum pot, filling the Rockville home with the aroma of
ponche, a tropical fruit drink.

For this family, ponche - introduced two years ago after a son brought it home
from a trip to Guatemala - is Thanksgiving. So is the turkey recipe, featuring
Goya seasoning, olive oil and garlic, that was taught to an El Salvador native
by expatriate Iranians.

But perhaps more than anything, Thanksgiving is the satisfaction at seeing four
of five children home for the holiday. "God has blessed me and my family in ways
I couldn't have imagined," said Abraham Lima, 58.

Lima and his wife, Maria, had never celebrated Thanksgiving before they moved to
the Washington area from Santa Ana in their native El Salvador. Now it is one of
their most treasured holidays.

Stories like this are common, yet each one unique, in the immigrant-rich
Washington area. Nearly one in four area residents is foreign-born, according to
the U.S. Census, and Salvadorans are the largest Hispanic group in the region.
About 240,000 Salvadorans live in the area, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center.

Immigrant families such as the Limas contribute to high rates of income and
education among Hispanics in the Washington area. Also driven by the wealth of
international organizations such as the World Bank, Organization of American
States and Pan-American Health Organization, D.C. area Hispanic families are
among the nation's wealthiest and most educated.

The Washington region's 700,000 Hispanics have a median household income of
nearly $61,000, the highest rate in the country among Latinos. And one in four
Hispanic adults in the area has at least a four-year college degree, almost
double the national rate.

Thursday in Rockville, the day started about 8 a.m. as Abraham and Maria chopped
vegetables and herbs for the turkey he prepares using tips he learned while
cooking and cleaning at a Middle Eastern restaurant in the early 1990s.

Friends stopped to play games; boys watched sports on television; the parents
kept an eye on the kitchen. The house was a mutilingual din: The children spoke
to each other in English; the parents to each other in Spanish. The children
spoke to their parents in English; they responded in Spanish. A visiting friend
speaks no Spanish; a grandchild, 3-year-old Bella, speaks both.

As dinner time approached, Abraham and Maria could not contain smiles.

They thanked God.

All five children, now grown, have careers. Two have families of their own.
There are three grandchildren and another on the way. "How can I not be
thankful?" Abraham Lima said.

"We have made our part," Maria said. "But God did the biggest part."

The family came to the United States from an impoverished part of Santa Ana in
the western region of El Salvador. Abraham Lima came first in 1985, seeking
economic opportunity. Those days without his wife and children, he said, were
painful - but he had a better future in mind for them.

In the mid-1990s, the rest of the family came. The Limas bought a house in the
District, raised the children - the youngest was born in the United States, and
all of the Limas are American citizens, including the parents - and then moved
to the suburbs.

The Rockville home, a three-level house with a big back yard on a quiet,
tree-lined street, sports reminders of their Salvadoran heritage: A key holder
by the main entrance bears that country's flag. But it is also in many ways
quintessentially American, with Bible verses and framed photographs of
cap-and-gown-wearing children sprinkled throughout. In the game room, posters of
American, English and Brazilian soccer stars adorn the walls.

"My children have enriched me. They have honored us," said Abraham Lima, who
cleans federal offices downtown. "And this country has made it possible. It has
given them opportunity."

Wilfredo Lima, 30, is an HVAC engineer who works for Metro. He and his wife,
Flor, are expecting their first child. Abraham Jr., 28, graduated from Virginia
Commonwealth University and is a mechanical engineer working toward a master's
degree at the University of Maryland. The youngest child, 20-year-old Deborah,
is studying nursing at Montgomery College and caring for Bella, her daughter.

The only child absent from the table Thursday was Merary Lima-Rosales, 26, a
medical assistant with two children. She was with her husband's family in
Virginia.

Nehemias Lima, 32, who came to the United States when he was 16 and graduated
from American University, is a software engineer and is active in his Germantown
church. He said he has relished the opportunity that living in Washington has
afforded him to visit other places and learn about other people.

"You have so many cultures here," he said. "You learn about everyone. That's the
nice thing about the D.C. area."

At a table set with turkey, mashed potatoes with gravy, rice, guacamole and a
roasted rooster, Abraham Lima said grace.

"Thank you, Lord, for the special moment we have together," he said. "Thanks for
my family sitting around the table, and for this turkey you have provided. I am
so thankful to you for blessing us in a very special way."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 771 words

aviation

U.K. strike could cause 12-hour delays

Passengers arriving at London's Heathrow Airport on Wednesday will have to wait
up to 12 hours to clear immigration if a strike by customs staff proceeds, the
operator of Europe's busiest airport warned as the government said it will
ensure U.K. borders are safe.

Normand Boivin, chief operating officer of Heathrow, wrote to airlines to ask
them to cut loads in half to avoid "gridlock." Gatwick Airport, about 45 miles
south of Heathrow, has asked airlines to help passengers switch flights.

Passengers will be forced to stay on planes as lines become too long for
terminal buildings and "this in turn would quickly create gridlock," Boivin
wrote in a letter posted on Heathrow's Web site.

Unions representing border staff, teachers, health workers and civil servants
are planning strikes to protest plans to make government employees retire later
and contribute more toward their pensions.

British Airways, Cathay Pacific Airways and Virgin Atlantic said they will allow
passengers to re-book flights free of charge.

- Bloomberg News

Safety

Chevy Volt batteries being investigated

A safety investigation of the lithium-ion batteries in General Motors' Chevrolet
Volt is underway to assess the risk of fire in the electric car after a serious
crash, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said Friday.

One Volt battery pack that was being closely monitored following a government
crash test caught fire Thursday, the safety administration said, and another
crash-tested battery emitted smoke and sparks.

GM, which was informed of the investigation Friday, said the Volt "is safe and
does not present undue risk as part of normal operation or immediately after a
severe crash."

The fires are in addition to a battery fire in a crash-tested Volt six months
ago.

The NHTSA learned of a possible fire risk involving damaged Volt batteries in
June when a fire erupted in a Volt that was being stored in a parking lot at a
test facility in Burlington, Wis.

The car had been subjected to a side-impact crash test more than three weeks
earlier, during which the battery was damaged and its coolant line ruptured.

- Associated Press

Also in Business

lAT&T said it plans to sue the Federal Communications Commission if the agency
doesn't let the company withdraw its application to buy a smaller rival for $39
billion. The FCC is obligated by its own rules to honor AT&T's move to rescind
its application to acquire T-Mobile USA, Wayne Watts, general counsel for AT&T,
said Friday in a blog entry. AT&T and T-Mobile parent Deutsche Telekom withdrew
their FCC applications Thursday after agency Chairman Julius Genachowski asked
fellow commissioners on Tuesday to send the deal to a hearing, signaling an
attempt to scuttle the merger. Agency spokeswoman Tammy Sun called AT&T's move
"a request" that the FCC "will consider."

lTwo Chicago exchanges, the CME Group, which owns the Board of Trade and the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and CBOE Holdings, have threatened to leave
Illinois unless they're given significant tax breaks. They say a big tax
increase enacted this year and what they say are inequalities in the tax code
have forced them to pay an outsize share of the state's corporate income taxes.
Illinois lawmakers this week are expected to consider special deals to cut the
exchanges' tax bills, and the price tag for the financially strapped state,
where the unemployment rate is just over 10 percent, could reach well into the
hundreds of millions of dollars.

lIceland's government denied Chinese billionaire investor Huang Nubo permission
to purchase land in the island's north, saying such a transfer of property would
be "incompatible" with the country's laws. Huang, through his company Beijing
Zhongkun Investment Group, was planning to build a resort with a hotel, golf
course and racecourse on 116 square miles he hoped to buy from a group of
farmers for $8.8 million.

lPresident Hugo Chavez's government began repatriating Venezuela's gold reserves
from European banks Friday as the first shipment arrived on a flight from Paris.
Chavez announced in August that his government would retrieve more than 211 tons
of gold held in U.S. and European banks. The leftist president has said his
decision to repatriate the gold reserves is aimed at helping to protect the
oil-producing country from economic troubles in the United States and Europe.
Chavez's opponents have called the plan costly and ill-advised.

- From news services

Coming Next Week

lIn Sunday Business: If 2010 was the year of the iPad, then 2011 was the year of
the tablet.

lMonday: Report on new-home sales, 10 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Film follows immigrant's struggles to study at U-Md.

BYLINE: Kristi Tousignant

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T19

LENGTH: 640 words


The Gandhi Brigade and a Montgomery College student worked together to document
the undocumented this summer.

Montgomery College student Laura Moya and the Silver Spring-based community
group made a film this summer following an undocumented immigrant's journey to
get a higher education.

The documentary, "The Rights of Butterflies," follows a Montgomery College
student, known only by  Katya in the film, who is struggling to find the money
to complete her bachelor's degree at the University of Maryland.

Katya immigrated to the United States from El Salvador with her mother when she
was 13. She completed her associate's degree at Montgomery College and now wants
a degree in communications from Maryland, said Laurel Gwizdak, media trainer for
the film.

Although she has been accepted at Maryland, Katya can't afford tuition. Because
she still is an El Salvador resident, Katya is not eligible for in-state
tuition. And because she has no legal status, Katya is not eligible for loans or
grants, Gwizdak said.

In the documentary, Katya applies for small scholarships, hoping they will add
up. At the end of the film, Katya still does not have enough money to enroll,
Gwizdak said.

"People will connect with her and see the injustices she is facing and want to
fight for her, and want to root for her and want her to go to school," Gwizdak
said.

Moya wanted to show the human experience behind the discussion about
undocumented immigrants in the United States, Gwizdak said.

"[Moya] had a very strong viewpoint that she did not want this to be a
politically divisive film," Gwizdak said. "She wanted to stay clear of topics
and focus in on an individual who could be our sister, friend, neighbor."

Moya approached the Gandhi Brigade, which works with youth on media projects,
about her idea last spring, and five members of the group joined her crew. The
Gandhi Brigade signed on as the executive producer, said Richard Jaeggi,
executive director of the Gandhi Brigade.

Moya, Gwizdak and the Gandhi Brigade members filmed from the end of June through
August, Jaeggi said.

The crew members, most of whom came from immigrant families, worked about five
hours per day, five days per week, Jaeggi said. They followed Katya to school,
home, her friend's houses and offices where she met with people about
scholarships.

"What [Moya] really wanted was for it to be something that reached people that
either were indifferent to the plight of young people who lack documentation, or
were against it but didn't have all the facts," Jaeggi said. "She really wanted
to create something very personal, very human."

Those working on the movie also collaborated with a separate team at Pyramid
Atlantic, an arts center in Silver Spring. The Pyramid Atlantic group created
posters inspired by undocumented immigrants, said Catherine Chu, a youth
organizer with the Gandhi Brigade.

The group working on the movie and those collaborating on posters would come
together to hear from experts on immigration. Then, one group left to film, and
the others headed to the art studio.

The group of 10 high school students made silk-screen posters, working on them
four hours a day, four days a week in July, Chu said. They completed many rounds
of designs and eventually settled on three posters for the final project.

One poster features an image of a family portrait cracked in half, another shows
a girl with wings chained down, and the third shows scenes of a boy growing up
and graduating from high school, followed by an image of a question mark.

"They were really proud of them," Chu said. "You could see the progression in
posters as they were made that month."

"The Rights of Butterflies" will be screened Monday from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. at
the Silver Spring Civic Building at One Veterans Place. The screening is free
and open to the public.

ktousignant@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                         May 9, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

Washington area appointments and promotions for May 9Washington area
appointments and promotions for May 9

SECTION: A section; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1051 words


Companies

IntegrityOne Partners of the District named William McElhaney, former IT
official with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, federal strategist.

CSC of Falls Church named AlisounMoore, former director of health systems
management at Northrop Grumman, vice president and general manager for NPS's
civil group health services division.

Quinn Evans Architects of the District named Larry Barrpresident, Steven Jones
executive vice president, and Elisabeth Knibbe and Jeffrey Lukervice presidents.

QinetiQ North America of McLean named Scott Goldstein, former chief technology
officer and senior vice president of the systems engineering and advanced
technology group at ManTech International, senior vice president and general
manager of the national systems business unit with the company's mission
solutions group.

The Midtown Group of the District named Tasha Manzanovice president of
government services.

Marriott Marquis of the District named William Wallace director of sales and
marketing.

BNA of Arlington named Lisa Fitzpatrickchief marketing officer and John H. Camp
chief technology officer.

Howard Consulting Group of the District named Emily Passini, former political
director with the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, director of public
affairs.

Versar of Springfield named Cynthia A. Downesexecutive vice president, chief
financial officer and treasurer.

NERA Economic Consulting of the District named Anne E. Smith and W. David
Montgomerysenior vice presidents in the energy, environment and network
industries practice.

Perkins+Will of the District named Andrew Rashidassociate principal.

Nathan Associates of Arlington named Lisa Yarmoshukvice president for strategy
and development and Paul Moorevice president for planning and operations.

The Judge Group of the District named Paul Brownmanaging director.

NJVC of Vienna named Vince Minervasenior vice president for market management.

Associations/nonprofits

Washington Hospital Center of the District named Susan Eckert senior vice
president of nursing and chief nursing executive and Tonya Washingtonvice
president of nursing operations.

Capital Area Asset Builders of the District named Steve W. Pearlman president,
Te-Mika Warnervice president, Nancy Registertreasurer and Pamela Bankssecretary.
The following were elected board members: Lee Davenport, Anna Flores, Marcus
Johnson, Latresa McLawhornand Diana Meyer.

The American Society of Nuclear Cardiology of Bethesda named Kathleen B. Flood
chief executive.

The Nature Conservancy of Arlington named David Blood, Shona L. Brown, Craig O.
McCawand Margaret C. Whitmanto its board of directors.

The Licensing Executives Society of Alexandria named Marie Escobar, former
director of the American Chiropractic Foundation, education program and content
manager.

American Councils for International Education of the District named Miriam Parel
, former vice president for strategic partnerships at the Points of Light
Institute, chief strategy and development officer.

The National Stone, Sand & Gravel Association of Alexandria named Pam Whitted
senior vice president for legislative and regulatory affairs and Tim Reagan
senior vice president for member services.

The Independent Community Bankers of America of the District named James
Kendrickvice president for accounting and capital policy.

The Northern Virginia Conservation Trust of Annandale named Dennis Hertel, Greg
Evans, Mitch Bonannoand Margi Vanderhye to the board of directors.

Real estate

Federal Capital Partners of the District named David Ohlrichsenior vice
president, Nikita Raovice president, Rohit Mahyerasenior project manager, Matt
Kirvanproject manager and Will Simpsonassociate.

Federal Realty Investment Trust of Rockville named Michael Khouri director of
leasing.

Blake Real Estate of the District named Michael Seiter, former director of
engineering for the Grand Hyatt Kauai Resort in Hawaii, facilities manager at
Goodwill Industries International.

CommunicationsGibraltar Associates of the District named John Procter, former
vice president, partner.

Financial

PNC Bank of the District named Terri J. Copelandmarket manager for community
development banking in this region.

First Virginia Community Bank of Fairfax named William Byers, former senior vice
president and community executive for Middleburg Bank in Reston, senior vice
president and chief lending officer.

Lockton Companies of the District named Travis E.J. Duttonvice president for the
retirement practice.

Cardinal Financial of Tysons Corner named David W. Frasierexecutive vice
president, director of audit.

Promontory Financial Group of the District named Stephen M. Hoffman managing
director.

Health care

Adventist HealthCare of Rockville named Renee Battle-Brooksand Bruce Robertsonto
the board of trustees.

Legal

Sidley Austin of the District named Joseph A. Micallefpartner in its
intellectual property litigation practice.

Wilson Elser of the District named Jodi V. Terranova, former associate, partner
in the medical malpractice practice group.

Morgan, Lewis & Bockius of the District named Arianne Callender, former deputy
oversight counsel to the House Committee on Homeland Security, of counsel in its
Food and Drug Administration and health-care practice.

Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell of the District named Roel Campos, former
commissioner with the Securities and Exchange Commission, national chair of the
securities regulation and enforcement practice.

Polsinelli Shughart of the District named Beverly A. Phetosenior policy adviser
in the public policy group.

Perkins Coie of the District named LeAnn J. Kochpartner and Paul B. Smyth
attorney in the environment, energy and resources practice.

Ifrah Law of the District named David B. Deitch, formerly with the U.S.
Attorney's Office for the District, partner.

Jenner & Block of the District named Ajit V. Pai, former deputy general counsel
of the Federal Communications Commission, partner.

McGuireWoods Consulting of the District named former Virginia attorney general
Jerry W. Kilgoreand former anchor/reporter Mark B. Hubbardto lead the crisis and
litigation communications practice.

Send information about promotions, appointments and personnel moves in the
Washington area to Appointments, Business News, The Washington Post, 1150 15th
St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071-5302, or to appointments@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 13, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Demagoguery 101

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 773 words


"I'm going to do my part to lead a constructive and civil debate on these
issues."

- Barack Obama, speech on immigration, El Paso, May 10


Constructive and civil debate - like the one Obama initiated just four weeks ago
on deficit reduction? The speech in which he accused the Republicans of
abandoning families of autistic and Down syndrome kids? The debate in which
Obama's secretary of health and human services said that the Republican Medicare
plan would make old folks "die sooner"?

In this same spirit of comity and mutual respect, Obama's most recent invitation
to civil discourse - on immigration - came just 11 minutes after he accused
opponents of moving the goal posts on border enforcement. "Maybe they'll need a
moat," he said sarcastically. "Maybe they want alligators in the moat."

Nice touch. Looks like the Tucson truce - no demonization, no cross-hairs
metaphors - is officially over. After all, the Republicans want to kill off the
elderly, throw the disabled in the snow and watch alligators lunch on illegal
immigrants.

The El Paso speech is notable not for breaking any new ground on immigration but
for perfectly illustrating Obama's political style: the professorial, almost
therapeutic, invitation to civil discourse, wrapped around the basest of
rhetorical devices - charges of malice compounded with accusations of bad faith.
"They'll never be satisfied," said Obama about border control. "And I understand
that. That's politics."

How understanding. The other side plays "politics," Obama acts in the public
interest. Their eyes are on poll numbers, political power, the next election;
Obama's rest fixedly on the little children.

This impugning of motives is an Obama constant. "They" play politics with
deficit reduction, with government shutdowns, with health care. And now
immigration. It is ironic that such a charge should be made in a speech that is
nothing but politics. There is zero chance of any immigration legislation
passing Congress in the next two years. El Paso was simply an attempt to gin up
the Hispanic vote as part of an openly political two-city, three-event campaign
swing in preparation for 2012.

Accordingly, the El Paso speech featured two other staples: the breathtaking
invention and the statistical sleight of hand.

"The [border] fence is now basically complete," asserted the president.
Complete? There are now 350 miles of pedestrian fencing along the Mexican
border. The border is 1,954 miles long. That's 18 percent. And only one-tenth of
that 18 percent is the double and triple fencing that has proved so remarkably
effective in, for example, the Yuma sector. Another 299 miles - 15 percent - are
vehicle barriers that pedestrians can walk right through.

Obama then boasted that on his watch 31 percent more drugs have been seized, 64
percent more weapons - proof of how he has secured the border. And for more
proof: Apprehension of illegal immigrants is down 40 percent. Down? Indeed, says
Obama, this means that fewer people are trying to cross the border.

Interesting logic. Seizures of drugs and guns go up - proof of effective border
control. Seizures of people go down - yet more proof of effective border
control. Up or down, it matters not. Whatever the numbers, Obama vindicates
himself.

You can believe this flimflam or you can believe the nonpartisan Government
Accountability Office. The GAO reported in February that less than half the
border is under "operational control" of the government. Which undermines the
entire premise of Obama's charge that, because the border is effectively secure,
"Republicans who said they supported broader reform as long as we got serious
about enforcement" didn't really mean it.

I count myself among those who really do mean it. I have little doubt that most
Americans would be quite willing to regularize and legalize the current millions
of illegal  immigrants if they were convinced that this was the last such
cohort, as evidenced by, say, a GAO finding that the border is under full
operational control and certification to the same effect by the governors of the
four southern border states.

Americans are a generous people. Upon receipt of objective and reliable evidence
that the border is secure - not Obama's infinitely manipulable interdiction
statistics - the question would be settled and the immigrants legalized.

Why doesn't Obama put such a provision in comprehensive immigration legislation?
Because for Obama, immigration reform is not about legislation, it's about
reelection. If I may quote the president: I understand that. That's politics.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 14, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Computer error halts immigration lottery

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A section; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 464 words


State Department officials said Friday that a computer glitch is forcing them to
scrap the results of an annual worldwide lottery for U.S. immigrant visas,
meaning tens of thousands of people who thought they were one step closer to
legally moving to the United States are out of luck, at least for now.

More than 14 million applicants entered a lottery last fall for one of 50,000
visas distributed as part of the annual Diversity Visa Lottery, designed for
people who would otherwise have little chance of legally entering the country.
The program doesn't require applicants to have a family or employer sponsor.

Each year, the State Department selects about 90,000 applicants and trims the
list down to 50,000 through an extensive series of interviews, background checks
and medical exams.

The lottery has been conducted by computer since its inception in 1994,
according to State Department officials.

David Donahue, deputy assistant secretary of state for visa services, said
Friday that a computer glitch discovered Thursday prompted the computer program
to unfairly select people who submitted applications in the first two days of
the 30-day application process, which ended Nov. 3. Applicants began checking
for the results of the lottery last week.

"These results are not valid because they did not represent a fair, random
selection of the entrants as required by U.S. law," Donahue said in a video
statement posted on the State Department Web site. "We sincerely regret any
inconvenience or disappointment this might have caused."

An in-house software coding error caused the glitch and has been fixed,
according to officials who were not authorized to speak on the record.

The State Department will hold a new lottery with the existing pool of
applicants and announce the winners by July 15, Donahue said. Applicants do not
need to reenter to be eligible, and no new applications will be accepted.

Winners of the erroneous lottery who aren't selected again will be able to
reapply next fall or in subsequent years, officials said.

Robert P. Deasy, director of liaison and information with the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, said the news would understandably disappoint
would-be immigrants.

"It's good that it was caught early, rather than further into the process, where
more of the steps to emigrate to the United States would have been taken -
resigning work, selling property, changing plans, building up hopes," Deasy
said.

Congress established the lottery program to attract people from countries with
lower rates of immigration to the United States. Immigrants from countries with
higher rates of U.S. immigration - including China, El Salvador, Haiti, India
and Mexico - are not eligible for the program.

ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 15, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Twisting truth on the border

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 921 words


AFRUSTRATED PRESIDENT Obama complained the other day that Republicans in
Congress have been moving the goal posts on border security, demanding ever more
unachievable levels of enforcement before they would consent to fixing the
nation's immigration system. Next, Mr. Obama joked, the GOP would demand a moat
across the U.S.-Mexican frontier - with alligators.

That line got a good laugh. In fact, Republican posturing on border security is
deadly serious, and worse than the president suggested. Even in the face of
overwhelming evidence that the border has become safer and less leaky, the GOP
would have the nation believe the opposite.

Using such scare tactics, Republicans are trying to distort the debate on
immigration and justify their opposition to reform.

Exhibit A for Republican distortion is Rep. Lamar Smith (Tex.), chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, who recently assigned a "failing grade" to U.S.
Customs and Border Patrol efforts along the Mexican border. Mr. Smith based his
"failing grade" on the fact that the Border Patrol classifies just 44 percent of
the nearly 2,000-mile border as being under "operational control." That sounds
bad, until you ask what it actually means. The answer: not much.

A case in point is the Marfa sector, a 510-mile stretch of desolate terrain in
southwestern Texas comprising more than a quarter of the frontier between the
United States and Mexico. According to the Border Patrol, just 10 percent of the
Marfa sector is under "operational control," meaning agents can reliably stop
crossers at or near the border.

But it also happens that the Marfa sector, owing to its isolation, sparse
population and forbidding, deep river canyons, is the least crossed, sleepiest
area of the entire southwest border. The Border Patrol arrests scarcely a dozen
people a day along the entire length of the sector, despite (or because of) the
700 agents assigned there, triple the 2005 number.

Adding hundreds more agents, as Republicans imply is necessary, would be a
massive waste of money - and still wouldn't guarantee "operational control,"
owing to the region's rugged topography and inaccessibility. Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, like her Bush administration predecessors, agrees
that total operational control is an unreachable goal. As Border Patrol
officials will tell you, Marfa and other lightly trafficked segments of the
southwestern frontier are the least of their problems and represent no
particular threat to America's security.

The fact is that the United States has established tighter control of the border
than at any time in recent memory. Serious crime is down dramatically in almost
every major American town along the frontier. As Rep. Silvestre Reyes, an El
Paso Democrat, pointed out, the six largest southwestern border cities have
lower crime rates - and, specifically, lower rates of murder, rape, robbery and
burglary - than the six largest cities in Ohio, home state of Republican House
Speaker John A. Boehner, whose spokesman said last week that immigration reform
was dead until violence at the border was checked.


Thanks largely to President Bush, the Border Patrol has almost doubled its
strength along the Mexican frontier since 2004. The 17,700 agents there now -
supplemented by drones, fencing, sensors and other technology - are a formidable
force. Other federal agencies and personnel, including thousands of agents and
analysts with Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Drug Enforcement
Administration, plus 1,200 National Guardsmen ordered to the border by Mr. Obama
last year, contribute to an increasingly muscular presence. Tighter border
security, combined with America's economic travails, has contributed to a
dramatic drop in illegal border crossings, reflected in the fact that
apprehensions along the border have been cut in half over the past five or six
years. The Border Patrol arrested fewer illegal crossers along the entire
frontier in the fiscal year that ended last July (448,000) than it apprehended
in the Tucson area alone in 2004 (492,000).

The border is not impenetrable; few land boundaries are.  But no number of boots
on the ground, and no amount of fence-building, will choke off the flow of
illegal immigrants entirely as long as employers demand their services in the
United States. Of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country, an
estimated 7 million hold jobs, despite the spike in unemployment of the past few
years.

Mr. Smith's strategy, and that of many Republicans, is to whittle away at the
problem through enforcement, not only at the border but in the workplace as
well. A growing movement among Republicans would also deny citizenship to the
U.S.-born children of undocumented immigrants. By making pariahs of the
undocumented millions, and by attrition, they believe America can eventually rid
itself of most illegal immigrants.

That strategy is a fantasy and a recipe for ongoing failure. Too many powerful
interests - not least, businesses that form a critical part of the GOP coalition
- will oppose it.  And the economic reality is that American-born workers,
increasingly well educated, are unwilling to take the low-skill jobs that many
immigrants fill in landscaping, hospitality, poultry processing and other
industries. Eleven million undocumented immigrants won't fade away from American
communities and the labor force. The dilemma of illegal immigration will remain
unresolved until Republicans enter into a dialogue based on facts, not fear.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 16, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

Let no court rend asunder

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 336 words


PAUL WILSON DORMAN, a citizen of the United Kingdom, came to the United States
on a visitor's visa in 1996 and never left. He met an American man who became
his partner of 15 years. They have jointly purchased property and made out wills
with the other as beneficiary. In 2009 they entered into a civil union in New
Jersey.

Their lives were upended when Mr. Dorman was targeted for deportation after a
chance encounter with an immigration agent at an airport. Mr. Dorman, 52, does
not dispute that he has been in the country illegally but argues that he should
be allowed to stay because of his relationship with his partner.

The law allows foreign nationals to fend off deportation by proving they have
been in the country continuously for at least 10 years; substantiating a
relationship with a "qualifying relative"; and showing that deportation would
inflict an "extraordinary and extremely unusual hardship." Two immigration
courts concluded that  the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) precludes recognition
of his same-sex partner as a spouse.

DOMA has been an impediment to the rights of gay men and lesbians since its
inception in 1996. It  withholds from same-sex couples the legal protections,
obligations and privileges enjoyed by their heterosexual counterparts. Repeal
appears out of reach, but Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced in
February that the Justice Department would no longer defend DOMA in court, after
concluding that it is unconstitutional.

The attorney general has vacated the court decision and asked the Board of
Immigration Appeals whether Mr. Dorman's civil union makes him a "spouse" under
New Jersey law and whether, absent DOMA, he would be considered a "spouse" under
immigration law. Mr. Holder should erase any confusion by declaring a moratorium
on removal of foreign nationals in state-recognized same-sex unions until
federal courts determine DOMA's constitutionality. He should ensure that the
government is not focusing on breaking up otherwise law-abiding families.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 25, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Fingerprint database could get $10 million to fully digitize

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 643 words


The national electronic database of fingerprints, which is missing countless
sets of prints taken before 2005, could receive a $10 million infusion of funds
to digitize the old prints now sitting in card files across the country.

The gap in the IDENT database was exposed in January when The Washington Post
uncovered that a man wanted in the rape of an 8-year-old girl in Fairfax County
had been in the Loudoun County jail several weeks before the incident. And
although the man, Salvador Portillo-Saravia, had been deported from the United
States in 2003, when Loudoun jail officials checked his fingerprints in November
through the "Secure Communities" computer, there was no match reported, and he
was released.

Portillo-Saravia, identified by Fairfax police as a member of the street gang
MS-13, was arrested in Houston in February. He is awaiting trial in Fairfax on
forcible rape and forcible sodomy charges.

Immigration officials said that many people who were deported before 2005 were
fingerprinted the old-fashioned way, with inked fingertips rolled onto a card or
sheet, and an unknown number of those prints are not in the electronic database.
Now, fingerprints are taken in many local jails and federal facilities by
placing a person's hands on a computer scanning screen, which captures the
prints electronically.

Immigration officials also said that local jails should send them a second,
manual inquiry if they still have immigration-related suspicions about someone
whose prints come back with "no match." But as of January, many jail officials
in the Secure Communities program, both in Virginia and Maryland, said they were
unaware that the database was incomplete and didn't have the resources to run a
second, manual check on the many immigrants who come through their doors.

Rep. Frank Wolf (R) of Northern Virginia, a member of the House Appropriations
Committee and chair of its subcommittee overseeing the Justice Department
budget, sent a letter to federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement asking what
could be done to resolve the problem. On Tuesday, Wolf's proposal to provide $10
million to digitize old fingerprint cards was included in the budget reported
out of the House Appropriations Committee, and Wolf said he expects the funding
to survive the rest of the budget process.

"Why would somebody oppose this?" Wolf said. "It's not a special-interest issue.
I think the likelihood of it staying in the budget will be very, very high."

Wolf said he submitted the $10 million request "in order to maintain the safety
and protection of this area, but I think it's something that, frankly, should be
done nationwide."

ICE officials said they would not comment on pending legislation.

Dealing with immigration officials has been a tricky task for local law
enforcement agencies, who want to maintain good relations with immigrant
communities for purposes of hearing about and solving crime. The Secure
Communities program was seen as a neutral way to handle the problem, by running
the fingerprints of every person arrested through the national IDENT database to
see if the person has any immigration detainers or other related issues. Every
jail in Virginia is now participating.

Portillo-Saravia, 29, entered the country illegally in 2000 and was deported in
October 2003 after being picked up by gang detectives in Prince William County,
authorities said. But at some point he returned, which alone is a federal
offense. He was arrested for public drunkenness in Loudoun in November, run
through Secure Communities and released. He is accused of assaulting the girl in
her Centreville home on Dec. 26.

In March, in response to Wolf's letter, an ICE official said Portillo-Saravia's
inked fingerprints should have been entered in the IDENT database, "but the
agency policy . . . was not followed."

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 8, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Man pleads guilty in 'companion' case

BYLINE: June Q. Wu

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 416 words


A Korean man whose unlicensed business sent women to clubs and bars to flirt,
dance and pour drinks faces up to 10 years in prison after his attempt to quash
his competitors by turning them in to immigration authorities backfired,
authorities said.

Taesan Won, 37, of Annandale pleaded guilty Tuesday to harboring for private
financial gain at least six undocumented Korean women who worked for what
prosectors called an "outcall companionship business."

Won, who was arrested in May, will be sentenced Sept. 2, according to Neil H.
MacBride, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.

Since October, authorities said, Won operated a doumi, or helper, business
called Honey from his apartment.

Customers at karaoke clubs and bars would call Won when they wanted female
companions, court documents said. Won would send "attractive and
provocatively-dressed" women to "sing and dance, flirt with, entertain and pour
drinks," according to the statement of facts filed with Won's plea agreement.

The investigation, conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, is
part of a broader crackdown, according to Peter Carr, a spokesman for the U.S
Attorney's Office in Alexandria. Carr declined to comment on the number of such
businesses under investigation.

Won entered the United States on a nonimmigrant tourist visa in September 2010
and was not authorized to work during his stay, according to court papers.

About a month after Won opened Honey, according to court papers, a confidential
source told ICE agent John P. Torres that Won wanted to provide information
about competing businesses in Annandale that employed undocumented Korean women.

But an investigation revealed that Won himself recruited such women through
postings on Korean message boards. Many of the women who responded to the
advertisements were not authorized to work in the United States.

Won typically charged customers $70 an hour to spend time with the women,
keeping $20 in hourly profits for himself. Over the course of six months, Won
earned about $3,000 to $4,000 a month as the owner of Honey, the documents say.

Court documents allege that Won did not obtain a Virginia business license and
did not report wages and earnings to federal or state tax authorities.

Some of the women lived with Won, according to court documents, paying him $300
in monthly rent. He and a co-conspirator who ran another doumi business also
established a $100 per week sook-so, or dormitory, in Annandale for some women.

wuj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 10, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

ICE offers relief to Libyan students in U.S.

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A section; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 291 words


Libyan students in the United States who have suffered economic hardship because
of the unrest in their home country will be allowed to work more hours and
reduce their course load,  the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency
said Thursday.

"Students whose primary means of financial support comes from the Libyan
government or family members in Libya may now need to be exempt from the normal
student employment requirements to be able to continue their studies in the
United States and meet basic living expenses," Homeland Security
Secretary              Janet Napolitano said in a notice announcing the relief.
ICE is the main investigative arm of the Department of Homeland Security.

"The suspension of all commercial air travel to Libya, violence and uncertainty
at land borders, and an overall lack of security, have made it unfeasible for
students to safely return to Libya for the foreseeable future," she said.

To qualify, students must have been legally in the United States on Feb. 1 and
enrolled in an institution certified by ICE's Student and Exchange Visitor
Program. About 2,000 Libyan students are enrolled in U.S. schools.

Libya has been in a state of conflict since protesters rose up against the
government in February; since then, many business transactions have been
suspended, causing financial pressure on Libyans on both sides of the conflict.

The United States has extended similar considerations, known as temporary
protected status, to citizens of countries that are undergoing crises, allowing
them to work in the United States for a specific time. That period may be
extended if a crisis continues.

The relief for Libyan students is slated to end Dec. 31.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 12, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

When green didn't mean go

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 401 words


LAST MONTH, the U.S. State Department told some 22,000 foreign applicants that
they had won the jackpot - permission to immigrate to the United States and
reside and work here legally. Given that millions of foreigners apply for these
green cards every year, the winners' jubilation was understandable - but
short-lived. The State Department shortly discovered an error in the process and
informed the 22,000 via a Web page update that they were not, in fact, winners.

This green card program, also known as the annual diversity visa lottery,
excludes candidates from nations already heavily represented in the United
States, including China, India and Mexico. By broadening the class of immigrants
to include underrepresented countries such as Egypt, Ethiopia and Nigeria, it
gives hope to many seeking to escape oppressive regimes or severe economic
marginalization who otherwise would be unable to immigrate.

Some of those denied permanent residency have launched an online campaign - a
Facebook group called "22,000 Tears" - to protest the rescinding of their
winning lottery notifications. One of their advocates, a Los Angeles-based
immigration lawyer, is preparing a class-action lawsuit. We don't think that
legal action is justified or likely to succeed - but more can be done than
merely an internal State Department investigation into the technical glitch.

After the erroneous messages were delivered, State lawyers considered recourse
for the misinformed parties. But they determined that, unless directed by
Congress, Foggy Bottom possessed no latitude to extend legal immigration
designations to the disappointed candidates. Congress stipulates that only
50,000 lottery candidates from a random drawing may be awarded such diversity
visas each year.  State is not pressing Congress to act so that additional green
cards could be disseminated in this case. But we would.

The lottery error is more than a bureaucratic problem; it is a terrible
"Peanuts"-style pulling-of-the-football for those affected. The government has
no obligation to award the disappointed applicants visas - but why not do the
right and merciful thing? Between State and the Department of Homeland Security,
more than 1 million  green cards are issued annually, so 22,000 isn't a hefty
addition. The government could turn a mistake into an opportunity to show
inclusiveness and compassion for people from every quarter.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 16, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Immigration agency to audit hiring at 1,000 companies

BYLINE: by Kate Brumback

SECTION: A section; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 275 words


ATLANTA - Federal immigration authorities are beginning a new round of
investigations to make sure that businesses hire only people authorized to work
in the United States, focusing on companies vital to national security and other
government and economic functions.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Wednesday that it is notifying
1,000 companies that it will inspect their I-9 forms, which new employees
complete, along with documents the workers provide to show they are eligible to
work here.

"The inspections will touch on employers of all sizes and in every state in the
nation, with an emphasis on businesses related to critical infrastructure and
key resources," ICE said in a statement.

That includes sectors such as banking and finance, commercial nuclear reactors,
dams, water-treatment systems, government facilities, information technology,
telecommunications, and transportation systems.

"Our focus on businesses related to critical infrastructure and key resources
aligns with our priority as an agency to first and foremost minimize threats to
national security and public safety," said ICE spokeswoman Gillian Christensen.

ICE declined to name the businesses or give their locations. The companies were
selected for audits based on tips or intelligence that led ICE to believe they
may be engaging in improper hiring practices, Christensen said.

This is the fifth in a series of employer investigations, dubbed "I-9 audit
surges," by federal authorities. The action will bring the total number of I-9
audits for fiscal 2011 to 2,338, up from 2,196 the previous fiscal year.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 23, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Burying the lead in the biggest storyof his life

BYLINE: Paul Farhi

SECTION: Style; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 760 words


For almost 14 years, Jose Antonio Vargas carried a secret. A journalist skilled
in getting information from others, Vargas withheld some important news from his
American employers: He is an undocumented immigrant.

A native of the Philippines, he immigrated to the United States as a child and
never established legal status, even after he discovered his uncertain standing
when he applied for a driver's license as a teenager in California. He kept the
secret while employed with a series of news organizations, including The
Washington Post, where he worked with distinction, becoming part of a team of
reporters who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2008 for the newspaper's coverage of the
Virginia Tech shootings.

He went on to work for the Huffington Post and landed an exclusive interview in
September with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg that was published by the New
Yorker.

This week, Vargas, 30, revealed his personal story in perhaps the most public
way possible - via a 4,000-word account of his deception in the New York Times
Sunday magazine and a companion interview with ABC News.

"Over the past 14 years, I've graduated from high school and college and built a
career as a journalist, interviewing some of the most famous people in the
country," he wrote. "On the surface, I've created a good life. I've lived the
American dream.

"But I am still an undocumented immigrant. And that means living a different
kind of reality. It means going about my day in fear of being found out."

Vargas said he was putting himself at risk of potential deportation by publicly
acknowledging his illegal status because it was important to highlight the
plight of millions of undocumented immigrants in the United States.

Vargas, who has started an advocacy group, Define American, is promoting passage
of the DREAM Act, federal legislation that would grant permanent residency to
young illegal immigrants who came to the United States as minors.

Until last week, Vargas's article was scheduled to run in The Post's Outlook
section.

Vargas approached his old newspaper in March with the idea of writing a personal
account of his immigration and work history. The story underwent multiple drafts
and was on the verge of being published Sunday. The newspaper sent a
photographer, Bonnie Jo Mount, to New York to take pictures of Vargas to
accompany his piece.

But Executive Editor Marcus Brauchli killed the story several days before it was
scheduled to be published. "We made a considered judgment not to publish the
story," Brauchli said Wednesday. "We knew Jose would take his story elsewhere,
and we're not surprised he found a venue for his interesting account."

Brauchli declined to discuss the reasons for spiking Vargas's article.

Given the subject - a reporter's dishonesty about his personal life - The Post
subjected Vargas's story to an unusual degree of scrutiny. One red flag popped
up during weeks of checking: Vargas hadn't disclosed that he had replaced his
expired Oregon driver's license with a new one issued by Washington state. (The
license had enabled Vargas to pass airport security and to travel to distant
work assignments.) Vargas later conceded that he had withheld the information on
the advice of his attorney. The disclosure set off internal discussion about
whether the newspaper was getting the full story from its former reporter.

In a brief interview Wednesday, Vargas declined to discuss the matter. "I made a
decision that I wouldn't get into [discussing details about the story] at the
end of the day," he said. "I wanted The Post to run the story. They had to do
what they had to do, and so did I."

Vargas then contacted editors at the New York Times magazine. The newspaper
found his story so compelling after seeing a copy Wednesday, just 48 hours
before the magazine's June 26 issue was to close, that its editors decided to
rush the article into print.

This gave the story a singular distinction: It may be the first published by the
New York Times that was developed, fact-checked and substantially edited by
editors at The Washington Post.

Vargas reveals that he disclosed his secret to one editor at The Post, Peter
Perl. The assistant managing editor of newsroom personnel was, at the time,
Vargas's professional mentor. Perl, however, did not share this information with
his superiors. He declined to comment Wednesday.

In an official statement, Post spokeswoman Kris Coratti said of Vargas's
employment at the paper: "We will not comment on individual personnel matters
out of respect for the privacy of our employees."

farhip@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 30, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

The nation in briefThe nation in brief

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 268 words


CALIFORNIA          Phony recruiter gets3-year prison term

A Chinese national accused of pretending to be a U.S. Army recruiter to bilk
immigrants out of thousands of dollars was sentenced Wednesday to three years in
prison.

Yupeng Deng, 51, of El Monte, Calif., pleaded guilty to one count each of theft,
manufacturing deceptive government documents and counterfeiting an official
government seal.

Prosecutors say he recruited about 200 Chinese immigrants in California and
Georgia to join his bogus Army Reserve unit, telling them it could improve their
chances at U.S. citizenship.

- Associated Press

NEW YORK          Turtles on tarmacdelay JFK flights

About 150 turtles crawled onto the tarmac at New York's Kennedy Airport on
Wednesday in search of beaches to lay their eggs, delaying dozens of flights,
aviation authorities said.

The slow-motion stampede began about 6:45 a.m., and within three hours there
were so many turtles on Runway 4L and nearby taxiways that controllers were
forced to move departing flights. Delays averaged about 30 minutes, the FAA
said.

The terrapin migration happens every year at JFK, which is built on the edge of
Jamaica Bay.

- Associated Press

COLORADO          Rep. Polis, partnerto become parents

Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.) and longtime partner Marlon Reis said they are
expecting to become parents in September.

Polis is one of the few openly gay members of Congress. The couple did not say
whether they were adopting or using a surrogate mother.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 1, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 742 words


MARYLAND          Petitions submittedon tuition-break vote

Opponents of a new Maryland law to give undocumented immigrants in-state college
tuition breaks said they turned in more than twice as many signatures as needed
on Thursday night to suspend the law and force it to a statewide referendum.

The Maryland State Board of Elections has until July 22 to certify the
signatures, but it is likely that the opponents will know before then whether
they have succeeded. Elections officials plan to begin daily updates on the
board's Web site with the tally as it progresses.

The opponents need at least 55,736 signatures, or 3 percent of those who cast
ballots in the last statewide election, to push the measure to a vote in
November 2012.

The board has already certified 47,288 signatures, or more than four out of five
of those that opponents turned in last month. In addition, 74,980 signatures
were turned in on Thursday.

Del. Neil C. Parrott (R-Washington) and Del. Pat McDonough (R-Baltimore), who
led the signature-gathering effort, cast their haul as a success for Marylanders
who care about enforcing immigration laws and predicted that the state's voters
would reject the controversial measure.

The Maryland Catholic Conference said it launched a task force to begin
educating the state's Catholic congregations about why the tuition law "deserves
their support."

- Aaron C. Davis

THE DISTRICT          Robbery suspect shot multiple times

A suspect in an armored-car robbery on Michigan Avenue NE on Thursday morning
was shot multiple times, police said.

The suspect was taken to a hospital, police said. They did not say who shot the
suspect.

Police said they are seeking two black males in a gold four-door Cadillac
DeVille with Maryland tags in connection with the incident, which occurred in
the 200 block of Michigan Avenue about 11 a.m.

- June Q. Wu

Plunge from hotelan apparent suicide

A 47-year-old Alexandria woman who plunged to her death from the 10th floor of
the W Hotel downtown Wednesday night apparently committed suicide, authorities
said.

Witnesses told detectives that the woman had been drinking on the terrace of the
POV Lounge at the _blankhotel at 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW.

She climbed over a fence and onto a 10th-floor ledge above 15th Street,
witnesses told authorities. She was seen dangling from the ledge and then fell
to the pavement near the hotel's 15th Street entrance.

The Washington Post generally does not name people who commit suicide.

- Paul Duggan

Man gets 66 yearsin chat-line slaying

A D.C. Superior Court judge sentenced a Southeast Washington man to 66 years in
prison Thursday in the fatal shooting in 2009 of a District man, lured to his
fate via a meeting on an anonymous gay phone chat line.

Judge Lee F. Satterfield, chief judge of the court, sentenced Antwan Holcomb,
21, to prison after a jury convicted him in March of felony first-degree murder
in the slaying of Anthony Perkins, 29, also of Southeast Washington.

During the trial, prosecutors played a videotape of Holcomb telling a D.C.
homicide detective that he called the chat line and lured a man to a secluded
area to rob him.

Holcomb phoned the line Dec. 27, 2009, and spoke with Perkins. The two agreed to
meet and then drive together to an alley in the 2900 block of Fourth Street SE,
near the house where Holcomb was staying. Holcomb then pulled out a .380-caliber
handgun and shot Perkins once in the right temple. Perkins's body was found in
the driver's seat with the engine running.

Holcomb denied the shooting. No valuables were stolen from Holcomb, authorities
said. The only thing missing was a pack of cigarettes.

In total, the judge sentenced Holcomb to 88 years in prison, including 22 years
for other crimes.

- Keith L. Alexander

VIRGINIA          Motorcyclist killedin dump-truck crash

A motorcyclist was hit by a dump truck and killed Thursday morning in Alexandria
at Van Dorn Street and Taney Avenue, police said.

The initial police investigation indicated that the truck driver was northbound
on Van Dorn at 7:07 a.m. and turned right at Taney, striking the motorcyclist.
The motorcyclist was pronounced dead at the scene.

The victim's name is being withheld until relatives are notified.

- Patricia Sullivan

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 10, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Rubio's immigration letdown

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 775 words


Poor Marco Rubio. Florida's junior senator could have been a contender. Instead,
he's become a caricature.

In parts of the Hispanic community, Rubio is thought of as just another
ambitious politician who is willing to sell out Latinos to curry favor with
Anglo colleagues. That's what you hear from Internet chatter, letters to the
editor, Latino listservs and comments on Spanish-language media.

Just seven months after taking office, the Republicans' great Latino hope has
squandered the one thing that made him unique, interesting and valuable to his
party: the potential that he could help mend fences with disaffected Latino
voters alienated by the GOP's simplistic and mean-spirited approach to the
immigration issue.

In a recent poll by Latino Decisions and ImpreMedia, immigration was the No. 1
issue for Latino voters, topping jobs and the economy by more than 15 points.
More than half of the respondents said they know someone who is undocumented.
This issue hits close to home.

Over the past few years, Republicans have dug themselves into a hole with Latino
voters, and Rubio was supposed to help pull them out. It's one reason that
Beltway pundits continue to speculate whether he could wind up as the GOP's vice
presidential nominee in 2012 and whether this alone would be enough to persuade
Latinos to give Republicans a fair hearing.

This is what Rubio was supposed to bring to the party. Otherwise, what good is
he to his colleagues if he can only deliver votes - for instance, from Tea
Partyers - that would probably go to Republicans anyway?

Former Florida Republican Party chairman Al Cardenas believes that Rubio could
do the GOP a lot of good in 2012. Now head of the American Conservative Union,
Cardenas recently told Politico that putting Rubio on the presidential ticket
would "almost guarantee" a Republican victory.

Cardenas needs to get out more - out of Florida and, better yet, out to the
Southwest.

Rubio is becoming persona non grata among Latinos outside of the Cuban American
community, which represents only 3 percent of the Latino population in the
United States. Specifically, he is becoming intensely disliked by many
naturalized Mexicans and Mexican Americans, who make up as much as 67 percent of
the U.S. Latino population. Those voters could affect the electoral outcome in
battleground states such as Colorado and New Mexico, and in vote-rich states
such as Texas and California.

All this has happened because, since arriving in Washington, Rubio has followed
his party's pitiful example of dealing with the immigration issue in a clumsy,
reactionary and unimaginative way.

A few months ago, the Miami Herald reported that conservative activists in
Florida - including members of the Tea Party - were pushing Rubio to take a hard
line on immigration. They complained that the issue wasn't even listed on his
Web site and that Rubio hadn't co-sponsored any legislation to beef up
immigration enforcement.

So Rubio joined the feel-good but do-nothing effort in Congress - led by Rep.
Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) - to make it mandatory for businesses to participate in the
"E-Verify" program, which is supposed to tell them whether a Social Security
number is authentic. He even became a co-sponsor of the companion bill proposed
by Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). Republicans hope that Rubio's support will dull
the accusation that the legislation is anti-Latino because the measure could
discourage employers from hiring Latinos who are assumed to be in the country
illegally.

Rubio also supports the Arizona immigration law, which directs local and state
law enforcement to enforce federal immigration statutes. And, he told the
television network Telemundo, he opposes the reintroduced Dream Act, which would
give legal status to illegal immigrants who go to college or enlist in the
military, because he considers it "part of some broader effort to grant blanket
amnesty."

This self-proclaimed "son of exiles" has it all wrong. It's fine to be tough on
immigration, but you don't have to be predictable and shallow. When that
happens, people assume you're not really thinking through this issue but simply
following the herd and pandering to the special interests controlling your
party.

As a Latino conservative, Rubio was bound to struggle with the immigration
issue. Had he been too lenient on illegal immigrants, fellow conservatives would
have accused him of leading with his heart. Now that he's gone in the other
direction, fellow Latinos will accuse him of not having one.

Ruben Navarrette is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His e-mail
address is ruben@rubennavarrette.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      July 13, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

Many Iraqis who worked forU.S. face long waits for visas

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A section; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 957 words


BAGHDAD - Heightened security concerns in the United States have stalled the
immigration process for tens of thousands of Iraqis who worked for the U.S.
government or American firms in Iraq and hope to move to the United States,
according to U.S. officials and refugee advocates.

A special program meant to distribute 25,000 visas to Iraqis who worked for the
U.S. government has admitted just 7,000 since it started in 2008, officials said
this week. In addition, the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, a global program
that also admits Iraqis, will admit about 6,000 Iraqis this year, down from
18,000 in fiscal 2010.

In a demonstration of the slowdown facing about 30,000 Iraqis, refugee advocates
said just 50 were granted entry to the United States through the programs in
April, compared with thousands in previous months. Officials at the U.S. Embassy
in Baghdad contacted this week did not dispute the figures and did not provide
more recent numbers.

American officials said there are no plans to end either program, but refugee
advocates complain that the U.S. government is reneging on promises made to
those who risked their lives during the war. Advocates have also said that
reprisal attacks on Iraqis who worked for the U.S. military or contractors will
probably increase as U.S. troops draw down across the country.

The programs "are, by almost every metric, a failure," said Kirk Johnson,
founder of the List Project, which tracks the status of Iraqis who worked for
U.S.-based entities. "There are a lot of open, unused slots every year that are
just sitting there because of complications."

Although several State Department officials acknowledged that sustained interest
in the programs and a small number of personnel and secure facilities to conduct
interviews are contributing to the backlog, they blamed most of the delay on
visa vetting procedures enacted in recent months by the Department of Homeland
Security.

Screeners now conduct more thorough background and biometric checks of
applicants, in addition to checks against several databases, according to DHS
officials familiar with the program. Also, officials said, new "pre-departure"
checks conducted shortly before a refugee is scheduled to leave for the United
States, are catching potentially disqualifying information that might arise
after an initial screening.

The results of some "pre-departure" checks have forced officials to physically
remove Iraqis from flights shortly before they head to the United States,
according to refugee advocates and embassy officials.

"There are a number of issues that need to be resolved before a person can be
admitted," Eric P. Schwartz, assistant secretary of state for the Bureau of
Population, Refugees and Migration, said in an interview. "Because of the
additional issues that arise, it by definition causes additional time
requirements."

Schwartz urged critics to remain patient. "Advocates for refugee protection also
have to be advocates for responsible security procedures," he said.

In May, lawmakers and security experts raised fresh questions about visa
security procedures after two Iraqis living in Kentucky were arrested on
terrorism charges. The men, admitted to the United States under the USRAP
program, were charged with sending cash, explosives and missiles to Iraq for use
against Americans.

Administration officials in Baghdad and Washington, congressional aides and
refugee advocates disputed suggestions of a direct link between the May arrests
and the slowdown, but some suggested that the enhanced screening contributed to
the arrests.

The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee is scheduled to
hold a hearing Thursday to review visa security issues. Although the hearing was
planned before the arrests, aides said lawmakers would probably point to them as
examples of potential security vulnerabilities.

About 80 percent of Iraqis admitted by the visa program served as translators
for the U.S. military, officials said. Ten percent of Iraqis admitted by USRAP,
the broader refugee program, worked for American businesses, according to
government statistics.

At least 22,000 people in Iraq are waiting to be admitted to USRAP, embassy
officials said. About 3,800 Iraqis living in Jordan are awaiting final security
interviews, and 8,500 Iraqis living in Syria have indicated interest. But the
Syrian government is withholding visas for Homeland Security officials needed to
conduct interviews there, U.S. officials said.

Among the tens of thousands waiting in Iraq are Haider Abduwahab and Ghassan
Enad. The men once served as bodyguards for NBC News crews but now protect a
nearly empty Baghdad hotel where hundreds of journalists roamed the hallways at
the start of the U.S. invasion. The lack of business gives them too much time to
sit and wonder whether they'll ever have a chance to leave Iraq and start over
in the United States.

"We feel like we're stuck. We don't know if we'll make it or not," Abduwahab
said.

Abduwahab, 35, applied for the refugee program in September 2009 and completed
all of the necessary interviews and medical tests within a year. He's in a
holding pattern as he waits to move to the United States with his wife, three
children and parents.

"Sometimes if you try to move to a safer place, you hesitate because they might
call and it'll be time to go," he said. "You might want to buy a new car or
perhaps open a small store, but you can't because you're waiting."

Enad, 31, applied for a visa in November 2009 and later received an e-mail with
a case number. An interview was scheduled, then canceled, and he hasn't heard
back since.

ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.com

Special correspondent Aziz Alwan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 21, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Fairfax County volunteer opportunities Fairfax County volunteer opportunities

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T27

LENGTH: 1028 words


ESL and Immigrant Ministries needs volunteers to teach English to adult
immigrants in 11 areas in Northern Virginia. Training is provided. Classes begin
in September. Apply at www.eslim.org. 703-841-0292, office@eslim.org

The Hospital Elder Life Program at Inova Fairfax Hospital needs volunteers to
assist older hospitalized patients to stay mentally and physically active during
their hospital stays. Duties include helping patients with meals, walking,
stress reduction activities and cognitive stimulation. 703-776-6824,
susan.heisey@inova.org, www.inova.org/HELP.

The Literacy Council of Northern Virginia needs tutors to help adults learn to
speak, read and write English. A tutor is trained, matched with a student and
encouraged to meet with the student weekly for 90 minutes. No teaching or
foreign language skills are required. Training will be 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Aug.
13, 20 and 27 at the James Lee Community Center, 2855 Annandale Rd., Falls
Church. A $40 fee covers books, other materials and instruction. Call
703-237-0866, Ext. 111, www.lcnv.org.

Fancy Cats Rescue Team needs volunteers to help care for cats in their centers
in Petsmart stores in Springfield, Fair Lakes and Chantilly. Care includes
feeding, playing, brushing and cleaning cages. Morning and evening shifts are
available. Foster homes for cats are also needed. 703-961-1056,
www.fancycats.org.

Fairfax County's Volunteer Solutions needs volunteers to deliver Meals on Wheels
in Reston between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Deliver once a month or several times.
703-324-5406,
www.fairfaxcounty.gov/dfs/olderadultservices/volunteer-solutions.htm.

The Shepherd's Center of Fairfax-Burke needs volunteer drivers to provide free
rides to seniors for medical appointments and shopping trips. The driving
commitment is flexible. Office workers are also needed to work a 3-hour shift
twice a month. 703-323-4788, www.fairfax-burkesc.org, office@fairfax-burkesc.org

Reston Association's Weed Warriors need volunteers 13 and older to pull Japanese
stiltgrass and English ivy that has spread throughout the natural area in south
Reston, 10 a.m.-noon July 23. Meet at the natural area next to 11425 Running
Cedar Road, just past Foxcroft Way. Look for the Reston Association truck. Wear
long sleeves and long pants. Tools, gloves, snacks and water provided. Ha Brock,
703-435-7986.

Northern Virginia Family Service needs child-care volunteers for its
Transitional Housing Program. Volunteers will engage children in age-appropriate
recreational activities for a two-hour period. Shifts are once a month, and
training is provided. Background checks are required. Navara Jordan,
703-219-2193, njordan@nvfs.org

Inova Fair Oaks Hospital Auxiliary needs adult and teen volunteers to work in
its thrift shop near Fairfax Circle. The store is open 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Mondays-Saturdays. 703-273-3519, inovafairoakshospitalthriftshop@inova.org

Simple Changes, a therapeutic riding center, needs volunteers 14 and older to
help lead horses, walk alongside riders for safety and support and provide
general horse care. Corliss Wallingford, 703-402-3613, info@simplechanges.org,
www.simplechanges.org.

Treasure Shop,the Navy Marine Coast Guard Residence Foundation consignment store
in McLean, needs volunteers to assist in all aspects of the store, including
consignments, cashier, maintenance, organizing items and appraising. Hansel
Aguilar, 703-538-2994, hansel@vinsonhall.org,
media.vinsonhall.org/volunteer-application.

TheVinson Hall Retirement Community needs volunteers to work on its volunteer
concierge services team. Duties include delivering and unloading residents'
grocery bags, greeting and directing visitors and assisting with front desk
operations. Hansel Aguilar, 703-538-2994, hansel@vinsonhall.org,
media.vinsonhall.org/volunteer-application.

The 4Paws Rescue Team needs adult volunteers to take care of cats at the Fairfax
Petco. Volunteers spend 30 minutes one day a week cleaning the cages, giving the
cats fresh food and water, scooping the litter and playing with the cats.
Morning volunteers are urgently needed. Training is provided. A six-month
commitment is required. 703-715-6369.

The St. Mark English as a Second Language program needs volunteers for fall
assignments, helping adults learn computer skills or master English. Classes
meet at the St. Mark Christian Formation Center in Vienna. Volunteers work one
evening a week. Foreign language proficiency is not necessary.
st.mark.esl@gmail.com

Our Daily Bread needs volunteers to assist with data entry and other
administrative tasks in its office. Volunteers are also needed to serve as
financial mentors and to teach personal finance classes to families throughout
the county, especially in the Alexandria area. Training is provided.
703-273-8829, www.odbfairfax.org.

Fairfax County needs volunteers to provide respite care for family caregivers of
older adults who cannot be left alone. A commitment of six hours a month is
required. Volunteers are matched with families in or near their neighborhoods.
Support and training are provided. Kristin Martin, 703-324-7577,
kristin.martin@fairfaxcounty.gov

Guiding Eyes for the Blind needs puppy raisers willing to provide affection,
behavior training and socialization to puppies until they are old enough to be
professionally trained as guide dogs, which is usually 16 to 18 months. Training
and guidance are provided by experienced counselors. 866-GEB-LABS, Ext. 6408,
www.guidingeyes.org.

The Shepherd's Center of Oakton-Vienna needs volunteers to help provide services
to people 5o and older. Medical and companion drivers are needed. Web site
assistance is needed. 703-281-5088, www.scov.org.

-Compiled by Jean Mack                                 TO SUBMIT AN ITEM

E-mail:              fxliving@washpost.com             Fax: 703-273-2836 Mail:
Volunteers, Fairfax Living, The Washington Post, 4020 University Dr., Suite 220,
Fairfax, Va. 22030             Details:Items, published weekly on a
space-available basis, are accepted from nonprofit groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 28, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Fairfax County volunteer opportunities Fairfax County volunteer opportunities

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T20

LENGTH: 1156 words


ESL and Immigrant Ministries needs volunteers to teach English to adult
immigrants in 11 areas in Northern Virginia. Training is provided. Classes begin
in September. 703-841-0292, www.eslim.org, office@eslim.org

The Hospital Elder Life Program at Inova Fairfax Hospital needs volunteers to
assist older hospitalized patients to stay mentally and physically active during
their hospital stays. Duties include helping patients with meals, walking,
stress reduction activities and cognitive stimulation. 703-776-6824,
susan.heisey@inova.org, www.inova.org/HELP.

The Literacy Council of Northern Virginia needs tutors to help adults learn to
speak, read and write English. A tutor is trained, matched with a student and
encouraged to meet with the student weekly for 90 minutes. No teaching or
foreign language skills are required. Training will be 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Aug.
13, 20 and 27 at the James Lee Community Center, 2855 Annandale Rd., Falls
Church. A $40 fee covers books, other materials and instruction. 703-237-0866,
Ext. 111, www.lcnv.org.

The International Student Exchange needs host families for exchange students
during the 2011-12 school year. Students are screened, insured, speak English
and bring their own spending money. Host families provide room and board and
guidance. Students expect to share the household responsibilities and be
included in normal family activities. Couples, single parents and families
without children are encouraged to apply. Louise Hackman, 540-286-2529,
louisenva@cox.net, www.iseusa.com.

Ronald McDonald House in Falls Church needs volunteers, 18 and older, to do
administrative tasks, greet families and visitors, keep the house tidy, help
with fundraising events and more. Training is provided. Barbara Clarke,
703-698-7080, barbararmhc@vacoxmail.com, www.rmhc.greaterdc.org.

The Reston Association needs volunteers for the Reston Kids' Triathlon, 6
a.m.-noon Aug. 14, at the Ridge Heights Pool. Duties include assisting race
organizers and assisting young athletes in the swimming, biking and running
events. Ha Brock, 703-435-7986, habrock@reston.org

Fairfax County's Volunteer Solutions needs volunteers to deliver Meals on Wheels
in Reston between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Deliver once a month or several times.
703-324-5406,
www.fairfaxcounty.gov/dfs/olderadultservices/volunteer-solutions.htm.

The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society needs volunteers to help with the "Light The
Night" walk in Reston on Oct. 1. Complete the registration form and return it by
e-mail or fax. You will be contact by e-mail the week of the walk with the
necessary details. www.lightthenight.org/nca/localchapter/volunteer,
emily.lindamood@lls.org

Fairfax Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA)will hold an information session
for people interested in becoming advocates for abused or neglected children. 11
a.m.-noon Aug. 13, Reston Regional Library, 11925 Bowman Towne Dr., Reston.
703-273-3526, Ext. 22, ekosarin@                          casafairfax.org.

Northern Virginia Family Service needs child-care volunteers for its
Transitional Housing Program. Volunteers will engage children in age-appropriate
recreational activities for a two-hour period. Shifts are once a month, and
training is provided. Background checks are required. Navara Jordan,
703-219-2193, njordan@nvfs.org

Inova Fair Oaks Hospital Auxiliary needs adult and teen volunteers to work in
its thrift shop near Fairfax Circle. The store is open 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Mondays-Saturdays. 703-273-3519, inovafairoakshospitalthriftshop@inova.org

Simple Changes, a therapeutic riding center, needs volunteers 14 and older to
help lead horses, walk alongside riders for safety and support and provide
general horse care. Corliss Wallingford, 703-402-3613, info@simplechanges.org,
www.simplechanges.org.

The 4Paws Rescue Team needs adult volunteers to take care of cats at the Fairfax
Petco. Volunteers spend 30 minutes one day a week cleaning the cages, giving the
cats fresh food and water, scooping the litter and playing with the cats.
Morning volunteers are urgently needed. Training is provided. A six-month
commitment is required. 703-715-6369.

Fancy Cats Rescue Teamneeds volunteers to help care for cats in their centers in
Petsmart stores in Springfield, Fair Lakes and Chantilly. Care includes feeding,
playing, brushing and cleaning cages. Morning and evening shifts are available.
Foster homes for cats are also needed. 703-961-1056, www.fancycats.org.

The St. Mark English as a Second Language program needs volunteers for fall
assignments, helping adults learn computer skills or master English. Classes
meet at the St. Mark Christian Formation Center in Vienna. Volunteers work one
evening a week. Foreign language proficiency is not necessary.
st.mark.esl@gmail.com

Our Daily Bread needs volunteers to serve as financial mentors and to teach
personal finance classes to families throughout the county, especially in the
Alexandria area. Training is provided. 703-273-8829, www.odbfairfax.org.

Fairfax County needs volunteers to provide respite care for family caregivers of
older adults who cannot be left alone. A commitment of six hours a month is
required. Volunteers are matched with families in or near their neighborhoods.
Support and training are provided. Kristin Martin, 703-324-7577,
kristin.martin@fairfaxcounty.gov

TheFairfax County Department of Family Services needs volunteers to transport
older residents to medical appointments and to deliver Meals on Wheels in the
McLean, Springfield and Reston/Herndon areas. 703-324-5406,
www.fairfaxcounty.gov/dfs/olderadultservices.

Guiding Eyes for the Blind needs puppy raisers willing to provide affection,
behavior training and socialization to puppies until they are old enough to be
professionally trained as guide dogs, which is usually 16 to 18 months. Training
and guidance are provided by experienced counselors. 866-GEB-LABS, Ext. 6408,
www.guidingeyes.org.

The Shepherd's Center of Fairfax-Burke needs volunteer drivers to provide free
rides to seniors for medical appointments and shopping trips. The driving
commitment is flexible. Office workers are also needed to work a 3-hour shift
twice a month. 703-323-4788, www.fairfax-burkesc.org, office@fairfax-burkesc.org

The Shepherd's Center of Oakton-Vienna needs volunteers to help provide services
to people 5o and older. Medical and companion drivers are needed. Web site
assistance is needed. 703-281-5088, www.scov.org.

-Compiled by Jean Mack

TO SUBMIT AN ITEM

E-mail:              fxliving@washpost.com             Fax: 703-273-2836 Mail:
Volunteers, Fairfax Living, The Washington Post, 4020 University Dr., Suite 220,
Fairfax, Va. 22030             Details:Items, published weekly on a
space-available basis, are accepted from nonprofit groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 28, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Pr. William primary defies GOP stereotype

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 1428 words


In Prince William County, where thousands of Hispanics took to the streets four
years ago to protest some of the nation's toughest measures against illegal
immigrants, Republican voters will choose next month between two candidates for
state Senate - both of them Hispanic Americans.

But the Aug. 23 primary face-off between former Virginia GOP chairman Jeff
Frederick, whose mother emigrated from Colombia, and construction company owner
Tito Munoz, a Colombian immigrant who became a U.S. citizen three years ago,
offers more than just an ironic postscript to the immigration battles of 2007.
The race confronts Republican voters with a microcosm of the quandary bedeviling
the party nationally: How ideologically pure must GOP politicians be to win the
enthusiasm of tea party conservatives, and how far dare candidates lean toward
the center to win general elections?

The race in the 36th Senate District, which for the first time this year also
includes parts of Fairfax and Stafford counties, at first glance appears to have
Frederick in the role of the movement conservative with Munoz playing the more
moderate outsider.

In six years as a member of the House of Delegates from Prince William,
Frederick was a regular presence at events staged by the Family Foundation,
which has won legislative battles to tighten restrictions on abortion, keep
same-sex marriage illegal and require the posting of "In God We Trust" in public
schools.

Although Munoz includes his firm stance against all abortions in his stump
speeches ("I have 250 cousins - does that sound pro-life to you?" he says), he
also devotes much of his pitch to the plight of the poor. If elected, he says,
his chief goal would be to use state power to create jobs, improve traffic and
foster development along Route 1.

"The insiders don't know what it's like to be poor or struggling," said Munoz,
who left Colombia at 16 and became a U.S. citizen after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks. "I don't know everything about Richmond, but I have common
sense, and I know there are a lot of immigrants who are struggling to make it."

But the two men vying for a shot at longtime incumbent Toddy Puller (D) do not
fit neatly into boxes labeled "tea party conservative" and "moderate."

Munoz, 50, never thought of becoming a politician until 2008, when then-vice
presidential candidate Sarah Palin plucked him out of a crowd at a rally and
dubbed him "Tito the Builder," a Virginia version of "Joe the Plumber," the Ohio
man who became the rhetorical everyman of her campaign. Now, Munoz is being
touted as a promising leader by Ginni Thomas, wife of Supreme Court Justice
Clarence Thomas; winning support from former senator George Allen; and being
described by conservative media firebrand Andrew Breitbart as "one of the
greatest voices in the tea party."

As the accolades indicate, the race defies stereotypes: It is Munoz - the
political neophyte who admits he's still boning up on just what the state
legislature does - who is running with support from Virginia and national
Republican leaders.

That leaves Frederick, 35, who has not held public office since his short and
troubled reign as state party chairman, positioning himself as the outsider, the
renegade who promises to stand tall against those who would compromise their
conservative principles.

"It's a tough race for both of them," said Tom Whitmore, vice chairman of the
Prince William County Republican Committee. "Jeff is going to have to renew some
old relationships and repair some damage, but he still has grass-roots support
from people who see him as a champion for the social issues. Tito is a champion
to people who came here for freedom, but he's new to all this, and he's a new
citizen."

Although both men tout tea party-friendly positions on shrinking government and
rolling back taxes, Frederick now avoids mention of social issues.

"The pro-life people want freedom fighters, but my agenda is let's shrink
government and create jobs," Frederick said between houses as he knocked on
Republican voters' doors on a 104-degree afternoon in the Lorton section of
Fairfax. "The life issue is important to me, but it's not everything I am.

"I try to focus on issues that impact your daily life. Now, you can argue that
killing babies has an impact on daily life, but that's not what you're thinking
about when you're driving down the highway in heavy traffic," he said. "If
conservatives are going to govern, we have to have a coalition."

The notion of Frederick adopting the mantle of realist is startling to some
Republicans. Frederick was infamous in Richmond as a dynamic legislator who took
pride in resisting compromise and making flamboyantly headline-grabbing
statements, such as when he said that Barack Obama and Osama bin Laden "both
have friends that bombed the Pentagon."

Even now, he says he'd rather be known as an uncompromising conservative than as
a Republican. "Both parties have trouble with intellectual honesty, and they are
filled with people who choose power - real or perceived - over principle," he
told the Virginia Gentleman blog.

But as much as Frederick is known as a tough-talking idealist, his soft voice
and slight figure can seem pale compared with Munoz, who grabs audiences'
attention with his barrel-chested presence, his booming, heavily accented voice
and his frank admission that he's learning as he goes. "This is the first debate
of my life," he told a forum in Woodbridge last week.

Munoz's speeches are much more emotional than Frederick's, especially when he
talks about why he opposes illegal immigration, spinning a long tale about the
time when, as a boy in Colombia, he spent all night waiting outside a soccer
stadium to get the best seats in the cheap section, only to find that people
with connections had been allowed to jump the line.

"I felt cheated, I felt robbed, I felt violated," Munoz said. "Now you tell me
somebody else, somebody who jumped the line, is going to take my place in
America? Somebody who doesn't deserve the opportunity? Not possible."

At backyard barbecues, tea party enthusiasts embrace Munoz as a model of the
entrepreneurial, legal immigrant who eschews government aid. But as Frederick
knocks on doors, some other voters hear Munoz's Hispanic name and tell
Frederick, "That's all I need to hear."

"Tito is who he is," said Tim Murtaugh, a longtime political aide to top
Virginia Republicans who is working for Munoz. "He's the embodiment of the
American dream. Jeff is a failed politician who ran the state party into the
ground."

Frederick, who notes that he never lost an election and boasts that he "wasn't
in Richmond to make any friends," is under no illusions about the antagonism
many Republican leaders feel toward him. He expects a tough campaign from the
same people who ousted him as chairman in 2009, accusing him of mismanaging the
party and steering it too sharply to the right, focusing too heavily on gun
rights, immigration and abortion.

So far, however, those opponents are not putting their money behind their anger.
Frederick has raised nearly five times as much money as the newcomer, according
to the latest finance reports.

Munoz and Frederick have appeared together at only a couple of forums but are
already sniping at each other. Munoz rolls his eyes at Frederick's
identification as a Hispanic: "If you are born here in the United States and
have never lived in another country, how do you know what it is to be Hispanic?"
Munoz said.

Frederick says Munoz is simply not ready for the Senate. "At a minimum, people
seeking public office should know the responsibilities of the office they seek,"
he said. "Tito says this race is about America. No, it's not. It's about the
people of the 36th District."

Those people, like voters throughout Virginia, have a long history of staying
home for summer primaries. Whoever can turn out his supporters in August will
face a tough battle in November. The GOP didn't even field a candidate against
Puller four years ago; before that, she handily defeated Republican opponents.

Even some voters who disagree with Puller like her as a person. "I don't think
she's done any harm," said George Verzagt, 77, an insurance agent, when
Frederick knocked on his door to ask for support.

"Well, she does think that anything wrong with Virginia can be cured with higher
taxes," Frederick offered.

Verzagt was not swayed. "Well, I don't really pay taxes," he replied. "I make
very little. I'm very happy with the services here in Fairfax County."

marcfisher@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 16, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Couple without a country

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 462 words


ANTHONY JOHN MAKK may soon be thrown out of a country he has called home for
nearly the past two decades.

Born in Sydney, Australia, Mr. Makk has lived legally in the United States since
1993, but he lost his claim on a visa last October when he shut down his San
Francisco architectural art glass business to care for his ailing husband, who
is battling AIDS.

Although Mr. Makk applied for permanent residency status as the spouse of an
American citizen, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement denied his request
after it concluded that the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) forbids it from
recognizing Mr. Makk's 19-year relationship with Bradford Wells, whom he married
in Massachusetts seven years ago.

"The claimed relationship between the petitioner and the beneficiary is not a
petitionable relationship," the decision said. "For a relationship to qualify as
a marriage for purposes of federal law, one partner must be a man and the other
a woman." Mr. Makk, who is  Mr. Wells's sole caretaker, could be deported this
month.

Mr. Makk's case illustrates the profound injustices meted out by DOMA, which was
passed in 1996. The Obama administration this year denounced the Clinton-era law
as unconstitutional because it deprives same-sex couples equal protection of the
law. In April, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. put on hold the deportation
of a British man who has lived in the United States since 1996 but who never
obtained a green card or citizenship. The man, Paul Wilson Dorman, has been in a
committed same-sex relationship for 15 years and entered into a civil union with
his partner, a U.S. citizen, in 2009.

Mr. Holder asked an immigration court to determine whether Mr. Dorman should be
considered a "spouse" under New Jersey law and thus entitled to stay in the
country. Mr. Makk's deportation should also be put on hold, as should those
involving anyone in legally recognized same-sex relationships whose only
infraction involves immigration status.

It is not easy to win a reprieve from deportation based on marriage to a U.S.
citizen. All who make such a claim must not only show proof of their lawful
relationship but also that removal would cause an "extraordinary and extremely
unusual hardship." But the law at least allows heterosexual individuals to make
their cases; that opportunity should be extended to those in same-sex
relationships also. Immigration agents enjoy broad discretion and should make it
a priority to remove foreign nationals who have committed serious crimes - not
those, like Mr. Makk, who are otherwise law-abiding, contributing members of
society. Common sense and common decency will go a long way toward avoiding
indignities, but true justice will not be achieved until DOMA is wiped from the
books.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 19, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Advocated for immigrants from Central America

BYLINE: Adam Bernstein

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 1065 words


Saul Solorzano, who escaped the bloody tumult of civil war in his native El
Salvador and became a seasoned leader of an advocacy organization for Central
American refugees in Washington, died Aug. 17 at Washington Hospital Center. He
was 49.

Since 1994, Mr. Solorzano had been the top executive of the Central American
Resource Center, known as Carecen. His death, after falling down steps at his
home in Northwest Washington, was confirmed by Milly Rodriguez, Carecen's board
chairwoman and an official with the American Federation of Government Employees.

"Carecen is the most important anchor organization in our region for Central
Americans and, more importantly, Salvadoran immigrants," said Lori Kaplan,
executive director of the Latin American Youth Center in Washington.

"Without Carecen and Saul's leadership, many of our Salvadoran residents would
not have had a pathway to citizenship, would not have had access to affordable
housing and would not have been able to get the services and support that
Carecen provides them," Kaplan said. "Saul's long-term leadership was critical
to the strength of Carecen and its ability to help thousands of people over the
last several decades."

Mr. Solorzano helped expand Carecen's mission from helping immigrants seek
political asylum to helping them become permanent residents and U.S. citizens.

In addition to promoting civic engagement and economic development among the
region's tens of thousands of Salvadorans, Mr. Solorzano helped advocate
successfully for legislation that sought to improve the immigration prospects of
Central Americans, particularly refugees.

Most of the measures were imperfect, he said, but provided "a window of
opportunity to help people find a permanent solution."

Mr. Solorzano was one of the roughly 1 million Salvadorans who fled to the
United States and neighboring countries during a 12-year civil war between
violent leftist guerillas and a U.S.-backed military regime that engaged in
human rights abuses.

Before a truce in 1992, an estimated 75,000 Salvadorans died. Countless families
were torn apart.

Carecen was formed in 1981 to address the compelling needs of a generation of
Salvadorans who found themselves in the Washington area after being granted
temporary refugee status because of the war. Many lacked the skills or resources
to find housing, jobs and health care.

Long involved in aiding refugees, Mr. Solorzano joined Carecen in the early
1990s. He battled strong political forces intent on curbing immigration under
any circumstances, including an effort by some in Congress to end a 1990 program
that offered temporary refugee status to Salvadorans during the civil war.

"In El Salvador, they came here because five factions were going in and chopping
each other to pieces," then-Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) said on the Senate
floor in 1994, soon before he was poised to become chairman of an immigration
subcommittee. "And now that is all over. You have democratic elections. Have one
of them gone back? Not one."

The Clinton administration ended the temporary refugee program for the 200,000
Salvadorans living in the United States. Immigration officials said that there
would not be wide-scale deportations.

Regarded as a skilled political strategist, Mr. Solorzano formed partnerships
with members of Congress and other immigrant-rights groups to shape laws that
would provide chances for a green card.

He continued to oppose periodic efforts, most recently by the Bush
administration in 2005, to end special protections for Salvadoran immigrants
stemming from the 1980s civil war.

The initial protections were ordered by a federal judge after a class-action
lawsuit claimed that U.S. immigration officials had used threats and other forms
of rough treatment to discourage Salvadorans from applying for political asylum.

At times, Mr. Solorzano expressed the bitter feelings of many Salvadorans toward
the baffling standards used in deciding who achieved special rights in the
immigration process. Some, he said, thought that Nicaraguans seeking asylum from
the left-wing Sandinista regime were favored.

"In the 1980s, President Reagan said the Salvadorans were coming for economic
reasons, that we weren't political refugees," Mr. Solorzano told the Star-Ledger
of Newark in 2000. "Any Nicaraguan who showed up at the border and said he hated
the Sandinistas was granted asylum."

Saul Antonio Solorzano Magaña was born Oct. 14, 1961, in the capital of San
Salvador. His parents sold goods in a marketplace.

Rodriguez, the Carecen chairwoman, said Mr. Solorzano was studying to become an
electrician when he left to live with an aunt in Los Angeles. He sold tamales
and became increasingly drawn into refugee-aid efforts. He later became a U.S.
citizen.

Over the years, Mr. Solorzano was an outreach worker for a refugee center in
Hempstead, on Long Island, and a volunteer coordinator at the Spanish
Educational Development Center in Washington. In 1992, he was hired at Carecen
as associate director and soon became the public face of the organization as its
leader.

He sat on civil rights review panels in the District, raised money for
earthquake victims in Central America, campaigned against gentrification and
predatory lending practices that threatened the livelihood of low-income
Latinos, and spoke out against immigration raids on undocumented restaurant
workers.

He received a bachelor's degree in business management from the University of
the District of Columbia in 2002 and a master's in public administration from
American University in 2005.

Having long worked in advocacy and politics, he made an unsuccessful bid in
January for an at-large seat on the D.C. Council in a special election to
replace Kwame R. Brown (D), who became the council's chairman.

Survivors include his companion, Wendy Ramirez, and their daughter, Joan, both
of Washington; and four sisters.

In interviews, Mr. Solorzano spoke of the profound impact that Central American
immigrants have had in the larger community. Many of them play vital functions
in the service industry, in hotels and restaurants, or mowing lawns and cleaning
buildings.

Allowing them a way to achieve citizenship, he said, would improve their lives
by permitting them to make more money, buy homes and attend schools. "It means
more stability in the community," he told The Washington Post, "and less abuse."

bernsteina@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 20, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 111 words


The Aug. 18 editorial "Scare tactics on the border" incorrectly said that 44
percent of the Southwestern border with Mexico is not under "operational
control." According to the U.S. Border Patrol, 44 percent of the border is under
"operational control."

l

The Aug. 16 editorial "Couple without a country" incorrectly said that U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement denied Anthony John Makk's application for
lawful permanent residence. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services rendered
the decision. Also, while Mr. Makk is subject to removal proceedings beginning
Aug. 26, he is unlikely to be deported by the end of the month.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 22, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

Obama team targets Hispanic voters

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1364 words


While most of Washington was embroiled in the debt-ceiling drama last month,
about 160 Hispanic leaders from across the country filed into the White House
one day, largely unnoticed.

For two days, they enjoyed full access to top presidential advisers, Cabinet
members and administration officials from across the government. Before the
participants left town, they received a glossy 33-page booklet detailing talking
points to be shared back home - 1.9 million Hispanics kept out of poverty by the
stimulus, $808 million in loans last year to Hispanic small businesses, and an
extra $1 billion directed to colleges with large numbers of Hispanic students,
to name a few.

The event was part of broader efforts by the White House and Obama's reelection
campaign to rekindle excitement among Hispanic voters, many of whom have turned
their backs on the president amid disappointment over his immigration policies.
Key to the strategy is shifting voters' attention beyond the caustic immigration
debate with data-driven appeals that show progress in other areas, while arguing
that Obama is better on immigration than any of his potential Republican foes.

The tensions - and the administration's aggressive efforts to soothe them -
reached a climax of sorts in a flurry of activity last week, with the
administration making a surprise announcement Thursday that it was giving
officials discretion to suspend certain deportation cases that have drawn fire
from critics, such as ones involving young people brought to the country in
early childhood.

The White House move came two days after immigrant advocates delivered tens of
thousands of petitions to Obama's reelection headquarters and other Democratic
Party offices demanding an end to the administration's aggressive deportation
policy.

Adding to Democrats' anxiety are signs that Republicans are trying to take
advantage of the strain between Obama and Hispanics.

Crossroads GPS, the pro-GOP group advised by Karl Rove, saturated
Spanish-language airwaves in key states last month with ads blasting Obama's
record. And one of the party's presidential front-runners, Texas Gov. Rick
Perry, brings a history of courting Hispanic voters. He even backed a law
granting in-state college tuition for many children of illegal immigrants.

The White House outreach strategy underscores the quandary facing Obama and his
aides, who are struggling to keep their hold on a voter bloc that was a key
piece of the president's 2008 coalition of minorities, young people and white
liberals and is expected to play an even greater role in deciding his
reelection.

Administration officials announced last week that they would host Hispanic
policy conferences in cities across the country. Some will be in key political
battlegrounds - with the first to take place this month in Orlando, home to a
large Puerto Rican community that is a prime target for the campaign's early
voter registration efforts.

"I understand the pain that our community is going through," said Labor
Secretary Hilda L. Solis, who is hosting policy roundtables with Hispanic
activists across the country as a top White House liaison to the community. But,
she added, "I think it's amazing how little people know of the good things that
this administration has done."

At her roundtables, Solis distributes handouts describing measures her agency
has taken to help Hispanics. At a meeting in Las Vegas this month, she gave out
literature about policies designed to improve safety conditions for Hispanic
workers. She said other announcements geared toward helping Hispanics would come
soon, although she declined to offer specifics.

Obama won two-thirds of the Hispanic vote in 2008 after pledging that
overhauling immigration policies would be a top priority in his first term.
While immigration does not always rank as the No. 1 issue for Hispanics,
activists say Obama's failure to pass legislation granting a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants, combined with a deportation program that has removed
more than 1 million illegal immigrants since 2009, has stirred deep
disappointment.

A majority of the Hispanic voters surveyed by the nonpartisan polling group
Latino Decisions said they know an illegal immigrant, and one-fourth said they
know someone who is facing deportation or has been deported.

Obama's job approval rating among Hispanics has plummeted since its high mark in
April 2009, according to Gallup, from 85 percent to 49 percent this month.

Administration officials say their outreach initiatives - many of which began in
2009 - are not coordinated with the campaign.

Still, the efforts coincide with recent moves by Obama's Chicago-based
reelection campaign to begin ramping up its grass-roots Hispanic operations in
key states.

The campaign recently named Solis's former chief of staff, longtime Denver
strategist Katherine Archuleta, as its national political director, touting her
as the highest-ranking Latina in the organization.

Archuleta and campaign manager Jim Messina met this month with Hispanic
organizers and volunteers in Las Vegas, and next month Archuleta plans to hold
similar meetings in Colorado, Florida and New Mexico.

Andres Ramirez, a Las Vegas-based Democratic strategist who met this month with
administration and campaign officials to discuss Hispanic outreach, said a
"hyper-obsession" with immigration issues has led many voters to overlook other
accomplishments - including the appointment of a Puerto Rican woman to the
Supreme Court.

"Most people forget that he appointed Sonia Sotomayor and how big of a deal that
was," Ramirez said.

In a twist, some activists think the cultural pull of immigration issues has
worked to Obama's benefit, because many Hispanics can relate to his being forced
to defend his citizenship by revealing his long-form birth certificate.

"They themselves have been targeted, and they know what it's like to have to
prove yourself," said Obama campaign volunteer Joe Perez, a 67-year-old veteran
who is canvassing Hispanic neighborhoods in Greeley, Colo.

Several leading Hispanic activists said the level of outreach from Obama's White
House far surpasses that of previous administrations, including that of
President George W. Bush, who heavily courted Hispanics and won 40 percent of
that vote in his 2004 reelection, unusually high for a Republican.

Obama's White House staffers have showered Hispanic community leaders with phone
calls, event invitations, and weekly e-mails that have been known to include
profiles of lesser-known Hispanic appointees. The White House has lavished
attention on Hispanic media.

The White House has lavished attention on Hispanic media, dispatching Obama and
other administration officials to frequent appearances on Univision and
Telemundo and inviting Hispanic bloggers to coveted encounters with Obama and
senior advisers. Obama has sat for some 30 interviews with Hispanic news outlets
- including one to be featured this fall in Latina magazine. In video aired
during Univision's annual "Premio lo Nuestro," a People's Choice Awards-style
music show, Obama rolled his R's as he peppered his feel-good message with
Spanish phrases.

But keeping Hispanics enthusiastic has gotten more difficult. They have been hit
harder than non-Hispanic whites in the recession, with unemployment in that
group topping 11 percent and home foreclosures devastating Hispanic-heavy
neighborhoods in Nevada and Florida.

And, despite frequent efforts to blame Republicans for blocking an immigration
bill, many Hispanics wonder why the president didn't push harder when his party
ran Congress.

"There's a lot of outreach, but I think what people are still getting frustrated
with is, okay, where are the outcomes in terms of policy?" said Arturo Vargas,
executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials and a regular participant in meetings with top White House officials.

"The White House feels they have done all this work in other areas on the
economy that they feel has benefited Latinos just like it's benefited most of
the country," he said. "But it hasn't been perceived that way in the community."

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 14, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: Style; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 212 words


CELEBVOCATE

An occasional look at the show-biz professionals flacking causes in exchange for
good karma. Tuesday's trouper:Gael Garcia Bernal

Venue: The National Press Club.

Cause:Latin American immigrants.

Bona fides: Mexican art-house heartthrob ("Y Tu Mama Tambien") who has twice
played Che Guevara ("The Motorcycle Diaries," miniseries "Fidel"); longtime
celebvocate for poverty, hunger and social justice causes.

What he wants: To shed light on the struggles of migrants trying to cross the
border into the United States.

How he looked: Shaggy ear-length hair, gray V-neck T-shirt, blazer.

How he sounded: Shy and apprehensive, at least when speaking English. Breaking
out the Spanish, Bernal was way more suave, drawing chuckles from the bilingual
speakers in the room.

Charming anecdote:While filming "The Invisibles," a series of documentaries
following the path of migrants, Bernal and his crew attempted to swim over the
border between Guatemala and Mexico, where, what do you know, it turns out he's
got some fans. "As we were approaching, there was this person on top of some
corn sacks and on the side of Guatemala," the actor recalled. "He stood up and
he said, 'Are you Che Guevara?' "

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 16, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

The benefits of immigration

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 210 words


Thanks for the thoughtful Sept. 12 editorial "The GOP's nonsense on
immigration." Unfortunately, the Republicans are not alone. The entire country
seems to have turned its attitude toward immigration the wrong way.

Immigration has made our country great, and blocking it hurts us.  We need
immigration. If we are smart, we will raise our immigration quotas dramatically.
Never mind amnesty; we should be recruiting.

We worry that we do not have enough young people to keep Social Security afloat.
We have them; they just aren't counted. They are here illegally because we have
barred them from coming legally. If they were here legally, more of them would
be paying into Social Security, and so would their employers.

Our housing market is in the dumps. Legal immigrants buy homes. We need new
people to support our housing market.

New immigrants don't just take jobs, they create them. One of the first things
many new arrivals do is start small businesses that create many jobs. We need
new immigrants for the jobs they create.

Welcoming immigrants will turn a profit for us, financially, socially and
spiritually. We need to stop this costly Fortress America nonsense and to behave
like the America we like to think we are.

John S. Warman, Rockville

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 17, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 636 words


Britain          Police seek sourcesof hacking stories

British police are seeking an "unprecedented" court order to force a newspaper
that has led coverage of the phone-hacking scandal engulfing Rupert Murdoch's
News Corp. to reveal its sources, the paper said Friday.

In a story on its Web site, the Guardian said London's Metropolitan Police were
seeking to use the Official Secrets Act to force two of its reporters to
disclose their confidential sources.

The act is designed to protect classified information and allows prosecutions
usually relating to matters of national security and espionage.

The Guardian's reports have helped keep the story at the top of the political
agenda in Britain and played a part in forcing News Corp. to close the
168-year-old News of the World tabloid.

- Reuters

Netherlands          Government to ban face-covering veils

The Dutch government said Friday that it will ban face-covering veils worn by
some Muslim women because these flout the Dutch way of life and culture.

Prime Minister Mark Rutte also announced tougher rules for immigrants and
asylum-seekers wanting Dutch nationality, who in future will have to show that
they have earned income and have not received financial assistance or benefits
for at least three years.

The country's reputation as relatively easy on immigration has changed in the
past decade, reflecting voter concerns over the large number of Muslim
immigrants. The new measures also reflect the influence wielded by populist
politician Geert Wilders, whose anti-Islam, anti-immigration Freedom Party is
the third largest in parliament.

- Reuters

Syria          17 slain as protestsenter seventh month

Syrian troops killed at least 17 people Friday in raids on anti-government
demonstrators, activists said, but failed to stop thousands from pouring into
the streets nationwide and taking their uprising against President Bashar
al-Assad's autocratic rule into a seventh month.

The activists reported demonstrations from the capital, Damascus, and its
suburbs to the southern province of Daraa, where the movement was born in
mid-March. Crowds also gathered in the eastern province of Deir al-Zour as well
as the province of Latakia on the Mediterranean coast and central regions.

The Friday protests - which have become a weekly ritual after the midday Muslim
prayer services - were held under the banner: "We will continue until we bring
down the regime."

- Associated Press

Rights court rules for Chavez opponent: A Venezuelan opposition leader was
cleared by an international court Friday to run against President Hugo Chavez in
2012. Centrist candidate Leopoldo Lopez had been banned from campaigning by
Venezuelan authorities who accuse him of corruption, but the Costa Rica-based
Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruled in his favor.

Iraq, Oman seek release of American hikers:Mediators from Iraq and Oman are
asking Iran to free two Americans convicted of spying. Omani officials said they
have a plane in Tehran to carry the pair out of the country if a
bail-for-freedom deal is reached. Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal were detained
along the Iran-Iraq border in July 2009 along with friend Sarah Shourd, who was
released last September. The Americans say they may have mistakenly crossed into
Iran while hiking.

Security forces, protesters clash in Bahrain: Security forces clashed with
thousands of mourners and opposition factions in Bahrain on Friday after a
funeral march for a man who relatives say died after inhaling tear gas fired at
Shiite-led protesters in the Persian Gulf kingdom. The skirmishes erupted
shortly after mourners joined in anti-government chants that included cries for
King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa to step aside.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 19, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 241 words


MARYLAND          Police seek driver in College Park death

Prince George's County police are seeking the driver of a red Honda that might
have struck and killed a pedestrian early Sunday in College Park.

The victim, described only as an unidentified man, was discovered by a passerby
at 3:45 a.m. at University Boulevard and Baltimore Avenue, police said. The man
was dead at the scene.

- Del Quentin Wilber

Federal immigration program is delayed

Federal officials have pushed back the date for the implementation of a
controversial immigration program in Montgomery County, county officials learned
this month. The program, called Secure Communities, would have U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement receive fingerprint data recorded by local law
enforcement.

In April, Montgomery officials learned that the program would start in the
county  Sept. 27. But on Sept. 8, an ICE official told county corrections
director Arthur M. Wallenstein that there is no longer a start date available.
ICE spokesman Ross Feinstein said federal officials want to ensure that
"resources and necessary infrastructure" are in place to support the initiative
and that the program will be implemented nationwide by 2013.

Council member Nancy Navarro (D-Eastern County), who opposes the program, said
that Secure Communities creates a "blanket of fear" and that she is happy with
the delay.

- Victor Zapana

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 2, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Perry plays a bit of political catch-up in New Hampshire

BYLINE: Amy Gardner

SECTION: A section; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 856 words


MANCHESTER, N.H. - Texas Gov. Rick Perry spent the weekend in this early-voting
state trying to revive a campaign damaged by shaky debate performances and to
lure back Republicans turned off by his views on immigration and Social
Security.

At a series of traditional political stops across southern New Hampshire -
including three town-hall forums and a house party - Perry touted his record of
job creation as Texas governor. He forcefully defended his support of in-state
tuition for certain illegal immigrants. And he accused those who claim he wants
to dismantle Social Security of "scare tactics."

"No one up there on that stage has a stronger record than I do when it comes to
illegal immigration," Perry told a rain-soaked crowd in Manchester, pushing back
against the narrative that his support for the Texas DREAM Act makes him too
soft on immigration for the Republican Party's most stalwart conservatives.

Perry, who rocketed to front-runner status shortly after declaring his bid for
the Republican presidential nomination seven weeks ago, has since been weakened
by those perceptions as well as his unsteady appearances in three nationally
televised debates. He has been out-muscled by the better-funded,
better-organized operation of his chief rival for the nomination, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney.

Even speculation over the past week about whether New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie
would jump into the race has been viewed in some quarters as a vote of no
confidence in Perry's potential to challenge Romney from the right, as many had
hoped he would.

Whether Perry made headway during his two-day New Hampshire tour remains to be
seen. He told one crowd that he is boning up on economic matters by consulting
with former presidential candidate Steve Forbes, and he was scheduled to work on
debate preparation with policy experts on his drive to the Manchester airport
Saturday afternoon.

He catered to conservatives with promises to abolish the federal Energy and
Education departments and a pledge to hire an administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency "who is not there to make any friends."

But Perry drew moderate crowds of 150 or so and only polite applause with his
most pleasing lines, notably when he said the evidence is not "incontrovertible"
that climate change has been caused by man. He did not win over everyone with
his explanation that the Texas DREAM Act was a "Texas solution" - not
necessarily for every state.

"I don't understand why any governor would give preferential treatment to the
child of somebody who does not belong here rather than these guys here or his
grandchildren," said Dave Connors of Hampton, pointing to those seated around
him as he addressed Perry at one event. "It doesn't make sense."

Even at Perry's own events, Romney's superior organization was in evidence; on
Friday in Derry, Romney supporters handed out phony Perry jobs plans filled with
empty pages (along with Romney's own 160-page plan). And on Saturday, the roads
leading to one of Perry's town halls were festooned with dozens of Romney yard
signs (which two young Perry supporters worked feverishly to remove).

"I'm really right in line with Perry's principles," said Kevin Kimball, 53, of
Hampton, who works in human resources and attended Perry's first town hall of
the day. Like many who attended, Kimball is not thrilled with Romney's
moderation, notably his support for a health-care overhaul in Massachusetts that
served as a model for President Obama's plan.

"But I don't think Perry's quite as polished as Romney," Kimball said. "He's got
to get better."

Perry also caused a stir at his final tour stop by saying that he would consider
sending U.S. troops to Mexico to fight drug violence.

"It may require our military in Mexico," Perry said in answer to a question
about drug violence along the southern border. In the back yard of New Hampshire
gubernatorial contender and tea-party activist Ovide Lamontagne, Perry offered
no details, and a spokesman, Robert Black, said afterward that Perry would work
with the Mexican government. But Black declined to specify whether Perry is
amenable to sending troops into Mexico with or without the country's consent.

"If he were president he would do what it takes," Black said.

The remarks prompted speculation about exactly what Perry meant and what the
implications might be for the nation's relationship with Mexico.

The issue also opens the door to scrutiny of Perry's position on U.S. military
intervention generally. The governor has criticized Obama's management of
military operations in Afghanistan and elsewhere; on Saturday, at the same
campaign appearance where Perry made his remarks about Mexico, he promised never
to send troops into another country without a detailed plan for winning and
withdrawing quickly.

Pressed to explain Perry's remarks, Black, the spokesman, offered this: "Never
say never. Mexico has a problem. They have a significant problem with drug
cartels at war with each other. And that is a significant problem for the United
States."

gardnera@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 14, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

ICE analyst admits role in travel kickbacks

BYLINE: by Andrew Beckerby Andrew Becker

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 611 words


A former intelligence analyst with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
pleaded guilty Thursday in federal district court in El Paso to stealing at
least $70,000 from the government as part of a travel receipt scheme and using a
diplomatic passport for personal trips to the Middle East.

Ahmed Adil Abdallat, 64, admitted to two counts of misuse of a diplomatic
passport and one count of conversion of public money as part of a plea
agreement, according to a statement from U.S. Attorney Robert Pitman. Six other
counts related to passport misuse were dismissed. Abdallat was arrested in
February.

Abdallat admitted that he submitted 13 travel vouchers between February 2009 and
September 2010 and received $116,392.34 in reimbursements for lodging, car
rentals and other expenses that included fraudulent receipts.

FBI Special Agent Shannon E. Enochs testified at a March bond hearing that, for
example, Abdallat would stay with a friend for a month but submitted fake
statements that he lodged at a hotel. He submitted one claim for more than
$6,000.

Though an exact amount has yet to be calculated, Abdallat agreed that the
government's loss was between $70,000 and $120,000.

He also used his diplomatic passport for personal travel to and from Jordan on
two occasions between 2007 and late 2010. Abdallat, a naturalized U.S. citizen,
is a native of Jordan and served in the Air Force there, reaching the rank of
colonel. As an ICE analyst, he was formerly stationed in the U.S. Embassy in
Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia.

Abdallat's plea is the latest development in a federal probe of a travel voucher
kickback scheme that involves at least two other ICE employees, including the
agency's former acting intelligence chief, James M. Woosley.

"ICE takes these matters very seriously, and we fully cooperated with the
investigation that led to Mr. Abdallat's conviction," ICE spokesman Brian P.
Hale said. He declined to comment on Woosley or any other employee. Abdallat was
fired in June.

The probe spans from El Paso to Washington, according to a federal official who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the ongoing matter. The
investigation is one of several recent corruption and misconduct cases in recent
months involving ICE staff members

Woosley, the highest-ranking ICE employee ensnared in the probe, was placed on
administrative leave Feb. 4 and resigned late last month, a Department of
Homeland Security official confirmed. His assistant, Leticia Rollerson, also has
quit. Neither has been arrested or publicly charged. An FBI agent testified that
the other ICE employees were subject to proceedings in another jurisdiction.

"Mr. Abdallat was working with at least two other individuals in Washington,
D.C., one of them being the Acting Assistant Director of Intelligence, James
Woosley," the FBI agent testified. "Basically, he was the approver for Mr.
Abdallat to go to Washington, D.C."

He said that Abdallat had sent an estimated $58,000 back to other ICE employees
in Washington who were involved in the scheme, including Woosley and Rollerson.

Daryl Fields, spokesman for the U.S. attorneys' office for the Western District
of Texas, said the plea agreement remains under seal. Phone calls to Abdallat's
attorney, Mary Stillinger, were not returned. Woosley and Rollerson could not be
reached for comment.

Abdallat, who remains in custody, faces up to 10 years in prison. The amount of
restitution will be determined at sentencing. A sentencing date has not been
set.

Andrew Becker is a reporter for the Center for Investigative Reporting, a
nonprofit news organization based in Berkeley, Calif. He can be reached at
abecker@cironline.org

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 25, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Fulfilling U.S. humanitarian obligations to assist refugees

BYLINE: From the Partnership;for Public Service

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 308 words


Molly Groom

Chief, Refugee and Asylum Law Division, Office of the Chief Counsel, U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), Department of Homeland Security

Best known for:For the past 15 years, Groom has dedicated her career to helping
refugees. She oversees a team of 12 lawyers, who provide legal advice on
humanitarian issues for people inside and outside the United States. This
includes those who have been displaced by war, famine, and civil and political
unrest, or have been forced to flee their countries to escape the risk of death
and torture. Groom and her team work on a variety of legal issues, including
those involving refugee and asylum status, victims of human trafficking or other
violent crimes, and battered spouses, children and parents.

Government service:Groom has been the chief of the USCIS refugee and asylum law
division since 2002. She previously served as an associate general counsel with
the Justice Department's Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and spent
a year working as a legal adviser with the United Nations Transitional Authority
in East Timor,  gathering evidence of and prosecuting war crimes and abuses.
Groom began her career as an INS trial lawyer in New York.

Biggest challenge:Groom says the biggest challenge of her job is addressing the
misperception that providing protection for refugees comes at the expense of
ensuring  national security when "disciplined attention to our humanitarian
obligations and commitments is not only consistent with, but also advances, our
national security."

Quote:"I feel so lucky to be able to work on providing protection to those in
need. To be able to describe your job as helping the government do the right
thing in the field of protection is an amazing thing."

- From the Partnership

for Public Service

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 25, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

ICE trails suspected rights violators

BYLINE: Paloma Esquivel

SECTION: A section; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 516 words


LOS ANGELES - While most Americans are familiar with immigration officers who
patrol the U.S. border with Mexico, a lesser-known and relatively new
immigration project has another mission: pursing thousands of suspected war
criminals and human rights abusers.

Since its creation in 2009, the Human Rights Violators and War Crimes Center has
helped arrest a man living in Georgia who was allegedly part of a Serbian
paramilitary group that killed thousands during the Bosnian war. Its work also
led to a grocery store worker in Chicago wanted in Rwanda on charges of
genocide.

Another successful case: the arrests of two California men - one working as a
martial arts instructor and the other as a maintenance man - who were accused of
taking part in the massacre of at least 160 men, women and children during the
Guatemalan civil war.

Officials say the agency, which is part of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, is pursuing more than 1,900 suspects from about 95 countries. Some
of those sought within in the United States came legally, while others slipped
in or overstayed tourist visas.

The latter was the case with Carlos de Graca Lopes, former director of a prison
in Cape Verde. According to an indictment filed there, he ordered or carried out
the beating and torture of prisoners more than 150 times. While under
investigation in Cape Verde, he was granted a tourist visa to the United States,
where he quickly disappeared.

Nearly 10 years ago, Amnesty International issued a report calling the United
States a haven for torturers and identifying more than 1,000 suspected human
rights violators living in the country. At the time, federal officials invested
few resources to track them down, the rights group said. For decades, most
efforts in the area had been focused on deporting Nazi war criminals.

A unit of the Justice Department also pursues alleged offenders from Central
America, Bosnia, Rwanda and other countries.

Since it was created two years ago, the Human Rights Violators and War Crimes
Center has grown.

"As we began to be successful, we got more resources, more bodies," said ICE
unit chief Tom Annello. The ICE center now has about 28 full-time employees. The
names of more than 3,000 people suspected of human rights violations have been
collected and shared with U.S. agents and officials tasked with approving visas.

Often officials settle for minor charges that can result in deportation, hoping
more serious charges can be levied in the suspects' home countries. "We'll go
after them for visa fraud, perjury, jaywalking. We don't care," Annello said.

Even minor charges can require extensive investigation. Special Agent Brian
Andersen, who worked on the Lopes case, has traveled to Rwanda, Liberia and
elsewhere in Africa to investigate alleged war crimes.

Andersen, a onetime social studies teacher who got into law enforcement in the
late 1990s, said he has been deeply moved bythe work. "These are, in my opinion,
some of the most important cases that I have ever worked or that I will ever
work," he said.

- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 27, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Rubio on national ticket could be risky bet for GOP

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1314 words


Republicans who are eager to repair the party's battered image among Hispanic
voters and unseat President Obama next year have long promoted a single-barrel
solution to their two-pronged problem: putting Sen. Marco Rubio on the national
ticket.

The charismatic Cuban American lawmaker from Florida, the theory goes, could
prompt Hispanics to consider supporting the GOP ticket - even after a primary
contest in which dust-ups over illegal immigration have left some conservative
Hispanics uneasy.

But Rubio's role in recent controversies, including a dispute with the country's
biggest Spanish-language television network and new revelations that he had
mischaracterized his family's immigrant story, shows that any GOP bet on his
national appeal could be risky.

Democrats had already questioned whether a Cuban American who has voiced
conservative views on immigration and opposed the historic Supreme Court
nomination of Sonia Sotomayor, the first Latina justice, could appeal to a
national Hispanic electorate of which Cubans are just a tiny fraction but have
special immigration status. And Rubio's support in Florida among non-Cuban
Hispanics has been far less pronounced than among his fellow Cubans.

That ethnic calculus was further complicated by records, reported by The
Washington Post last week, showing that Rubio had incorrectly portrayed his
parents as exiles who fled Cuba after the rise of Fidel Castro. In fact, their
experience more closely resembles that of millions of non-Cuban immigrants: They
entered the United States  21 / 2 years before Castro's ascent for apparent
economic reasons.

Rubio made the exile story a central theme of his political biography, telling
one audience during his Senate campaign, "Nothing against immigrants, but my
parents are exiles." A video, apparently produced for the conservative site
RedState.com, shows black-and-white footage of Castro as Rubio speaks.

Even after the new reports of his parents' entry, Rubio has said he remains the
"son of exiles," saying his parents had hoped to return to the island but did
not because of the rise of a communist state.

But in elevating exile roots over the apparent reality of his parents' more
conventional exodus, Rubio risks setting up a tension point with the country's
Hispanic voters - most of whom are Mexican American and have immigrant friends
or ancestors who did not have access to the virtually instant legal status now
granted to Cubans who make it into the United States.

"If he does take that mantle, there'll be a lot of clarification that he'll have
to make on a whole lot of issues," said Lionel Sosa, a longtime GOP strategist.

Hispanic voters are growing in importance and are expected to play a pivotal
role in deciding who wins the important presidential battlegrounds of Colorado,
Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona and Florida. Obama won two-thirds of the Latino vote
in 2008, signaling a shift away from the GOP since 2004, when President George
W. Bush won about 40 percent - an unusually high showing among Hispanics for a
Republican.

GOP strategists see an opening in Obama's sagging approval ratings and
frustration among Latinos over the administration's stepped-up deportations of
illegal immigrants. But they worry that window is closing amid sharp rhetoric in
recent weeks from the party's apparent presidential front-runner, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, who has accused Texas Gov. Rick Perry, his
chief rival, of being soft on illegal immigration for his support of in-state
college tuition for many immigrant children. Romney used a similar tactic in his
2008 presidential campaign, attacking Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) from the right on
immigration.

Adding to those concerns is a Rubio-related standoff between the top Republican
candidates and Univision, a Spanish-language TV network based in South Florida
whose news programs draw more viewers in many cities than English-language
broadcasts.

The candidates are refusing to participate in a potential Univision debate
slated for Jan. 29, two days before Florida's primary, citing a dispute between
network executives and Rubio's office over a July report on the 1987
drug-trafficking arrest of Rubio's brother-in-law.

Rubio's office said it was a "tabloid" story and unsuccessfully pushed for
Univision executives to kill it. Two months later, a Miami Herald report cited
unnamed network staff members and Rubio's office accusing Univision of a quid
pro quo, offering to soften or kill the story in exchange for Rubio agreeing to
appear on the network's Sunday public affairs show "Al Punto."

Univision denied the charge. But after the report, a group of Rubio allies
called on the GOP candidates to boycott the debate. The top candidates agreed,
meaning they will be spared a potential grilling on immigration by the network's
high-profile anchor, Jorge Ramos, an advocate for more liberal immigration laws.

But the dispute creates ill will between Rubio, who could become the most
powerful Hispanic political figure in the country, and one of the most cherished
Hispanic institutions in the United States - and one that happens to be based in
his home town.

"One of the big questions of 2012 is whether putting Marco Rubio on the ticket
can help the GOP make up lost ground with Latino voters," said Simon Rosenberg,
president of the pro-Democratic group NDN, which analyzes the Hispanic vote.
"Despite being Hispanic, looking at his overall record . . . he seems remarkably
ill-suited to be the one reaching out to the largely Mexican migrant community
in the key battleground states."

Several Hispanic Republicans and other experts on Latino politics said in
interviews that Rubio remains a potent force in the GOP. His presence on the
party's ticket could inspire enough ethnic pride to make up for cultural or
policy differences. But they said there is no guarantee.

"He would deliver Florida," home to the large and typically Republican-leaning
Cuban American population, said Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the
Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, a pro-GOP group that is planning
to air ads in Western states geared toward Hispanic voters. "In Colorado, Nevada
and New Mexico, he can have an impact. But can he deliver the Latino vote in
those states? No."

Some Republicans consider Rubio such a promising new star that they funded a
poll last month that tested, among other things, the senator's image among
Hispanic voters in key presidential battlegrounds. The survey, by the group
Resurgent Republic, found that most Hispanic voters outside Rubio's home state
aren't familiar enough with him to express a view. But in Florida, it showed
mixed results - with Obama viewed slightly more favorably than Rubio among
Hispanics and the senator viewed favorably by just 42 percent of non-Cuban
Hispanics.

Democrats predict that the numbers for Rubio would drop fast once more voters
learned his views. Rubio's allies say the survey shows that he could boost a
party whose support among Latinos is sinking but that could probably win the
presidency with just 40 percent of that electorate.

"Most Republican politicians would die for" his favorability rating among
non-Cuban Hispanics, said Whit Ayers, the GOP pollster behind the survey, who
worked for Rubio's campaign in 2010.

Rubio has said he does not want to run for vice president. His spokesman, Alex
Conant, declined to address that speculation. Instead, he reiterated the
senator's embrace of his heritage and his support for legal immigration.

"Sen. Rubio has always claimed to be both the son of immigrants and the son of
exiles," Conant said in an e-mail. "His family came to the country legally with
the intention of staying permanently, but with the hope of someday returning to
their homeland. They were unable to do that because of Castro, becoming exiles
like many other Cuban-Americans."

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 29, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Perry defends Texas'sin-state tuition program

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;Dan Balz

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 818 words


CONCORD, N.H. - Texas Gov. Rick Perry offered a robust defense of a
controversial law granting in-state college tuition breaks to some undocumented
immigrants on Friday, saying that his state's program helps those who might
otherwise become "tax wasters" contribute to society.

At the start of a day-long campaign swing in New Hampshire, Perry also tried to
brush aside controversies over earlier remarks questioning whether President
Obama was born in the United States and whether he will skip upcoming debates,
as an aide suggested this week.

Perry met with reporters shortly after filing the paperwork at the State Capitol
that makes official his candidacy in this state's first-in-the-nation primary,
which likely will be held  Jan. 10.

Asked whether he would make different immigration laws if he had the chance,
Perry said no.

"Texas had a decision to make: Are we going to kick these young people to the
curb and pay for their existence in our state through social programs or some
other type of government dollars - up to and including incarceration?" Perry
said. "Or are we going to require that they pursue United States citizenship and
pay full in-state tuition?"

Perry added, "Are we gonna create tax wasters or are we gonna create tax
payers?"

The in-state tuition law continues to dog Perry's candidacy, more than a month
after the issue was raised in a Florida debate. Former Massachusetts governor
Mitt Romney's campaign welcomed Perry to New Hampshire Friday by sending
reporters a research dossier on Perry's immigration record titled: "Rick Perry
brings his liberal illegal immigration policies to New Hampshire."

Romney was also campaigning in New Hampshire on Friday, and at an evening town
hall meeting in Manchester, he took a shot at Perry's immigration record.

"Some problems are hard: how to stop al-Qaeda and the jihadists from attacking
us around the world? That's hard," Romney told an audience of roughly 200 New
Hampshire voters. "How to stop people coming into our nation illegally? That's
not so tough. Build a fence, have enough people to patrol it and turn off the
magnets that draw people here illegally, like giving them in-state tuition."

Immigration has been one of several issues deflecting attention from Perry's
jobs record and economic plan. Perry was asked about his comments in two
interviews published earlier this week casting doubt on Obama's birthplace of
Honolulu.

Asked whether it was a mistake to be linking his campaign to the "birther"
movement, Perry said, "I don't consider making fun of something being a
mistake."

"Look, the president's the president, and that's a fact," he said. "I don't
think Americans see that as anything other than a distraction, just like I see
it as a distraction. . . . There are a lot of people in the country that want to
distract off of the best job-creation record in America."

Trying to separate himself from his rivals, Perry added, "Nobody - nobody on
that stage can talk about job creation like I can."

Perry's campaign aides have said this week that the governor may skip some
upcoming debates, but when pressed, Perry, whose campaign has suffered partly
because of uneasy debate performances, was noncommittal.

"I don't know," Perry said. "There's gonna be a lot of debates. Shoot, I may get
to be a good debater before this is all over with."

Perry read from prepared text as he made opening remarks to reporters. He
focused on his economic plan, which includes an optional flat income tax with a
rate of 20 percent. Perry held up a blue postcard to make the point that his tax
plan is far more simple than the current tax code.

"Granite Staters get it," Perry said. "They know that these aren't just a bunch
of talking points. . . . This isn't just nibbling around the edges. This isn't
just 'here's what I'd do if I was the president.' This is what I've done as the
governor of the second most-populous state in the nation."

Perry made an oblique swipe at Romney, who has been drawing support from many
establishment figures this fall.

"My campaign is certainly not a campaign of the establishment," Perry said.
"It's a campaign for Main Street and we're gonna bring opportunity back to Main
Street." Later,  he attacked Romney as a flip-flopper.

Recent polls show Romney with a solid lead over Perry, particularly in New
Hampshire, where, a CNN-Time poll this week showed Romney with 40 percent,
followed by Herman Cain at 13 percent, Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) with 12 percent and
Perry, 4 percent.

"I don't pay a lot of attention to polls," Perry said. "What I do pay attention
to are people. I'll put my record up with anybody on that stage in terms of job
creation, and that is what Americans care about."

Asked whether he could beat Romney here, Perry left no doubt.

"I'm not here just because I like to hang around with y'all," Perry said. "I'm
here to win."

ruckerp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 30, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

How are Google, GE and McDonald's alike?

BYLINE: Robert Litan

SECTION: ; Pg. G02

LENGTH: 254 words


They were founded by an immigrant or the child of an immigrant. Immigrants not
only disproportionately start companies but are also especially successful in
launching high-growth high-tech firms. More than 40 percent of Fortune 500 firms
were founded by immigrants or their offspring.

A dizzying number of obstacles face immigrant entrepreneurs who want to study,
live or work in the United States. What a mistake. They don't take jobs; they
make them, and they do so at no cost to the government.

Two ideas would bring more entrepreneurs to the country. The first is the
Startup Visa Act, co-sponsored by Sens. John Kerry (D-Mass.) and Richard Lugar
(R-Ind.). Immigrant entrepreneurs would be screened for a temporary visa based
on the outside capital they had attracted or revenue from U.S. sales. Permanent
visas would be given once they hired enough U.S. workers.

A second idea would be to grant green cards to foreign students when they
receive their degrees from a U.S. university. Under current law, these students
must go home after graduation. What a waste! We ought to give these highly
trained individuals, who paid their way (or their governments did) to get here,
the right to stay and contribute to the innovation we need.

We should welcome those individuals who can make America and, ultimately, the
world a better place while creating more jobs for Americans.

- Robert Litan

Litan is vice president of research and policy at Kansas City-based Kauffman
Foundation, which studies entrepreneurship.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 31, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

Drunken-driving case in which Catholic nun died is going to trial

BYLINE: Justin Jouvenal

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 979 words


When an illegal immigrant was accused last year of driving drunk and causing a
crash in Prince William County that killed a nun, the case unleashed a wave of
anger and became a touchstone for supporters of stricter immigration
enforcement.

With the murder trial of Carlos Martinelly-Montano set to begin in the county's
Circuit Court on Monday, the political reverberations of the case are still
playing out and will probably do so long after the verdict is read.

"The case has become a hallmark," said Claire Gastanaga, a former Virginia chief
deputy attorney general and a lobbyist for immigration advocacy groups. "It has
become a place holder for a lot of different things that people are unhappy
about with the immigration system."

Melissa Sanchez, Martinelly-Montano's attorney, said he is expected to plead
guilty to five of the six charges he faces but intends to plead not guilty to
the most serious charge, felony murder.

Police said Martinelly-Montano, 24, of Bristow slammed his car into another with
three nuns inside about 8 a.m. on Aug. 1, 2010. The crash on Bristow Road in
Bristow killed Sister Denise Mosier, 66, and seriously injured Sisters Connie
Ruth Lupton and Charlotte Lange. All three belonged to the Benedictine Sisters
of Virginia, who have a monastery in the town just west of Manassas.

At the time of the crash, Martinelly-Montano, who came to the United States from
Bolivia as a child, had awaited a deportation hearing for almost two years after
convictions in 2007 and 2008 for driving under the influence of alcohol. He was
not being held because immigration authorities did not deem him a flight risk
and there were few beds available at D.C. area detention centers.

The revelation prompted outrage and a flurry of changes. Prince William County
Supervisor Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who led the charge for increased
immigration enforcement in the county in 2007, released a statement saying
President Obama and Congress had "blood on their hands."

Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II (R) issued an opinion saying police
could inquire about a person's immigration status during stops or arrests,
Virginia changed the rules on issuing state IDs, and the Department of Homeland
Security launched a probe of Martinelly-Montano's case.

The DHS probe concluded that Martinelly-Montano's situation probably would not
be repeated today because the department is more aggressively deporting illegal
immigrants with criminal records. Immigration authorities say they have added
500 beds at detention facilities in the D.C. area and have decreased the time it
takes to get a hearing in cases in which someone is not being detained.

Stewart is skeptical. Prince William County filed a lawsuit in August to try to
determine the fate of 4,000 illegal immigrants it turned over to DHS. That case
is pending in federal court in Virginia.

"I would love to say there has been progress within DHS, but we can't say that
because we don't have the data," Stewart said.

Crystal Williams, the executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said the biggest change that has come about in the wake of the
Martinelly-Montano case is an aggressive crackdown on illegal immigrants who
have drunken driving records.

"There is a more categorical approach to anyone who has a drunk driving
violation. You're not seeing as much evaluation of individual cases," Williams
said. "It's drunk driving - he's done."

Some thought Martinelly-Montano's case might be Virginia's "Arizona moment":
Last year, the killing of a prominent rancher there sparked the passage of one
of the nation's strictest immigration enforcement laws. So far, that has not
happened.

This year, a bill that would have allowed police to check the immigration status
of people who were arrested was passed by Virginia's House of Delegates but
failed in a state Senate committee. Stewart said the bill should be reintroduced
during the next session, and he believes it could pass if Republicans wrest
control of the state Senate from Democrats.

Others think a backlash is building against such legislation.

They see Arizona's experience as a cautionary tale. Arizona has been hit by
protests and boycotts and had a dramatic decrease in the meetings and events
business after the law's passage. Some law enforcement officials also say such
laws hurt their relationship with immigrant communities.

In Prince William County, opponents of the county's strict enforcement policy
said it has caused immigrants to flee the area and has hurt property values.

"There is a lot more debate of the unintended consequences of these laws and how
they affect the community," said Ann Morse, who oversees immigration issues for
the National Conference of State Legislatures.

As the immigration debate simmers, the Benedictine sisters have decried the
politicization of the crash. Shortly after the accident, the nuns' spokeswoman
said Martinelly-Montano "deserves to be treated with respect." When
Martinelly-Montano's parents made an unexpected visit to the monastery last
year, the nuns told them they had forgiven him.

The two injured sisters have quietly gone about getting their lives back on
track. Both have recovered physically and have begun to work again. Lupton tends
the sisters' home in Bristow, while Lange is providing spiritual counseling for
hospital patients in Richmond and was recently honored by Commonwealth Catholic
Charities for her volunteer work.

The sisters declined to be interviewed pending the outcome of the trial, but
Dougal Hewitt, Lange's supervisor in her hospital work, said he has noticed a
change in her since that tragic morning.

"If anything, she is more committed to the sick, under-served and vulnerable,"
Hewitt said. "Her understanding of the preciousness of life is even deeper."

justin.jouvenal@wpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 1, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Felony murder conviction in 2010 crash that killed nun

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 642 words


An illegal immigrant who was charged with drunken driving last year when he
struck a car carrying three nuns, killing one and injuring the others, was
convicted Monday of felony murder.

Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano's case ignited outrage and prompted calls for
stricter immigration enforcement.

During a hearing in Prince William Circuit Court, the facts of what happened
Aug. 1, 2010, were not in dispute: Martinelly-Montano swerved his Subaru into a
guardrail and then veered into the opposite lane on a slim, two-lane road in
Bristow, colliding with the nuns' blue Toyota.

Martinelly-Montano, who came to the United States from Bolivia as a child, had
twice been convicted of driving under the influence in the years before the
crash. At the time, he had been awaiting a deportation hearing for almost two
years.

The nuns, who belonged to the Benedictine Sisters, were on their way from
Richmond to Bristow for an annual retreat. Sister Denise Mosier was killed.
Sisters Charlotte Lange and Connie Ruth Lupton, both in their 70s, were badly
hurt.

Lange, the director of ministry at St. Mary's Hospital in Richmond, was driving
that morning. She testified that she had recently celebrated her 50th year as a
nun and had the drive to the retreat down to a "science" - take Interstate 95 to
Route 234. She saw the crash coming from a distance - the Subaru swerving into
her lane - and realized, "I couldn't come to the other side."

The aftermath was a haze of hospital visits and therapy for both sisters. Lange
has a metal plate in her right leg and has endured several surgeries on her
stomach - a result of the seat belt's impact, she said, among other injuries.
It's also affected her memory and hearing.

"I call it the 'new normal,' " she said. "I'm back at work. I'm tough."

Lupton lost her left thumb. She testified that her memory has deteriorated and
her hand injuries have made everyday tasks difficult. She recently used a walker
to get around and now uses a cane; she didn't need assistance before, she said.
Scars like "railroad tracks" climb up her back where pins hold together
vertebrae, she said.

At the start of the court proceedings on Monday, Martinelly-Montano pleaded
guilty to five charges stemming from the incident: involuntary manslaughter, two
counts of maiming while driving under the influence, driving on a revoked
license and a third DUI offense within five years.

But he went to trial before a judge on a charge of felony murder -
unintentionally killing someone while committing a felony. Because the
drunken-driving conviction was Martinelly-Montano's third, it is considered a
felony under Virginia law.

Defense attorneys argued that Martinelly-Montano's actions did not rise to the
level of a felony murder, and that he could not be convicted of both
manslaughter and felony murder.

In the end, Circuit Court Judge Lon E. Farris found Martinelly-Montano guilty in
what prosecutors said was a rare instance of the charge being applied in a
drunken-driving case.

Together, the charges carry a maximum sentence of 70 years in prison.
Martinelly-Montano is scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 3. Defense attorney Melissa
Sanchez said an appeal is likely.

Sister Cecilia Dwyer had been waiting for the sisters that day and was on the
other end of a frantic phone call from Lange. Before testifying Monday, she
looked at Martinelly-Montano and smiled. Family members said later that the
sisters - who have publicly and privately offered forgiveness - have been
writing letters to Martinelly-Montano and that he has since turned to the Bible.
His mother, Maria Martinelly-Montano, said the Benedictine sisters have invited
them over for dinner.

Asked outside the courtroom about her smile, Dwyer said that it was her "natural
reaction" as an "extrovert."

"I don't know him," she said. "It was benevolence."

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 3, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

At Cedar Ridge, building a vibrant community

BYLINE: Alison Lake

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T51

LENGTH: 735 words


During an economic downturn, affordable housing programs run by counties such as
Fairfax are popular, particularly among immigrants in the region.

Yet Cedar Ridge Apartments in Reston is more than just a subsidized housing
complex: Its cultural makeup and the participation of nonprofit organizations
and corporations produce an unusually cohesive and vibrant community.

On a recent fall afternoon at Cedar Ridge, Sudanese and Egyptian women wrapped
in colorful scarves chatted on park benches as they watched their children play
on the monkey bars and slides. They shared home-brewed tea and cookies. Cedar
Ridge feeds children from about 80 Arabic-speaking families into Forest Edge
Elementary School next door, according to Fairfax County public schools.

While the women congregated with their children near the playground in the late
afternoons, before Muslim prayer time, men in white tunics and prayer caps
relaxed and talked at the picnic tables adjoining the community office.
Washington Flyer taxicabs lined Becontree Lake Drive, because many of the male
residents provide transportation services to and from Dulles International
Airport.

A dozen or so Cedar Ridge families moved here from the Nubian region of Africa.
Residents chat easily with their neighbors in Arabic and Nubian dialect,
regardless of whether they were born in Sudan or Egypt. Cedar Ridge is also home
to Hispanic and other immigrant groups.

Corporate and charitable contributions sustain a full-time resident assistance
program at Cedar Ridge. The community center hosts a daily after-school program
for teenagers and kids, along with a summer camp and community and holiday
celebrations. Freshta Nawabi, a native of Afghanistan, runs the community
office.

Nawabi, whose position is funded by nonprofit Reston Interfaith, is a one-stop
shop for residents' questions and ideas. Nawabi, who is quiet and approachable,
noted that "residents frequently speak to me in their own languages, thinking I
understand." She speaks Farsi, Urdu, Pashtu and English.

County residents apply to live at Cedar Ridge through the Fairfax County Rental
Program, run by the county Redevelopment and Housing Authority, which also owns
the property. Income requirements are not stringent, allowing a family of three
to make as much as $82,000. But residents present the community office with an
ongoing needs list, including job training, English language studies, food and
fuel assistance and translation.

"I think we are making strides in the community," said Abby Kimble,
communications director at Reston Interfaith, "and Freshta makes those
relationships happen, because people feel comfortable to approach her with
questions."

Reston Interfaith operates with grants and donations from corporations and
individuals. Volunteers from the organization also teach a citizenship class to
residents. Hanan Ahmed, 35, from Aswan, Egypt, completed the course in 2010 and
received her U.S. citizenship in December. The drive to gain U.S. citizenship is
high at Cedar Ridge, and most of Ahmed's female friends and neighbors have
graduated from the class or are currently participating.

Because Cedar Ridge feeds a significant Arabic-speaking population to Forest
Edge Elementary, county schools assigned Gigi Hammoud to work there, first as a
translator and later as a parent liaison. A native of Sudan, Hammoud assists
with parent-teacher conferences. She attributes the large North African
population at Cedar Ridge to the proximity of Adams Center, a large Northern
Virginia mosque.

"They like being close to the mosque, especially so the kids have that feeling
of belonging to a group," Hammoud said.

She also shares information with teachers and other students about the
community, educating them on Muslim customs such as fasting during Ramadan and
wearing of head scarves by female students.

As to why many Cedar Ridge residents have lived there almost a decade, "my sense
is that they knew each other from before they came to the U.S., or got to know
each other very well here," Hammoud said. "They take care of each other and each
other's kids. Dads are off Fridays, and I see a lot of them picking up the kids
from school."

Nawabi has seen the community help itself in significant ways. "I see
carpooling, babysitting for each other's kids and, in general, neighbor helping
neighbor, across ethnic lines. We have a diverse community here."

lakea@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    November 23, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

GOP rivals differ sharply on security issues

BYLINE: Dan Balz;Amy Gardner

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1327 words


The Republican presidential candidates clashed repeatedly over foreign policy
and national security issues Tuesday night, revealing clear differences on the
pace of withdrawal from Afghanistan, aid to Pakistan, the Iranian threat,
immigration, and the balance between protecting the homeland and preserving
civil liberties.

President Obama came in for sporadic criticism for his handling of foreign
policy throughout the debate. But the bulk of the time, beginning with the
opening question, was spent on issues that revealed fissures within the
Republican Party's coalition over how to deal with trouble spots around the
world.

The debate came at another time of change in the race for the Republican
nomination. For the first time, former House speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) assumed
one of the center positions onstage, an acknowledgment of his sudden rise in the
polls. He used his newfound status as the leader in two polls to effectively
display his experience in dealing with national security issues.

But an answer on immigration, in which he said he does not think that the nation
should deport many of the millions of immigrants who have been in the country
illegally for years, could put him at odds with some conservatives in his party
- the same issue that caused problems for Texas Gov. Rick Perry earlier this
fall. After the debate, Gingrich defended himself against possible criticism,
saying he was not advocating an amnesty program.

The tone of the debate, the 11th among the candidates this year, was largely
civil, and the session ranged widely on both domestic and international issues,
though there was no discussion of the European debt crisis and little attention
paid to China. Despite the differences that emerged, the majority of the
candidates offered a generally more hawkish view of the world than that
enunciated by the Obama administration.

In contrast to some previous debates, Tuesday's forum is likely to have only a
limited impact on the overall race. Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
once again delivered a solid performance.

Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) stood out by disagreeing most significantly with the other
candidates. Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman Jr. used the opportunity to take
on his rivals, especially Romney.

The debate was held at DAR Constitution Hall in the District and was sponsored
by CNN, the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute. CNN
anchor Wolf Blitzer served as the moderator, with questions from AEI and
Heritage scholars. Eight candidates participated. The others were business
executive Herman Cain, Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) and former senator Rick
Santorum (Pa.).

Romney, Huntsman spar

One of the sharpest exchanges came between Romney and Huntsman over Afghanistan.
Romney argued that Obama was moving too rapidly to bring out U.S. troops and
said he favors maintaining a substantial presence for several more years.

Asked his view, Huntsman said, "I totally disagree." He said money that is being
spent on the war in Afghanistan could be better used rebuilding the U.S.
economy.

"Are you suggesting, Governor, that we just take all our troops out next week or
what - what's your proposal?" Romney replied.

"Did you hear what I just said?" Huntsman responded. "I said we should draw down
from 100,000. We don't need 100,000 troops. We don't need 100,000 troops in
Afghanistan."

In the past, Romney has said he would hope to bring the troops home as soon as
possible, but with the qualifier that he would listen to the views of military
commanders.

The candidates fielded several questions about securing U.S. interests in
Pakistan, a nuclear state that has harbored terrorists but that has also
provided the United States with a steady stream of intelligence on al-Qaeda.

Bachmann and Perry clashed over whether the United States should continue
funneling aid to Pakistan, given its role in harboring terrorists. Perry said
that he would not send "one penny, period" until Pakistan demonstrates more
willingness to cooperate with American interests, but Bachmann, a member of the
House intelligence committee, retorted that Perry was "highly naive," given
Pakistan's possession of nuclear weapons and the threat of terrorists gaining
control of them.

Bachmann said Pakistan is "too nuclear to fail," arguing that the United States
must continue a relationship. But she also said: "We need to demand more. The
money that we are sending right now is primarily intelligence money to Pakistan.
It is helping the United States."

Gingrich on immigration

When the debate turned to immigration, it produced an answer from Gingrich that
will remain a topic of discussion. The former House speaker said that newly
arrived illegal immigrants should be expelled.

But for those who have been here for many years, he took a different view,
favoring a path to permanent residency, not citizenship.

"If you've come here recently, you have no ties to this country, you ought to go
home, period," Gingrich said. "If you've been here 25 years and you got three
kids and two grandkids, you've been paying taxes and obeying the law, you belong
to a local church, I don't think we're going to separate you from your family,
uproot you forcefully and kick you out."

Bachmann quickly criticized Gingrich for an idea she described as tantamount to
amnesty. "If I understood correctly, I think the speaker just said that we would
make 11 people - 11 million people who are here illegally now - legal."

On Iran, Cain said he would consider helping Israel in a military strike against
the Iranian regime if he believed that the Israelis had a credible plan that
would succeed. Perry called for tough sanctions against the Iranian central
bank. "When you sanction the Iranian central bank, that will shut down that
economy," he said.

Gingrich said he could agree with that. "I think it's a good idea if you're
serious about stopping them having nuclear," he said. "I mean, I think replacing
the regime before they get a nuclear weapon without a war beats replacing the
regime with war, which beats allowing them to have a nuclear weapon. Those are
your three choices."

Clash on civil liberties

The debate opened with a clash over the USA Patriot Act and the trade-off
between civil liberties and homeland security. Paul called the Patriot Act
"unpatriotic." He said that there is no need to "sacrifice liberty for security"
and that the criminal justice system had effectively dealt with Timothy J.
McVeigh, who was responsible for the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing.

Gingrich responded: "Timothy McVeigh succeeded. That's the whole point. Timothy
McVeigh killed a lot of Americans. I don't want a law that says after we lose a
major American city, we're sure going to come and find you. I want a law that
says, you try to take out an American city, we're going to stop you."

As part of the discussion, Santorum said he would support profiling "radical
Muslims" to prevent terrorist attacks. But he was quickly criticized by Paul,
who offered: "What if they look like Timothy McVeigh? He was a tough criminal."

In anticipation of Tuesday's debate, the Democrats mounted a full-court press to
preemptively challenge Romney and the Republicans and to promote the president's
foreign policy record. Polls show that the public gives Obama good marks on
foreign policy and terrorism, in contrast to low numbers on the economy and the
deficit.

National security adviser Thomas E. Donilon delivered a speech at the Brookings
Institution Tuesday in which he contrasted U.S. policy toward Iran before and
after Obama came to office.

Three years ago, he said, "Tehran believed, and many in the region believed,
that Iran was ascendant." Today, he argued, Iran's standing has declined.
"Rather than looking to Iran, people in these Arab countries are looking in the
opposite direction - towards universal rights, towards democracy," he said.

balzd@washpost.com

gardnera@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 24, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Gingrich may face backlash in Iowa over immigration

BYLINE: Philip Rucker

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1187 words


DES MOINES - Having just taken his place at the front of the Republican
presidential pack, Newt Gingrich now faces a potential backlash from
conservative activists here in Iowa over an immigration proposal that he called
"humane" but that his opponents quickly decried as providing "amnesty."

The former House speaker appears to have alienated some of the conservatives who
had warmed to his candidacy by saying Tuesday in a candidates debate that he
would allow millions of illegal immigrants who have settled in the United States
to become legal residents.

Republican leaders across Iowa - including grass-roots activists, county party
chairmen and a congressman - said on Wednesday that Gingrich could see an
erosion in his support here, just as Texas Gov. Rick Perry did when his moderate
immigration positions became clear.

Tim Albrecht, a top aide to Gov. Terry Branstad (R), said Gingrich's comments
will prove "toxic." He predicted that other candidates would "tear him up on
this issue."

"The climate changed for Newt Gingrich [Tuesday] night," added Albrecht, who
worked for Mitt Romney's 2008 campaign and is neutral now because he's working
for Branstad.

In Iowa in particular, immigration politics inspires passion among
conservatives. "They believe, as I do, that any form of amnesty is not
supported," said Ann Trimble-Ray, chairman of the Sac County Republican Party.
"If you have broken the law, then you need to pay the consequences of having
done so. If that means deportation, so be it."

She added: "We still respect Speaker Gingrich for all he is, which is a very
intelligent man who understands how the process works in the United States
government and is bringing a valuable perspective in many, many ways in this
race, but I think this probably is a deal breaker for some folks."

Brian Rosener, chairman of the Woodbury County Republican Party, said: "The only
conversation that needs to happen on the immigration issue is how to secure the
border. Any other discussion is, at some point, dangerous and irresponsible."

Gingrich's campaign moved to quell any possible uprising among supporters here.
Dan Seufferlein, who is coordinating Gingrich's efforts in eastern Iowa, said he
called a dozen conservative activists on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning to
explain the candidate's position. He said that only one activist mentioned
Gingrich's debate answer.

"I could be wrong, but my judgment is that this is manufactured outrage by some
of the other campaigns that are looking to stall his numbers and increase
theirs," Seufferlein said.

In the debate, Gingrich said: "If you've come here recently, you have no ties to
this country, you ought to go home. Period. If you've been here 25 years and you
got three kids and two grandkids, you've been paying taxes and obeying the law,
you belong to a local church, I don't think we're going to separate you from
your family, uproot you forcefully and kick you out."

During a visit here Wednesday, Mitt Romney seized on Gingrich's remarks and
accused his rival of offering "a new doorway to amnesty."

"I just think we make a mistake as a Republican Party to try to describe which
people who've come here illegally should be given amnesty to be able to jump
ahead of the line of the people who have been waiting in line," he said at a
news conference after a town hall meeting at a Des Moines insurance company.

"My view is that those people who have waited in line patiently to come to this
country legally should be ahead in line," Romney continued, "and those who've
come here illegally should not be given a special deal or a special accelerated
right to become a permanent resident or citizen."

Gingrich's campaign accused Romney and other opponents, including Rep. Michele
Bachmann (Minn.), of distorting Gingrich's position. "Governor Romney can
certainly shovel it, but that doesn't mean Iowa will believe it," Gingrich
spokesman R.C. Hammond said.

Gingrich used Twitter on Wednesday to take a swipe at Romney, sending a tweet to
the former Massachusetts governor: "Here's a trip down memory lane." Gingrich's
tweet included a link to a 2007 "Meet the Press" interview in which Romney
seemed to be open to permanent residency or citizenship for some illegal
immigrants. But Gingrich edited out the latter half of Romney's quote, in which
he said immigrants should not have "a special pathway . . . merely by virtue of
having come here illegally."

Just two months ago, Perry's standing fell in Iowa after he called "heartless"
those who opposed a Texas law that grants in-state tuition to some undocumented
immigrants. It was an open question whether Gingrich could suffer the same fate.

"Obviously the issue got ahead of Governor Perry before he could fully
articulate what it was all about, and that's the challenge for Newt Gingrich,"
said Matt Whitaker, Perry's Iowa campaign co-chairman. But, he added, "since we
don't have any perfect candidates, each one has got their unique issues that
voters are going to have to reconcile with their own beliefs."

Gingrich faces other hurdles, some of them organizational, including missing the
filing deadline in Missouri to have his name on the ballot.

Steve Deace, a conservative talk-radio host here, said Gingrich will not face
"Rick Perry-type fallout over his immigration remarks. He's smarter than Rick
Perry. Newt Gingrich didn't look into an audience of tea party supporters and
say, 'If you don't want to pay the college tuition of illegal aliens, you're
heartless.' That's just stupid."

The question, Deace said, is whether voters will decide they can trust Gingrich.

"For Newt Gingrich, there's two narratives: The good one is he's ready to lead,
he's got chutzpah, he's got brains and he's your huckleberry," Deace said. "The
bad narrative is he does commercials with [former Democratic House speaker]
Nancy Pelosi, he endorses [moderate GOP congressional candidate] Dede
Scozzafava, he supported the TARP and then he opposed it, he's been in
Washington too long. There's dueling narratives and it's his actions that will
determine which narrative Iowa voters see."

Rep. Steve King, a tea-party-aligned Republican who represents northwest Iowa
and whose endorsement has been coveted by many in the race, said Gingrich's
immigration views ran counter to "the rule of law - one of the essential pillars
of American exceptionalism."

"I think if Speaker Gingrich had that to do over again, he might couch his
language differently, at a minimum," King told Iowa Public Television.

Yet, this was Gingrich's do-over. He made virtually the same comments about
immigration at a September debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library,
where he said the United States must "find a way to deal with folks who are
already here, some of whom, frankly, have been here 25 years, are married with
kids, live in our local neighborhood, go to our church. It's got to be done in a
much more humane way."

The difference is that, back then, Gingrich was a single-digit candidate. But on
Tuesday night, he was a front-runner, and Iowans were paying attention.

ruckerp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 24, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

As remarks cause a stir, Gingrich stands his ground

BYLINE: Dan Balz

SECTION: A section; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1212 words


Will Newt Gingrich's advocacy of a "humane" immigration policy come back to
haunt him in his bid to win the GOP presidential nomination? Or has the former
House speaker managed to find language that walks the fine line between
inflaming his party's conservative base and aggravating the relationship between
the GOP and the Latino community?

The early fallout suggests that the former House speaker has bitten off trouble
for himself, but Gingrich seems unperturbed. Asked how much concern he has that
the issue could hurt him in the upcoming caucuses and primaries, he responded in
an e-mail with customary self-confidence: "None."

The irony of the uproar over his comments is that he has made them before. Two
months ago, when the Republican candidates debated at the Ronald Reagan
Presidential Library, Gingrich used almost the same language he employed on
Tuesday, down to a call for a humane immigration policy.

No one cared much about what Gingrich said then, because few people considered
him a serious contender for the nomination. The focus that night was on former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and especially on Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who
was making his first debate appearance. How times have changed. Gingrich's words
now have resonance they didn't have then. He is dealing with the consequences.

Immigration remains the biggest long-term obstacle facing the GOP. An
overwhelmingly white party must find a way to expand its coalition if it hopes
to have success in a country that is growing more diverse by the day. The more
hawkish the GOP has become, the more it has diminished its chances to appeal to
Hispanics, the fastest-growing segment of the population.

Ever since President George W. Bush was unable to prod the party to support a
comprehensive immigration-reform policy that included a path to citizenship for
the roughly 11 million illegal immigrants in the country, Republicans have
marched almost in lock step on the issue, opposing amnesty or anything
resembling a path to legal status.

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) paid a huge price during his 2008 presidential
campaign when he joined a bipartisan effort to push for comprehensive reform.
The negative reaction nearly cost him the nomination.

This fall, Perry was dealt a significant setback over the issue. If he doesn't
win the Republican nomination - and the odds are long - he might look back and
conclude that it was the immigration issue that did him in. As governor, he
supported a policy that provides in-state college tuition to the children of
illegal immigrants who are Texas residents. Perry not only defended the policy
during GOP debates in September, but he drew the wrath of the right by calling
those who opposed it "heartless."

That is why what Gingrich said on Tuesday should be closely watched as the
campaign intensifies. Not only did he talk about the issue in a way that no
other presidential candidate has done this cycle, but he also seemed to put
himself at odds with Romney, whom he considers his principal rival for the nod.

The discussion unfolded in a fascinating way during the debate. CNN anchor Wolf
Blitzer drew Gingrich into the conversation by recalling that as a congressman
he had voted for the 1986 legislation, signed by President Ronald Reagan, that
has provided an amnesty policy as part of a program to toughen enforcement
against illegal immigration.

Gingrich was careful to say that other steps must be taken before dealing with
those who are already in the United States illegally, including tightening
border security and offering a guest-worker program.

Then Gingrich said this: "If you've come here recently, you have no ties to this
country, you ought to go home. Period. If you've been here 25 years and you got
three kids and two grandkids, you've been paying taxes and obeying the law, you
belong to a local church, I don't think we're going to separate you from your
family, uproot you forcefully and kick you out."

Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) was the first to disagree. But the more important
dissent came from Romney, who through his two presidential campaigns has taken a
hard line on those who are here illegally without ever being precise about how
he would send them back home or what provisions he would propose to allow them
to remain.

In the debate, Romney called amnesty a "magnet" that would make the problem
worse. "To say that we're going to say to the people who have come here
illegally that now you're all going to get to stay or some large number are
going to get to stay and become permanent residents of the United States, that
will only encourage more people to do the same thing."

Gingrich should have been smart enough to know the potential trouble he was
walking into, but because he has said it before, he may have underestimated the
impact his words would have. Whatever the case, he did not equivocate in his
response.

"I don't see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to
adopt an immigration policy which destroys families that have been here a
quarter-century," he said. "And I'm prepared to take the heat for saying let's
be humane in enforcing the law without giving them citizenship but by finding a
way to create legality so that they are not separated from their families."

Blitzer pressed Romney on whether he would consider allowing immigrants who have
been in the United States illegally for 25 years to stay. "I'm not going to
start drawing lines here about who gets to stay and who gets to go," Romney
responded. "The principle is that we are not going to have an amnesty system
that says that people who come here illegally get to stay for the rest of their
life in this country legally."

By Wednesday morning, Democrats were criticizing Romney for what they said was
his attack on a humane immigration policy. The quick and sharp reaction is a
signal that Democrats think Romney will be President Obama's challenger in the
general election.

What is more important is how Gingrich weathers the controversy. He demonstrated
Tuesday that he is more skillful in talking about the issue than Perry is, well
versed in the complexities and willing to stick his neck out.

That, however, may not be enough to prevent damage, and the Romney team appeared
eager to keep the focus on Gingrich's words.

As the controversy continued Wednesday, Gingrich tweeted out a link to a
10-point immigration plan that includes plenty of tough provisions he favors in
addition to his humane approach to some of those in the country illegally.

In his e-mail message, Gingrich explained why he wasn't concerned that the issue
could damage his candidacy. Romney, he said, "has been on both sides" of the
issue over the years. Bachmann, he argued, is distorting his position. And, he
added, the GOP politician most rabidly opposed to illegal immigration in recent
years, former congressman Tom Tancredo (Colo.), "got few votes for his
position."

Perhaps most important was his final statement. "I have been saying something
like this for several years in every town meeting where it comes up," he wrote.

If he is right, that he has been saying all this for a long time without
triggering a backlash, then he may be on relatively solid ground. But he may be
misjudging his party's base on the issue.

balzd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 25, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Still no love for whatzisname

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: A section; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 778 words


Moderator Wolf Blitzer opened Tuesday's Republican debate by introducing himself
and adding, for some reason, "Yes, that's my real name." A few moments later,
the party's most plausible nominee for president said the following: "I'm Mitt
Romney, and yes, Wolf, that's also my first name."

But it's not. Mitt is the candidate's middle name. His first name is Willard.

And people wonder why this guy has an authenticity problem?

The debate, held at Washington's historic DAR Constitution Hall, was focused on
foreign policy. The subject matter seemed to offer Newt Gingrich, a former
speaker of the House, the opportunity to highlight his experience and perhaps
begin consolidating his sudden front-runner status. But if he expected to dance
rings around the others in the minefields of international politics, he was
mistaken.

Gingrich made only one mistake, but potentially it was a big one: He declined to
pander on immigration. Instead of parroting the draconian party line, he stated
the obvious fact that we're not going to expel millions of illegal immigrants
who have been in this country for years and become pillars of their communities.

You will recall that Rick Perry was leading in the polls when he, too, stumbled
by saying reasonable things about immigration. Perry called immigration
hard-liners heartless, while Gingrich encouraged the audience to be "humane."

Romney, as usual, took the right position to appeal to Republican voters. He
said Gingrich was wrong because "amnesty is a magnet" that attracts more illegal
immigrants.

Ron Paul had smart and important things to say about the Patriot Act, calling
the law "unpatriotic because it undermines our liberty" and arguing that "you
can still provide security without sacrificing our Bill of Rights." Gingrich, by
contrast, argued that the Patriot Act might need to be strengthened. Asked which
side of this debate she favored, Michele Bachmann said she was "with the
American people." I thought Gingrich and Paul were citizens, but never mind.

Bachmann then pulled the pin on one of the more nonsensical rhetorical grenades
that she regularly lobs at President Obama: that he "has essentially handed over
our interrogation of terrorists to the ACLU."

The record shows that Obama does not coddle terrorist suspects with the niceties
of liberal jurisprudence. Instead, he blows them to pieces with missiles fired
by Predator drones. It's possible to disagree on whether the administration's
program of targeted assassination is wise or effective, but no one can claim
it's soft.

Rick Santorum argued that we should be profiling Muslims for extra scrutiny at
airports and sparing travelers who are deemed to present lower risk. Herman Cain
said he favors a policy of "targeted identification" of potential terrorists, a
concept so subtle that it defied Cain's further attempts at explanation.

Romney got it right again, pledging "to protect the life, liberty and property
of American citizens and defend them from foes domestic and foreign" without
being specific about how this would be accomplished.

Perry had an interesting night. He stood by his promise not to send "one penny,
period," of U.S. aid to Pakistan until officials of that nation demonstrate
"that they have America's best interests in mind." Bachmann called this position
"highly naive," pointing out that Pakistan is "too nuclear to fail."

But Perry was undeterred. He went on to show a breathtaking lack of
understanding of what's happening in that part of the world, at one point saying
that "we've got Afghanistan and India working in concert right now to leverage
Pakistan." That one sentence succinctly captures Pakistani officials' deepest
fear - being sandwiched by two enemies - and why they continue to support
Taliban-affiliated militant groups that attack U.S. and Afghan forces.

Go home, Governor. Please.

Jon Huntsman had his best performance of the many debates held thus far, laying
out a vision of U.S. foreign policy that was informed, nuanced and reflective of
the real world rather than the make-believe world in which the campaign is
taking place. Maybe he'll be the next candidate to see a meteoric rise and fall
in his poll numbers. Pretty soon, though, we're going to run out of meteors.

Which leaves Romney still waiting for his party to show the love. He knows the
issues. He says all the right things. So why do Republicans keep getting
infatuated with these fire-breathing suitors who always, in the end, break the
GOP's heart?

Maybe voters just wonder about a guy who's willing to tailor everything to
please his audience. Even his name.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 25, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

'How can I not be thankful?'

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 866 words


The papaya, mango, coconuts and pineapple, scented with cinnamon, had simmered
for hours in an aluminum pot, filling the Rockville home with the aroma of
ponche, a tropical fruit drink.

For this family, ponche - introduced two years ago after a son brought it home
from a trip to Guatemala - is Thanksgiving. So is the turkey recipe, featuring
Goya seasoning, olive oil and garlic, that was taught to an El Salvador native
by expatriate Iranians.

But perhaps more than anything, Thanksgiving is the satisfaction at seeing four
of five children home for the holiday. "God has blessed me and my family in ways
I couldn't have imagined," said Abraham Lima, 58.

Lima and his wife, Maria, had never celebrated Thanksgiving before they moved to
the Washington area from Santa Ana in their native El Salvador. Now it is one of
their most treasured holidays.

Stories like this are common, yet each one unique, in the immigrant-rich
Washington area. Nearly one in four area residents is foreign-born, according to
the U.S. Census, and Salvadorans are the largest Hispanic group in the region.
About 240,000 Salvadorans live in the area, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center.

Immigrant families such as the Limas contribute to high rates of income and
education among Hispanics in the Washington area. Also driven by the wealth of
international organizations such as the World Bank, Organization of American
States and Pan-American Health Organization, D.C. area Hispanic families are
among the nation's wealthiest and most educated.

The Washington region's 700,000 Hispanics have a median household income of
nearly $61,000, the highest rate in the country among Latinos. And one in four
Hispanic adults in the area has at least a four-year college degree, almost
double the national rate.

Thursday in Rockville, the day started about 8 a.m. as Abraham and Maria chopped
vegetables and herbs for the turkey he prepares using tips he learned while
cooking and cleaning at a Middle Eastern restaurant in the early 1990s.

Friends stopped to play games; boys watched sports on television; the parents
kept an eye on the kitchen. The house was a mutilingual din: The children spoke
to each other in English; the parents to each other in Spanish. The children
spoke to their parents in English; they responded in Spanish. A visiting friend
speaks no Spanish; a grandchild, 3-year-old Bella, speaks both.

As dinner time approached, Abraham and Maria could not contain smiles.

They thanked God.

All five children, now grown, have careers. Two have families of their own.
There are three grandchildren and another on the way. "How can I not be
thankful?" Abraham Lima said.

"We have made our part," Maria said. "But God did the biggest part."

The family came to the United States from an impoverished part of Santa Ana in
the western region of El Salvador. Abraham Lima came first in 1985, seeking
economic opportunity. Those days without his wife and children, he said, were
painful - but he had a better future in mind for them.

In the mid-1990s, the rest of the family came. The Limas bought a house in the
District, raised the children - the youngest was born in the United States, and
all of the Limas are American citizens, including the parents - and then moved
to the suburbs.

The Rockville home, a three-level house with a big back yard on a quiet,
tree-lined street, sports reminders of their Salvadoran heritage: A key holder
by the main entrance bears that country's flag. But it is also in many ways
quintessentially American, with Bible verses and framed photographs of
cap-and-gown-wearing children sprinkled throughout. In the game room, posters of
American, English and Brazilian soccer stars adorn the walls.

"My children have enriched me. They have honored us," said Abraham Lima, who
cleans federal offices downtown. "And this country has made it possible. It has
given them opportunity."

Wilfredo Lima, 30, is an HVAC engineer who works for Metro. He and his wife,
Flor, are expecting their first child. Abraham Jr., 28, graduated from Virginia
Commonwealth University and is a mechanical engineer working toward a master's
degree at the University of Maryland. The youngest child, 20-year-old Deborah,
is studying nursing at Montgomery College and caring for Bella, her daughter.

The only child absent from the table Thursday was Merary Lima-Rosales, 26, a
medical assistant with two children. She was with her husband's family in
Virginia.

Nehemias Lima, 32, who came to the United States when he was 16 and graduated
from American University, is a software engineer and is active in his Germantown
church. He said he has relished the opportunity that living in Washington has
afforded him to visit other places and learn about other people.

"You have so many cultures here," he said. "You learn about everyone. That's the
nice thing about the D.C. area."

At a table set with turkey, mashed potatoes with gravy, rice, guacamole and a
roasted rooster, Abraham Lima said grace.

"Thank you, Lord, for the special moment we have together," he said. "Thanks for
my family sitting around the table, and for this turkey you have provided. I am
so thankful to you for blessing us in a very special way."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 26, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 809 words


aviation          U.K. strike could cause 12-hour delays

Passengers arriving at London's Heathrow Airport on Wednesday will have to wait
up to 12 hours to clear immigration if a strike by customs staff proceeds, the
operator of Europe's busiest airport warned as the government said it will
ensure U.K. borders are safe.

Normand Boivin, chief operating officer of Heathrow, wrote to airlines to ask
them to cut loads in half to avoid "gridlock." Gatwick Airport, about 45 miles
south of Heathrow, has asked airlines to help passengers switch flights.

Passengers will be forced to stay on planes as lines become too long for
terminal buildings and "this in turn would quickly create gridlock," Boivin
wrote in a letter posted on Heathrow's Web site.

Unions representing border staff, teachers, health workers and civil servants
are planning strikes to protest plans to make government employees retire later
and contribute more toward their pensions.

British Airways, Cathay Pacific Airways and Virgin Atlantic said they will allow
passengers to re-book flights free of charge.

- Bloomberg News

Safety          Chevy Volt batteries being investigated

A safety investigation of the lithium-ion batteries in General Motors' Chevrolet
Volt is underway to assess the risk of fire in the electric car after a serious
crash, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said Friday.

One Volt battery pack that was being closely monitored following a government
crash test caught fire Thursday, the safety administration said, and another
crash-tested battery emitted smoke and sparks.

GM, which was informed of the investigation Friday, said the Volt "is safe and
does not present undue risk as part of normal operation or immediately after a
severe crash."

The fires are in addition to a battery fire in a crash-tested Volt six months
ago.

The NHTSA learned of a possible fire risk involving damaged Volt batteries in
June when a fire erupted in a Volt that was being stored in a parking lot at a
test facility in Burlington, Wis.

The car had been subjected to a side-impact crash test more than three weeks
earlier, during which the battery was damaged and its coolant line ruptured.

- Associated Press

Also in Business

l  AT&Tsaid it plans to sue the Federal Communications Commission if the agency
doesn't let the company withdraw its application to buy a smaller rival for $39
billion. The FCC is obligated by its own rules to honor AT&T's move to rescind
its application to acquire T-Mobile USA, Wayne Watts, general counsel for AT&T,
said Friday in a blog entry. AT&T and T-Mobile parent Deutsche Telekom withdrew
their FCC applications Thursday after agency Chairman Julius Genachowski asked
fellow commissioners on Tuesday to send the deal to a hearing, signaling an
attempt to scuttle the merger. Agency spokeswoman Tammy Sun called AT&T's move
"a request" that the FCC "will consider."

l  Two Chicago exchanges, the CME Group, which owns the Board of Trade and the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and CBOE Holdings, have threatened to leave
Illinois unless they're given significant tax breaks. They say a big tax
increase enacted this year and what they say are inequalities in the tax code
have forced them to pay an outsize share of the state's corporate income taxes.
Illinois lawmakers this week are expected to consider special deals to cut the
exchanges' tax bills, and the price tag for the financially strapped state,
where the unemployment rate is just over 10 percent, could reach well into the
hundreds of millions of dollars.

l  Iceland's governmentdenied Chinese billionaire investor Huang Nubo permission
to purchase land in the island's north, saying such a transfer of property would
be "incompatible" with the country's laws. Huang, through his company Beijing
Zhongkun Investment Group, was planning to build a resort with a hotel, golf
course and racecourse on 116 square miles he hoped to buy from a group of
farmers for $8.8 million.

l  President Hugo Chavez's government began repatriating Venezuela's gold
reserves from European banks Friday as the first shipment arrived on a flight
from Paris. Chavez announced in August that his government would retrieve more
than 211 tons of gold held in U.S. and European banks. The leftist president has
said his decision to repatriate the gold reserves is aimed at helping to protect
the oil-producing country from economic troubles in the United States and
Europe. Chavez's opponents have called the plan costly and ill-advised.

- From news services

Coming Next Week

l  In Sunday Business:If 2010 was the year of the iPad, then 2011 was the year
of the tablet.

l  Monday:Report on new-home sales, 10 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 338 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 1, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Film follows immigrant's struggles to study at U-Md.

BYLINE: Kristi Tousignant

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T19

LENGTH: 640 words


The Gandhi Brigade and a Montgomery College student worked together to document
the undocumented this summer.

Montgomery College student Laura Moya and the Silver Spring-based community
group made a film this summer following an undocumented immigrant's journey to
get a higher education.

The documentary, "The Rights of Butterflies," follows a Montgomery College
student, known only by  Katya in the film, who is struggling to find the money
to complete her bachelor's degree at the University of Maryland.

Katya immigrated to the United States from El Salvador with her mother when she
was 13. She completed her associate's degree at Montgomery College and now wants
a degree in communications from Maryland, said Laurel Gwizdak, media trainer for
the film.

Although she has been accepted at Maryland, Katya can't afford tuition. Because
she still is an El Salvador resident, Katya is not eligible for in-state
tuition. And because she has no legal status, Katya is not eligible for loans or
grants, Gwizdak said.

In the documentary, Katya applies for small scholarships, hoping they will add
up. At the end of the film, Katya still does not have enough money to enroll,
Gwizdak said.

"People will connect with her and see the injustices she is facing and want to
fight for her, and want to root for her and want her to go to school," Gwizdak
said.

Moya wanted to show the human experience behind the discussion about
undocumented immigrants in the United States, Gwizdak said.

"[Moya] had a very strong viewpoint that she did not want this to be a
politically divisive film," Gwizdak said. "She wanted to stay clear of topics
and focus in on an individual who could be our sister, friend, neighbor."

Moya approached the Gandhi Brigade, which works with youth on media projects,
about her idea last spring, and five members of the group joined her crew. The
Gandhi Brigade signed on as the executive producer, said Richard Jaeggi,
executive director of the Gandhi Brigade.

Moya, Gwizdak and the Gandhi Brigade members filmed from the end of June through
August, Jaeggi said.

The crew members, most of whom came from immigrant families, worked about five
hours per day, five days per week, Jaeggi said. They followed Katya to school,
home, her friend's houses and offices where she met with people about
scholarships.

"What [Moya] really wanted was for it to be something that reached people that
either were indifferent to the plight of young people who lack documentation, or
were against it but didn't have all the facts," Jaeggi said. "She really wanted
to create something very personal, very human."

Those working on the movie also collaborated with a separate team at Pyramid
Atlantic, an arts center in Silver Spring. The Pyramid Atlantic group created
posters inspired by undocumented immigrants, said Catherine Chu, a youth
organizer with the Gandhi Brigade.

The group working on the movie and those collaborating on posters would come
together to hear from experts on immigration. Then, one group left to film, and
the others headed to the art studio.

The group of 10 high school students made silk-screen posters, working on them
four hours a day, four days a week in July, Chu said. They completed many rounds
of designs and eventually settled on three posters for the final project.

One poster features an image of a family portrait cracked in half, another shows
a girl with wings chained down, and the third shows scenes of a boy growing up
and graduating from high school, followed by an image of a question mark.

"They were really proud of them," Chu said. "You could see the progression in
posters as they were made that month."

"The Rights of Butterflies" will be screened Monday from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. at
the Silver Spring Civic Building at One Veterans Place. The screening is free
and open to the public.

ktousignant@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved
