
                               1 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 15, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Federal Court Voids California Bar on Benefits for Illegal Immigrants

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 14


A federal judge today struck down core provisions of California's Proposition
187, the controversial ballot initiative to end all social services and other
benefits to illegal immigrants, saying the state's authority on the matter was
superseded by federal legislation enacted last year.

U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer concluded that the initiative,
overwhelmingly adopted by voters in November 1994, was unconstitutional and that
the federal government, not the states, had responsibility for setting policy on
immigrant benefits. Therefore, the judge ruled, California must abide by the
1996 federal welfare act, which regulates the kinds of benefits immigrants may
receive, and cannot add its own state-specific restrictions to provisions dealt
with in the federal law.

Opponents of Proposition 187, who challenged the law in federal court the day
after it was approved, hailed Pfaelzer's decision. "It's the final nail in the
coffin of 187," said Peter Schey, lead plaintiff's attorney on the case, who
represented the League of United Latin American Citizens, which challenged the
initiative.

At a news conference, Tomas Saenz, a leader of the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Education Fund, said, "The court has vindicated the long-standing
principle that we cannot be one nation with 50 separate immigration policies,
one for each state. The ongoing debate on immigration regulation now takes place
at the proper level -- the federal level."

But Gov. Pete Wilson (R) and other Proposition 187 supporters vowed to appeal.
Sean Walsh, the governor's spokesman, called the Pfaelzer decision "riddled with
errors" and said, "It's almost better for us she's made a ruling. Now we can
take it up with a higher court where we can get a fair hearing." Wilson contends
that the federal welfare reform law actually empowers states to regulate
benefits and his attorney general vowed to press ahead.

Proposition 187, known as the "Save Our State" initiative, was one of the most
emotionally charged in California's long experiment with ballot initiatives.
Approved by almost 60 percent of voters, it sought to deny undocumented
immigrants all public social services, all publicly funded medical care (except
for emergencies) and all public education. The initiative also required
teachers, social workers, law enforcement officers and others to notify the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service of suspected undocumented immigrants.

Supporters of the grass-roots initiative argued that the border was not being
controlled and that the state was being overrun by illegal aliens who were lured
not only by jobs, but by social services and public education, which cost
California tax payers billions of dollars.

In his successful reelection campaign for governor in 1994 , and then again in
his failed presidential bid, Wilson focused on the issue of illegal immigration
-- and its cost to taxpayers -- painting a picture of a state -- and a nation --
overwhelmed by foreign forces.

Critics of Proposition 187, however, called the initiative a racist recoil by
frightened white voters against a boom in immigration and they said it was
inhumane to deny medical care or education to the children of illegal
immigrants.

The mandates of Proposition 187, however, have never been enforced. It was
challenged in federal court by immigrant rights advocates and has been before
the court since it passed.

Over the last three years, Pfaelzer has made a number of summary judgments
against Proposition 187. In 1995, she issued a partial ruling in which she
declared, in effect, that while the state might legally have the right to refuse
to spend its own funds on illegal immigrants, it cannot deny access to federally
funded programs such as education. The judge also ruled that asking school
applicants about their immigration status would be an attempt to control
immigration, which she said is exclusively a federal function under the
Constitution.

But Pfaelzer had not yet ruled, until today, on other provisions of Proposition
187, such as an illegal immigrant's entitlement to health and social services.

In her ruling today Pfaelzer, who was appointed by President Jimmy Carter in
1978, concluded that when President Clinton signed the welfare reform act last
year, "he effectively ended any further debate about what the states could do in
this field. . . . California is powerless to enact its own legislative scheme to
regulate immigration. It is likewise powerless to enact its own legislative
scheme to regulate alien access to public benefits. It can do what the [welfare
reform act] permits, and nothing more."

Several legal experts today said that Pfaelzer's ruling was a legitimate
interpretation of the balance of power between the federal government and the
states. "It is perfectly clear that not only the Constitution but a properly
enacted federal statute is law of the land," said University of
California-Berkeley law professor Jesse Choper. "A [conflicting] state statute
is invalid under the Supremacy Clause. . . . A court has to determine what
Congress wanted. Anything inconsistent is invalid."

The federal welfare act, which the judge said supersedes Proposition 187, is far
more tolerant about the benefits accorded illegal immigrants. While the new
federal law denies illegal immigrants welfare benefits such as food stamps, cash
assistance and most medical care, they are allowed to attend public schools, get
school lunches and breakfasts, receive emergency medical care and immunizations.

Staff writer William Claiborne contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               2 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 14, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Texas Restaurant Chain to Pay Record $1.75 Million Fine for Harboring Illegal
Aliens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 801 words


A Texas-based restaurant chain yesterday pleaded guilty to violating federal
immigration law and agreed to pay a record $ 1.75 million fine after a
three-year investigation found that it had knowingly hired illegal aliens and
even hid them during raids by immigration agents.

Pappas Partners, a Houston company that owns 54 upscale restaurants in three
states, was slapped with the largest fine ever levied by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in a work site enforcement case. In a plea bargain, the
firm admitted guilt on four felony counts of "shielding, concealing and
harboring illegal aliens" and agreed to join a voluntary INS pilot program in
which employers electronically verify the work eligibility of job-seekers
against a government database.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said the fine shows that the government "will
vigorously pursue those employers who violate immigration laws governing the
American workplace." The largest previous fine imposed by the INS was $ 1
million, which a New York janitorial company agreed to pay in a civil case in
March 1996 for having hired large numbers of illegal workers.

While the Texas case reflects a tougher approach to work site enforcement,
critics of U.S. immigration policies say efforts to crack down on employers who
hire illegal aliens remain hobbled by loopholes in the law, rampant use of
fraudulent documents by ineligible job-seekers and the lack of a mandatory,
nationwide employment verification system.

Under current law, employers are required to check work eligibility by asking
for certain documents, but businesses are limited by anti-discrimination
provisions from probing too deeply. The employers are subject to penalties only
if they "knowingly" hire an illegal alien, and they are not required to
distinguish counterfeit documents from genuine ones, or to check such records as
Social Security numbers with the government. In practice, this means that if an
illegal alien can present a couple of reasonably good fake documents, an
employer can cast aside any suspicions and hire the person without fear of
sanctions, since the government cannot prove knowledge of illegal status.

In the Pappas case, however, the INS investigation uncovered an unusual degree
of complicity between the employer and the illegal aliens. It found that some
had even been rehired by the chain and given false names after having been
arrested and deported in earlier raids.

The company owns 52 restaurants in Texas and one each in Atlanta and Chicago.
Six of the chain's restaurants were implicated in the case, all of them in the
Dallas-Fort Worth area.

Paul E. Coggins, the U.S. attorney in Dallas, said the immigration law
violations by Pappas were "systemic," but he declined to specify how high in the
company the complicity extended. Under the plea bargain, the company as a whole
-- rather than any specific individuals -- was named in charges.

During the investigation, INS agents repeatedly raided the chain's restaurants
and amassed hundreds of thousands of pages of documents and computer records. In
one raid in 1995, agents found 80 illegal aliens at five of the restaurants. Two
years later, another raid netted 40, including some of the same employees
arrested previously.

The vast majority of the illegal workers were Mexicans, but there also were some
Central Americans and at least one Nigerian, said Arthur E. Strapp, the INS
district director in Dallas.

One Mexican worker, Oscar Pineda Molina, was arrested at one of the chain's
Pappasito's Cantina restaurants in June 1994 and sent back to Mexico, but
returned within days and was subsequently rehired by the company to work at
another of its outlets under an assumed name, according to the U.S. attorney's
office. A Mexican co-worker, Ruben Montanez, also was given a new identity by
the company and was helped to hide in a walk-in cooler during an INS raid. After
the INS agents left, the restaurant told him to return to work, the statement
said.

According to the INS, arrests of illegal aliens in work site enforcement raids
are up 50 percent this year compared with last year, but fines levied against
employers are down. "We're targeting more serious violations, which take longer
to investigate, resulting in more pending cases and a lower amount of notices of
intent to fine," said Karen Kraushaar, an INS spokeswoman.

For fiscal 1997 through March, the INS levied $ 3.8 million in fines against
employers, compared with $ 13.2 million in all of fiscal 1996. Kraushaar said
the fines are expected to grow significantly by Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal
year. During the first six months of fiscal 1997, INS agents arrested 6,900
illegal aliens at job sites, a jump from the 4,300 netted during the same period
last year.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               3 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 05, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

A Semi-Tough Policy on Illegal Workers; Congress Looks Out for the Employers

Marcus Stern

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 1863 words


When immigration agents conducted raids during the Vidalia onion harvest in
Georgia in May, rounding up illegal Mexican workers, a couple of growers at one
farm stood their ground, telling the federal agents to get off their land. The
raids, the well-publicized confrontation and, above all, anxious calls for help
from onion farmers sent two Republican lawmakers from Georgia--Sen. Paul
Coverdell and Rep. Jack Kingston--hurrying home from Washington to rein in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). Meantime, they and other members
of Georgia's congressional delegation sent a letter protesting the raids to the
secretaries of Labor and Agriculture and to the attorney general. Within days,
the INS agreed not to interfere again with this year's harvest.

The lawmakers' swift and decisive action to save the $ 90 million crop of sweet
onions illustrates the frequent disconnection between what lawmakers say when
they are debating illegal immigration and what they do back home. Kingston, who
was so responsive to the onion growers, had been a vocal advocate of tough
measures against illicit immigrants when he was a member of the House Republican
Task Force on Illegal Immigration in 1994. "We have no need to apologize for
cracking down on those who flout our laws by entering illegally," he said.

As demonstrated by the 1996 legislation overhauling immigration law, Congress is
good at appeasing voters who overwhelmingly favor stricter controls of illegal
immigration in this country. Members of Congress are generous with
appropriations for the INS, and loudly encourage the agency to police the
nation's borders more vigorously. But some of them also make sure that their
initiatives do not seriously impede employers' ability to hire illegal workers
covertly and cheaply.

There is no doubt that the law passed two years ago has made life in the United
States more precarious for many illegal immigrants. But despite its stated
purpose of curbing the flow of illegals, Congress deliberately refrained from
acting on the most promising proposal-- the creation of an electronic
verification system to help employers quickly and reliably confirm whether the
people working for them are in fact eligible to hold jobs in the United States.
This would involve a toll-free call to the Social Security Administration to see
whether the Social Security number provided by a new worker was authentic. Some
form of electronic verification is widely acknowledged as perhaps the only real
hope of curbing what Kingston himself has called "the explosion of illegal
immigration."

Even though immigration laws were overhauled twice in 10 years and the size of
the Border Patrol and the INS budget doubled in five, the number of resident
foreigners without legal papers--so-called undocumented foreigners--continues to
grow. It is now about 5.5 million and increasing by some 275,000 people a year,
according to the INS. Another 2 million of them constantly rotate in and out of
the country doing seasonal work.

Many of the most vulnerable segments of American society, including legal
immigrants and poor, unskilled Americans, are the biggest losers. There is a
fast-growing population of unskilled legal immigrants looking for jobs as farm
workers, chicken processors, meat packers, janitors and domestics. In
California, many legal immigrant farm workers find work only a few weeks out of
the year because of the steady flow of illegal seasonal workers.

"There's no National Association of Working Poor," Robert Reich told me in an
interview. Reich, who served as Labor secretary during President Clinton's first
term, added, "There's no special-interest lobbying group working on behalf of
very poor people trying desperately to find and keep jobs. If a politician has
to decide between the interests of small businesses seeking inexpensive help and
the interests of poor Americans either seeking a job or afraid of losing a job
or declining earnings, the chances are very good that the small business has far
more clout."

That influence was on display when proponents of more open immigration, a lobby
anchored by small-business groups, defeated employment verification proposals
during the debate over immigration law in 1996. The coalition included some of
Washington's leading special interests: the National Federation of Independent
Business, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Christian Coalition, the Catholic
Church, the American Civil Liberties Union and even some influential voices
within the AFL-CIO. As these special interests swarmed all over Capitol Hill,
there was no equivalent representation for millions of legal immigrants and
other poor people, who, because of welfare reform, soon might need the low-skill
jobs now being held by the rising number of undocumented workers.

These illegal workers, feeding on the economic crumbs of America's vast and
lightly regulated low-skill labor markets, have pushed far beyond their
traditional destinations in California, Texas and Florida. They helped fix the
tarmac where President Clinton's helicopter is parked. They tended the spacious
lawns around Vice President Gore's official residence. They worked on sports
sites for the Olympics in Atlanta and helped build the Washington Redskins' new
stadium.

The spread of undocumented workers across America has made the task of stopping
the flow more daunting today than it was a generation ago, before modern
transportation shrank the world and mass media raised expectations in less
prosperous lands. Today, immigrant networks reach deep into the American
heartland and sophisticated smuggling operations crisscross the country with the
help of the Internet, 1-800 numbers, fleets of vans, CB radios and digital
cellular phones.

Lawmakers took a crack at the problem in 1986 by making it unlawful to knowingly
hire foreign workers whose papers were not in order. The law was eight full
years in the making and was supposed to put a halt to illegal immigration. But
phony birth certificates, driver's licenses and immigration documents made
enforcement difficult. The government couldn't prove employers knew they were
hiring illegal workers. So it effectively stopped trying.

Under public pressure, Congress revised the law in 1996, an election year, at a
time when 80 percent of respondents to a Time/CNN poll said they favored a
strong federal effort. The first real showdown over the 1996 law had come in
September 1995 after the House Judiciary Committee cut approved pilot projects
to see whether something as simple as a toll-free phone call to the federal
government could sharply cut illegal immigration. Behind closed doors, House
Majority Leader Dick Armey told influential House Republicans the immigration
bill would die unless it was endorsed by small business, the biggest employers
of undocumented workers. And that wouldn't happen if even one employer was
required to take part in an employment verification pilot project.

Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), the bill's main architect, began negotiations with
the National Federation of Independent Business. Just before the bill went to
the floor, Smith, without explaining why, announced that it had been altered.
The pilot projects would be entirely voluntary for employers. The bill then
easily passed with strong Republican support.

By the time the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996 became law, Congress had removed any meaningful method of verification.

Although voters tend to see Republicans as tougher than Democrats on illegal
immigration, the weakening of verification was largely the handiwork of
conservative pro-business and libertarian Republicans and their
behind-the-scenes strategists, such as Grover Norquist, a social conservative
and anti-tax Republican lobbyist. He calls his grass-roots forces the Leave Us
Alone Coalition and they include gun owners, the religious right, home-schooling
adherents and others he described as "anti-welfare and anti-police state." "A
government powerful enough to find an illegal immigrant is also powerful enough
to find your bank accounts," he said, ignoring the fact that the government
already can locate bank accounts but still can't reliably tell a legal worker
from an illegal one.

Each spring, the people of south Georgia gather for the Vidalia Onion Festival.
For four days, they celebrate with onion cook-offs, onion-eating contests and,
of course, the Little Miss Vidalia Onion Pageant, where judges select a Miss
Onion Seed, Miss Onion Sprout and Miss Spring Onion. During the festivities,
thousands of Mexican workers arrive after a long and, in many cases, furtive
journey across America's southern tier to harvest onions. In sweltering heat,
they crawl or inch their way along row after row of onion plants, pulling the
bulbs and dropping them into a bucket or directly into a burlap sack. When a
sack contains 50 pounds of onions, it's worth 70 cents to the picker.

When the Vidalia onion harvest of 1998 was threatened by the enforcement
activities of the INS, the area's congressional delegation sprang into action on
the side of the growers. Under the lawmakers' critical eye, the INS not only
agreed not to enforce the immigration laws in the Vidalia onion fields this
season. The agency even declined to inspect the federal I-9 forms that employers
are supposed to fill out for every person they hire. Under the terms of the
agreement, the INS will get a look at them next year.

During the negotiations, the INS asked the growers to provide adequate housing
for the workers. Currently, the migrant workers live in dilapidated trailers and
overcrowded run-down motel rooms. The INS has no legal authority to require
decent living conditions. The growers said no.

Lawmakers in Washington, especially Republicans, have been beating up on the INS
for five years now for failing to control the nation's borders. Governors of
several states--Georgia's was not among them--have filed lawsuits against the
federal government for failing to halt illegal immigration. "There's a lot of
hypocrisy on this issue," said Larry Fuchs, professor of politics at Brandeis
University and former member of the now-defunct U.S. Commission on Immigration
Reform. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), and former senator Paul Simon, an
Illinois Democrat who had long service on the Senate immigration subcommittee,
say political pressures sometimes compel lawmakers to placate the public without
upsetting powerful special interests.

The public doesn't understand all the nuances of the immigration issue, but the
special interests do. And they know how to work Congress, build effective
coalitions and use the press to assist in their campaigns. "You face this
dilemma from time to time when you're a member of the House or the Senate,"
Simon explained. "Do you serve the public good when the public at large doesn't
really understand the issue? Or do you serve a very small constituency that
understands the issue and is going to respond?"

Marcus Stern is a reporter in the Washington Bureau of Copley News Service where
he covers immigration and border issues.


LOAD-DATE: July 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, robert neubecker for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                               4 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 06, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

A Solution Under Our Noses; To control illegal immigration, enforce the labor
laws.

Demetrios Papademetriou

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 476 words


In the flare-up of concern for deaf-mute Mexicans found working under conditions
of near-enslavement, an important lesson about our approach to controlling
illegal immigration is being lost. Namely, penalizing employers for hiring
unauthorized workers is a far less effective tool than strengthening the
enforcement of existing labor laws, such as minimum wage and overtime rules,
child labor restrictions, occupational health and safety rules and civil and
human rights standards.

The public's horrified reaction to this incident has shown again that Americans
are more outraged at exploitative labor practices than they are at the simple
hiring of illegal immigrants. Yet our public policies go in exactly the opposite
direction. We seem to be concentrating almost exclusively on employer sanctions
-- to the point of moving into the uncharted waters of a national identification
system. This approach gives rise to the very situation we are now recoiling
from: the growth in underground networks providing unscrupulous employers with
undocumented workers too ignorant of their rights and too intimidated to insist
on them.

Outlawing the hiring of unauthorized workers is a necessary part of a
comprehensive illegal immigration control effort. It should not, however, be the
centerpiece of our overall interior enforcement strategy. That role belongs to
the enforcement of employment standards and other workplace rules.

An increase of 250 Department of Labor compliance officers would take on the
additional duties effectively. The Immigration and Naturalization Service could
be left to focus on its principal enforcement missions: controlling the border,
intercepting organized smuggling and ferreting out and deporting criminal
immigrants.

Failing to follow this prescription makes us appear much more concerned about
the employment of unauthorized workers than about exploitive working conditions
that erode the security of all workers.

A strong commitment to enforcing workplace rules would send a signal to
employers who violate these laws with near impunity that we intend to move
beyond rhetoric and pledge to improve working conditions for all workers. Such a
commitment would help diminish the practices that have come to light -- such as
those affecting the deaf Mexican vendors -- that are only the tip of a shameful
iceberg.

It would level the playing field for workers who are authorized to work in the
United States by not asking them to compete with workers whose undocumented
status contributes to their willingness to work in substandard conditions. And
it would stand a good chance of attaining the elusive consensus on how best to
approach the goal of controlling illegal immigration.

The writer is director of the International Migration Policy Program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               5 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 29, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

INS Reports Record Number Are Deported; New Procedures Cited As U.S. Ousts
75,743

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 269 words


The United States has deported a record number of illegal immigrants so far this
fiscal year, about half of whom had criminal records, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said yesterday.

Using a stepped-up hearing process and expedited procedures under a new
immigration law, the INS formally removed 75,743 illegal immigrants through June
of fiscal 1997, which ends Sept. 30. Three-quarters of those formally deported
came from Mexico.

Overall, deportations from April through June were up nearly 50 percent from the
same period last year.

"Putting this in perspective, we removed more criminal and other illegal aliens
in April, May and June than were removed in all of 1990," said INS general
counsel David Martin, issuing a quarterly update on deportations.

The INS said it has a goal of 93,000 deportations for all of fiscal 1997, but
expected to exceed that level.

The figures represent illegal immigrants who have gone through the formal
deportation, or removal, process.

They do not represent the more than 1 million people turned back at U.S.
borders. In addition, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants are apprehended
inside the country each year but leave without going through the formal
deportation process.

The INS has removed nearly 60,000 illegal immigrants without formal proceedings
during fiscal 1997.

Under the new law, aliens arriving illegally can be deported quickly unless they
have a credible asylum case or claim to permanent resident status. Since the new
system took effect in April, it has accounted for the deportation of about
10,000 immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               6 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 30, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

House Votes 3-Week Relief for Many Immigrants; Measure Lets Those Seeking Legal
Status Remain Here; Senate Has Approved Permanent Extension

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 827 words


The House yesterday granted a reprieve of sorts to hundreds of thousands of
worried illegal immigrants, approving a three-week extension of a controversial
provision that allows many foreigners to remain in the country while they seek
permanent legal status.

The provision mitigates a tough new rule in last year's immigration law that
presents large numbers of people residing here illegally with a wrenching
choice: either leave the country indefinitely, often abandoning jobs and
families, in hopes of eventually becoming legal immigrants, or stay on and risk
a furtive future as perpetual illegal aliens.

With the temporary extension of Section 245(i), which was due to expire today,
eligible foreigners can pay a fine of $ 1,000 and remain in the United States
while seeking to become legal residents. The House agreed to the extension as
part of a broader government funding measure that passed by a vote of 355 to 57.
The Senate may follow suit today.

Immigrants' rights advocates hailed the move as a significant victory that
allows them to rally support for a permanent extension and gives some breathing
room to illegal immigrants who have been in a quandary about what to do in their
efforts to legalize their status. Opponents of the measure said it simply
postpones a debate in the House over a permanent extension.

The provision has broad support in the Senate, which already has passed a
permanent extension as part of an appropriations bill. The issue of whether to
keep the provision as an enduring feature of U.S. immigration law is likely to
be resolved next month by a House-Senate conference committee that will convene
to reconcile the two versions of the appropriations bill, congressional sources
said.

The extension was agreed to after House Republican leaders, including Speaker
Newt Gingrich (Ga.), intervened in favor of it. Some immigration advocates
viewed the move as part of a recent effort by GOP leaders to soften their
party's anti-immigrant image and attract more support from newly naturalized
Americans, who tend to vote heavily Democratic.

The uncertainty about the fate of Section 245(i) has stirred confusion and alarm
in many immigrant communities because of a new provision of last year's
immigration law that took effect April 1. Designed to penalize foreigners who
overstay their visas, the new rule bars those who have stayed in the United
States illegally for more than 180 days from getting a visa from a U.S.
consulate abroad for three years. Those who stay illegally for more than a year
are barred for 10 years. The grace period for the three-year bar ended Saturday.

Section 245(i) offered a way out. Since 1994, it has allowed people who are in
the process of legalizing their immigration status to pay a fine and obtain
their immigrant visa in the United States, instead of having to leave the
country as previously required. As long as the provision existed, an applicant
for legal resident status under it effectively would not be subject to the
three-year and 10-year bars, because it would not be necessary to go to a U.S.
consulate abroad.

However, the looming expiration of the provision raised a near panic among many
undocumented immigrants, who feared that their often-protracted efforts to
become "legal" would suddenly be nullified.

"I'm so upset about this," said Elizabeth Chabra, 32, of India, who came to the
District with her husband and a child 2 1/2 years ago on a tourist visa. "It's
pretty hurtful to be sent back this way."

She conceded that she and her family "didn't go about [immigrating] the right
way, because of wrong advice." But her employer has since sponsored her for a
green card, denoting legal immigrant status, and she has given birth here to a
child, who is automatically a U.S. citizen. However, Chabra said, she is not yet
eligible to apply for adjustment of status under 245(i), which is an option only
for those who are near the end of the legalization pipeline. To preserve the
family's place in the line, she said, they had no choice but to return to India.

The extension until Oct. 23 "is a relief to many people," said Saul Solorzano,
head of the Washington-based Central American Resource Center. But those who
face a long wait before they can apply under 245(i) "still don't know what to
do," he said. And for those who are here illegally with no possibility of
sponsorship by an employer or family member, "it's just a matter of remaining
out of radar range" of immigration agents, Solorzano said.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), a staunch opponent of 245(i), said he was
accepting the temporary extension in an effort to "reach common ground" on the
issue before the conference committee. He has denounced the provision as an
undeserved reward to illegal immigrants, who he said are effectively allowed to
jump into the green-card line while millions of applicants who play by the rules
are forced to wait in their homelands.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               7 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 30, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Embattled INS Fighting for a High-Tech Future; Agency Shows Off New Systems
Designed to Upgrade Enforcement, Service Functions

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 729 words


Long relegated to the technological wilderness among government agencies, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is going high-tech these days, using a
hefty infusion of funds to upgrade its ability to crack down on illegal aliens
and to deliver services more efficiently to immigrants.

In a display of what it described as its recent "technological achievements,"
the agency yesterday demonstrated a variety of systems designed to detect
illegal immigrants at the border, verify work authorization, facilitate the
entry of legitimate travelers into the United States and identify smugglers and
other criminals electronically from fingerprints and other "biometric" data.

The display comes at a time when the INS is under fire from congressional and
other critics for breakdowns in such areas as identifying and deporting those
who overstay their visas and processing applications for citizenship. In a
report to be issued today, the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform is to
recommend dismantling the agency and parceling out its functions.

In a brief speech at the Capitol display, INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner
argued strongly that the service has made "dramatic progress in enforcing the
integrity of the nation's borders" and that its enforcement and service
functions cannot easily be separated.

"Congress has made a huge investment in technology that is beginning to pay
off," she said. Among the technologies on display was a computerized
fingerprint-based identification system, called IDENT, that was launched in 1994
and is used at more than 200 sites along the U.S. border with Mexico. It allows
Border Patrol agents to tell whether illegal border-crossers, who often carry no
identification or false papers, are wanted for any crimes or are repeat
offenders subject to penalties. Previously, many alien smugglers and other
recidivists were simply sent back to Mexico and would then try to cross the
border again, often the same night.

In addition to records on more than 1.3 million foreigners "who have repeatedly
attempted to enter the United States illegally," the IDENT system holds
identifying information on 134,000 "criminal and other prosecutable aliens," the
INS said.

To help speed legitimate travelers through clogged or isolated ports of entry,
the INS has begun using several systems, including one that allows "remote video
inspection" of people at certain crossing points on the northern border with
Canada that are open only eight hours a day. When the inspection booth is not
manned, crossers can be inspected by a video and audio system operated by an
inspector at another location open around the clock. A separate system allows
frequent travelers to cross the border using voice verification.

A system known as SENTRI, currently installed at Otay Mesa, Calif., and
scheduled for expansion to several other southwestern border crossings as well
as Buffalo, N.Y., uses a computerized enrollment program, a special card and a
transponder attached to the applicant's vehicle to speed commuters through
special lanes. The transponder automatically transmits photographs and other
identifying information on the driver, passengers and vehicle to a computer
screen in the inspection booth, allowing the inspector to quickly screen regular
crossers in about 10 seconds. This has reduced backups at peak crossing times
from an hour to a few minutes and has freed inspectors to devote more attention
to vehicles considered likely to be smuggling contraband or people, INS
officials said.

Another system, called INSPASS, uses "hand geometry" -- in which a participant
places his hand on a special pad -- to identify legitimate travelers, instead of
the usual process that requires a personal interview with an inspector. About
70,000 frequent business travelers, 30 percent of them Americans, have enrolled
in the program, said Stacey Day, an INS computer systems analyst. The system is
scheduled to be installed at Dulles International Airport early next year.

Before the automation drive started four years ago, said Russ Bergeron, an INS
spokesman, "technologically, the immigration service was in the Dark Ages across
the board, both in the field and at headquarters." Since then, the agency's
budget has doubled, reaching $ 3.1 billion for fiscal 1997 and allowing for
major spending on technology.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, larry morris, Assistant Chief Inspector Robert Mocny shows INS
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner a new design for border checkpoints at Capitol
demonstration.  Assistant Commissioner Fernanda Young shows Commissioner
Meissner electronic fingerprint machine used to help identify criminals at the
border.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               8 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 08, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Border Patrol Reinforcements To Be Sent to Porous Sectors; Rural Southwest
Reports Sharp Rise in Immigrant Traffic

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 626 words


The government is pouring reinforcements into sectors of the southwestern border
that have reported sharp increases in illegal immigrant traffic from Mexico
because of crackdowns in more populous areas.

The effort to plug holes in the 2,000-mile border expands initiatives that began
in 1993 and responds to a congressional mandate to tighten control of the border
in keeping with last year's immigration law.

In the latest tightening, the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday
announced it is extending its "Operation Gatekeeper" eastward into California's
Imperial Valley from the area south of San Diego, where it began three years
ago. The move "is aimed at crippling the major alien-smuggling rings which have
moved their operations to the El Centro area in response to increased
enforcement pressure in San Diego," the agency said.

The expansion involves the temporary deployment to the Imperial Valley of an
additional 133 immigration officers -- including Border Patrol agents,
investigators, inspectors and detention officers. Among the targets are more
than 20 smuggling rings that formerly operated in Tijuana and growing numbers of
people who present fraudulent documents at official crossing points.

A similar effort, "Operation Rio Grande," was launched in August in Brownsville,
Tex., with the addition of 110 personnel and an array of new equipment, such as
helicopters, patrol vehicles, night-vision scopes, motion sensors, high-powered
lights and low-light TV cameras.

The INS plans to extend that program westward along the borders of Texas and New
Mexico, eventually linking up with operations "Hold the Line" in El Paso,
"Safeguard" in Arizona and "Gatekeeper" in California.

So far, however, critics charge that the border control efforts have merely
shifted traditional migration corridors, driving border crossers into more
remote areas where increased numbers of them have died of exhaustion, thirst,
exposure or accidents while trying to cross rugged hills and deserts.

In response to the launch of "Operation Rio Grande," the Mexican government
expressed "deep concern" that it would lead to more fatalities among migrants,
who "should not be confused with criminals." Mexico also warned that the
operation would "only exacerbate dangerously the anti-immigrant sentiments of
sectors of the U.S. population."

On the other hand, Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), an advocate of tighter border
controls, complained that the INS has fallen far short in hiring the numbers of
Border Patrol agents required by Congress. The crackdowns would be more
effective, he said, if the INS hired 1,000 more Border Patrol agents a year as
stipulated in last year's law instead of the 500 he said were projected in the
administration's budget request for fiscal 1998.

The INS says the border operations have been working as planned, deterring
illegal aliens from crossing in urban zones where they can quickly blend into
the population. Instead, the agency says, they have been driven into rougher
terrain that discourages many from crossing and allows those who do to be picked
up more easily by patrols.

A drawback in the plan, however, has been a paucity of agents in those more
rugged areas. Sharp increases in crossings there, as indicated by Border Patrol
apprehensions, have suggested that the overall level of illegal immigration
remains much the same, except it is taking different routes and fewer people are
moving back and forth across the border for short periods.

According to the INS, Border Patrol arrests in the San Diego sector dropped 41
percent this year, to their lowest level in nearly two decades. At the same
time, apprehensions in the El Centro sector more than doubled this year.

LOAD-DATE: October 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               9 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 11, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Special Favors for Line-Jumpers

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 180 words


The Post's readers need to know all the reasons why the immigration provision
known as 245(i) is a bad idea. It is a temporary law that allows illegal aliens
who are in the United States to pay a fee and pick up their green cards without
returning to their home countries for proper processing.

The Post's Sept. 30 news story "House Votes 3-Week Relief for Many Immigrants"
dedicated nine-tenths of its coverage to those who want this provision and
one-tenth to those who oppose it. The provision should not be renewed for the
following reasons:

It is an insult to legal immigrants who have played by the rules and waited
their turn to enter the country.

It increases the number of illegal aliens by creating an incentive for visitors
to come and remain legally.

Any "hardship" created is the responsibility of those who chose to violate the
law, and they are the ones who must take responsibility for their actions.

LAMAR SMITH

Washington

The writer, a Republican representative from Texas, is chairman of the House
subcommittee on immigration and claims.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              10 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 14, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Red, White, Blue and Green

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 389 words


AGAIN THE pressure of illegal immigration is roiling American efforts to be
fair. This time it's the hundreds of thousands of aliens who, having overstayed
or entered illegally, got in line for the permanent residency permit known as a
green card and then hit a snag. Up until now, they could pay the Immigration and
Naturalization Service a $ 1,000 fine (set to match plane fare back home) and
get their green cards in the United States. But one new law now makes them go
back home to get these papers while a second new law makes them wait, once they
are home, three to 10 years to return.

Between Congress and the administration, efforts have been made to ease the
obviously harsh impact of this dilemma. But to Lamar Smith, House immigration
subcommittee chairman, it is less dilemma than due. He has half, but only half,
a point. The provision allowing illegal aliens eligible for green cards to pick
them up without returning to their home countries for processing like everyone
else does mock the would-be legal immigrants who have waited their turn in their
home countries. The provision also creates an incentive for other visitors to
come in under false colors and to remain legally. It cannot be the official
American responsibility to ease the personal hardship people bring on themselves
by entering the United States in violation of American rules.

At the same time, a midstream change in the procedures for handing out green
cards does indeed work hardship on individuals and does indeed create a burden
which it is the authorities' responsibility to ease. The evident answer here is
to grandfather in the group that made its calculations before the law was
tightened, but not to offer this privilege to subsequent immigrants, who would
have had full opportunity to know what obstacles stood before them.

That same pesky new immigration law, of 1996, is also being held responsible for
giving unintended short shrift to some hundreds of thousands of other immigrants
who were uprooted in Central America's wars of the '80s and welcomed to the
United States. The Senate and House have been exploring different procedures to
cushion their hardship. What is important is that immigration policy fairly
reflect the favor that Americans across the spectrum have felt for these victims
of regional turmoil.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              11 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 21, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

A Loophole in Immigration Law

Steven A. Camarota; Jessica Vaughan

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 916 words


Just a year after Congress overwhelmingly passed a landmark bill aimed at
curbing illegal immigration, it is poised to approve a loophole that renders one
of the 1996 law's most important reforms meaningless.

The provision in question is section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act, which allows illegal aliens to undergo visa processing (i.e., receive a
green card) in the United States, provided they pay a fine of $ 1,000. Until a
few years ago, most of these individuals would have been required to apply for a
visa in their home country. This controversial provision was scheduled to sunset
on Sept. 30. However, at the beginning of the month, after a flurry of media
coverage and intense pressure from interest groups, Congress extended it for 23
days and is considering extending it permanently.

By definition, all of the beneficiaries of 245(i) are illegal aliens. Proponents
of high immigration have taken pains to describe them as "almost legal" or "on
track for a green card." While it is true they have approved petitions from
sponsors, giving them permission to apply, this is not the same as being
approved for a green card. Their applications have yet to be screened for
criminal and medical history, the likelihood that the applicant will become
dependent on welfare or other disqualifers.

The sunsetting of 245(i) is necessary in order to activate a powerful
enforcement tool passed last year. Anyone who as been in the United States
illegally for at least five months can now be barred from reentering legally for
either three or 10 years, depending on how long they were here illegally. In the
past, illegal aliens could apply for permanent residence without penalty, even
if they had been violating the law by living in the United States for years. If
245(i) ends as scheduled, any illegal alien who aspires to a green card will
have to return home within six months or be subject to the new bar. The
three-year/10-year bar was passed specifically with the sunset of 245(i) in
mind. If 245(i) is extended, illegal aliens are shielded from the bar, rendering
it meaningless.

The advocates of extending 245(i) argue that because these individuals are
already here, there is little point in forcing them to return home for their
visa processing. Beyond the disregard for the rule of law that this view
represents, it is also troubling because it fails to appreciate the message it
sends to those overseas who are considering entering the country illegally.

Illegal aliens are in effect being told that they may come whenever they want
and stay illegally for as long as it takes until they get a visa. In fact,
according to a recent analysis by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS), last year roughly 25 percent of legal immigrants were 245(i) recipients
-- about 230,000 individuals. What's more, the State Department estimates that
perhaps 1 million people on visa waiting lists are residing in the United States
illegally. Clearly, such a system encourages illegal immigration.

In addition to contributing to illegal immigration, 245(i) has other problematic
aspects. The program creates a potential conflict of interest for the INS. In
fiscal year 1996 the INS collected roughly $ 200 million in fines from 245(i)
recipients. Thus, the INS is in the awkward position of arguing that illegal
aliens should be allowed to stay because the agency needs the money their fines
generate.

What's more, what does the 245(i) program say to those who are playing by the
rules and patiently waiting their turn to come to the United States? This is the
immigration policy equivalent of the Redskins ignoring the waiting list for
season tickets and allowing anyone who manages to sneak into Jack Kent Cooke
Stadium to stay and watch the game from whatever seat they can find, provided
they pay a $ 50 fine.

There is also the question of which agency can best process visa applications.
Recently the blue ribbon Commission on Immigration Reform recommended that the
State Department take over all visa functions from the INS. State Department
personnel abroad know the local languages and customs and are in contact with
local authorities. Thus, they are far better equipped to evaluate visa
applications than the INS. Moreover, allowing people to apply for visas from
within the United States makes any effort to keep out those who are found
ineligible, such as criminals, totally ineffective because even if their
applications are denied their chances of being deported are slim.

Clearly, any policy that results in more illegal immigration should be carefully
considered. There are now about 5 million illegal aliens living in the country,
with 400,000 more settling each year. Ample research indicates that the presence
of illegal aliens depresses wages for other workers who are forced to compete
with them for low-wage jobs. Also, illegal aliens work disproportionately in the
underground economy and hold low-wage jobs, and thus typically pay very little
in taxes -- yet, they use such costly taxpayer-provided services as education,
public hospitals and the criminal justice system.

The upcoming decision on section 245(i) is ultimately about whether Congress
places a higher value on the convenience of illegal aliens or on effective and
fair immigration enforcement.

Steven A. Camarota is a resident scholar at the Center for Immigration Studies,
a Washington think tank. Jessica Vaughan is the center's assistant director.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, t. gibson

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              12 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 28, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

What 'Loophole' in Immigration Law?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 748 words


Contrary to assertions by Steven Camarota and Jessica Vaughan, not all
beneficiaries of section 245 (i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act are
illegal aliens ["A Loophole in Immigration Law," op-ed, Oct. 21]. Many companies
whose employees are in legal status must also use section 245 (i). This occurs
when an employee has a technical violation in his or her immigration history,
even though the employee is legal now and never intentionally violated the
immigration laws.

For example, employees or their family members sometimes fall out of status when
the IRS does not approve an extension of their visas in a timely manner. If such
a person was out of status for even one day, she must pay the $ 1,000 fine when
obtaining a green card. Likewise, if an employee was out of status for a short
period of time as a student (i.e., because she dropped below a full course load
for one semester), she is subject to the $ 1,000 fine even though subsequently
graduating and obtaining full-time legal employment. Finally, when two companies
merge, nonimmigrant employees may have to file amended INS paperwork. Such
paperwork often is not approved until several months after the merger. Employees
in this situation may be technically out of status and subject to the penalty.
In all cases, there was no bad intent -- just technical or paperwork violations
of a complicated law.

Without section 245 (i), companies will be forced to send these employees and
their family members overseas to process the paperwork for their green cards. By
definition, these employees are skilled workers whose presence is important to
corporate operations, and they will not be barred from reentering the United
States. Rather, they simply will be forced to spend several months abroad while
the bureaucracy processes their paperwork without the $ 1,000 fee.

This does not make fiscal sense for U.S. companies or the U.S. government. For
this reason, more than 75 major business associations and corporations,
including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of
Manufacturers, support a permanent extension of section 245 (i).

LYNN FRENDT SHOTWELL

Washington

The writer is legal counsel and director of government relations for the
American Council on International Personnel Inc, a firm that lobbies on behalf
on business on immigration issues.

The overall argument provided by Steven A. Camarota and Jessica Vaughan
blatantly substitutes fallacious reasoning for sound immigration policy. First
of all, it was never the intention of Congress to use Section 245 (i) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act as a "loophole" but as a wise and informed
provision to assist eligible immigrants who have solid roots in this country.
The word "loophole" was never a part of the legislation or discussion when it
was enacted on Oct. 1, 1994.

Second, immigration advocates support the indefinite extension of Section 245
(i) and realize that it cannot be a permanent provision despite the inaccurate
statements of Mr. Camarota and Ms. Vaughan. Immigration advocates have their
facts straight when they quote INS statistics that an estimated 5 million
undocumented immigrants are in this country, and 275,000 undocumented immigrants
are estimated to be coming in each year. This contrasts to the erroneous figure
of 400,000 mentioned by Mr. Camarota and Ms. Vaughan. Most immigrant advocates
see the extension of Section 245 (i) as a short-term solution, but it should be
applied on a principle of fairness rather than on fear and the promotion of
panic.

Finally, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) is not a perfect
institution. Neither is the Center for Immigration Studies or the Federation for
American Immigration Reform (FAIR). Currently, the INS is the best response to
the enormously complicated maze called immigration in the United States. The
State Department does not have the resources or personnel to accommodate the
expected hordes of people at its consular offices if Section 245 (i) is
disallowed. I believe that its extension will provide a smoother and a more
effective transition process than the bureaucratic nightmare that Rep. Lamar
Smith (R-Tex.) and others want to impose on immigrants and key federal agencies.
I implore Congress to abide by a short-term and sound immigration policy rather
than heeding messages from xenophobic institutions that disseminate faulty
information.

THE REV. BRIAN JORDAN, O.F.M.

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              13 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 30, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

House Backs Controversial Immigration Provision; Program Allows Illegal Aliens
Seeking Permanent Legal Status to Stay in U.S. by Paying a Fine

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 629 words


The House yesterday gave a green light to a controversial immigration program
that allows illegal aliens seeking permanent legal status to remain in the
United States by paying a fine.

By a vote of 268 to 153, lawmakers rejected a motion, sponsored by Rep. Dana
Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), that would have instructed House members of a
House-Senate conference committee to vote against a permanent extension of the
provision when the committee considers a spending bill that contains it.
Although yesterday's motion would not have been binding, it represented an
important indicator of House sentiment on the issue and generated a major
lobbying effort by business groups and immigration advocates anxious to defeat
it.

The Senate version of the spending bill contains an amendment to extend
permanently the three-year-old provision, known as 245(i), which was originally
scheduled to expire Sept. 30. The House version, which has no such amendment,
would allow the provision to lapse. With the issue unresolved, Congress twice
has temporarily extended the measure, most recently until Nov. 7.

The provision has triggered intense debate within Republican ranks, with members
of Hispanic origin leading the fight to extend it and advocates of tighter
immigration controls arguing that it should be killed.

The vote, in which Republicans opposed the motion by more than two to one,
reflected a desire by the House GOP leadership to soften an anti-immigrant image
that political analysts say cost the party heavily in the last elections.
Democrats voted against the motion overwhelmingly.

The 245(i) provision allows foreigners who entered the country illegally or
overstayed their visas to become legal permanent residents -- provided they are
eligible -- by paying a $ 1,000 fine, instead of having to leave the country to
pick up their immigrant visas at a U.S. consulate abroad as previously required.
The measure is crucial to as many as 1 million foreigners because of a separate
provision in last year's immigration law that penalizes those who remain in the
United States illegally for extended periods.

That new statute bars foreigners from receiving a U.S. visa abroad for three
years if they stayed in the United States illegally for more than six months.
Those who overstayed for more than a year are barred for 10 years. Speaker Newt
Gingrich (R-Ga.) last week proposed the vote on yesterday's "motion to instruct
conferees" as a way of gauging House support for 245(i) and resolving a dispute
over the matter among Republicans. But whether it will be permanently extended
remains unclear. Some Republicans who voted against the motion oppose a
permanent extension, favoring instead a compromise that would continue it
temporarily for those who are already in the legalization pipeline.

In debate on his motion, Rohrabacher called 245(i) a "permanent rolling amnesty
program for illegal aliens" that rewards people for breaking immigration laws at
the expense of law-abiding foreigners who often wait years in their homelands
for their visas to come through. He charged that "big business" supports an
extension because it wants to be able to hire illegal immigrants and keep wages
down.

Republican and Democratic supporters of the extension argued that it benefits
only people who are eligible to become legal immigrants and, since many have put
down roots here, keeps together families that might otherwise be separated if
the green-card applicants had to return home. According to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, about 600,000 people have applied for green cards under
the provision since it took effect in 1994. Up to 62 percent are believed to
have entered the country illegally, and about 38 percent overstayed their visas.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              14 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 14, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Immigration Law Altered Once Again; Deportations Averted; Major Loophole Closed

William Branigin; Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 902 words


A year after passing a tough immigration law, Congress has approved far-reaching
changes that make it easier for more than a million illegal immigrants to remain
in the United States but that close a major loophole for newcomers who enter
illegally in the future.

The measures, part of end-of-session deals reached in the last two days,
effectively head off deportation for an estimated 400,000 Central Americans and
allow at least 1 million other illegal immigrants to remain in the United States
while seeking permanent legal status, provided they pay a $ 1,000 fine and are
otherwise eligible. The provisions were included in two appropriations bills
that were passed by Congress Wednesday and last night.

Another separate measure, part of a government funding package, gives the
Immigration and Naturalization Service money to revamp its citizenship process,
which came under heavy criticism last year after 180,000 immigrants were
naturalized without proper criminal background checks.

The legislation was greeted with a mixture of relief and resentment in the
Washington area, which is home to tens of thousands of Central Americans who
fled wars and poverty in their countries. Nicaraguans reacted with joy to what
is essentially an immigration amnesty, while Salvadorans and Guatemalans
complained of unequal treatment because the provisions for them stop short of
granting the same kind of automatic permanent legal status.

The changes to immigration law appeared to reflect a desire by Republican
leaders in Congress to improve their party's image with a fast-growing segment
of the electorate: newly naturalized immigrants.

While easing the impact of last year's law in some respects, Congress also wrote
an end to a controversial 1994 provision that so far has allowed 600,000
eligible illegal immigrants to pay a fine in an effort to become legal while
remaining in the United States. Without this provision, illegal immigrants in
the country would have to return home to get their visas at U.S. consulates
abroad.

The provision, known as 245(i), remains in effect for illegal immigrants for
whom family members or employers here have filed visa petitions or labor
certifications -- the first step in an often lengthy legalization process -- by
Jan 14, 1998. According to congressional staff members, this "grandfather
clause" will allow at least 1 million more foreigners, who have already entered
the country illegally or overstayed their visas, to apply for "green cards"
under the old law once their eligibility numbers come up. However, this option
will be closed for future illegal immigrants, who will have to return to their
homelands to await their green cards, or risk being barred from getting any U.S.
visa for three to 10 years if they remain in the country illegally for more than
six months.

The compromise came under sharp criticism from pro-immigration and business
groups, which had lobbied intensively for a permanent extension of the measure.
Groups that favor reducing immigration levels welcomed the end of the provision,
but lamented the deal for allowing hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
to keep using the loophole for years to come.

Similarly, the deal on the Central Americans drew mixed reactions from members
of Congress and private groups on both sides of the debate. It grants amnesty to
as many as 150,000 Nicaraguans and 5,000 Cubans who arrived in the United States
by Dec. 1, 1995. An estimated 200,000 Salvadorans, 50,000 Guatemalans and
several thousand East Europeans benefit, but to a lesser degree. They are
allowed to apply for "suspension of deportation" under the more lenient rules of
the pre-1996 immigration law, and will be presumed to have met the toughest
requirement: a showing of "extreme hardship." This means that most are likely to
get their green cards eventually, congressional sources said.

Despite strong lobbying by the Congressional Black Caucus, Haitians were not
included in the deal. Efforts to obtain an exemption for them appear likely to
continue next year.

"This is a miracle," said Javier Quant, an economist who fled Nicaragua in 1985
and now lives in Alexandria. "We have worked so hard, but we were never secure
that our children would have the opportunity to stay in America. Now we can
finally start planning for their future."

Pedro Aviles, a Salvadoran immigrant in the District who works for a national
advocacy group, sees the deal much differently. "This is unfair," he said,
"because one group will be given green cards, while the others must go before a
judge, pay a lawyer, and implore the court not to deport them."

To limit the measure's impact on immigration levels, it cuts the number of visas
alloted to unskilled workers and another special category by 10,000 a year.

It also applies the new immigration law's tougher standards for suspension of
deportation retroactively to people other than the Central Americans and East
Europeans.

According to Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), the measure will make it harder
for about 31,000 people from Mexico, the Philippines and other countries to
avoid deportation. He said the compromise "smacks of a very opportunistic,
partisan approach to immigration policy," because it is "no secret" that many of
the Nicaraguans and Cubans who benefit the most live in the South Florida
districts of key Republican lawmakers.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              15 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 15, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Border Control Strategy Difficult to Assess; Billions Spent, 'Progress' Made,
but Results of Effort in Southwest 'Inconclusive,' GAO Says

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 582 words


Despite pouring billions of dollars into a campaign to cut illegal immigration
over the past four years, the government has no way of knowing whether its
measures are working, a General Accounting Office report says.

In the first of a series of reports mandated by a 1996 immigration reform law,
the GAO determined that the Immigration and Naturalization Service "has made
progress" in implementing parts of its 1994 border control strategy.

But the office, which audits government programs for Congress, said it could not
tell whether the agency was achieving its main aim of actually reducing the flow
of illegal immigrants across the U.S.-Mexican border. The overall results of the
INS strategy were thus "inconclusive," the GAO said. It recommended that the
attorney general, whose department includes the INS, develop a plan to
comprehensively and systematically evaluate the campaign.

"We were not able to conclude that the strategy itself is effective, that it is
working at this point," said Evi Rezmovic, the assistant director of the GAO.
Although INS officials acknowledged the need for an evaluation system, she
added, the auditors "saw no evidence" that any such plan is in place and
concluded that developing one could prove both difficult and costly.

Yet, "without such an evaluation, the Attorney General and Congress will have no
way of knowing whether the billions of dollars invested in reducing illegal
immigration have produced the intended results," the report said. The 101-page
report was sent to the Senate and House Judiciary committees.

Robert L. Bach, the INS executive associate commissioner for policy and
planning, said that in the four border areas in which the agency so far has
concentrated its resources, "we have reduced illegal movement across the border"
and curbed the resulting chaos and crime. "What we don't know yet is what will
happen all along the 2,000-mile border."

He said the INS does not yet claim to have the entire border under control, but
insisted that the resources devoted to the effort are being used wisely and that
the program is "moving in the right direction."

Since 1994, the INS has spent $ 2.3 billion on border enforcement, nearly
doubling the size of the Border Patrol, erecting more than 50 miles of new
fences and acquiring high-tech equipment to detect and identify illegal
crossers. The spending reflects sharp increases in the agency's budget, which
has more than doubled in the last few years, reaching $ 3.1 billion for fiscal
1997.

The measures have shifted many illegal crossings away from the urban centers of
San Diego and El Paso and into more remote areas, making it more difficult to
cross the border and increasing the fees charged by alien smugglers, the GAO
report said. But it is impossible to ascertain whether this means that fewer
illegal immigrants are actually entering the United States, the report said.

The auditors also "could not determine the extent to which the strategy had
reduced border violence," the report said.

Last year, the Border Patrol made 1.5 million apprehensions of illegal aliens
along the southwestern border.

It is not known how many different people this figure represents, because the
same crossers are often arrested multiple times.

Although several sectors of the border have become more difficult to cross,
independent researchers estimate that the chances of getting across illegally
are still better than the odds of getting caught.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              16 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 25, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

INS Detains 5 in Raid on Alleged Brothel

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03; METRO IN BRIEF: MARYLAND

LENGTH: 104 words


Authorities detained five undocumented immigrants who apparently were waiting
for service in a Langley Park brothel late Friday, immigration officials said
yesterday. Four of them were held on $ 5,000 bond, and the fifth, a minor, was
released to his guardian.

Prince George's County police also arrested one woman and one man on
prostitution-related charges at the house in the 8200 block of 14th Avenue.

Neighbors complained about the home, and the case began as a criminal matter.
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials got involved because illegal
immigrants were suspected of being involved.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              17 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 30, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

From Canada, With Controls

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 383 words


IN A HURRY to hunt down illegal immigrants, Congress in 1996 ordered the
immigration service to develop by this year an automated entry and exit control
system to document the entry and departure by land of "every alien." The project
sounded like a brisk match of Republican immigration policy and high technology,
but it quickly turned out to be a dud. The INS is nowhere ready to install such
a system, and people began to realize that putting new controls at the country's
busiest border, with Canada, invited terrible daily traffic tie-ups, to
devastating economic effect. Congressional and executive branch hands are now
trying to limit the damage.

In fact, as Spencer Abraham, chairman of the Senate immigration subcommittee,
notes, Congress meant only to automate the current entry-exit control system,
the better to track aliens who arrive legally but overstay their visas. The
provision was not intended to take the INS into uncharted bureaucratic and
technological terrain. Mr. Abraham speaks with feeling. Not only does he
represent a new Republican outreach to immigrant-sensitive constituencies. He
comes from Michigan, a state that contains the main crossing points to Canada
and that would suffer the full brunt of a system that didn't work.

The United States does not require Canadians to present a visa, passport or
other such identification to enter for a short visit. The openness of the
international border is the shared pride of U.S.-Canadian relations, and the
free movement of people and goods -- 116 million people entered the United
States by land from Canada in 1996 -- is regularly affirmed. Nor, thanks to its
high economic level, is Canada a serious source of illegal immigration, as is
the poorer Mexico, to whose citizens the INS offers border-crossing cards to
control short-term, short-distance land travel. Travel by air goes by different
rules.

A House bill would delay the new control-system requirement for a year, but
that's a short time. The Senate bill freezes the different status quos of Mexico
and Canada and provides the time and impetus for a deeper look. Americans want
borders that are as open as possible consistent with the need to prevent illegal
entry. Good sense and technology should offer, and constantly improve, an
answer.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              18 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 13, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

INS Stings Uncover Fraud Rings; Bribes Bought Papers For Immigrants

William Branigin; Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 725 words


Federal agents have shut down two major immigration fraud rings, one in Northern
Virginia and the other in New York, arresting eight government officials and
dozens of other alleged conspirators in separate sting operations, officials
announced yesterday.

Among those indicted were a special agent of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, seven employees of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, two
immigration lawyers and more than two dozen "immigration brokers" who served as
go-betweens, officials said.

In both cases, the rings helped illegal immigrants already in the United States
obtain documents that would denote legal immigrant status and authorize them to
work here and travel freely into and out of the country. Using intermediaries,
the immigrants paid thousands of dollars each to obtain the documents.

The two investigations, which were initiated by the INS and grew to involve
other federal agencies, illustrate the extent to which immigration fraud has
become a lucrative business with the potential to corrupt public officials. The
cases also show the value that genuine immigration documents command in the
marketplace among illegal immigrants seeking to establish "legal" status through
fraudulent means.

"Criminal enterprises out there are very interested in getting their hands on
these documents," said William J. Carroll, director of the INS Washington
district office in Arlington.

In the Virginia case, the sting operation began when two Korean Americans
approached James D. Goldman, head of investigations at the INS Arlington office,
with a request for help in obtaining "green cards," which confer legal immigrant
status. Sensing a bribe attempt, Goldman reported the incident to his superiors
and played along, pretending to be a corrupt official. The two Korean Americans
subsequently paid Goldman more than $ 82,000 in return for passport stamps that
served as temporary green cards for their clients, prosecutors said.

The two -- Jimee Y. Choi, 32, an ATF special agent assigned to the agency's
Hyattsville office, and his friend, Suk Bin Brian Im, 36, an immigration lawyer
in Annandale -- thus obtained stamps for 101 South Koreans, officials said. Im's
clients paid him $ 350,000 for the documents, officials said. Choi allegedly
received more than $ 35,000 for his part in the scam, which included providing
security for the operation and helping to process Im's clients.

Also arrested was David Key Lim, 58, a Korean businessman in Fairfax who was
charged with allowing his apparel shops to be used as fronts so that the Koreans
could list the business as an employer on green card applications. In addition,
Chul "David" Choi, 33, was arrested in New York for allegedly providing clients
to Im. INS agents also picked up 19 South Korean "clients." More than 80 others
are being sought.

Jimee Choi served with the uniformed division of the Secret Service for three
years before joining the ATF in 1994, officials said. His "lifestyle," including
homes in Gaithersburg and Bethesda and a 1991 BMW, had drawn the ATF's attention
even before the agency was informed of his alleged involvement in immigration
fraud, said ATF spokesman Patrick Hynes.

In the New York operation, U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White said 33 defendants,
including an immigration lawyer and seven employees of the INS office in
Manhattan, were indicted on various charges involving corruption in the approval
and issuance of temporary green cards to an undetermined number of foreigners.
She said 26 have been arrested, and the others remain at large.

The jobs of most of the INS employees included interviewing green card
applicants. For bribes of $ 1,000 to $ 3,000 per applicant, they approved
applications and, as in the Virginia case, issued passport stamps, prosecutors
said.

They said the bribed employees thus did not question sham marriages, which
allegedly formed the basis for many applications. Other approved applicants
allegedly made false claims to be religious workers.

Prosecutors said the payoff total remains unclear, but several INS employees,
who served in undercover roles after being arrested for bribery, accepted more
than $ 100,000 in additional bribes during the year-long investigation.

Special correspondent Devon Spurgeon in New York contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              19 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 22, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Legal Attack Targets Vans Carrying Immigrants

Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1269 words


Marta Vasquez, her daughter and her granddaughter paid a smuggler $ 200 apiece
to sneak them into Texas from their native Mexico.

The rest of their trip to suburban Maryland was easier to plan because of a new
wrinkle in the nation's illegal immigrant smuggling problem.

The night before Easter, the women and child boarded a tour van in Houston
headed for stops in Northern Virginia, suburban Maryland and Long Island, N.Y.

But this wasn't the usual group of tourists, nor the van a regular touring
coach.

Inside were 15 undocumented Mexicans, Guatemalans and Salvadorans, part of an
alleged smuggling pipeline now being targeted by Virginia-based federal law
enforcement authorities.

"We came out here to find work -- not for pleasure but out of necessity,"
admitted Vasquez, a 58-year-old grandmother who was arrested last week by
immigration officials after Fairfax City police stopped the van in the middle of
the night. "Now they got us."

But what U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials and federal
prosecutors in Virginia really want are the van company owners.

Virginia authorities have taken the lead nationwide against these companies,
which use 15-passenger vans, known as camionetas in Spanish.

Last fall, federal prosecutors in Alexandria won the first conviction on counts
of transporting illegal immigrants and conspiracy against two Houston-based
company owners. Authorities in Roanoke and Charlottesville have prosecuted
drivers for other companies on similar charges. The owners of another company
will soon go on trial in Roanoke, and the U.S. attorney's office in Alexandria
is now investigating the company that carried the Vasquezes into the Washington
area.

Transport by camioneta is a growing cottage industry fueled, authorities say, by
continued illegal immigration and employers' willingness to hire cheap labor.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said undocumented immigrants are trying to move away
from border areas where they believe immigration enforcement is concentrated.

"The loads are comprised of people who are just trying to work, but they're
being moved by organized criminal enterprises," he said.

In the District and suburban areas, these immigrants find work as busboys,
dishwashers, office cleaners and construction workers. In Winchester, Va., it's
the apple orchards. Near Harrisonburg, Va., and Maryland's Eastern Shore, it's
the poultry farms. And along the North Carolina border, it's the tobacco fields.

On the surface, the camioneta companies appear to be legitimate tour businesses.
About 50 Houston-based companies advertise widely in Spanish-language newspapers
and radio stations. The owners paint signs on their vans. They are licensed for
interstate travel, issue tickets and write up manifests.

But passengers, according to federal court records and testimony and immigration
officials, are delivered into the hands of employers or relatives, with the fare
-- about $ 200 -- often paid on delivery. The vans roll along interstate
highways mostly at night, following routes that attempt to bypass Border Patrol
checkpoints.

"They say they're just transporting people, but it's a sinister and illegitimate
business," said James Goldman, deputy director for INS investigations for the
District and Virginia. "It's like a massage parlor that people say is an
innocent business up front, but there's prostitution going on in the back."

Rest and food stops along the highways are strictly regulated by drivers who do
not want to call attention to their illegal cargo, according to court testimony.

One Salvadoran woman testified in a case in Roanoke that she took turns with
another woman sleeping on the floor of the van as it rolled north toward
Virginia, where it was stopped by police near Christiansburg. Another testified
that food stops were confined to highway convenience stores, where only one or
two of the immigrants were allowed out of the van to buy "cookies or crackers or
something like that."

"Those who had money ate," said one Salvadoran witness, Gloribel Lemus, "and
those of us who didn't have any, we just had to stand it and be hungry."

To date, Virginia authorities have obtained 31 convictions connected to the
camioneta industry in federal courts in Alexandria, Charlottesville and Roanoke.
Cases against seven persons are pending; four indicted fugitives are still being
sought. Ninety-six illegal immigrants have been apprehended from vans. Several
vans were seized, including one in Vienna that was only a year old and had
300,000 miles on the odometer.

Just last week, federal prosecutors in Houston won convictions against the three
owners of a van company and against two others who smuggled immigrants over the
Mexican border and delivered them to the Houston company.

And on Friday, a federal indictment against yet another Houston van company, its
two owners and one of its employees was unsealed in U.S District Court in
Roanoke.

No camioneta cases have been prosecuted in Maryland or the District, but federal
officials in Maryland are tackling other smuggling methods. In 1996, two
Guatemalan men and a Mexican man pleaded guilty to transporting illegal
immigrants after their rental truck crashed near the Chesapeake Bay Bridge and
41 people were found crammed inside.

Earlier this month, INS agents raided a safe house in Silver Spring, arresting
11 Mexican illegal immigrants. Sources said agents are investigating whether the
owner of the house, who had two vans, made frequent trips to Mexico to bring
undocumented workers to this area.

"Most of the people we pick up are here because they have been smuggled directly
to Maryland" from Mexico and Latin America, said Benedict J. Ferro, director of
the INS office in Baltimore.

In the last two years, Virginia authorities have stopped six camionetas -- the
first time in Vienna in August 1996, when illegal immigrants were found eating
discarded peaches out of a garbage bin in a supermarket parking lot. Just last
Monday, the van carrying Vasquez and 14 other undocumented immigrants was
stopped at 1:55 a.m. by Fairfax City police near Lee Highway and Route 123.

Last September, an Alexandria federal jury handed up the first camioneta-owner
convictions in this country, against a husband and wife from Houston. They were
sentenced to more than three years each in federal prison. They have appealed
their convictions; their company, North Van Tours, which prosecutors said had
been grossing as much as $ 4 million a year, is out of business.

The couple testified that they did not know that the passengers were illegal and
did not believe that it was their job to ask for immigration documents.

Trial testimony showed that North Van Tours vehicles had been stopped by police
and immigration officials numerous times along the Eastern Seaboard. The human
cargo, invariably illegal, was processed for deportation; the drivers, always
legal permanent residents of the United States who said they knew nothing about
their passengers' status, were allowed to drive away.

Karen Peters, an assistant U.S. attorney in the Western District of Virginia in
Roanoke, said targeting the van company owners is the only way to attack the
problem.

"It's like emptying out the ocean with a spoon if all you're doing is taking
illegals off the van and sending the van back to Houston to get another load,"
Peters said. "Only if you go after the owners and profiteers in the smuggling
industry are you going to make an inroad into the problem."

Staff writer Brooke A. Masters contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              20 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 16, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Problems Persist at INS Center, Probe Finds

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 549 words


A year after Justice Department investigators exposed serious defects at an
Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center near Miami, some of the
problems still exist, and the center continues to release "dangerous, convicted
felons" into the community, according to a follow-up investigation.

"We found that progress has been made in several areas, but that other areas
have not measurably improved since our report was issued a year ago," Justice
Department Inspector General Michael R. Bromwich said in a report released
yesterday.

At the Krome detention center for illegal aliens in the Florida Everglades,
investigators found that nine out of 28 aliens released in June had criminal
records. Among them were several drug dealers and a woman convicted two years
earlier of third-degree murder in connection with the death of a child. In four
other cases, there was "insufficient evidence" that a criminal history check had
been performed before release, the report said.

The INS defended the releases, insisting that each was thoroughly vetted and
that none posed any threat to public safety. An INS spokesman said such releases
of illegal aliens, some of them on bond, serve the public interest and free up
detention space needed for more pressing cases.

Of the nine in question, spokesman Russ Bergeron said, two were Colombians who
had not been convicted in the United States, two had serious medical conditions,
three were Cubans who could not be sent back to their homeland and two were
convicted of minor or nonviolent crimes.

The investigation stemmed from complaints two years ago that INS managers had
deceived a congressional task force during a June 1995 visit to Miami to look
into the problems of illegal immigration there.

Among other actions in an elaborate scheme to portray the Miami INS operation as
efficient and orderly, officials released or transferred 101 of the 407 illegal
aliens detained at Krome shortly before the visit to relieve chronic
overcrowding and understaffing. Of 58 who were simply released into the
community, four were criminals, 18 had unknown criminal histories and 35 had not
been medically cleared, Bromwich reported last year.

His report further charged that the officials had tried to cover up their
actions and impede the investigation.

The INS subsequently fired one senior manager and demoted or suspended 11 other
officials for their part in the scheme.

However, judges of the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board in recent weeks have
overruled the firing of one official and the demotion of another.

Valerie Blake, the former INS deputy district director in Miami, was ordered
reinstated at a lower grade and given a 60-day suspension instead of dismissal.
Constance Weiss, a 25-year veteran of the INS, was ordered reinstated as
officer-in-charge at the Krome detention center with back pay plus interest.

Administrative Judge Jeremiah J. Cassidy ruled that Weiss "was simply following
orders" from her superiors when she released or transferred the detainees before
the congressional visit. "I never did anything wrong," Weiss said after the
verdict.

The Justice Department plans to "vigorously" appeal both rulings, a spokeswoman
said. "We really were outraged by these decisions," she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              21 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 23, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Agents Break Up Alleged Alien-Smuggling Ring; Southern Garment Firm's Head
Among Those Charged After Probe Spanning 7 States

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 887 words


Federal agents have arrested the president of a small southern
garment-manufacturing firm on alien-smuggling charges after breaking up a ring
that recruited workers inside Mexico, moved them illegally across the U.S.
border and delivered them to factories in Georgia and Alabama, officials said
yesterday.

The case marked the first time federal prosecutors have directly linked a U.S.
company and its president to a criminal conspiracy to smuggle illegal workers
into the country. Investigators long have suspected such involvement among
businesses that hire illegal immigrants but have not been able to prove it.

The commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Doris M.
Meissner, said that investigators do not yet know how widespread such practices
are but that "our best instincts and information tell us" the recruitment of
illegal workers is often deliberate and well organized. "We know there must be
much more significant linkages than our investigations have been able to get
at," she said in an interview.

After a year-long investigation that used expanded powers under a new
immigration law, federal agents last week arrested Fred Lee Parrish, 49, of
Chattanooga, president of Atlantic Finishing Inc., which produced T-shirts at
two plants in Georgia and Alabama. Parrish, his company, two employees and four
other people were charged with various counts of transporting and harboring
illegal aliens in a federal grand jury indictment that was revealed yesterday in
Albuquerque.

Parrish could not immediately be reached for comment, but a relative who
answered the telephone at his home said he denies the charges. Parrish was
released last week after posting $ 10,000 bond. He faces a maximum penalty of 10
years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine if convicted.

An alleged key figure in the ring, Saul Resendiz Cortes, 34, is a fugitive who
is believed to be hiding in Mexico, said Bart G. Szafnicki, an INS investigator
based in Atlanta. Resendiz, a Mexican, formerly worked for Parrish illegally at
his Georgia plant and was arrested in an INS raid three years ago but
subsequently became a legal permanent resident through marriage, investigators
said.

John J. Kelly, the U.S. attorney for New Mexico, said the investigation, which
spanned seven states and involved undercover work by federal agents posing as
smugglers, found that the conspiracy had operated since 1991 and smuggled
illegal immigrants from central Mexico through New Mexico and into Alabama and
Georgia for fees as high as $ 1,000 apiece.

"This case illustrates how demand created by a U.S. company has the effect of
luring and recruiting Mexican and Latin American nationals across an
international border into the United States," Kelly told a news conference in
Albuquerque, where the case will be prosecuted. "What we have here is a company
that was actively looking for illegal workers."

Atlantic Finishing operates factories in Trenton, Ga., and Henagar, Ala., that
together employ as many as 60 workers and supply cotton T-shirts to major
American retailers, federal officials said. They declined to name the retailers.
In 1994, immigration agents arrested 26 illegal aliens at Parrish's plant in
Trenton, Ga., near the Tennessee border.

But authorities did not begin to unravel the ring until the U.S. Border Patrol
stopped an old Ford van crammed with 11 illegal immigrants from Mexico at a
checkpoint near Hatch, N.M., in December 1996, officials said. The 11 were sent
back to Mexico, but two ring members transporting them were arrested and
provided the leads that eventually rolled up the organization. The two and
another conspirator pleaded guilty to alien-smuggling charges earlier this year.

The ring recruited workers primarily in Queretaro, the Mexican home state of the
fugitive Resendiz, and smuggled them across the border near Las Cruces, N.M.,
investigators said. The workers were harbored in the houses of other ring
members on their way to Parrish's factories, where personnel managers instructed
them to fill out employment documents using assumed names, the indictment
charged. Among those charged in the case were two Atlantic Finishing employees
responsible for personnel at the Georgia and Alabama plants.

The workers allegedly obtained false immigration documents from Resendiz's
brother, Abisneigo Resendiz, who also was charged. Other members of the ring
conducted surveillance on Border Patrol checkpoints to determine the best times
to move their human cargo through, investigators said.

They said the inquiry has focused on alien-smuggling rather than working
conditions or wages at the factories, which are matters for the Labor Department
to investigate. At present, the Internal Revenue Service is pursuing its own
investigation into possible tax-related offenses, officials said.

The case represents "an effort by the Department of Justice to send a deterrent
message to employers" who hire illegal aliens, U.S. Attorney Kelly said.
Although a 1986 immigration law imposed penalties on employers who "knowingly"
hire undocumented workers, federal authorities have found that standard
difficult to prove. To date, millions of dollars in fines have been levied
against employers, but none have been convicted of criminal charges or spent
time in jail.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              22 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 19, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Judge Voids Calif. Proposition on Immigrants

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A federal judge has formally invalidated Proposition 187, the 1994 ballot
initiative that denied public benefits to illegal immigrants, according to court
documents released yesterday.

The judgment was issued by U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer, who in
November ruled that the proposition was unconstitutional and conflicted with the
1996 congressional overhaul of welfare law. Pfaelzer's action now clears the way
for Gov. Pete Wilson (R) to appeal November's reversal to the U.S. 9th Circuit
Court of Appeals, a step Wilson said he will take "so that the will of the
people can be upheld."

The state initiative, approved by 59 percent of voters, has never been
implemented because of court challenges.

Mark Rosenbaum, legal director of the ACLU of Southern California, called
Pfaelzer's judgment "the last nail in the coffin" on Wilson's attack on
immigrants' rights. "Right now, he [Wilson] must feel like the captain of the
Titanic."

In her landmark November decision, Pfaelzer said that when President Clinton
signed the welfare reform law, he effectively made California powerless to enact
its own "scheme" to regulate immigration, which is an exclusively federal
responsibility.

In an "amended memorandum of law" that was signed March 13 but made public only
yesterday, Pfaelzer broadened her language to declare that the state is
"likewise powerless to enact its own legislative scheme to regulate alien access
to public benefits. It can do what [the welfare reform law] permits, and nothing
more."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              23 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 27, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Iraqi Accused of Smuggling Middle Easterners Into U.S.; U.S. Says Mexico, Home
of Suspect, Was Entry Point

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A32

LENGTH: 580 words


Federal agents have arrested a former Iraqi Olympic athlete on charges of
running an international ring that smuggled Middle Eastern nationals into the
United States through Mexico with the help of a corrupt Mexican immigration
official, U.S. authorities said yesterday.

Investigators are continuing a probe of the alien-smuggling operation to
determine whether any of the Middle Easterners, who included Iraqis, Syrians and
Palestinians, have connections to terrorism or espionage, officials said.

Culminating an undercover operation that lasted more than a year and spanned
five countries, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested
George Tajirian, 56, two weeks ago in Miami. Tajirian, an Iraqi who married a
Mexican and became a naturalized Mexican citizen, was flown to El Paso, where a
federal grand jury yesterday indicted him and three alleged accomplices on
alien-smuggling and conspiracy charges.

The other suspects, including Tajirian's wife, the Mexican immigration official
and a Lebanese woman residing in Ecuador, are still at large outside the United
States.

U.S. officials estimated that Tajirian's ring, which allegedly used travel
agencies he owned in Cuba and Ecuador as fronts, smuggled at least 250 Middle
Easterners into the United States during a two-year period. Among those spirited
into the country were Iraqis, Jordanians, Syrians, Lebanese and Palestinians,
officials said.

According to Luis Garcia, the INS district director in El Paso, Tajirian had
been in business for "at least 20 years" and had smuggled "hundreds" of Middle
Easterners during that time.

Tajirian, a member of the Iraqi Olympic cycling team, defected at the 1968
Summer Games in Mexico City, claiming that he faced persecution in his homeland
as an Armenian Christian. He later married Maria Soledad Martinez Rangel of
Mexico City and became a Mexican citizen. In the late 1970s, he served nine
months in a U.S. federal prison after pleading guilty to visa fraud in New York.

According to the indictment, he used several aliases in recent years, including
"George the Iraqi," and maintained residences in Mexico City and Quito, Ecuador.

The ring brought the Middle Easterners into Mexico, sometimes after stops in
Cuba and other countries in Latin America and islands in the Caribbean, and
furnished them with false travel documents, including forged Greek passports and
fake U.S. visas. They were then smuggled across the U.S. border, usually into
Texas.

Officials said the illegal aliens would present phony documents or make false
claims of U.S. citizenship at a port of entry, or would be brought illegally
across the Rio Grande. In addition, the ring would often transport them to such
cities as Detroit, New York, Las Vegas or Los Angeles.

Tajirian charged the illegal immigrants $ 10,000 to $ 15,000 each to be smuggled
across the border and an additional $ 4,000 to $ 10,000 for transportation
inside the United States, officials said.

The ring was discovered in October 1996 when immigration inspectors at the
border in El Paso stopped a Jordanian who falsely claimed to be a U.S. citizen
and a Syrian who presented fake documents. As part of the investigation, an INS
undercover agent posed as an alien smuggler with connections in the agency and
lured Tajirian to Panama, which expelled him on a plane to Miami.

If convicted, Tajirian faces up to 70 years in prison. The other defendants each
face up to five years.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              24 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 22, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Jobs for the Asking

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 369 words


A TOUGH BATTLE is being waged over immigration quotas for skilled information
technology workers. The industry points to thousands of jobs -- many in Northern
Virginia -- unfilled by domestic workers, and asks urgently for more "H1-B"
specialty-occupation visas for foreign workers. The unions and professional
societies, favoring a tight labor market, and the Clinton administration,
favoring the unions, dispute the industry's open-job numbers and oppose the
Senate Judiciary Committee's bipartisan proposal to raise the annual lid from
65,000 to 90,000.

Immigration law necessarily must balance the rights of employers with the
interests of workers. The dilemma has become more acute as the phenomenon of
globalization opens up to employers the option not simply of hiring short-term
(up to six years) foreign workers but of shipping information-technology jobs
overseas permanently. India is just the most conspicuous country with the
technical level to make this possible. But it is dangerous stuff. For the
exporting of these plum jobs to happen on any scale would invite explosive
consequences.

In fact, the high-profile growth-leading information technology industry is too
important for American economic and global interests alike not to have a quality
work force. That argues for the admission of needed foreigners. But their
numbers and terms of employment should be kept under close scrutiny to ensure
that they are not used as cheap competition to bid down the price of labor.
There also must be a continuing study of the effect on industry employment of
the "millennium bomb" -- the year 2000 computer problem.

At the same time the information-technology labor market ought to be treated as
something more than a prime factor in an economic equation. It is also a red
flag warning the country that the American education system is not producing the
trained work force a competitive global economy requires. Sen. Spencer Abraham's
bill offers stipends for 20,000 low-income American students in this personally
rewarding and nationally vital field. Such upgrading of the work force is the
main road American policy must take to better equip the United States for the
21st century.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              25 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 05, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Give U.S. Workers a Shot

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 202 words


There is broad agreement to increase the nation's immigration quotas at least
temporarily to meet the shortage of skilled computer programmers ["Jobs for the
Asking," editorial, April 22]. But how we do it makes a huge difference to
American workers.

The stampede to open the doors to more foreign workers is obscuring an
embarrassing fact -- this country's failure to give U.S. workers the skills they
need to take advantage of these good high-tech jobs. Yes, raise the immigration
quotas. But let's also do more to educate and train our own workers.

Earlier this month, I proposed a modest fee of $ 250 on each application by a
U.S. firm for a foreign worker. Revenues from the fees would be earmarked for
training U.S. workers to close the high-tech gap. The training proposed by Sen.
Spencer Abraham's bill, mentioned in the editorial, relies solely on existing
funds and must compete with other priorities for every dime.

Equally important, we need stronger enforcement powers for the Labor Department
to guarantee that U.S. firms are not gaming the high quotas by laying off U.S.
workers and hiring cheaper foreign replacements.

EDWARD M. KENNEDY

U.S. Senator (D-Mass.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              26 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 21, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Fraud Flourishes as Immigrants Seek Help

Brooke A. Masters; Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2403 words


In hidden corners of the Washington area's expanding immigrant community, a
black market thrives, holding out the promise of shortcuts to a new life in
America.

The underground network attracts skilled foreign workers like the Kims of South
Korea, who could not face the interminable wait for a U.S. work permit. They
scraped together nearly $ 25,000 to pay an immigration lawyer who claimed to
have connections, only to see him snared in a federal sting.

Members of the Guzman clan from central Mexico tapped a web of compatriots for
phony work permits and Social Security cards -- all for the chance to do
low-paid hard labor shunned by many American workers. The Guzmans and other
Latino immigrants filled dozens of jobs at a large commercial laundry in
Hyattsville until many were arrested in a raid.

And then there is Sajeeda Hairat, a legal refugee from Afghanistan who sought
U.S. citizenship. The Springfield resident responded to a cable TV commercial in
her own language that promised a passing grade on the naturalization test. She
handed over $ 300, becoming one of 13,000 people in 22 states involved in the
most widespread plot of its kind.

Tougher laws and more aggressive enforcement make it harder for growing numbers
of Washington area immigrants to work and live here illegally. Even some people
with authorized work permits are cutting corners to become citizens amid
political attacks on immigration. As foreigners pour into the area, opportunists
have dreamed up increasingly sophisticated schemes to enrich themselves by
helping others bypass the rules.

In Virginia, Maryland and the District -- where about 130,000 illegal immigrants
live, according to federal estimates -- the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service investigated 139 criminal fraud cases in the last fiscal year, up from
75 in 1994.

"We don't have the prevalence of the simple border-crosser that you bump into on
the street down south," said Nathan Granger, deputy director of the INS office
that oversees Virginia and the District. "It's a much more ingenious
population."

The $ 25,000 Payment

From their rented room in Seoul, the Kims dreamed of the kind of life their
relatives had built in the Washington area.

Their auto parts business was failing, the pollution was dreadful, and the
couple worried about their two children. Their son, 11, was the top student in
his school, but they feared South Korea's competitive academic system would
limit his future.

Meanwhile, a brother, who entered the United States legitimately, was doing very
well. In a dozen years, he had built his own business in the District and
acquired several cars and a nice home in the suburbs.

The Kims learned that they might have to wait years for permission to enter the
United States legally and work because a 1986 law gives preference to spouses,
parents and children of U.S. citizens. So they packed their belongings, borrowed
from relatives and flew over on visitor visas last summer. They had no plans to
go back. They moved into a two-bedroom apartment in Greenbelt, enrolled their
children in school and searched for a way to work legally as a mechanic and a
seamstress.

The family agreed to be interviewed for this story but did not want their first
names used because they fear the husband's employer would fire him upon learning
of his immigration troubles.

"We love it here," the 43-year-old husband said through an interpreter. "In
Seoul, there's so much crowding and bad economics. . . . The Washington area has
a lot of trees and clean air."

His wife, 40, thought she had found a way to stay when she got work at a
Northern Virginia garment factory. The law allows companies to bring in skilled
foreign workers if they can demonstrate that no qualified Americans are
available.

Her new employer had applied to the INS years earlier to sponsor South Korean
tailors. Those permits would be approved shortly, and the original tailors had
moved on. The wife could take one of their spots and her visa would cover the
entire family.

But immigration authorities held up the process because they believed those
special visas were being traded illegally. INS officials said some employers
were selling the right to use the visas to wealthy immigrants, who would never
go to work for them.

The processing delay sent a number of immigrants -- including the Kims -- to
Annandale lawyer Suk Bin Brian Im, who advertised in Korean-language newspapers
and claimed to have special INS connections. "Trust me," the Kims said he told
them. They said they handed over nearly $ 25,000 to Im and his intermediaries.

"In Korea, we think lawyers are a very different class. Whatever lawyers say, we
trust them," Kim said. He insisted the family "believed everything was legal."

It wasn't.

Im tried to bribe an INS official, who reported him to federal authorities,
setting in motion a sting. The official, Assistant Washington District INS
Director James D. Goldman, agreed to after-hours sessions that were captured on
videotape by the INS and the Justice Department's Office of the Inspector
General.

One October afternoon, the Kims and about 30 other immigrants met Im and his
confederates in a conference room at the Fairview Park Marriott in Fairfax
County. In six minutes, the Kims had the ticket to their American dream:
authentic passport stamps that read "Employment Authorized" for one year.

A few weeks later, the Kims left the United States and reentered using their new
passport stamps. They eagerly watched the mail for their permanent work permits.

But five months later, Im and three others were arrested. All four have pleaded
guilty and are awaiting sentencing on various conspiracy, fraud and bribery
charges. The Kims and nearly 100 other Im clients are now in legal limbo.

When the Kims read of Im's arrest in the newspaper, they wept and fled their
apartment for five days, convinced the INS was about to deport them. Their money
is gone. Their precious passport stamps expire in September. They have heard
nothing from the INS.

"If the INS says go to Korea, [we] cannot go," the husband said. "If you sell
everything and come to another country, you cannot go back. You have nothing."

Family Laundry

In a gritty Hyattsville industrial park sits a 25,000-square-foot commercial
laundry that takes in the linen of some of the Washington area's largest
hospitals and hotels.

Amid a jumble of huge laundry carts and hissing machinery, the Guzman family and
many of their fellow Mexicans toiled for years, sorting dirty sheets, folding
towels and ironing hospital scrubs.

The family's connection to the area dates to the 1980s, when one Guzman relative
settled in Riverdale. He sent money home, and others followed, paying smugglers
more than $ 1,000 to guide them by foot across the California border. By 1988,
two of the Guzmans had jobs at Nutech Laundry, becoming the nexus for dozens of
relatives and compatriots who would work there during the next decade.

The small sign at the entrance to the plant says "Welcome to
Nutech/Bienvenidos." In one corner of the employee dining room, the Guzmans
built an elaborate altar to Mexico's patron saint, the Virgin of Guadalupe, and
adorned it with votive candles, colorful garlands and bouquets of fresh
gladioluses.

"We were like a family here. This company is like going home," said Esperanza
Guzman, 43, one of several in the clan who eventually became legal permanent
residents.

She was able to legalize her status under a provision of the 1986 overhaul of
immigration law. But relatives who arrived later were drawn more easily into
fraud because the law also required employers to ask workers for proof of legal
status. The laws "opened the floodgates" for the fraudulent document trade, said
Wayne Cornelius, of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of
California-San Diego.

One Guzman, who asked not to be identified by his full name because he fears
reprisal from authorities, said he ordered fake green cards and Social Security
numbers for $ 120 apiece for himself and his wife from the man who smuggled them
into the United States.

"If one doesn't buy these papers, one can't work," said the 53-year-old man, who
said he used his false documents to get a driver's license, bank accounts,
credit cards and auto registrations, to file tax returns and, eventually, to
obtain a $ 130,000 mortgage on a house in Lanham.

Like many illegal immigrants looking for work in this area, some of the Guzmans
went to the main market for fake documents -- along Columbia Road in the
District's Adams-Morgan section.

The neighborhood is the kind of place where, on a recent rainy afternoon, one
peddler made eye contact with a prospective Latino customer, walked by, uttered
a whistle in order to get his attention and then walked back to ask the question
face to face: "Necesitas algo, carnal?" ("Do you need anything, brother?")

"If you do, I'm always here," he said in Spanish with a smile.

The INS has been fruitlessly chasing the suppliers behind the street hawkers for
years. That's because the operation is highly mobile -- it consists of a
computer, a high-quality printer and a laminating machine, officials said.

"The people we locked up can say, 'One week ago, here's where [the operation]
was.' But when the team hit it, it was gone," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Lisa
Prager, who prosecutes immigration fraud cases in the District.

The green cards allowed the Guzmans to work unchallenged for years at Nutech.
But an INS raid March 25 brought the laundry to a halt.

Within an hour, 39 Mexicans, including several Guzmans, were in detention. A
check of employee records showed 31 others were also working there with false
documentation. All are candidates for deportation. The laundry, which had run
with 80 to 100 production workers, was decimated, said Nutech's operations
manager, Tim Sutphin, who said he did not know the documents were fraudulent.

"What took eight years to build took INS two or three hours to destroy," Sutphin
said.

Benedict J. Ferro, director of the INS office that oversees Maryland, said such
raids are an essential part of efforts to control America's borders and free up
jobs for legal residents and citizens.

It would be "unwise for INS to spend the money we're spending on the southwest
border and then ignore those people who manage to beat that system" and make
their way north, Ferro said.

Nutech lost almost all its workers, but before they left, the employees peppered
the factory walls with small, hand-printed signs. They read: "Nos vamos pero no
para siempre" -- "We're gone but not forever."

The Citizenship Test

Sajeeda Hairat had no need of fake documents when she settled in Springfield. As
a refugee from Afghanistan, she was entitled to a green card. More than 350,000
legal immigrants have moved to the Washington area since the early 1980s.

But in 1995, she became embroiled in a nationwide citizenship fraud scheme,
according to her testimony and documents filed in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria.

At that time, the INS's efforts to cope with a growing backlog of citizenship
applications had left the process open to corruption. Naturalization requests
more than doubled between 1994 and 1996 to nearly 1.28 million nationwide, and
the wait stretched from months to years.

Many longtime residents were frightened by growing anti-immigration sentiment.
California voters had just passed Proposition 187 -- which ended medical and
educational benefits to illegal immigrants -- and Congress was considering
limiting welfare for noncitizens.

"There was a broad concern on the part of immigrants that Americans were
tightening up on the rules . . . and they ought to become citizens so they
aren't vulnerable," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington.

Like many immigrants, Hairat, who declined to be interviewed, began thinking
about seeking citizenship. She speaks "a little" English, according to her court
testimony, which was translated from her native language of Dari by an
interpreter, but a written test in English was a significant barrier.

Then a cable television commercial -- in Dari -- offered a solution. The
advertisement told immigrants to call a telephone number if they wanted to
"pass" the citizenship test, according to court documents.

When Hairat asked around, she learned the company behind the ad was connected to
the Afghan Restaurant in Alexandria, where she used to eat regularly, she
testified.

The company was an INS subcontractor, hired to help the beleaguered agency
process the growing backlog of citizenship applications. Dozens of little groups
with ties to various ethnic communities signed up to administer the written
civics test, and many of them, investigators learned later, were open to fraud.

At the restaurant, Hairat testified, three organizers told her "we will get you
your citizenship." Her husband paid the restaurant owner, Qasim Abbasi, $ 300 in
cash for a test that ordinarily costs $ 37 to take, and they were told to go to
the Doubletree Hotel in Arlington.

Once there, Hairat testified, she was given an answer sheet to fill out. She put
down her name and address but could answer "very little" else.

"I told [Abbasi] that I couldn't answer this thing," she said in court. Hairat
said she left most of the paper blank, because Abbasi had told her he "would
take care of the rest."

Then, Hairat testified, "they told us, 'They will send you a letter by mail and
you'll get your citizenship.' "

Instead, the INS grew suspicious when applicants who passed a written exam were
unable to speak English during an oral exam.

Hairat never became a citizen. Abbasi, 33, and three other conspirators were
arrested in March and later pleaded guilty to naturalization fraud.

Some lawyers and activists say the increase in fraud cases illustrates that a
tighter immigration system will not discourage people attracted by a more
prosperous life in America.

"The U.S. Congress pretends that, by passing all these Draconian laws, they're
going to stop the flow of all these people into the United States," said Jose
Pertierra, a District immigration lawyer.

"People find a way around it," Pertierra said. "The marketplace is what's
controlling immigration, not the law."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, michael williamson; Photo, marvin joseph, Esperanza Guzman
counts friends detained in a raid at a Hyattsville laundry. Behind her is a
shrine to Mexico's patron saint.  Some immigrants pay for fake residence cards
and other documents.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              27 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 20, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Couple Sentenced for Smuggling Immigrants

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07; CRIME & JUSTICE:VIRGINIA

LENGTH: 296 words


A couple convicted of running a Mexican immigrant smuggling ring were sentenced
yesterday to more than three years in federal prison in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria.

Leticia Hernandez-Castro, 31, was sentenced to 46 months in prison and two years
of supervised release. Her husband, Sergio Gonzalez, 25, was sentenced to 41
months' imprisonment and two years of supervised release.

Upon completing their prison sentences, both will be turned over to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service to be deported to Mexico, Judge Albert V.
Bryan Jr. said. Neither has legal residence status in the United States.

The two were convicted in September on federal charges of conspiracy and seven
counts of transporting illegal Mexican immigrants from Texas to Virginia and
other East Coast states. The couple helped run North Van Tours, a Houston-based
passenger van line that prosecutors said transported more than 23,000 illegal
immigrants to East Coast jobs from July 1995 to June 1997. The founders of the
company, another couple, also were charged in the case but are fugitives
believed to be living in Mexico.

Testimony during the trial showed that Gonzalez and his wife paid a fee to
"coyotes" -- guides who smuggle illegal immigrants across the Mexican border --
to bring the immigrants to Houston. From there, the immigrants were transported
to various cities from Florida to New York and often left with labor contractors
who had ordered the workers from North Van Tours.

The van service, called a camioneta, is one of a number of small bus companies
that transport illegal immigrants from Texas to areas that use migrant labor,
federal prosecutors contend. The convictions are believed to be the first in the
nation of a camioneta van line.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              28 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 08, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Woman Who Enslaved Deaf Aliens Is Jailed

Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, May 7


A Dickensian tale of deaf and mute immigrants smuggled into the United States
and forced into slavery concluded today when the head of the alien smuggling
ring, herself deaf and mute, was sentenced to 14 years in prison and ordered to
pay $ 1 million in restitution to 50 of her victims.

The victims were illegal Mexican immigrants who for nearly five years sold
trinkets on New York subways and who were sometimes tortured with electric stun
guns unless they met sales quotas. They remain in detention in a motel in the
borough of Queens. They have 11 children with them, including three born in
detention.

The federal government has suggested the victims may be given special visas to
stay in the United States. A federal judge in Brooklyn today ordered that the
destitute aliens divide the $ 1 million restitution payment, with most of them
receiving between $ 10,000 and $ 25,000. Seventeen other defendants have pleaded
guilty in the case and many will likely be ordered to pay restitution also.

The alien smuggling ring, which also had operations in Chicago and Los Angeles,
was exposed last July when four deaf Mexicans walked into a Queens police
station and managed to communicate that they were being forced to work for no
pay and were subject to frequent physical abuse.

The acknowledged leader of the ring is Adriana Paoletti Lemus, 29, who last
December pleaded guilty to operating a slave trade, money laundering, alien
smuggling and obstruction of justice. She admitted then and today that she used
a stun gun on one of the Mexicans. She has said her workers often were jolted
with electricity -- on her orders -- when they did not meet their $ 600-a-week
sales quotas.

Lemus is one of three children -- all of them deaf -- in a Mexico City family
that federal officials say ran a trinket-peddling business in Mexico for
decades. The family business shifted to the United States in the early 1990s,
officials say, as Adriana and her two brothers funneled an estimated $ 4 million
south to their parents, Paoletti Moreda and Delia Paoletti Lemus-Ruiz. Federal
officials are trying to extradite the father from Mexico, while the mother, who
turned state's evidence against Adriana, was sentenced here today on lesser
charges.

Speaking through a sign-language interpreter, Lemus, a diminutive woman with
long brown hair who was dressed in pale blue prison fatigues, asked U.S.
District Judge Nina Gershon for leniency "because I have children and I miss
them terribly and I want to see them."

Her lawyer, Bernard Udell, argued that the federal government had "seriously
overstated" the brutality of the conditions that Lemus imposed on the Mexicans
working in the trinket scheme. He said that on occasion they were free to shop
and go to the movies.

"This is not the concentration camp the government makes it out to be," Udell
said today before being interrupted by the judge.

"Nobody is using that term, counselor, except for you," said Gershon.

As described by Assistant U.S. Attorney Leslie Cornfeld and other lawyers
speaking for the immigrant victims, the period of coerced labor in Queens was
"five years in hell." The lawyers said the workers were beaten with pipes and
umbrellas, chained to radiators and beds, and routinely punished with
high-voltage stun guns, which caused welts, fainting and "extreme pain."

Cornfeld argued that Lemus's appeal for leniency based on a desire to see her
children rang false because she had not seen her children in the eight months
prior to the discovery of the smuggling ring, leaving them with relatives in
Mexico while she ran the trinket business in Queens.

Lemus had told the court she is destitute, but today the judge found that claim
"not to be supported by the facts." The judge ordered her to pay the full $ 1
million restitution by Oct. 1.

The U.S. government is "aggressively pursuing" bank accounts that are known to
be held in Mexico in Lemus's name and in the names of other defendants due to be
sentenced in coming days, according to the U.S. attorney's office.


LOAD-DATE: May 08, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, andrea shepard via afp, Alien smuggler and enslaver
Adriana Paoletti Lemus, right, and her mother, Delia Paoletti Lemus-Ruiz, face
U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              29 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 12, 1998, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Authorities Suspect Detained Ship Was Part of Alien-Smuggling Ring

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 630 words


Federal authorities have detained a Venezuelan-registered ship suspected of
aiding in smuggling 23 Chinese illegal immigrants who landed by mistake last
week in a wealthy seaside community in New Jersey, officials said yesterday.

The capture of the 120-foot fishing trawler indicated that the botched
alien-smuggling effort involving a small powerboat called the Oops II was
actually part of a larger operation to deliver Chinese illegally to U.S. shores.

U.S. officials identified the trawler as the "mother ship" that had transferred
the 23 Chinese to the powerboat, which then ran aground May 30 at Bay Head,
N.J., an enclave of million-dollar seafront homes about 50 miles south of New
York City. The larger ship, the Oriental I, was stopped by the U.S. Coast Guard
June 2 after it dropped off 24 undocumented passengers, all but one of them
Chinese, in the Bahamas, where they were taken into custody by Bahamian
authorities.

The incident and a separate case this week on Guam, a U.S. territory in the
Western Pacific, have raised concerns that Chinese alien smugglers are using
more varied techniques to move their human cargo to the U.S. mainland in what
the Immigration and Naturalization Service says is a multibillion-dollar
business involving international organized crime.

In the most celebrated Chinese smuggling case, a ship called the Golden Venture
ran aground off New York in 1993 with nearly 300 people on board. Most were
later deported, many of them after trying to claim political asylum based on
China's coercive birth-control policies. The Guam incident involved 69 Chinese
illegal aliens and six crew members who were caught by federal and local
officials Wednesday as a smuggling vessel was trying to land them on a beach.
U.S. officials said the crew had kept the passengers in shackles to maintain
order during the voyage. Smuggling rings typically charge Chinese $ 30,000 to $
40,000 to be smuggled to the United States.

The captain of the Oriental I is a South Korean with Venezuelan nationality, and
his seven-member crew appears to be Chinese, officials said. They and their ship
are being held by the Coast Guard pending an investigation of their links with
the Oops II.

The captain initially claimed he was delivering supplies to Korean fishing boats
in the area, but later acknowledged having been off the coast of New Jersey and
told investigators that the owner of the Oops II owes him money, officials
familiar with the case said. Bahamian authorities alerted the Coast Guard about
the Oriental I after capturing the illegal immigrants it had dropped off.

Shortly after the Oops II ran aground, police in Bay Head found its drenched
owner, a 38-year-old Korean resident of New York identified as Jason Choi,
standing at a phone booth. Initially they believed his story that he had become
lost in the fog on a fishing trip and had purposely beached his boat. State
troopers even gave him a ride to a motel.

But by the time local residents began calling in about dazed Chinese wandering
around their posh community, Choi had vanished. The 23 Chinese men, ranging in
age from 18 to 46, had apparently survived on water and a powdered protein
supplement for several days aboard the Oops II, a cabin cruiser built to
accommodate six to eight people.

Among the men is Wang Wudong, 46, a farmer and father of three from China's
Fujian Province who was one of the Golden Venture passengers. He unsuccessfully
sought political asylum, claiming that Chinese authorities had forced his wife
to abort their fourth child, and spent three years in INS detention before
giving up his legal fight and returning to China. Now he faces possible
prosecution for illegally reentering the United States after having been
deported.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 1998

CORRECTION: An article yesterday on the seizure of a Venezuelan-registered ship
suspected of smuggling Chinese immigrants into the United States incorrectly
reported when the ship was detained. The Coast Guard seized the ship on June 8.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              30 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 17, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S., Mexico Target Border Deaths; Initiative Aimed at Enforcement on
Alien-Smuggling Routes

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 613 words


The United States and Mexico announced a joint program yesterday to lower the
death toll along the border among people who try to cross it illegally,
including a U.S. offer of rewards for tips on alien smugglers, stepped-up air
patrols and posted warnings of hazardous terrain.

The border safety initiative also aims to centralize information about missing
persons and identify those who have died by setting up toll-free phone lines for
the relatives of illegal immigrants to call in the United States and Mexico,
officials from both countries said in Washington.

The program, developed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
cooperation with Mexico and local officials along the border, responds to
growing concerns about fatalities resulting from U.S. efforts to close off
traditional alien-smuggling routes.

Since the INS launched a series of border crackdowns in 1994, illegal immigrants
trying to sneak into the United States increasingly have been pushed away from
highly traveled routes near urban areas into remote regions marked by
treacherous rivers, rugged hills and harsh deserts. This has led to hundreds of
deaths from drowning and exposure and brought condemnation of the strategy from
immigrants' advocates and human rights groups on both sides of the 2,000-mile
border.

But the exact death toll remains unknown and it is far from clear whether
fatalities have increased since the border crackdowns, U.S. and Mexican
officials say. While deaths of illegal immigrants have risen in remote areas,
they have declined in more populated places where border-crossers had previously
been killed in assaults by bandits or while running across busy highways, the
officials said.

A 1997 study found that about 300 people a year died while trying to cross the
border from 1993 to 1996, said Nestor Rodriguez, director of the Center for
Immigration Research at the University of Houston. However, he said, no
estimates are available for prior years and, as a result, "we don't know that
the deaths are either increasing or decreasing."

Doris M. Meissner, the INS commissioner, blamed border deaths largely on
"ruthless smugglers who put profits before people."

Instead of safely taking illegal immigrants across the border in return for fees
of several hundred dollars each, they often lead their charges into dangerous
areas, then abandon them.

"It is not our border strategy that creates danger at the border," but smuggling
and a lack of sufficient U.S. control, Meissner said. She said the program would
be funded from existing resources intended to tighten control of the border.

Making a rare appearance alongside the INS chief at a press conference yesterday
was Mexico's ambassador, Jesus Reyes-Heroles, who agreed that smuggling
organizations represent "an evil for all" and a "big danger to the physical
safety of our nationals." He said Mexico is participating in the program out of
"moral responsibility" to inform Mexicans of the dangers along the border.

Under the plan, the U.S. Civil Air Patrol, which provides emergency services to
various organizations, is to fly daily missions starting this summer over
deserts, prairies and mountains in California, Arizona and Texas. If the pilots
spot anyone in distress, they are to notify the Border Patrol so that its agents
can mount a rescue mission. But the Civil Air Patrol will not report illegal
migrants if they are not in danger, INS officials said.

The INS plans to offer rewards of $ 2,500 to $ 5,000 for tips leading to the
arrest or indictment of smugglers who guide people to dangerous crossing points,
said Gustavo de la Vina, the chief of the Border Patrol.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              31 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 25, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

In Calif. Desert, Illegal Immigrants' Survival Becomes Prime Concern

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 24


After searching for hours in 100-degree desert heat for 30 illegal immigrants
who crossed from Mexico, U.S. Border Patrol agents breathed a sigh of relief
when the group eluded the manhunt and got away -- presumably to vanish among the
thousands of undocumented immigrants in California.

The agents were relieved instead of outraged because the smuggled immigrants,
who included women and children, had wandered across a U.S. Navy bombing range
without getting blown up, survived being stranded under a scorching sun when
their two vehicles broke down, and made it through some of the harshest desert
terrain in the United States without dying of dehydration or exposure.

"For us, it was a case of good news and bad news. They made it out alive, which
was the good news, but the bad news was that they apparently are still in the
hands of the smugglers who brought them across," said Bill Strassberger,
spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Strassberger was referring to the Mexican "coyotes" who charge as much as $
1,000 a head to guide groups of undocumented immigrants across the border and --
if they do not abandon them without water in the desert -- often hold them
captive in safe houses in the Los Angeles area until they work off their
transport fees.

This week's incident, near the rugged Chocolate Mountains that straddle the
California-Arizona border about 80 miles east of San Diego, was typical of what
immigration officials say is a growing menace that has arisen out of the
successful Operation Gatekeeper campaign that began in 1994 farther west in San
Diego County.

With heavy steel fences and intensified 24-hour patrols, that program has pushed
illegal border crossers away from highly traveled routes near urban areas into
the remote and treacherous desert, leading to hundreds of deaths from exposure
and dehydration in the harsh wasteland and rugged mountains of southeastern
California.

San Diego has dropped from 43 percent of border apprehensions nationwide to 20
percent. But crossing points farther east took up the slack and immigrants
quickly began the more perilous desert crossings, Border Patrol officials say.

A 1997 study by the University of Houston's Center for Immigration Research
found that about 300 people a year died while trying to cross the border from
1993 to 1996. But because estimates are not available for earlier years, it is
impossible to determine if the annual number of deaths is increasing.

The United States and Mexico announced a joint program on June 16 to lower the
death rate along the border, including rewards offered for tips on smugglers,
stepped-up air patrols and warning signs for hazardous terrain. The safety
initiative also set up toll-free lines for the relatives of illegal immigrants
to call in the United States and Mexico to report missing persons.

Strassberger said that while the bodies of illegal immigrants are found in the
desert fairly frequently, accurate figures of fatalities remain elusive because
many victims are never found. "How do you know someone's died if you never find
him?" he asked.

Authorities launched an air and ground search early Tuesday after two
undocumented immigrants staggered out of the desert and called for help on an
emergency telephone on Interstate 10, near Red Cloud in Imperial County.
Strassberger said the two men were in "pretty bad shape" from dehydration and
one of them had been badly beaten by the smugglers because, he said, the group
was not moving fast enough.

El Centro Border Patrol Chief Thomas Wacker said the search centered on the
Chocolate Mountain Naval Gunnery Range, which is not normally patrolled for
illegal immigrants because of the danger of bombardment by Marine Corps
aircraft. Wacker said the area is known for immigrant smuggling operations that
take advantage of the lack of regular Border Patrol coverage to avoid
checkpoints on Highways 111 and 86.

According to Strassberger, Border Patrol aircraft spotted an abandoned pickup
truck on one of the dirt tracks that cross the bombing range and then found an
out-of-fuel van with footprints, indicating the 30 immigrants walked to a point
three miles south of Interstate 10. There they apparently were met by another
vehicle, whose tracks led to the highway and, presumably, north to Los Angeles,
officials said.


LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,MICHAEL WILLIAMSON; MAP,,LARRY FOGEL, Agents on horseback in
California search for illegal immigrants on a ridgeline near the Mexican border.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              32 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 10, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Illegal Workers Arrested at Chicken Plant

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 129 words


Forty illegal immigrants, some as young as 13, were arrested yesterday at an
Eastern Shore chicken processing plant, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service said.

INS agents executed a warrant at the Chestertown Foods plant about 10 a.m. with
the assistance of Maryland State Police. Of the 40 illegal workers detained, 16
are ages 13 to 17.

A spokesman for the agency said the illegal workers were believed to all be
Mexican or Guatemalan. They were to be held at the Wicomico County Detention
Center.

An investigation of Chestertown Foods will continue to determine if there have
been violations of the Immigration Reform and Control Act, the INS said.
Penalties for knowingly hiring an unauthorized worker can range from $ 250 to $
2,000 a worker.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              33 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 31, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

19 Immigrants Arrested at Construction Site

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C08; CRIME & JUSTICE: MARYLAND

LENGTH: 80 words


Nineteen illegal workers were arrested yesterday in a raid on a construction
site at a U.S. Naval Academy construction site in Wicomico County, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said. The workers, mostly Latino men aged
24 to 50, were employed by contractor Whiting-Turner and several subcontractors,
INS spokesman John Ingham said.

The men were being held at the Wicomico County Detention Center until their
hearings before an immigration judge, Ingham said.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              34 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 14, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

INS Seeks to Fine Eastern Shore Business

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03; METRO IN BRIEF: MARYLAND

LENGTH: 122 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service notified an Eastern Shore nursery
yesterday that the agency intends to fine the company $ 44,900 for hiring 26
undocumented workers.

Angelica Nurseries, of Kennedyville, Md., has 30 days to request a hearing to
answer charges contained in the legal notice. If the company does not, the fine
becomes automatic.

The notice is the result of an INS raid in September 1996 that resulted in the
arrest of 87 undocumented workers at Angelica Nurseries. INS agents say they
have evidence that the company knowingly hired 26 of the workers in violation of
federal law. Since 1991, the agency has punished more than 290 Maryland
employers, with total fines exceeding $ 2.5 million.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              35 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 05, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Accused of Targeting Latinos in Recent Raids; Activists Speak Out in Wake of
Arrests of Suspected Undocumented Workers at Bethesda Cafe

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 656 words


Allegra Foley said she was setting up luncheon tables at the Thyme Square Cafe
in Bethesda last Thursday when a group of men in jeans and casual jackets burst
in. According to Foley, they headed straight for the kitchen, questioned a
number of Latinos working there, handcuffed six and took them away.

"It was very traumatic. . . . It was like losing a chunk of our family," the
24-year-old waitress said yesterday during a news conference held by numerous
Latino and immigrant advocacy groups to protest a series of raids by federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service agents looking for undocumented workers.

As Foley spoke, another waitress at Thyme Square, Cathy Fotos, 25, wept angrily
beside her.

The groups said they do not object to the INS detaining individuals who are in
the United States illegally, but they criticized the agency's methods, saying it
has been singling out Latino workers for questioning and not giving full rights
to those who are detained as suspected illegal workers.

"This is America, the land of the free," said Alvin Rivera, acting chairman of
the Latino Civil Rights Task Force of Montgomery County. "Targeting Latinos
based on what we look like is not immigration enforcement. It is harassment that
violates our civil rights. This kind of abuse must stop."

Ana Sol Gutierrez, chairwoman of Casa de Maryland, a nonprofit service
organization for Latinos, complained that one woman arrested at Thyme Square was
not allowed to call her 2-year-old child's babysitter, that bond was set too
high for those arrested and that their families have not been allowed to see
them.

"The detainees would never dare speak up, their families would never dare come
here and complain. It's up to us," said Gutierrez, who represents Bethesda-Chevy
Chase on the Montgomery County school board and was one of 13 people to speak at
the news conference held at the Montgomery County Executive Office Building in
Rockville.

Yesterday, a spokesman for County Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D) said Duncan is
"very concerned about what appears to be the targeting of Latinos in raids." He
said that Duncan has met with INS officials to raise his concerns and that he
plans to work with Maryland's congressional members "to get some answers."

Immigration officials said yesterday that they do not discriminate against
Latinos and that INS agents are instructed to question every employee they find,
regardless of appearance, when sent on a workplace raid. Officials also said
that detainees are allowed to make phone calls, including calls to relatives to
bring detainees' green cards if they claim to be legal.

"Our policy is clearly that when we go into a workplace we talk to all the
employees, but that can take different forms and amounts of time," said Benedict
Ferro, the INS district director in Baltimore. "I can understand that [the
protesting groups] think we are focusing on Hispanics, but our workload is not
generated accidentally. It reflects the [immigrant] population in the area."

Ferro said that he welcomed inquiries about any alleged abuses but that he had
not received any specific allegations of problems during a series of workplace
raids in the Maryland suburbs over the last several months.

"We have not intensified our interest in Montgomery County," he said. "There is
a large illegal community in this area, and discouraging employers from
knowingly hiring them is one of the agency's top priorities."

At Thyme Square, INS agents detained three men and three women, all of whom were
found to be illegal immigrants, Ferro said. Another man was arrested at the home
of a detained worker. The detainees were from Mexico, El Salvador, Honduras and
Chile. Bond for each of the seven was set at $ 5,000. One woman has posted bond.
The others are being held in lieu of bond until they appear before an
immigration judge, which could take weeks or even months.


LOAD-DATE: February 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, tom allen, Ana Sol Gutierrez, above, a Montgomery County school
board member, addresses issue of INS raids at a news conference. Left, Allegra
Foley, 24, who also spoke at the news conference, was setting up tables at the
Thyme Square Cafe in Bethesda last week when federal agents arrested six
workers.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              36 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 06, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

INS Arrests 15 Latinos in Pr. George's; Raid Comes One Day After Hispanic
Protest

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D05

LENGTH: 464 words


Federal agents arrested 15 suspected undocumented workers, all of them Hispanic,
at a Prince George's County construction site yesterday. The raid came less than
24 hours after local immigrant advocacy groups accused the Immigration and
Naturalization Service of targeting Latino workers.

In the morning raid at the Naval Surface Warfare Center on Powder Mill Road near
White Oak, INS agents arrested nine workers from Mexico, five from El Salvador
and one from Honduras. Fourteen were being held late yesterday in lieu of $
5,000 bond each pending deportation and other proceedings. The 15th, a minor,
was released to his sister.

At their news conference Wednesday, immigrant advocacy leaders protested recent
INS raids in the area, saying agents singled out Latinos for questioning and
denied them full rights accorded to detained workers.

INS officials again denied yesterday that their arrests are selective, noting
that they rely heavily on anonymous tips about possible undocumented workers and
have little control over what groups they focus on.

In yesterday's raid, officials said, agents went to the construction site as
about 60 workers arrived between 5:30 a.m. and 7 a.m.

INS spokesman John Shallman said the agents followed routine procedure and
questioned all 60 workers -- not just those who appeared to be Latino -- and
asked them to produce proof of U.S. citizenship or legal immigrant status.

Among those questioned, Shallman said, were workers from India, Italy and
Bangladesh, and others from Latin American countries, all of whom were able to
produce documents showing legal status.

One Latino worker, who did not have his papers, was allowed to go home during
his lunch break and retrieve them after agents verified his legal status by a
computer check, Shallman said.

"We always give them an opportunity to get documentation from home while they're
still at the work site and before we take them to a detention center," said
Benedict Ferro, the INS director for the Washington-Baltimore area.

Shallman said 13 of the 15 workers detained yesterday were employees of Burjon
Construction of Maryland, in Forrestville. They were doing "dry wall-related
work" at pay ranging from $ 5 to $ 22 an hour, he said. A Burjon representative
declined to comment.

Two other workers were described by the INS as employees of Bettinger Interiors
Co., of Columbia. However, Bettinger installation manager Jim Klipp said the two
were employed by a subcontractor to install flooring. Owners of the
subcontractor, Sublett Interiors, could not be reached by telephone yesterday.

Ferro said the employers are subject to an investigation into whether they
knowingly hired undocumented workers and could face fines of up to $ 2,000 per
illegal worker.

LOAD-DATE: February 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              37 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 09, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Arrests 39 Mexicans at Construction Site

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D07; CRIME AND JUSTICE: VIRGINIA

LENGTH: 198 words


Immigration and Naturalization Service agents arrested 39 Mexicans yesterday
believed to be undocumented workers at a Fredericksburg, Va., construction site.

The work site raid was prompted by a tip, said James Goldman, deputy director
for investigations of the Washington District Office.

Thirty-six of those arrested chose to take voluntary departure, Goldman said,
which means they agreed to be sent back to Mexico immediately by bus or plane.
Two of the workers asked for deportation hearings before an INS administrative
judge. All of the employees were men, ages 18 to 57, who were making $ 7.75 to $
10 an hour working as framers and roofers, according to the INS.

INS spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs said the agency is trying to determine exactly
which company the employees worked for. Several construction contractors and
subcontractors were working on the site, where several housing complexes are
being built. An investigation is continuing into whether the companies hired any
undocumented workers intentionally, a violation of federal law. An audit of the
immigration documents employers are required to obtain from their workers will
be conducted this week.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              38 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 02, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Nanny, Charity Issues Eating Up Calif. Screens

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 764 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 1


It is not just the big issues that California candidates have been talking
about: the legality of her former nanny has been a hot topic for Rep. Jane
Harman (Calif.), running for Democratic gubernatorial nomination, while
Republican Darrell Issa, running for his party's Senate nomination, has been
clarifying just how much he gave to charity.

Republicans have been energetic in pointing out that Harman, who has been dogged
by allegations that she illegally hired a British nanny without working papers
in 1989, recommended criminal penalties against employers who hire illegal
immigrants when she worked on a White House task force on undocumented workers.

Republican National Committee chairman Jim Nicholson recently faxed to reporters
a two-page 1977 memo written in part by Harman when she was Cabinet secretary in
the Carter administration. The memo briefed President Jimmy Carter on proposed
legislation aimed at curbing illegal immigration and recommended "appropriate
sanctions on employers who hire undocumented workers."

A law with similar provisions was enacted in 1986, three years before Harman
hired a nanny whom she has since said she believed was in the United States
legally but was awaiting official clearance to work. Although Harman was never
prosecuted, federal officials have said it would have been a violation of the
immigration law to employ an undocumented worker before the application process
was complete.

Harman has fended off allegations about the nanny since entering Congress in
1993 by asserting that she was unfamiliar with the details of the immigration
law and had relied on an attorney to handle details of the matter.

Nicholson said the memo shows that Harman, far from being unfamiliar with the
law, was an "expert" who had advised the president on immigration policy. She
"hired an undocumented alien to work in her nursery after recommending criminal
sanctions against other employers who did the same thing," Nicholson said.

Kam Kuwata, Harman's campaign manager, said the 1977 memo was irrelevant to the
issue of her hiring the nanny 12 years later. "All this memo tells me is that
when she worked in the White House, she was part of the group that discussed
immigration law," he said.

Millionaire businessman Al Checchi, who is opposing Harman for the Democratic
nomination in the June 2 primary, seized on the memo in what is becoming a very
negative campaign. His aides faxed to reporters a wire service account of the
1977 memo and Nicholson's allegations and noted that the RNC chairman had said,
"We don't need another liberal hypocrite as governor of California, another
person who believes she is above the law." The Checchi press release added,
"Hey, Jim, you better watch it! Jane's no liberal."

The increasingly negative tenor of the campaign -- reflected in several new
television ads -- appears to be having an impact on voters. Checchi has spent
more than $ 20 million on TV advertising, including a recent round of spots
criticizing Harman for her low attendance record in Congress. Many analysts
believe the attacks hurt Harman. But the beneficiary has been the third
Democratic candidate, Lt. Gov. Gray Davis, who leads in the Field poll released
this week with 19 percent. Checchi has 17 percent and Harman 11 percent in the
poll.

In last month's Field Poll, Checchi and Harman were tied for first place at 19
percent, with Davis far behind at 11 percent.

Davis, who only recently went on the air, is attempting to turn his lack of
money into an asset. His new ads conclude: "Experience money can't buy."

Meanwhile, in the California race for the Republican Senate nomination, Issa, a
San Diego millionaire businessman, is being accused by GOP opponent and state
Treasurer Matt Fong of exaggerating his contributions to a Roman Catholic
charity, St. Vincent de Paul.

Issa, who has spent nearly $ 10 million of his own funds in his bid to challenge
Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) in November, answered a voter's question about how
he was fighting drug abuse by saying at a Sacramento campaign event that he has
been "very active" with the Catholic organization.

Not exactly. Officials of the San Diego chapter of St. Vincent de Paul said that
Issa, whose personal fortune is estimated at $ 200 million, had contributed only
small amounts of money and had not given time to the charity. Fong, who is
trailing Issa in the most recent polls, said in a statement, "I find it truly
shocking that Darrell Issa, a candidate for the U.S. Senate, would lie about
being involved in charity work."

LOAD-DATE: May 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              39 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 30, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Criticism Prompts INS to Make New Rules For Work Site Raids; Some Fear
Guidelines Will Limit Enforcement Capability

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 576 words


Responding to public criticism of recent work site raids, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is introducing new procedures aimed at bringing these
operations under tighter control.

But critics within the agency say the guidelines represent a knuckling under to
special-interest groups and are likely to cripple agents' ability to mount
effective work site raids.

Under the new instructions, INS offices must issue warnings before raiding
employers suspected of employing illegal aliens "unknowingly," obtain formal
approval for raids from INS headquarters or regional offices, bring along
"community liaison officers" and "avoid contentious circumstances" such as
operations at restaurants during lunch or dinner.

According to Michael Pearson, the INS field operations chief, the procedures
address complaints by Congress and other groups, and will promote consistency
and incorporate the "best practices" of various offices.

Some district officials fear the real result will be to hamper enforcement
efforts.

"If you have reason to go into a place, you don't go in and give them a
warning," one official said. "That's just not law enforcement."

"It's very frustrating to the enforcement people," another INS official said. He
said the new procedures, which include a number of reporting requirements,
diminish the agency's ability to react quickly to tips on illegal workers.

Several INS officials said the agency's action stemmed largely from complaints
to Attorney General Janet Reno about a raid in April on a Miami flower
wholesaler. Community activists charged that armed INS agents, clad in black,
stormed into the firm's warehouse, shoving and shouting orders at workers. Some
complained they were ordered to sit on a wet floor and held in a refrigerated
room where flowers are stored.

One woman, a legal resident, said an agent grabbed her by the hair, threw her
down and kicked her. A pregnant worker reportedly fainted after being shoved to
the ground.

Of 23 workers sent to an INS detention center, 11 turned out to be legal
immigrants or eligible for work permits under a new law. Among those detained
were citizens of Nicaragua, Honduras, Colombia, Peru and Chile. Two other
employees were arrested on assault charges following a melee in which they tried
to prevent the detention of their co-workers.

Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas and immigrants' rights groups denounced the
raid, and Latino activists staged public demonstrations. In one, several
protesters wearing Ku Klux Klan robes with "INS" written on the hoods picketed
in front of the agency's Miami office.

Reno, who is from Miami, received an earful about the raid from local officials,
and the Justice Department opened an investigation into possible civil rights
violations.

Pearson said he did not know whether the allegations were true, but he "wasn't
pleased" with the raid because it generated "a lot of bad press" and "public
perceptions that we questioned some people illegally." He said his guidelines
are not intended to impede raids, but to ensure that they are conducted
effectively "in a way that garners public support."

INS officials critical of the rules said they reflect pressure from business and
immigrant advocacy groups that oppose any real work site enforcement.

"We now have a bleeding-heart attitude dictating the enforcement side of the
house to a point that makes it absurd," one official complained.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              40 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 14, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

The Central American Refugees

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 392 words


ATTORNEY GENERAL Janet Reno has stepped in to challenge a ruling that could
break an implicit bargain the United States made with Central American refugees
in the 1980s and send thousands of them out of the country after years of living
in limbo.

The particular issue is whether refugees who fled the wars in Nicaragua and El
Salvador should get credit for years spent awaiting adjudication for permanent
status. Last year's immigration law, as interpreted by the Justice Department's
Board of Immigration Appeal, imposed harsher requirements on refugees seeking to
avoid deportation. Previously, relief was given to those who had lived here for
seven years, were of good moral character and who would suffer hardship if they
were returned to their native countries. The new law lengthened the requirement
to 10 years, defined "hardship" more stringently and implied that applicants who
had received a deportation order before the law's April 1 effective date could
not count the time awaiting a ruling as part of their 10 years in the country.
It is this "retroactivity" issue that the Clinton administration is bucking,
administratively now and later through legislation.

What must be remembered is that many of these refugees are in the United States
because of special asylum and status-review programs set up for victims of civil
wars in which U.S. foreign policy interests were intimately bound. That is why
the attorney general's action drew applause from House Speaker Newt Gingrich and
other backers of Reagan-era Central American policy. Opponents, such as Rep.
Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), architect of much of last year's immigration crackdown,
view Ms. Reno's challenge as a bow to Central American leaders who implored
President Clinton not to send deportees back to strain their economies.

Moreover, immigration adjudication needs to be humane as well as efficient.
Applications for permanent status can drag on for years, during which time the
foreign resident sinks roots, starts a family, launches a business or develops a
serious medical problem. Applying some human understanding to the travails of
foreign residents whose applications are "in the pipeline" need not guarantee an
excess of permanent residency by those who should be temporary. It simply allows
a fairer transition while the decision process creaks along.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              41 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 16, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Swastika-Painter Jailed by INS      ; Swastika-Painter Jailed by INS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 163 words


A man suspected of painting swastikas at more than 100 locations throughout the
District in recent years has been jailed by immigration authorities and faces
deportation to his native Canada, officials said yesterday.

Esededeea Aesfyza, 47, was arrested Monday at D.C. Superior Court, where he was
to stand trial on one count of defacing public property. Prosecutors dropped the
charge knowing that agents with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
planned to arrest Aesfyza as soon as he left the courtroom. Prosecutors
discovered as they prepared for the trial that Aesfyza was living illegally in
the United States, authorities said.

Aesfyza, who told court authorities he is homeless, was arrested in March after
a D.C. police officer saw him spray-painting a swastika on a traffic control
signal box near Capitol Hill, prosecutors said. He has been convicted twice of
similar offenses, serving six-month jail sentences in 1994 and again last year.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              42 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 16, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

GAO Says INS Failing To Deport Criminals

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE; IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 401 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service came under criticism from Congress
and the General Accounting Office yesterday for failing to deport thousands of
foreign criminals who were subject to expulsion after serving their U.S. prison
sentences.

Instead, many have been released in the United States, and some have then
committed new crimes, according to a GAO report issued at a hearing of the House
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.

The report examined the Justice Department's 10-year-old Institutional Hearing
Program, which is designed to identify deportable foreign-born criminals while
they are in U.S. federal or state prisons and expel them once they finish their
sentences.

"Since 1994, less than 30 percent of the eligible criminal aliens have actually
been removed" under the program, said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), the
subcommittee chairman. As a result, the INS has had to spend more than $ 60
million a year to detain many of those convicts again when they complete their
prison terms and, worse, "thousands of criminal aliens are released into
American communities and neighborhoods," Smith said.

In the second half of fiscal 1995, the GAO study said, nearly 2,000 foreign
criminals were released into U.S. communities because the program failed to
identify them.

The INS responded that the program has improved since receiving new resources
and that deportations under it rose 37 percent in the first half of this fiscal
year from the same period last year.

Although the INS has accepted the GAO's recommendations for improving the
program, the report's numbers are flawed, an INS spokesman said. The study
identified as deportable some prisoners who were not, he said, because they were
released before Congress expanded the categories of criminal aliens subject to
expulsion. In addition, he said, the program is designed to identify deportable
foreigners when they enter prison, and some of those counted by the GAO upon
release were originally jailed years before the program was expanded.

According to Smith, more than 110,000 foreign-born convicts are in U.S. state
and federal jails, and their numbers are rising by about 50,000 a year. Of those
prisoners, about 80 percent are subject to deportation, most of them because
they were in the United States illegally before committing the crimes for which
they were jailed.  -- William Branigin


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, SMITH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              43 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 24, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Judge Orders INS to Release Jailed Russian

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 763 words


A Russian former banker, jailed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
since his arrest in Washington a year ago, was ordered released by a federal
judge in Alexandria late Tuesday after a former INS prosecutor and a former
Soviet KGB agent testified that they had serious doubts about the case against
him.

Alexandre Konanykhine (Koh-nen-EE-kin), a onetime jet-setting financier whom
Russian authorities have accused of embezzling $ 8 million from a Moscow bank,
was allowed to return to his Northwest Washington apartment yesterday with an
electronic monitor on his ankle until his immigration case is resolved.

In their testimony, former INS prosecutor Antoinette Rizzi and former KGB agent
Yuri Shvets said they had previously raised questions about the legitimacy of
Russian documents the INS used against Konanykhine. Their concerns, they said,
were ignored by other officials in the INS Arlington office, including District
Counsel Eloise Rosas.

Rizzi testified that Rosas had misled the court by denying that the INS intended
to deport him to Russia. And Shvets testified that the INS had ignored his
opinion that the Russian government's case against Konanykhine was actually a
KGB scheme.

"Congress did not intend for foreign powers to pull the strings" of immigration
procedures, U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III said tersely Tuesday night after
listening to both witnesses. "I was repeatedly assured that there was no desire
by the INS to deliver Mr. Konanykhine to Russia. . . . We're going to get to the
bottom of this."

Immigration officials, in a statement released yesterday, said the INS has
"complete confidence in its case against Mr. Konanykhine and strongly believes
that all of its actions in this case have been proper and legitimate. The
government has no reason to doubt the reliability of the documents presented in
this case."

In an unusual joint operation between U.S. and Russian officials, Konanykhine
was arrested in June 1996 at his Watergate apartment, charged with visa fraud
and held without bond. At his deportation hearing the following month before an
immigration judge in Arlington, INS prosecutors led by Rizzi used documents and
witnesses from Russia to show that he had lied about his business visa and that
he was a fugitive from Russian justice who should be deported.

At the time of the hearing, the INS testified that it was eager to cooperate
with Russian authorities in a fledgling joint law enforcement effort, of which
the request to return Konanykhine was an early example.

Konanykhine, now 30, testified during his hearing that he was the victim of a
plot by former KGB agents and mobsters who had seized control of his financial
enterprises. He said the Russian military prosecutor, in league with his
enemies, sought to punish him for protesting to higher authorities.

The immigration judge ruled against Konanykhine, who had remained in custody
ever since, filing numerous appeals against INS attempts to deport him. The
federal court hearing this week was on his petition to be released.

Rizzi also testified yesterday that Rosas told her to alter affidavits used in
the case against Konanykhine and had overruled her growing suspicions about the
information supplied by Moscow. Rizzi, now practicing law in Falls Church, said
she was forced to resign in October because of her opposition to the case.

"I am torn between both sides," Rizzi said, testifying under subpoena after INS
officials said she was not authorized to discuss the case. "I have obligations .
. . to be truthful with the court if I believe the court has been deceived."

In cross-examination, INS prosecutors suggested to Rizzi that she had been asked
to resign because she had tax problems with the IRS, that she had a vendetta
against her former boss and that she had improper contacts with Konanykhine's
lawyers.

Shvets, a former Soviet agent who lives here under political asylum, also
testified under subpoena. He said that the INS asked him to examine numerous
Russian documents and that he saw many signs that they had been manipulated, as
well as "strong indications" that the case against Konanykhine was a "classic
KGB operation" to cover up larger financial crimes.

But when Shvets reported those findings to INS officials, he said, they showed
no interest and told him not to file a written report. INS prosecutors, in
cross-examination, suggested to Shvets that he had no real expertise in document
analysis and that he had provided them with no specific examples of faulty
Russian papers.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Alexandre Konanykhine is accused of embezzling from
a Moscow bank.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              44 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 27, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Giuliani Envy

Mary McGrory

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C01; MARY MCGRORY

LENGTH: 798 words


It has not been a particularly marvelous week for the Republicans. In the House,
a small band of sophomores led a clownish abortive coup against Speaker Newt
Gingrich, inexplicably joined by Gingrich's top lieutenants. On the Senate side,
Republicans were on the defensive for the first time in the campaign finance
hearings, as former party chairman Haley Barbour tried to explain how Hong Kong
money made its way into GOP coffers in the 1994 congressional elections.

One of their number, however, was a class act. New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani
distinguished himself in his prompt and merciful dealing with the tragic
situation of a group of deaf-mute Mexican immigrants who were being enslaved in
Queens. The Mayor plunged into the thick of it and began defending the
defenseless. He saved the poor wretches from the clutches of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (deportation) and the NYPD (jail). He put them up in a
motel in the name of the compassionate people of New York City.

It was brilliant, and breathtaking. Citizens of the District of Columbia looked
on with envy of the deepest, most mordant sort.

His Honor acted without regard for the poor wretches' immigration status. He has
long since taken a position not endorsed by his fellow Republicans -- that
legal, or illegal immigrants are fellow members of the human race, to be helped
when they are in trouble. This may explain why Giuliani, who took hold of a city
regarded as ungovernable and has made it a nice place to live, is not often
mentioned in GOP circles as a candidate for national office.

While Giuliani was dealing with a real problem within his jurisdiction, our
mayor, Marion S. Barry Jr., was taking off for a summit in Zimbabwe. The mayor
of Washington was faced with his own crisis: Amid the mountain of luggage that
he and the District's first lady, Cora Masters Barry, took with them, one vital
piece was missing -- the one with his fancy African attire, kente cloth and all
that. Our mayor is a dandy.

Mayor Giuliani is always thinking about his city. He set out to restore morale,
pride and civility. He started out by tidying up the roadways from the airport
to Manhattan, a gesture to let people know that he wants to make a good first
impression on travelers. Our mayor cannot even keep up with the weeding of the
supposed flower beds in the middle of Connecticut Avenue.

Giuliani has tidied up Times Square, too. He is persuading New Yorkers that
politeness is okay, that "thank you" and "excuse me" are not signs of weakness.

Most spectacularly, he has presided over close to a 39 percent drop in New
York's major crime rate since 1993. He began small, instructing police to arrest
petty offenders, like turnstile jumpers. It turns out that people who commit
small crimes often commit larger ones. Washington is a different story. Despite
a huge police force, crime -- except for homicide -- is up.

There is no shaming Mayor Barry. Senators, who come here and recoil from the
Third-World conditions, berate him at every public rum they can find. He pays no
heed. They complain about dirty alleys, deep potholes and a general sense of
things being out of control. Major departments have been given over to
court-appointed receivers. Washington Post reporter Michael Powell, in a series
of articles last week about the diseased innards of D.C. government, showed once
again what everyone knows: Namely, that it isn't money that's wanting, it's
management. The financial control board has attempted to bring some order to the
District's finances, but the mayor still slips contracts to his buddies. The
government is not only overstaffed with trusty Barry voters, but top-heavy. The
police department and the public school system suffer from the same problem --
too many desk jobs. People who should be walking beats or teaching children are
shuffling papers.

Mayor Giuliani doubtless gives jobs to his friends, too. The difference seems to
be that in New York municipal workers are expected to pick up the garbage, keep
the traffic lights working, fill the potholes and give the time of day to
citizens who apply for permits and licenses.

Giuliani is not considered lovable. Critics call him a bully. He has a monster
ego, and he was petty and vindictive in forcing out Police Chief William Bratton
for no other visible reason than that the chief was getting more credit than he
was for the dramatic drop in the crime rate. D.C., at this point, would love a
bully like him.

Mayor Barry speaks coyly of running again. His record is abominable, but he will
play the race card again (the city is nearly 70 percent black) and we may be in
for another four years of misrule. It's the difference between having a real
mayor and one who only plays a mayor on TV.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              45 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 06, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Bipartisan Commission to Recommend End of INS, Dispersal of Its Functions

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 810 words


Citing a need to reorganize an agency beset by "mission overload," a bipartisan
commission plans to recommend that Congress abolish the 156-year-old Immigration
and Naturalization Service and disperse its functions across other government
agencies.

In a report to be published next month, the U.S. Commission on Immigration
Reform will advise breaking up the management of an immigration system that it
views as ill-designed to handle a huge influx of immigration in recent years and
an increasingly complex mission.

The recommendations are motivated by "longstanding structural problems" within
the INS, and not by a spate of failings and scandals that have plagued the
agency lately, said Lawrence H. Fuchs, one of the commission's nine members.
Although the agency's budget has grown more than fivefold and its staff has
doubled over the last decade, "a number of problems persist . . . and there are
some fundamental structural impediments to doing the job right," said Bruce A.
Morrison, another commissioner and a former Democratic congressman from
Connecticut.

The panel, appointed by Congress and the president in 1990 to advise legislators
on immigration issues, is scheduled to publish its fourth and final major report
before disbanding at the end of September.

The INS yesterday argued strongly against the recommendations, which were
reported yesterday in the New York Times. In a statement, the agency said its
basic functions of enforcing U.S. immigration laws and providing services to
applicants for immigration benefits "are complementary, not competitive," and
that the INS only in the last few years has begun to receive the resources it
needs to overcome a history of neglect.

"This recent investment by the American people is now beginning to pay off," the
statement said. "Breaking up the agency, which has been proposed frequently over
the years, would be needlessly expensive and duplicative, requiring other
federal agencies to build separate, new capacities."

While proposals to reorganize management of the U.S. immigration system have
surfaced periodically at least since the Truman administration, the increasing
complexity of that system and the immigration agency's troubles have combined to
raise the prospects for some kind of congressional action on the latest
recommendations, analysts said.

Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), who called for INS reforms in his first speech
as chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said yesterday,
"We should consider splitting the INS up into one enforcement agency and one
legal immigration agency to increase the efficiency of both."

According to a 20-page briefing paper that the commission has circulated in
Congress, some of the multiple government agencies that implement various
aspects of immigration laws, particularly the INS, "have so many priorities that
they have proved unable to manage all of them effectively." It added, "Such a
system is set up for failure and, with it, further loss of public confidence in
the U.S. immigration system."

"It really is mission overload," Fuchs said of the immigration service's
increased responsibilities in recent years. In addition to tightening border
control against illegal immigration, cracking down on alien smuggling,
increasing deportations and reducing unauthorized employment, the service has
been called upon to speed up naturalizations to cope with record numbers of
citizenship applicants and process historically high levels of immigrants.

The briefing paper said the commission would recommend consolidating within the
State, Justice and Labor departments the immigration system's four main
operations: border and interior enforcement, adjudication of visas and
immigration benefits, enforcement of immigration-related labor standards and
appeals of administrative decisions.

This approach calls for establishment of a "Bureau of Immigration Enforcement"
within the Justice Department to bring together in one agency the Border Patrol,
inspections of people arriving at ports of entry, investigations of
immigration-related crime, detention of illegal aliens and deportations. At
present, the Border Patrol functions as a branch of the INS, which is part of
the Justice Department.

In the State Department, an "Undersecretariat for Citizenship, Immigration and
Refugee Admissions" would be created to handle processing of all types of visas
and other services, including naturalization and passport issuance. The Labor
Department would take over responsibility for enforcing sanctions against
employers who hire illegal workers or fail to comply with other
immigration-related requirements.

The commission has made no estimate of how much the reorganization would cost,
officials said. "This is a policy and management thing, rather than a budget
thing," one said.

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              46 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 13, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Seeks Dismissal of Deportation Suit; Judge Urged to Reject Activists'
Challenge to 'Summary Removals'

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 394 words


The government yesterday urged a judge to dismiss a challenge to new rules that
make it easier for the United States to send home certain people seeking asylum.

In a hearing before U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan, the Justice
Department said civil rights activists and advocates for refugees had no
standing to sue over the so-called summary removal rules.

The court would have jurisdiction only over a lawsuit alleging harm to a
specific individual turned back under expedited removal, argued Linda Wendtland
of the Office of Immigration Litigation.

The new procedures went into effect April 1 as part of a 1996 law that
strengthened immigration enforcement along the U.S.-Mexico border and cracked
down on illegal aliens.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the San Francisco-based Lawyers'
Committee for Civil Rights urged the judge to let go forward a suit they filed
April 1 on behalf of immigration advocacy groups.

The plaintiffs, including U.S.-based groups defending Haitian and Liberian
asylum seekers, should be entitled to sue because the groups themselves had been
harmed as they tried to carry out their mission, argued Robert Rubin, a lawyer
for the lawyers' committee.

He said the summary removal procedures had resulted in higher operating costs
for such groups as they acted to cope with deportation proceedings that often
took place "within hours of arrival" in the United States.

The underlying lawsuit challenged the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
rules that refuse entry to individuals without proper documents unless a
credible fear of persecution was found.

Under the new rules, the agents are not required to mention the right of asylum
unless the person asked about it.

Asylum seekers were previously granted entry and given time to file a claim. Now
immigration officials can decide the request immediately if the person has
invalid or fraudulent documents, and court reviews of those decisions are
limited.

Judy Rabinowitz, a staff attorney with the Immigrants' Rights Project of the
ACLU, said in an interview that deportations were taking place so fast under the
new rules that "we can't even find people" on whose behalf to sue.

Sullivan said that he would hold a hearing on Sept. 12 to consider the
constitutional issues, assuming he decides the plaintiffs have standing to sue.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              47 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 17, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Court Case Spotlights Possible 'Harsh Effects' of New Immigration Law

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 1787 words


The woman known in legal annals only as "NJB" is a Nicaraguan who left her job
as a teacher and flew to Miami on a tourist visa in 1987. She overstayed the
visa, applied for political asylum, was turned down three times and, as a last
resort to remain in the United States, filed to have her deportation suspended.

So began a court case that, more than any other in recent months, has opened a
major breach in a far-reaching immigration law passed last year. In ruling
against her in February, an immigration appeals court interpreted a section of
the new law in a way that barred suspension of deportation for NJB and,
potentially, hundreds of thousands of other people, most of them Central
Americans. The decision outraged immigrant groups across the United States and
provoked a flurry of legal action, including a class-action suit and an appeal
to a U.S. circuit court.

The uproar has spurred Republicans to reexamine the effects of some
controversial aspects of the law, notably several provisions that make it harder
for Central Americans who have benefited from temporary protection programs to
remain in the United States indefinitely. Attorney General Janet Reno also has
stepped into the fray, pledging to block deportations of those who have been
allowed to stay for years under the programs despite their illegal status.

Now, the focus of the challenges is shifting from the courts to Congress, where
bipartisan legislation was introduced in both houses last month to soften what
sponsors call the "harsh effects" of the year-old law. The bills are expected to
be taken up when Congress reconvenes in September.

To the Clinton administration, immigrants' rights groups and many members of
Congress, changing the law is the only fair way to treat Central Americans who
fled their countries during a time of civil war and turmoil in the region and
who have lived here in legal limbo ever since.

Although these immigrants entered or remained in the United States illegally,
they were spared from deportation and issued work permits under temporary
provisions that were repeatedly renewed. In effect, Washington accepted their
presence, figuring they would eventually return home when the strife in their
countries ended.

Those wars in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala have been over for some time
now, and the Sandinista regime that many fled in the 1980s has been out of
office for seven years. But the Central Americans have been reluctant to go
back. Many now have strong ties to America -- including jobs, houses and
U.S.-born children -- and there has been little change in the conditions that
often motivated their flight in the first place: the poverty and lack of
opportunity in their homelands.

The draft legislation, proposed by the Clinton administration, would essentially
ensure that immigration cases initiated by the Central Americans before last
year's law took effect would be judged under the old rules. According to
President Clinton, it would also address "important U.S. foreign policy
interests" in Central America, whose political leaders have warned that any mass
return of their citizens would destabilize their fragile, job-scarce countries.

Critics argue that the proposals represent a move toward a de facto amnesty for
upwards of 350,000 illegal aliens at a time when legal and illegal immigration
is adding about 1.2 million people a year to the U.S. population. The result,
they contend, will be further pressure on the legal immigration system as the
Central Americans petition for relatives to join them, perpetuating a trend
toward lower skill and education levels among new immigrants.

"It is becoming increasingly clear that there is nothing as permanent as a
temporary refugee," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Washington-based Center
for Immigration Studies and a supporter of reduced immigration levels. "This
ought to be a lesson to us that temporary protection in the United States is a
contradiction in terms."

For years, U.S. law has provided a final resort for those who did not meet other
requirements for legal status. It is this use that is now at issue.

Until last year's immigration law, if an illegal alien lived in the United
States continuously for at least seven years, demonstrated "good moral
character" and showed that deportation would cause "extreme hardship" to the
alien or to a spouse, parent or child who was a legal resident or U.S. citizen,
the applicant could apply for "suspension of deportation" and eventually become
a legal immigrant.

Even after an alien was ordered deported, time spent in the United States
continued to count toward the seven-year requirement.

Concerned that the provision was being abused by sharp lawyers who were using
every loophole and delaying tactic to drag out an already slow process, Congress
last year made this remedy much tougher to obtain. The new immigration law
raised the continuous stay requirement to 10 years and imposed a stiffer test of
"exceptional and extremely unusual hardship" to the alien's legal resident or
U.S. citizen spouse, parent or child. Such hardship to the applicant no longer
counted.

The law also capped at 4,000 the number of suspensions of deportation that could
be granted in a year. And it stipulated that the clock would stop ticking on the
alien's continuous stay once the person was issued a "charging document," such
as a notice to appear before an immigration judge.

This "stop-time rule" especially riled the Central Americans and became the main
issue in the case known as "Matter of NJB." By publicizing what many immigration
advocates consider to be an unfairly retroactive application of the new law, the
case has spearheaded efforts to amend the act. Ironically, however, critics say,
the facts of NJB's case exemplify precisely the kind of practices that the new
law was designed to prevent.

NJB, who is allowed to remain anonymous under immigration court rules designed
to protect amnesty seekers, came to the United States alone in April 1987,
according to her lawyer, Ernesto Varas. She left behind her husband, from whom
she separated, and four children, who later entered the United States illegally
to join her.

She overstayed her visa and applied to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service for political asylum on grounds that the then-ruling Sandinistas had
pressured her to resign from the Nicaraguan school system and "threatened to
burn her house," Varas said. The INS rejected the asylum claim.

NJB remained in the United States and received an INS work permit. Then, in
August 1993, the immigration service ordered her to "show cause" why she should
not be deported. Her lawyers delayed her defense until May 1994, then filed a
new asylum application. On the same day, they also requested suspension of
deportation, since by then she had lived in the United States for seven years.

In August 1994, an immigration judge in Miami denied both applications and
ordered NJB deported. She then took her case to the Board of Immigration
Appeals, arguing that she would be "persecuted" and "suffer extreme hardship" if
returned to Nicaragua. Even though the Sandinistas no longer held political
power, Varas asserted, they still effectively controlled the army, police,
administration and courts.

When it finally heard NJB's appeal in February, the board upheld the denial of
asylum, but refused to consider her request for suspension. Under the new
immigration law, the board ruled, she had stopped accruing time toward her seven
years in 1993 when she was ordered to show cause.

NJB's lawyers appealed again, and she joined a class action suit in Miami
challenging the "stop-time rule" and other provisions of the new law. In
California, one of several other lawsuits disputed the applicability of the
4,000-person cap, which was quickly reached early this fiscal year.

Immigrants' rights groups mobilized politicians on the Central Americans'
behalf, and the region's presidents lobbied Clinton. House Speaker Newt Gingrich
(R-Ga.) expressed support for their position, as did Florida Republicans.

On July 10, Reno, under a rarely exercised prerogative, announced that she was
"vacating" the Board of Immigration Appeals decision on NJB, a first step toward
an expected reversal that, ultimately, could allow the woman to obtain legal
permanent residence.

Two weeks later, Clinton announced a legislative proposal that would apply the
old law to people who had filed for suspension of deportation before April 1,
1997, allowing them to count their physical presence in the United States after
deportation proceedings began against them and ensuring that they would not be
rejected becaused of the 4,000 cap. It also would exempt about 250,000
Salvadoran and Guatemalan members of a 1990 class-action settlement from the
tougher suspension standards of the new immigration law.

If the proposals are not enacted, Clinton warned, he is "prepared to examine any
available administration options" to avoid deporting the Salvadorans and
Guatemalans, as well as about 60,000 Nicaraguans covered by a review program
that has expired. He stressed that he was not proposing any "amnesty" and that
every application still must be decided "case by case."

Reno's decision has drawn sharp criticism from advocates of tougher immigration
controls, notably Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), a principal sponsor of the 1996
law. He charged the administration with "bowing to pressure from Central
American governments unwilling to accept the repatriation of their own citizens"
and accused Reno of "a serious abuse" of her authority.

Rep. Ron Packard (R-Calif.) said he was "sure there is a heart-wrenching story
behind the motivations of every man, woman and child that wants to hide
illegally within our borders," but that last year's law "purposely raised the
bar . . . because we knew the process was being abused."

Among those affected is Yesenia Sorto, a 14-year-old Nicaraguan who came to the
United States illegally with her family when she was 3. Now about to start high
school in Florida, she said she would be at a loss if deported. "I don't even
know that country," she said.

"We don't have anyplace to go in Nicaragua," said her mother, Sonia Sorto, 40.
"We sold everything when we left." The family fled "because of the situation in
Nicaragua," she said, adding, "My family is big, and what we earned there was
too little." Now her husband is a construction worker, and she is employed in a
fast-food outlet, although her work permit expired five years ago.

"At least give us justice," she said at a rally on the steps of the Capitol last
month. "We want permanent legal status."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              48 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 23, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Russian Remains Free

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 134 words


Immigration officials have agreed not to try to put Russian Alexandre
Konanykhine, a former banker, back in jail while he awaits the results of his
immigration case, according to an agreement filed yesterday in U.S. District
Court in Alexandria.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service also has agreed to let Konanykhine, a
onetime jet-setting financier whom Russian authorities accused of embezzling $ 8
million from a Moscow bank, work while he awaits the results of the immigration
case.

Last month, a federal judge ordered that Konanykhine, 30, be released after a
former INS prosecutor and a former Soviet KGB agent testified that they had
serious doubts about the case against him. The INS also agreed to pay nearly $
100,000 in attorneys' fees and costs to Konanykhine's lawyers.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              49 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 05, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

INS Wants to Raise Fees for Services; Immigrant Advocacy Groups Criticize Move

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 782 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service wants to raise the fees it charges
for processing citizenship applications and other services, but the proposed
increases are running into stiff opposition from immigrant advocacy groups and
some members of Congress.

Under a proposal based on a study of the costs of providing various services,
the fee for applying to become a U.S. citizen would more than double from the
current $ 95 to more than $ 200. The charge for a required fingerprint check
would double to $ 30.

In all, the INS proposes to raise about 30 of the 40 fees it charges for filing
various applications. The INS has sent the proposals to the Justice Department,
which has yet to approve them. If it does, the department would then invite
public comment on the proposed changes for a 60-day period and could revise them
before putting them into effect. The INS says it expects the process of raising
the fees to take at least six months.

Immigrants' rights groups and Hispanic members of Congress have reacted with
outrage to the proposed fee hikes, especially to the idea of doubling the
naturalization application fee.

The complaints were the latest blow to the INS over its naturalization service,
which came under heavy criticism last year when it attempted to speed up
procedures and reduce a large backlog, but ended up granting citizenship to
thousands of immigrants without adequate background checks. The criticism led to
a slowdown in citizenship processing, and now the waiting times are back up.

Citizenship applications have skyrocketed in recent years. A record 1.8 million
applications are expected this year, compared with 342,000 in 1992. The INS
refused to specify the amount it wants to charge citizenship applicants, but a
leading critic of the proposal, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), said he was
told the recommendation may be as high as $ 250.

"This proposed increase is an example of our government providing terrible
service, at a higher price to customers," said Gutierrez, who chairs the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus's task force on immigration and citizenship.

Gutierrez and 11 other members of the caucus complained in a letter to INS
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner yesterday that prospective citizens routinely
have to wait nearly two years for their applications to be processed. "We
believe that the quality of service applications receive must improve before any
fee increase is considered," the letter said.

"We agree that the service we're providing right now is inadequate," Meissner
told reporters yesterday. She pledged that the INS "won't put a fee increase
into effect until we are giving service in the way we want to give it."

Meissner noted, however, that INS fees have not been adjusted for more than
three years and that increases are "likely to be necessary" in order to carry
out needed "long-term, large-scale infrastructure changes" in the processing
over the coming years.

INS officials said the issue presents the agency with something of a
predicament: Critics do not want the fees increased until the INS improves its
service, but to improve its service the agency needs to increase its fees.

The officials said the proposed increases stem from a study by a private
accounting firm and represent the true cost of providing the services. Until
now, the fees have not been based on any actual assessment of what it costs to
process the applications, they said. An evaluation of the costs and the setting
of fees accordingly were mandated by Congress, the officials added.

In a news conference on Capitol Hill, Gutierrez compared applying for U.S.
citizenship to buying a toaster or a car, and he said "customers" should not
have to settle for defective products or long delays after paying their money.

"Quite simply, the INS needs to start treating citizenship applicants as
customers," he said. "And it needs to give citizenship customers the respect and
efficient service they have paid for and deserve. If General Motors didn't
deliver your car until two years after you paid for it, they would go out of
business. And if the best solution to the problem they could come up with was to
double the price of a Cadillac, I don't think that would satisfy their
customers."

Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, took a different view, however.

As a "matter of fairness," legal immigrants "should bear the administrative
costs of naturalization," Smith said, adding that an increase from the current $
95 "is not too much to ask of individuals who will be given the highest
privilege and honor in the world -- U.S. citizenship."


LOAD-DATE: September 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, shown at a congressional hearing in
March, acknowledged yesterday that "the service we're providing right now is
inadequate." REP. LUIS V. GUTIERREZ

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              50 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 09, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Anti-Asian American Incidents Rising, Civil Rights Group Says; Organization
Executives to Meet With Reno Today

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 808 words


Even as violence overall is dropping, hate crimes against Asian Americans rose
17 percent last year, according to a report being released today by a national
civil rights group.

The 27-page report by the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium cites
more than 500 incidents against Asians that it says were primarily motivated by
racial animosity, ranging from the murder of a Vietnamese American student on a
Southern California tennis court to racist slurs scrawled on the campaign signs
of a Filipino American candidate for local office in Ohio.

Executives of the organization are scheduled to meet today with Attorney General
Janet Reno to discuss ways to address the issue as part of a White House
conference on hate crimes in November. Among the consortium's recommendations
are proposals to require law enforcement agencies to comply with the Hate Crimes
Statistics Act and to pass hate crime statutes in each state. Eight states --
Alaska, Georgia, Hawaii, Indiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico and Oklahoma
-- do not collect hate crime statistics.

The group attributes the increase in anti-Asian incidents to a general
anti-immigrant atmosphere spurred by last year's passage of a restrictive
immigration reform bill, welfare legislation denying benefits to legal
immigrants, and a "general anti-minority rhetoric" that intensified during the
1996 election year.

The campaign finance controversy has also played a role in perpetuating the
stereotype of Asian Americans as foreigners who are suspect, according to
executive director Karen Narasaki. The scandal, which broke last fall and is the
subject of congressional and Justice Department probes, is triggering a high
number of anti-Asian hate crime reports so far this year, she said.

Questions about improper contributions by some individuals of Asian descent
quickly turned into suspicion of all Asian Americans, the report said. Narasaki
said it was important to note that while violent crime nationwide dropped by 7
percent in 1996, hate crimes against Asian Americans were on the rise.

The consortium has conducted three previous audits of violence against Asian
Americans. A dramatic increase in 1994 was attributed to better reporting. But
evidence from last year's figures suggests the rise is a result of a "sustained
level of hate crimes" against Asian Americans, the report said.

There were 534 suspected and confirmed anti-Asian incidents in 1996, up from 458
in 1995. The most commonly committed offenses were vandalism and assault, with
much of the destruction occurring at victims' businesses or places of
employment. In Orange County, Calif., last year, a Vietnamese American was
stabbed repeatedly while in-line skating on a high school tennis court. Two
assailants affiliated with white supremacist groups were arrested.

In the Washington metropolitan area, the number of anti-Asian hate crimes rose
in the District and Virginia, but dropped significantly in Maryland, where a
state hate-crimes unit has lost much of its funding, Narasaki said.

The group based its figures on information collected from local police, human
rights commissions, and community and civil rights groups. Far from being the
isolated attacks portrayed in the mainstream media, the report said, "the common
content and selected location of the incidents" are part of "a pattern of
violence fostered by the insecurities of changing demographics."

The negative portrayal of Asian Americans in the national media has helped
foster a hostile environment, the report said. The March 1997 National Review
cover featured President Clinton and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton with
slanted eyes, buck teeth and subservient postures. After Daphne Kwok, executive
director of the Organization of Chinese Americans appeared on NBC's "Today Show"
to talk about the magazine piece, she received a hate message from an unknown
caller: "You know you people are lucky we let you stay in this country. You dumb
gooks should all be sent back to China."

The group says the incidence of hate crimes is particularly high on college
campuses and in public housing. On college campuses, for example, the number of
anti-Asian incidents doubled -- mostly through hate messages sent on e-mail. In
one incident, hate messages with racial epithets targeted 60 Asian American
students at the University of California at Irvine last fall. A former student
has been charged with sending the messages, the first time the government has
prosecuted an alleged federal hate crime committed in cyberspace, the report
said.

Residents in public housing also faced an increasing amount of anti-Asian
violence. There were 32 incidents reported in 1996, including one in San
Francisco where many Vietnamese families were subjected to repeated beatings,
threats and racial epithets.

LOAD-DATE: September 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              51 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 15, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Gay Immigrant to Stay

Pamela Constable

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C05; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 250 words


A gay immigrant in the District, whom federal immigration authorities tried to
deport to his native Malaysia because his visa had expired, has won an unusual
ruling in immigration court and will be able to remain in the United States.

Wan Lee, 44, a professional massage therapist who lives and works on Capitol
Hill, was granted relief from deportation on the grounds that it would damage
his "mental health" to return to Malaysia, where homosexuality is frowned on and
gay people face official harassment.

Lee, whose situation was described in a Washington Post story in April, had a
hearing last month in Arlington immigration court. He testified that he would
have to conceal his homosexuality if he returned to Malaysia and that he would
be emotionally distraught if he had to leave his longtime partner, Patrick
Gleason, a social worker in the District.

In many cases, immigrants are sponsored to become legal residents by their
spouses, but gay couples cannot do so. Moreover, under a new immigration law,
illegal immigrants who seek to avoid deportation must prove that their U.S.
relatives would suffer "extreme and unusual" hardship if they were forced to
leave. Few gay immigrants have sought and won relief from deportation.

"Of course we are thrilled," said Gleason, 49, "but the situation is still very
stressful, because the bureaucratic process [of formalizing Lee's residence] is
far from over. It would have been devastating to both of us if Wan had to
leave."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              52 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 21, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Panel to Urge Immigration Reforms Weighted Toward Families

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1432 words


A bipartisan advisory commission will urge Congress to reform the nation's
system for admitting immigrants to give priority to close family members who
have been separated for years because of growing waits for visas.

In a final report to be issued before it disbands at the end of the month, the
Commission on Immigration Reform will renew recommendations it made two years
ago to overhaul the legal immigration system, and to ultimately reduce the
number of people admitted, according to commission officials and a summary of
the report obtained by The Washington Post.

When Congress revamped the nation's immigration law last year, it avoided the
controversial issue of legal immigration. Yet the problems associated with it
not only have persisted, but have grown steadily worse, according to panel
members. The recommendations underscore the commission's view that the system
remains dysfunctional and that failure to fix it has damaging consequences. It
is a system that critics say often forces people to choose between their
marriage vows and U.S. immigration law, drives immigrants to enter the country
illegally and tends to penalize those who follow the rules while rewarding those
who break them.

Of primary concern to the nine-member commission is the backlog of more than 1
million people waiting for legal status as the spouses and minor children of
legal permanent residents, a category for which visas are capped at 88,000 a
year. They are part of an overall backlog of 3.5 million people around the world
whose applications have been approved, but who are awaiting family-sponsored
immigrant visas to the United States in categories with numerical limits.

An estimated two-thirds of the spouses and minor children waiting for visas are
already in the United States illegally. But more than 300,000 others remain
abroad, playing by the rules but separated from their loved ones for years and
unable to get even temporary visitor's visas because of a presumption that they
would overstay.

"Since the commission first reported its findings on legal admission, the
problems associated with family-based admissions have grown," the panel says in
its forthcoming report. During the two-year interval, the waiting times between
application and admission of immigrants' spouses and minor children have
increased 40 percent and are still growing, officials said. This means that
those who are receiving their visas now have had to wait more than four years
and four months, compared to three years when the commission issued its report
in June 1995.

For those applying today, the projected wait is even longer -- up to 10 years
for the spouses and children of sponsors who remain in immigrant status. A
sponsor can cut the waiting time by becoming a U.S. citizen, because relatives
would not be subjected to numerical limits and thus could get visas quickly. But
a legal immigrant must reside in the United States five years before becoming
eligible to naturalize, and it takes up to two years for a citizenship
application to be processed.

The increased waiting time "is a very disturbing development," said Robert C.
Hill, a commission member.

Among those affected is Parmeshwar Coomar, a 33-year-old Indian immigrant from
Calcutta who got married a year ago during a visit to his homeland. When he
returned to the United States to resume his job teaching industrial engineering
at a college in Wisconsin, he found that it would take several years to obtain
an immigrant visa so that his wife could join him. Under current law, she cannot
even visit him in the meantime.

Coomar and about 250 other highly skilled immigrants formed the Association of
Professionals for Spouse Reunification to publicize their plight and seek help.
They especially resent immigration law provisions that they say have favored
people who entered the United States illegally in the first place, then brought
their relatives in illegally to join them while taking up places in an
interminable line of people waiting to acquire status as legal immigrants.

After granting legal status to 2.7 million illegal immigrants under a 1986
amnesty, the government allowed family members they had brought in illegally to
stay and receive work permits under a "family unity" provision. Under a 1994 law
that is scheduled to expire this month, foreigners who have overstayed their
visas or otherwise remained in the country illegally also have been permitted to
adjust to legal immigrant status in the United States by paying a fine, instead
of having to return to their homelands as previously required.

"We continue to be bypassed as the ones that are 'law abiding and stupid,' "
said Coomar, who came to the United States as a student and received an
employer-sponsored immigrant visa in 1994. In his case, he said, even by
naturalizing when he is eligible, he will not be able to bring his wife in until
sometime after the turn of the century. With waiting times like that, he said,
"I don't think any marriage is going to last."

The commission, appointed by the president and Congress under a 1990 immigration
law, recommended in 1995 that legal immigration be revamped to set clear
priorities for admissions and ultimately reduce the numbers of immigrants
allowed into the country.

The panel recommended that the unification of "nuclear families" -- defined as
spouses and minor children -- take precedence and that several other categories
of family members be dropped, including the adult sons and daughters of U.S.
citizens and legal immigrants and the siblings of U.S. citizens.

The commission proposed shifting the visa numbers for those categories into a
program to reduce the backlog of separated nuclear families. Within that
category, it recommended giving priority to those who were not covered by a 1986
amnesty for illegal aliens, meaning those who had not previously broken the
immigration law. It also recommended that annual levels of legal immigration be
reduced from about 720,000 at the time of its report to 700,000 for a transition
period of five to eight years and to 550,000 after that.

The recommendations were incorporated into immigration bills in the House and
Senate, but were later deleted in the face of stiff opposition from business and
immigrants' rights groups. Among those who lobbied strongly for retaining the
existing system was John Huang, a Taiwanese American at the center of a
controversy over Democratic Party fund-raising.

Since then, legal immigration has surged, reaching 916,000 for fiscal 1996 and
pushing the combined total for both legal and illegal immigration to about 1.2
million people a year. With most polls showing that Americans want immigration
reduced, raising the limits to accommodate immigrants' spouses and minor
children is not considered an option.

And key members of Congress, including the chairman of the Senate Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration, Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), remain staunchly
opposed to any reordering of priorities as suggested by the commission.

"I am sympathetic to the plight of these individuals, and it may be an area we
need to take a closer look at," Abraham said. "However, the backlog of the
spouses and children of lawful permanent residents should not be used as a
pretext to deny American citizens the ability to sponsor close family members."

To the commission, those "close family members," who include siblings and adult
married sons and daughters and their own families, should not be taking visas at
the expense of spouses and minor children. "We should not be allowing nuclear
families to be separated to accommodate more extended families," Hill said.

Because the waits are so long -- for those who apply today, it can take decades
-- the system has lost credibility, and many people resort to immigrating
illegally, panel members said.

"When we have a dysfunctional immigration law, it shouldn't be surprising that
people try to get around it," said Susan Martin, the commission's director.

Certainly, that option has crossed the minds of members of his association, said
Coomar, the Indian immigrant in Wisconsin. But he said he is determined to keep
working for a solution within the law.

"The one who is law-abiding has to be rewarded in some way," he said.

WAITING TIME

Legal permanent residents' spouses and children who got visas this month had to
wait more than four years. New applicants could face a 10-year wait.

Waiting time, in years

October 1997: 4 years, 4 months

SOURCE: U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              53 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 23, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Vows Not to Carry Out Any 'Mass Deportations'

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 877 words


Seeking to allay growing alarm in immigrant communities, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service yesterday pledged not to carry out any "mass
deportations" of undocumented foreigners who have been allowed to remain in the
United States while they seek permanent legal status.

In a news conference, INS officials made it clear that thousands of people who
may be affected by the expiration of a controversial provision in the law will
not be forced to leave the country. They also said lists of foreigners in the
legalization pipeline will not be used to target anyone and that, given the
uncertainty surrounding the provision's fate, the INS is not even advising those
who may be affected to leave the country.

"We are not targeting any group, and we don't intend any mass deportations,"
said Paul Virtue, the INS acting executive associate commissioner for programs.
He cautioned, however, that people residing in the United States illegally
"always" risk being deported if they get caught in an INS work site enforcement
raid or come to the agency's attention by committing a crime.

Effectively hostage to the provision are hundreds of thousands of foreigners who
are trying to become legal immigrants, many of them after having lived and
worked in the United States illegally for years, putting down deep roots in
their communities. Currently, these undocumented immigrants are allowed to
remain in the United States while completing their paperwork -- provided they
pay a $ 1,000 fine. But unless the provision is extended by Congress, they will
face a difficult choice: either leave the country to wait indefinitely for a
U.S. visa abroad, thus abandoning jobs and families in the United States in many
cases, or stay and risk becoming a perpetual illegal alien.

In fact, immigration lawyers say, their clients mostly are opting to remain in
the United States in hopes of an eventual solution in their favor.

The provision, known as section 245(i), was inserted into immigration law in
1994 and is set to expire Sept. 30. The Senate has passed an
administration-supported amendment to extend it as part of an appropriations
bill, but there is no such provision in the House version. If none is included
when the House takes up the bill this week, it will be up to a House-Senate
conference committee to decide whether to extend the provision or let it lapse.

Meanwhile, the INS is urging eligible foreigners to apply for legal permanent
resident documents, known as "green cards," under the existing regulation before
Sept. 30 and is setting up facilities to handle an expected last-minute rush of
applications. A number of INS district offices will either remain open late next
Tuesday or have "drop-off" boxes available to receive submissions before the
deadline, officials said.

The aim of the law was to avoid imposing a hardship on foreigners who had jobs
and families in the United States and were in line to become legal permanent
residents. It also has served as a needed source of revenue for the INS. In
fiscal 1995 and 1996, about 345,000 people applied for green cards under section
245(i). Last year, fees from such applications totaled $ 147.5 million and this
year are expected to reach $ 214.5 million.

The scheduled expiration of the provision has especially alarmed immigrant
communities because of a new law intended to stiffen penalties on foreigners who
overstay their visas. The law bars foreigners from receiving a visa from a U.S.
consulate abroad for three years if they remain in the United States illegally
for more than 180 days. For those who stay illegally for more than a year, the
ban rises to 10 years. Because the law took effect April 1, the grace period
ends Sept. 27.

Thus, thousands of people who are trying to legalize their status fear getting
caught in a "double whammy" between the imposition of the new law and the
expiration of the old one. If Section 245(i) lapsed and they did not leave the
country before the new penalties took effect, they might never be able to become
legal immigrants.

In seeking to clarify matters yesterday, the INS stressed that everyone who has
applied for a green card under 245(i) before Sept. 30 is considered to be in
lawful status while the application is pending, and thus not subject to the
three-year and 10-year bars. To be eligible to apply for a green card under the
existing provision, officials said, illegal immigrants must pay the $ 1,000
penalty, must have an approved visa petition pending with the INS and must have
an immigrant visa "immediately available in [their] preference category,"
meaning essentially that their number must have come up on their visa waiting
list.

On the other hand, if an illegal alien is the spouse or minor child or a U.S.
citizen, or the parent of a citizen who is at least 21 years old, the person
automatically has an immigrant visa immediately available and can submit the
visa petition and the application for a green card at the same time. Moreover,
if an applicant with such family ties originally entered the United States
legally but overstayed the visa, he or she would not be affected by the
expiration of 245(i), but could apply for a green card any time under another
provision of law.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              54 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 24, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigration Law at Issue

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 152 words


Cardinal James A. Hickey, head of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Washington,
urged key House members yesterday to endorse the extension of a law that he said
would affect the status of thousands of area immigrants if it is allowed to
expire.

Section 245 (i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act permits certain
undocumented immigrants who are becoming legal residents of the United States to
remain in this country while applying. The measure is due to expire Tuesday.

In a letter to House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) and 15 other members, Hickey
warned that failing to extend the measure could separate children from their
parents for months or years while the parents wait to enter legally.

The Senate has agreed to the extension, but, Hickey said, the House has yet to
act. He said extension is important for immigrants, their U.S. relatives and
employers and the federal government.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              55 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 27, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Navy Rescues Six Cubans

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


U.S. immigration officials were interviewing six Cuban nationals picked up from
a leaking vessel off the Florida Keys but could not confirm rumors that shots
were fired when they left Cuba.

Other boaters alerted the U.S. Coast Guard that they had seen emergency flares
fired from the 40-foot boat late Thursday in the Atlantic Ocean near Alligator
Reef, about 17 miles south-southeast of Islamorada in the upper Florida Keys,
some 65 miles southeast of Miami.

The vessel was taking on water and the passengers were picked up about 9 p.m.
EDT by the U.S. Navy ship Heron, Coast Guard Petty Officer Charles Smith said.

The Cubans were transferred to the Coast Guard cutter Nantucket, where they were
being interviewed yesterday by agents with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The Coast Guard said the Cubans' boat bore no registration number or anything to
indicate ownership, nor did they know anything about the passengers'
circumstances.

"All we know is, we got a call for the flares. They were obviously seeking
assistance," Smith said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              56 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 01, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigration Panel Calls for 'Americanization' Effort

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 750 words


In its final report after five years of work, the U.S. Commission on Immigration
Reform yesterday called for a broad new commitment to the "Americanization" of
immigrants so that they can be better integrated into the national life and
strengthen the country's unity amid its growing diversity.

The bipartisan advisory commission, appointed by the president and Congress
under a 1990 immigration law, also recommended the overhaul of a complex system
of U.S. "nonimmigrant" visas, of which more than 6 million were issued last year
to foreigners ranging from students and tourists to businessmen and temporary
workers.

It renewed a call for reform of legal immigration and proposed dismantling the
beleaguered Immigration and Naturalization Service. It also urged Congress to
reconsider denying welfare benefits to legal immigrants and advocated stricter
enforcement of what it described as a lax system for deporting illegal aliens.

Some of the panel's recommendations, particularly those for eliminating several
categories of family-sponsored immigrants and reducing immigration levels over
time, immediately drew sharp criticism from special interest groups that favor
the existing system.

The American Immigration Lawyers Association said the final report contained a
"warmed over" rehash of recommendations on legal immigration reform that were
"firmly rejected" by Congress last year. American Business for Legal
Immigration, a lobby representing a powerful coalition of companies concerned
with protecting access to foreign workers, complained about proposals to cut
employment-based immigration and require businesses that recruit foreigners to
pay a fee toward job-training programs for Americans.

In releasing the 232-page report, the commission's chairwoman, former education
secretary Shirley M. Hufstedler, urged President Clinton to emulate his recent
initiative for a national dialogue on race and exercise "similar leadership in
grappling with the Americanization of new immigrants." She called for government
and private sector participation in defining "a new Americanization movement"
involving communities across the country.

"Americanization challenges all of us," Hufstedler said. "Those business groups
in particular who lobby for high levels of immigration must make a far greater
effort not only to support immigration, but also to support immigrants, through
English classes, naturalization and civic education."

The focus of the report, entitled "Becoming an American: Immigration and
Immigrant Policy," reflects concerns among the commissioners that in creating
"one of the world's most successful multiethnic nations," the United States must
also reinforce the unity that comes from allegiance to common principles and
values.

With the foreign-born population of the United States steadily rising -- it
reached a record 24.5 million last year, or 9.3 percent of the total population
-- the country must uphold the national motto, E Pluribus Unum, "from many,
one," the report said.

It recommended renewed commitments to educating newcomers in the English
language and the "common civic culture," improving the naturalization process
and asserting the primacy of individual rights over the "collective" rights that
are paramount in many parts of the world.

"As long as the United States continues to emphasize the rights of individuals
over those of groups, we need not fear that the diversity brought by immigration
will lead to ethnic division or disunity," the commission said.

The panel also recommended dumping the current alphabet soup of more than 40
nonimmigrant visa categories. Instead, it proposed a streamlined system that
would group visas into five broad classifications.

Among its most far-reaching recommendations was a previously reported plan to
abolish the INS and distribute its functions to the Justice, State and Labor
departments. The INS suffers from "mission overload" and performs too many
functions, some of them in conflict with each other, the panel said.

In opposing that proposal, the INS seems to have found some unlikely allies.
Immigrants' rights advocates, immigration lawyers and business groups criticized
the idea, expressing concern especially about turning over decision-making
powers on all immigration benefits to the State Department.

The plan "would recklessly disperse the agency's functions in a way that would
likely make a bad situation worse," the National Immigration Forum said.

LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              57 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 08, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Senate Backs Break for Immigrants

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06; ON CAPITOL HILL

LENGTH: 174 words


The Senate yesterday approved overwhelmingly a provision that would allow
thousands of Central Americans to avoid deportation under last year's
immigration law.

The provision, sponsored by Sen. Connie Mack (R-Fla.) as an amendment to the
District of Columbia appropriations bill, passed 99 to 1. The overall bill is
still under consideration.

The measure would give Central Americans with pending applications for
suspension of deportation an opportunity to have their cases heard by
immigration judges under the old regulations, instead of tougher new rules that
took effect April 1.

Supporters of the provision stressed that it was not an "amnesty" for these
applicants -- hundreds of thousands of whom have been allowed to stay in the
United States under various temporary provisions, although they came here
illegally. Nevertheless, the measure would likely have the effect of allowing
many to obtain permanent legal status.

A more restrictive version has been introduced in the House by Rep. Lamar S.
Smith (R-Tex.).

LOAD-DATE: October 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              58 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 10, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

House, Senate Sponsors Push Competing Immigration Bills for Central Americans

William Branigin; Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 632 words


Lawmakers in the House and Senate yesterday introduced conflicting proposals to
accommodate hundreds of thousands of Central Americans who may face eventual
deportation under a new immigration law.

A proposal in the Senate would allow an estimated 300,000 illegal immigrants
from El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua to have their requests for suspension
of deportation considered under former, more lenient rules.

A more far-reaching House proposal, a compromise between Rep. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) with the blessing of the
Republican leadership, would effectively grant amnesty to tens of thousands of
Nicaraguans but treat the Salvadorans and Guatemalans less generously. It would
also require the eventual elimination of an employment-sponsored immigration
category that currently lets in 10,000 unskilled workers a year from various
parts of the world.

Because the two approaches are so different, it remains unclear what path
Congress will eventually take in dealing with the thorny problem of illegal
immigrants from Central America, many of whom fled wars in which the United
States was heavily involved.

Although they entered the United States illegally or overstayed their visas,
they have been allowed to stay under various temporary provisions for refugees,
putting down roots here and raising families that often include U.S.-born
children.

Both the congressional Republican leadership and the Clinton administration seem
willing to accommodate the Central Americans in some way, treating them more
leniently than they would have been treated under the 1996 immigration law. For
the Republicans, the moves in Congress reflect a desire by party leaders to
soften the GOP's image as an anti-immigrant party, an image that cost it heavily
in last year's elections and spurred Hispanic Republicans to take action.

The Senate plan, adopted in negotiations between Connie Mack (R-Fla.) and Phil
Gramm (R-Tex.), would permit Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Nicaraguans covered by
existing temporary protection programs to apply for suspension of deportation
and have their applications judged under the old rules for the next 18 months.
They would also be exempt from a 4,000-a-year cap on suspensions of deportation
that was included in the new law. In addition to the cap, the new rules require
applicants to meet a tougher standard of hardship to qualify and mandate 10
years of continuous residence in the United States, instead of seven under the
old law.

The House approach goes far beyond that, allowing Nicaraguans who entered the
United States before Dec. 1, 1995, to adjust to permanent immigrant status.
Diaz-Balart and Smith estimated that about 50,000 people would benefit from this
provision, which would cover many more people than are currently included in a
temporary protection program for Nicaraguans who fled during a war between
leftist Sandinistas and U.S.-backed contras that ended in 1990. Approximately
250,000 Salvadorans and Guatemalans would be exempted from the new rules and cap
on suspension of deportation, which traditionally has been a last resort for
illegal immigrants seeking to legalize their status.

In return, Smith insisted that thousands of non-Central Americans who applied
before the 1996 law took effect would have to meet the tougher new standards and
could face deportation. Smith also insisted on getting rid of the unskilled
worker category and using those visas to "offset" the green cards, denoting
permanent resident status, that would be given to the Salvadorans and
Guatemalans who are allowed to adjust their status.

Diaz-Balart said he hopes the House and Senate versions will be resolved in a
conference committee and possibly attached to the D.C. appropriations bill.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              59 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 14, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 62 words


SENATE

Not in session.

Committee:

Judiciary -- 9:30 a.m. Immigration subc. Oversight hearing 1996 Immigration Act
on Canadian-American border. Cobo Conference/Exhibition Center, 1.

HOUSE

Not in session.

Committee:

Education & the Workforce -- 1 p.m. Oversight & investigations subc. Teamsters
'96 elections costs. 2175 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              60 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 21, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Income, Support Requirements Imposed on Immigrant Sponsors; New INS Rules
Criticized by Both Sides in Debate

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 789 words


Federal regulations issued yesterday impose new minimum income and financial
support requirements on the sponsors of immigrants, making it more difficult for
low-income people to bring in relatives to join them.

The regulations, which take effect Dec. 19, implement a section of last year's
immigration law that, for the first time, requires sponsors of legal immigrants
to earn at least 25 percent more than the poverty level and to be financially
responsible for those they bring in. Under the year-old law, all immigrants
brought in by relatives, and some brought in by companies, must have sponsors
who sign new legally binding affidavits of support.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which issued the regulations,
expects that at least 565,000 family-sponsored immigrants a year will need to
submit the new affidavits of support. Other categories of legal immigrants,
notably refugees and most of those sponsored by employers, are not covered by
the new regulations. Total legal immigration is currently running at more than
900,000 a year.

The regulations immediately came under fire from both supporters and opponents
of current immigration levels. Immigrants' rights groups said the new rules
would unfairly separate the families of poor people, especially those from
Mexico and Central America, and were an underhanded means of reducing legal
immigration. Advocates of tighter immigration said the regulations do not go far
enough in holding sponsors accountable and ensuring that they have the means to
support their arriving relatives. Even welfare recipients, so long as they meet
the income requirements, may sponsor immigrants under the rules, the advocates
complain.

The section of immigration law that the new rules implement, combined with
provisions in last year's welfare reform law, is aimed at ensuring that
newcomers to the United States are financially supported by those who bring them
in, and not by taxpayers. Although U.S. law has long barred legal immigrants
from becoming "public charges" and required sponsors to sign affidavits of
support, nothing prevented the newcomers from receiving welfare benefits, and
their sponsors' pledges were not legally binding.

Under the new rules, affidavits of support are required not only for
family-sponsored immigrants, but for those coming to work for relatives or for
companies in which the relative owns a stake. The sponsor must be a U.S. citizen
or legal permanent resident and show tax returns to meet the new income
requirements. For a household of four, a sponsor currently would need annual
income of $ 20,062.

Active-duty members of the armed forces who are sponsoring spouses or children
need only to show income at 100 percent of the poverty level.

Sponsors who fail to provide needed support for the immigrants they bring in can
be sued by federal or state agencies, or by the immigrants themselves. Using an
INS database containing sponsorship information, the agencies can seek to
recover the cost of any welfare benefits that the immigrant received, including
food stamps and Medicaid.

The new welfare law bars most immigrants from federal means-tested benefits for
five years anyway.

A petitioner who falls short of the income requirement can recruit an outside
sponsor who meets it, or can pool resources with other household members
provided they all sign contracts holding them jointly responsible for supporting
the immigrant.

Citing INS estimates, the National Immigration Forum, a Washington-based
advocacy group, said the new law means that about 29 percent of current
immigrant sponsors, and about 27 percent of all American families, would not be
able to sponsor relatives. It said the provision would have a "disproportionate
effect" on certain nationalities, barring at least 57 percent of Mexicans and
Central Americans here from bringing in close family members.

Frank Sharry, the forum's director, called the measure a "back door" means to
"dramatically reduce legal immigration."

However, INS officials said the provision was unlikely to lower immigration
levels for years, because a huge backlog of 3.5 million people awaiting
family-sponsored immigrant visas means that the places of those who do not
qualify will be taken by others who do.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) said the implementing rules represent "a terrific
blow to immigration law and to the American taxpayers" because they define too
narrowly the welfare benefits that violate the affidavit of support. He said
other benefits that the INS exempted from the definition, including job training
programs and residential energy assistance, impose major burdens on taxpayers
for which sponsors should also be held accountable.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              61 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 21, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

On Secret Evidence

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 340 words


NOTHING IS more inimical to the American system of justice than the use of
secret evidence to deprive someone of his liberty. Yet that is precisely what is
happening to more than a dozen Arab aliens picked up on an immigration charge,
suspected of an association with terrorism but so far not charged with any
actual crime. The classified information that is the basis of their detention
typically comes from the FBI, is shared with the judge but is withheld from the
prisoner and his lawyer.

Secret evidence is not available to be used in criminal cases, including
national security cases, in American courts. But a decades-old regulatory
authority allows such evidence to be introduced into certain immigration
proceedings -- not those determining whether someone should be deported but
whether they should receive asylum, permanent residence, naturalization or
release on bond. The basis for the secrecy presumably is to protect confidential
government sources. It is a convenience for law enforcement officials and
conceivably a protection for the public. But it is a convenience and protection
purchased at a prohibitive price to individual liberty.

In fact, terrorist incidents in New York and, of course, Oklahoma City and
elsewhere have induced an incipient fever. The Clinton administration's
anti-terrorism bill of last year disclosed a broad executive, congressional and
popular latitude for encroachments on the rights of terrorism suspects. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service, in the course of getting with the
anti-terrorism program, has moved into the territory itself. The conviction --
without secret evidence -- of a number of Arabs in actual bombings seems to have
lowered the standards by which other Arabs are being swept off the streets.
Possibly some of them may be supporting Hezbollah and Hamas not for their
criminal attacks but for the social welfare programs these groups also run.
Others of the detainees may well be terrorists. All of them deserve to know the
evidence against them.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              62 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 22, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigration Scare

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 219 words


Robert Novak's Oct. 9 op-ed column was not representative of his usual
thoughtfulness and thoroughness. He wrote that under last year's immigration
legislation, 280,000 Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans "will be
deported." But the opposite is true -- thousands of Central Americans could have
made the case to stay in the United States. Furthermore, under legislation I
introduced weeks ago, additional thousands could remain.

Mr. Novak's column carried the most recent of many headlines that could lead you
to believe someone has sounded an air-raid siren in the Capitol. The propagators
of this bomb scare shout that Republicans should run away from immigration
reform, one of the most important issues facing all Americans -- naturalized or
native-born. But anyone who takes a moment to look up will see the hoax
perpetrated by immigration special-interest groups.

For example, the Novak column cited Texas as an example of where Republicans had
somehow alienated Hispanics. Yet Texas now has a Republican governor, both U.S.
senators are Republicans and the state has the most Republican members of
Congress and state legislators in history.

LAMAR SMITH

Washington

The writer, a Republican representative from Texas, is chairman of the House
subcommittee on immigration and claims.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              63 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 23, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Amid GOP Discord, House Approves Extension of Immigration Provision

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 720 words


The House yesterday approved another temporary extension of a controversial
immigration provision that allows hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants to
pay a $ 1,000 fine and remain in the country while seeking permanent legal
status.

But the decision to include the extension as part of a stopgap spending measure
is causing sharp discord in Republican ranks.

The three-year-old provision, known as 245(i), was scheduled to expire Sept. 30
and was extended once before. The spending measure approved yesterday extends
the provision until Nov. 7.

The Senate, which is already on record as favoring the provision, is expected to
pass a similar measure.

In pushing through the additional two-week extension, House Speaker Newt
Gingrich (R-Ga.) and other GOP leaders ran into strong objections from several
House Republicans, led by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher of California. He agreed not to
challenge the new spending package in return for a pledge by the Republican
leadership to allow a separate vote on 245(i) in the next couple of weeks.

The provision has become the subject of an intensive lobbying campaign by
immigration lawyers, businesses, religious groups and ethnic organizations,
which have flooded Capitol Hill with an estimated 200 lobbyists in recent days.
The groups contend that the provision benefits a wide variety of people who are
in line to become legal immigrants, allowing them to keep their families
together in the United States, where they often have put down roots and are
raising U.S.-born children.

Since 1995, more than 550,000 people have applied for legal residence under the
provision.

Advocates argue that the program is vital to the U.S. business community,
enabling companies to retain many skilled employees who originally entered the
United States on valid work visas but fell out of legal status for "technical
reasons" or because they did not understand the "intricacies" of U.S.
immigration law.

The proponents add that the fines bring in $ 200 million a year, making the
provision a major source of funding for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. By making the INS responsible for processing the applications in the
United States, they say, the measure also lightens the burden on U.S. consulates
overseas, which handle millions of requests for all types of visas every year.
Under the old system, illegal immigrants awaiting permanent legal status had to
leave the country and obtain their immigrant visas, or "green cards," through
one of these consulates.

In the view of Rohrabacher and other critics, however, the current procedure
effectively nullifies a major new feature of immigration law that penalizes
foreigners who overstay their visas. By providing an option for people to
legalize their status eventually without having to leave the country, they said,
it encourages unauthorized stays and rewards illegal immigrants at the expense
of applicants who obey the law and wait for years in their homelands for their
immigrant visas to come through.

Reps. Nathan Deal (R-Ga.) and Brian P. Bilbray (R-Calif.) described the
provision's fines as legalized "bribes" that bring "embarrassment" to Congress
and discredit to the nation's immigration system. "If you pay $ 1,000, we ignore
the fact that you broke the law," Bilbray said.

At a news conference, Rohrabacher introduced a health care worker from Ghana
whose family is forced to wait years for immigrant visas in his homeland because
"the process is so bogged down by lawbreakers."

Another critic of the provision, Indian immigrant Parmeshwar Coomar, said he
came under heavy "pressure" from supporters of 245(i) and received racial slurs
on his answering machine after his views were reported in The Washington Post
last month. He had complained that while the measure was allowing visa
overstayers to become legal immigrants, his wife in Calcutta could not get a
tourist visa to come visit him in Wisconsin because of a presumption by U.S.
officials that she would overstay.

Partly because of the "stress," he said, he suffered a heart attack Oct. 11. But
even that was not enough to pry loose a visitor's visa for his wife, who was
turned down by the U.S. Consulate the next week in five minutes, Coomar said.

"They thought I was faking it," he said. "I wish I was."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              64 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 26, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Thousands Confront Deportation Dragnet's Longer Reach

Pamela Constable; William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1634 words


Wayne Smith once wandered the District streets late at night, trying to score
one more hit of cocaine and begging God to deliver him from his addiction. He
wound up serving three years at Lorton Reformatory on drug charges, and when he
was released in 1992, he was determined to build a new life.

Today, Smith owns a janitorial service with 25 employees -- some of them former
offenders and addicts he is trying to help. He is married, active in a church
prison ministry, and, at age 40, studying to be a registered nurse.

"It's been rough, but I finally came out of my addiction. Now I want to give
something back to the community," said Smith. "My children see me as a strong
man and a good provider. My employees say I have inspired them. For the first
time, I see a real future."

But Smith, a legal immigrant from Trinidad who came here at age 10, may have to
pay a second time for his crime. Last spring, federal immigration agents knocked
on his door and arrested him. Several months later, he was ordered deported by
an immigration judge in Baltimore, based on his original drug charges. He has
appealed the order, but he and his lawyer say his chances of winning are slim.

Last year, a tough new immigration law retroactively expanded the range of
crimes for which federal authorities can deport legal residents. In addition to
such serious felonies as murder, armed robbery and drug trafficking, which
already were grounds for deportation, the list now includes lesser offenses such
as shoplifting, credit card fraud, simple assault and drug use, as long as the
defendant was sentenced to at least one year's probation.

The new law also severely limits an immigration judge's authority to grant
exceptions, no matter how long ago the immigrant committed the crime, or how
well he has behaved since then. It also makes it possible to block any immigrant
convicted of such a crime from reentering the United States, meaning that if he
travels abroad and tries to return he can consequently be held in custody until
deported.

Supporters say the law is a necessary tool for getting rid of undesirable
immigrants, especially violent or habitual criminals who have escaped
deportation for years. Over the past year, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has deported more than 45,000 foreigners convicted of crimes by U.S.
courts.

In the Washington area, 1,043 criminal aliens were arrested in the past year, an
increase from the previous year of nearly 200 percent. In one Texas operation in
March, INS agents arrested and deported more than 1,000 immigrants who had been
convicted of charges that included murder, armed robbery and child molestation.

"I feel that law-abiding people, not hardened criminals, should be filling our
priceless immigration slots," Sen. Spencer Abraham said in a speech last week.
The Michigan Republican chairs a Senate immigration subcommittee. "Until last
year's bill," Abraham said, "only a tiny percentage of deportable criminal
aliens had actually been deported."

But critics argue that the new law is unduly harsh, often sweeping up decent
people in a dragnet that ought to be aimed at serious offenders. They note that
many of the crimes for which immigrants can now be deported are misdemeanors
under criminal law, for which judges rarely sentence offenders to jail.

In recent weeks, an especially dramatic case in New York has focused public
attention on the law's far-reaching consequences. Jesus Collado, a 43-year-old
legal immigrant and restaurant manager from the Dominican Republic, was
returning from a vacation in his homeland last spring when he was arrested by
immigration agents at John F. Kennedy International Airport and imprisoned.

It turned out that 23 years before, when Collado was 19, he had been convicted
of sexual misconduct and sentenced to one year's probation after the mother of
his 15-year-old girlfriend complained to police that they were having sex. Under
the new law, Collado can be deported for his misdemeanor and held without bond
in the meantime.

Collado's family mounted a campaign to publicize his plight, and a documentary
film about him was released two weeks ago. Even the mother of his long-ago
girlfriend wrote the immigration authorities, saying she now feels "extremely
guilty" about having gotten him in trouble, and comparing their teenage romance
to Romeo and Juliet.

On Friday, immigration officials released Collado after more than six months in
federal custody, citing a new INS rule on detentions that took effect this week.
The rule gives INS district directors temporary authority to free certain legal
immigrants who were stopped when reentering the country, although they still
face eventual deportation under the law.

"This is the most terrible thing I have ever been through," Collado said by
telephone shortly after his release from a detention center in York, Pa. "I
understand they are trying to stop crime, but this new law is also destroying
families as a result. I have always worked hard for my wife and children. To
take me away from them is just so cruel."

In an interview last week in the Manhattan restaurant he manages, Collado's
family recounted how his 18-year-old daughter, Julissa, had nearly died in a car
accident while he was in prison, and how desperate he had been to visit her in
the hospital. Wearing a metal body brace, Julissa tearfully described Collado as
a doting but strict father, who had been especially critical when she dated
older boys.

Immigration officials said the year-old law leaves them no choice but to start
deportation proceedings against people who committed crimes that are now
considered "aggravated felonies," whenever they are encountered. Usually, the
INS discovers the immigrant's criminal record either because he applied for
citizenship or returned from a trip abroad and was questioned by an inspector at
an airport.

As a result, thousands of immigrants across the country face expulsion for past
crimes. Some are recent, violent crimes, but others are minor offenses that
occurred a decade or more ago. Among those who are vulnerable under the new law:

* Oscar Pereira, a 29-year-old District man from El Salvador who works at a
late-night parking lot. He was convicted of carrying an unregistered pistol in
1992 -- he said he needed it for protection from muggers -- and given one year's
probation. Now, immigration authorities have ordered him deported, and he has
appealed. In the past, he could have sought an exemption because of his
otherwise clean record and U.S.-born children, but the new law does not allow
it.

* An Iranian cab driver from Virginia, who asked that his name not be used. He
was arrested at a student protest outside the White House in the late 1970s,
convicted of assault and given 18 months' probation. This year, the 40-year-old
man was planning to apply for citizenship, but his lawyer has advised him that
if he submits his application, or leaves the country and tries to return, he
will probably be ordered deported.

* A 22-year-old Salvadoran man from Boston, Rafael Bardales, who was involved in
a street gang when he was a teenager, and convicted of robbery and assault. He
received two years' probation, joined a Catholic church and became an active
volunteer in its missions. In July, the group traveled to the Dominican Republic
to build churches. When they reentered the United States, the man was arrested
and is awaiting deportation.

After a Washington Post reporter reached Bardales at the detention center in
York, more than a dozen other immigrants being detained there for past crimes,
most of whom had been arrested while returning from trips abroad, called The
Post seeking help.

Abraham charged that authorities "seem to be pursuing some admittedly minor
cases aggressively . . . while letting some hardened criminals in jail go free."
He said he plans to hold hearings on the matter.

Immigration officials acknowledged that the new law is having a harsh impact on
one-time minor offenders, but said their hands are tied because Congress, in
seeking to crack down on immigrants who commit crimes, left both the INS and
immigration judges with little room for flexibility or leniency in applying the
rules.

"They cast a big net, and they're catching some dolphins in it," said Russ
Bergeron, an INS spokesman. He added, however, that "probably only a handful" of
such cases are as extreme as Collado's. The way the new law is written, Bergeron
said, immigration officials do not "have sufficient discretionary authority any
longer to adequately address exceptional circumstances."

Short of changing the law, immigration lawyers say, the only remedies for former
offenders facing deportation are expensive, time-consuming and often fruitless.
One is to ask a member of Congress to submit a private bill on behalf of the
immigrant. Another is to request a pardon from the governor of one's state. A
third is to seek to have the original conviction overturned or expunged from the
record.

In interviews, several immigrants facing deportation said they tried to have
their original convictions reviewed, without success. Lawyers said state
executives rarely pardon people for such cases, and that submitting a private
bill in Congress requires expensive legal work and takes many months to work its
way through the political process.

Stephen Converse, a lawyer in Pennsylvania who represents Collado and a number
of other immigrants awaiting deportation for past criminal convictions,
explained the problem: "In theory, you can do something, but you need time and
money. So you get an ordinary immigrant who committed a youthful indiscretion,
and suddenly it comes back as a horrible offense, and there's virtually nothing
he can do."


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/mark lennihan , Jesus Collado and daughter Julissa embrace
amid cheers upon his release from INS facility. "This is the most terrible thing
I have ever been through," he said.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              65 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 31, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Broader Immigration Amnesty Sought

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 581 words


As lawmakers wrangled over the fate of 300,000 Central Americans seeking to
avoid deportation under a new immigration law, the Congressional Black Caucus
yesterday demanded that Haitians be included in a proposed amnesty, and other
members pushed for special treatment for East Europeans, as well.

The efforts to spare certain nationalities from the effects of last year's law
came as the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced it had deported a
record 111,794 illegal aliens in fiscal 1997, a 62 percent increase from the
previous year.

Of the total, 50,165 were deported because they had been convicted of crimes,
Attorney General Janet Reno said at a news conference.

At a separate news conference and rally at the Capitol, members of the
Congressional Black and Hispanic caucuses were joined by approximately 100
Haitians from Florida and the New York area in demanding amnesty for about
18,000 Haitians in the United States who have pending applications for political
asylum. Haitian leaders said that including others, who have not yet applied, as
many as 40,000 Haitians in this country may seek relief from deportation.

Several proposals are still being negotiated, but congressional sources said a
deal appeared to be taking shape that would extend some form of relief from
deportation to Haitians and East Europeans. Until now, negotiations had focused
on more than 300,000 Central Americans who fled their countries in the 1980s and
early 1990s and either entered the United States illegally or overstayed their
visas. These Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans have been allowed to stay
under temporary programs, and many have put down roots in the United States and
raised families that include U.S.-born children.

Although the wars they fled are over, the poverty in their homelands remains
much the same, and they do not want to go home. Nor do their governments want
them back, fearing that a large influx of deportees will strain the job-scarce
economies in Central America.

To accommodate the immigrants, the administration proposed making them eligible
for suspension of deportation on a case-by-case basis under guidelines set by
the old immigration law. The new law would require them to meet a tougher
standard and imposes a 4,000-a-year cap on those who could win suspensions. The
administration estimated that as many as 400,000 Central Americans would be
eligible to apply for this relief and that about 180,000 would probably receive
it.

In a more complex proposal, House Republicans Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida and
Lamar S. Smith of Texas have introduced legislation that would grant amnesty to
the Nicaraguans, but not to Salvadorans and Guatemalans, although their cases
would be considered under the old law.

That proposal drew sharp criticism from the Salvadoran and Guatemalan
communities and from many Hispanics in Congress, who argued that all the Central
Americans should get the same deal as the Nicaraguans.

The Congressional Black Caucus then weighed in on behalf of the Haitians,
suggesting that they were being discriminated against and insisted they be
included because they also had fled turmoil and faced "unjust deportation." Rep.
Carrie P. Meek (D-Fla.) argued for Haitians' amnesty as a matter of "justice and
fairness." And Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) proposed to include asylum-seekers
who had fled the former Soviet Union, Poland and other East European countries
before the end of 1990.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              66 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 01, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Bad Guys and Good Ones

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 432 words


THE PROCESS of fitting immigration policy to last year's
toughen-up-on-immigration law continues to reveal anomalies not fully
anticipated at the time. The latest concerns the new rules for deporting legal
residents on account of earlier crimes. In 1996 Congress expanded the range of
offenses that would trigger deportation and shrank the authority of immigration
judges to grant exceptions. Now the list includes misdemeanors for which
criminal judges seldom sentence offenders to jail, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and immigration judges have lost discretion to apply the
law flexibly in cases involving lesser offenses committed some time ago by
people who since have become good citizens.

There is some political back-and-forth on this issue -- and not only on this
issue -- between the INS and Spencer Abraham, Republican chairman of the
Senate's immigration subcommittee. The two have sparred over the volatile
question of how to handle the considerable number of possibly deportable aliens
who are in federal or state prisons. The notion has spread that the INS is
carelessly naturalizing many of the criminals among them. In fact, an outside
audit has found that the INS wrongly naturalized about 300 out of the million
applicants granted citizenship in fiscal 1996.

The evident need is to use scarce resources, including detention space and
administrative energy, against the most serious criminals. They ought to be the
first screened and, if the facts warrant it, deported, preferably (if they
already are detained) from the place of their detainment.

Immigration advocates point to cases in which deportation proceedings are
brought against people who misstepped in a minor way as long as 20 or more years
ago and who now are stable family people contributing to their communities. They
are better treated as desirable immigrants than as deportable criminals.

Sen. Abraham had something to do last year with putting in the wrinkles of the
immigration law that he and the INS in their separate ways now seek to take out.
He proposes to hold hearings on why, in his reading, the INS is pursuing some
admittedly minor deportation cases aggressively "while letting some hardened
criminals in jail go free." If this is going on, it should be fixed. But it is
important to extend the hearings to cases in which people who would seem good
candidates for citizenship are being penalized for minor, older offenses that
they have long since lived down. Immigration policy has to focus not just on
deporting the bad guys but on welcoming the good ones.

LOAD-DATE: November 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              67 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 05, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Fast Track to a Green Card

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 410 words


LAST YEAR'S tightening of the immigration law produced a threat of massive,
prompt deportation of the hundreds of thousands of Central Americans who were
uprooted in the wars of the '80s and offered temporary sanctuary, and many of
whom now prefer a permanent U.S. home. The president and Congress responded with
legislation giving these groups a humanitarian break and relief from new
stricter deportation rules. But Congress also did something else, writing in
invidious distinctions among these different immigrants.

To the head of the line went Nicaraguans, who were given immediate amnesty in
the pending "Victims of Communism Relief Act" for fleeing an American-opposed
leftist regime. Behind them -- without amnesty though with an improved way to
beat deportation -- came Salvadorans and Guatemalans; they fled like persecution
and civil war, except it is deemed politically less salient for coming from
governments of the right. Put into a category all their own and denied an
opportunity to gain permanent status were '90s arrivals from Haiti -- people no
less miserable but not for a reason connected to the Cold War.

It seemed reasonable to suppose that with the end of the Cold War, a longtime
national immigration policy favoring victims of communist persecution would no
longer have the same political weight. But to suppose so would be to
underestimate the lingering ideological resonance of the anti-Sandinista -- and
anti-Castro -- cause on the Republican right. This is how the Nicaraguan
immigrants get the special privilege of a fast track to a green card. Defenders
of the provision attribute the criticism of it to envy, pointing out that the
Guatemalans and Salvadorans are receiving all that was asked for them. But a
basic notion of fairness is involved. A decade after Central America's wars, no
good purpose is served by distinguishing this way among their innocent and
equally mistreated civilian victims.

The flap over this provision does not seem sufficient to kill the bill. Even
Democrats representing immigrant communities understand its value in easing the
looming crisis of deportation. Moreover, there may be some possibility of
softening administratively the bill's denial of amnesty to the groups due
second-class treatment. But such treatment is no way to welcome immigrants who
by their experience, work and dedication have already shown that they would be
first-class citizens of the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              68 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 15, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

INS to Tighten Controls Against Immigration Fraud; Approval of Funding Bill
Allows for Advances in Fingerprinting, Background Checks

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 627 words


The administration yesterday unveiled a program to revamp the nation's
problem-plagued citizenship process by using advanced technology and tighter
controls to reduce the potential for fraud and improve criminal background
checks.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) said the passage of a
government funding bill Thursday night enables the agency to "make critical
improvements" to procedures for granting U.S. citizenship to immigrants. The
agency said it soon will begin implementing a new fingerprint policy that ends
reliance on private services and requires citizenship applicants to have their
fingerprints taken on new computerized fingerprinting machines at special INS
centers. The centers then will forward the prints to the FBI for background
checks.

The $ 211 million program, funded under a $ 3.8 billion INS budget that Congress
approved before recessing, is intended to "guarantee integrity in granting
citizenship" and reduce a growing backlog of applications, INS Commissioner
Doris M. Meissner said.

"By taking fingerprints in-house, INS will be better able to prevent fraud and
improve efficiency," the agency said.

A previous program to streamline the naturalization process came under heavy
criticism last year for granting citizenship to 180,000 immigrants without
proper FBI checks and to more than 70,000 others who had criminal records.

In a protracted investigation that is still underway, the INS has identified
about 300 new citizens "who appear to have disqualifying felony convictions,"
the agency said. It said about 5,700 other cases in which the applicant may have
lied about an arrest or had "other disqualifying conditions" are still under
review. The INS has vowed to revoke the citizenship of those found to have been
improperly naturalized.

The new fingerprinting policy will end an eight-month-old program in which the
INS accepted prints taken by 3,700 private entities.

The effort to speed up the citizenship process by privatizing a time-consuming
function backfired when a majority of the fingerprints had to be rejected
because they were smudged or accompanied by inaccurate or incomplete paperwork.
In addition, questions were raised about the integrity of some of the
fingerprinting sites, and it became clear that the INS was unable to monitor
them.

Before that program, the INS had allowed citizenship applicants to submit
fingerprints on their own, raising the possibility that felons could simply turn
in the prints of someone with no criminal record.

During a seven-day grace period after the president signs the law, applicants
will be allowed to use the private fingerprinting sites, the INS said.

When the new procedures take effect, applicants must go to new INS "Application
Support Centers" that are scheduled to open across the country starting Jan. 1.

Initially, the INS plans to open about 40 such centers in six cities -- Los
Angeles, New York, Newark, Chicago, Miami and San Francisco -- that account for
70 percent of citizenship applications. The agency subsequently intends to set
up 80 more centers nationwide and operate a fleet of vans serving as mobile
fingerprinting sites.

The INS insists that the new procedures will not increase delays, since
applicants now can begin the naturalization process before submitting their
fingerprints instead of having to turn them in at the time they file their
applications. Thus, new applicants will not have to wait until January to apply
for citizenship. Under the new system, the applicants will be notified when and
where to have their fingerprints taken. The background checks will be completed
during the time that applicants normally wait for their interviews with INS
examiners, the agency said.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              69 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 05, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

France Rejects Extradition For U.S. Killer; Ruling Outrages American Officials

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 773 words


A French court yesterday refused to extradite to the United States an American
self-styled counterculture guru who was convicted 20 years ago of bludgeoning
his girlfriend to death and storing her body in a steamer trunk in one of
Philadelphia's most celebrated murder cases.

Hours after the decision, Ira Einhorn, 57, who fled to Europe shortly before his
1981 trial and was later found guilty in absentia, was granted conditional
release by a second French court that is considering an immigration case against
him. He entered France illegally with a false Irish passport and has been living
for the past four years under an assumed name with his Swedish wife in a
converted stone mill near Bordeaux. The court ordered him to report his
whereabouts to French judicial authorities every two weeks pending a ruling on
his immigration status.

The decision by a French court of appeals in Bordeaux to reject a U.S.
extradition request outraged American officials. Philadelphia assistant district
attorney Joel Rosen, who prosecuted Einhorn for the 1977 murder, expressed
disgust that the court had "refused to turn over an American citizen who killed
another American citizen on U.S. soil." He said the ruling flies in the face of
an extradition treaty between the two countries.

The presiding judge in the case based the decision on the fact that Einhorn had
been tried in absentia, Rosen said. French law requires a retrial for anyone
convicted in absentia, and there was no provision for Einhorn to get a new
trial. In his U.S. trial he received a life sentence.

Rosen said Einhorn, represented at the time by defense lawyer Arlen Specter, now
a Republican senator from Pennsylvania, skipped out on $ 40,000 bond and fled
the country a week before his trial was scheduled to start. Apparently, the
prosecutor said with sarcasm, the French court did not consider that spending 16
years as a fugitive meant that Einhorn had waived his right to be present at his
trial.

"The United States has learned today to its distress that it still has lessons
to learn from old Europe in matters of human rights," said Dominique Delthil,
one of Einhorn's French lawyers, after the decision was announced.

The French government, which has been pursuing the U.S. extradition request
since Einhorn was tracked down in southwestern France in June, immediately
appealed the ruling to a higher court.

The case has captivated Philadelphia, where Einhorn acquired a reputation in the
1960s and '70s as the city's best-known hippie, an anti-war activist and
environmentalist who lectured on paranormal psychology and futurism and won a
following among Philadelphia's elite. He became known as the city's original
"flower child," called himself "the Unicorn" and served as a liaison between the
"counterculture" and local corporate leaders.

According to prosecutors, he was also a jealous lover who murdered his
girlfriend, Helen "Holly" Maddux of Tyler, Tex., in his apartment when she tried
to break up with him and began seeing another man. He claimed she had left on an
errand and never returned, but after a private investigator for her family found
evidence of foul play and students living below reported a mysterious fluid
dripping into their apartment, police obtained a search warrant and made a
grisly discovery.

In 1979, a year and a half after she had disappeared, the mummified body of
Maddux was found stuffed in a steamer trunk in a closet of Einhorn's apartment.
She had been beaten to death with a blunt instrument and her skull crushed.
Einhorn was arrested but proclaimed his innocence, claiming he had been framed
by the CIA to silence him because of research he was conducting into
psychological warfare involving paranormal phenomena.

It was a claim he repeated in court in France. Wearing jeans and a long, wispy
white goatee, Einhorn invoked the CIA and his study of "psychotronics," which he
defined as dealing with the "psychological components of weapons systems," in
asserting that he was being persecuted.

After fleeing the United States, Einhorn lived under assumed names in Ireland,
England and Sweden before moving to France. Townspeople in the village of
Champagne-Mouton, where he lived in a century-old mill with his Swedish wife
Annika Flodin, knew him as Eugene Mallon, a name he took from an Irish
bookseller he knew in Dublin. The couple bought the mill four years ago for more
than $ 100,000 and lived comfortably there, although neither held a job.
Investigators have speculated that Einhorn received money from wealthy
benefactors, including a Canadian heiress to a liquor fortune.


LOAD-DATE: December 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/bob edme, Ira Einhorn kisses wife Annika Flodin outside a
courthouse in France, where he had been granted conditional release in an
immigration case against him.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              70 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 11, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Nicaraguan Group Offers Help Getting Green Cards; Effort Targets Those Under
Temporary Amnesty

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V08

LENGTH: 277 words


Earlier this month, Congress passed legislation that will grant automatic
permanent residency to about 150,000 Nicaraguans who came to the United States
as refugees and are living here under temporary amnesty. Now, the Washington
area chapter of the Nicaraguan Fraternity, an assistance and advocacy group, is
gearing up to provide hundreds of local Nicaraguans with legal help in obtaining
their green cards.

Onofre Gutierrez, the group's Alexandria-based director, said applicants need to
have their Nicaraguan birth certificates and copies of all documents they have
submitted to immigration authorities in the past, including applications for
political asylum and proof that they arrived in the United States before Dec. 1,
1995.

He also said that any Nicaraguan immigrant who receives a notice of deportation
or an order to appear in immigration court should comply with the instructions
without fail, because immigration judges are aware of the new law and will not
deport those who meet the qualifications for residency.

The Nicaraguan Fraternity will provide bilingual assistance free of charge and
also will help people practice answers to basic questions about the United
States government that will be asked on their residency tests. Federal
immigration officials expect to begin processing Nicaraguan residency cases in
the next several months. Meanwhile, applicants can call the Fraternity at
703-836-8575.

"There is no reason this should cost anyone more than $ 80, plus the cost of a
medical exam and fingerprints," Gutierrez said. "People need to be patient and
not get nervous, because they are not going to get deported."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              71 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 18, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Group Offers Help With Green Cards; Nicaraguans Under Amnesty Are Targeted for
Legal Assistance

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - DC; Pg. J02

LENGTH: 274 words


Congress passed legislation this month that will grant automatic permanent
residency to about 150,000 Nicaraguans who came to the United States as refugees
and are living here under temporary amnesty. Now, the Washington area chapter of
the Nicaraguan Fraternity, an assistance and advocacy group, is gearing up to
provide hundreds of local Nicaraguans with legal help in obtaining their green
cards.

Onofre Gutierrez, the group's Alexandria-based director, said applicants need to
have their Nicaraguan birth certificates and copies of all documents they have
submitted to immigration authorities in the past, including applications for
political asylum and proof that they arrived in the United States before Dec. 1,
1995.

He also said that any Nicaraguan immigrant who receives a notice of deportation
or an order to appear in immigration court should comply with the instructions
without fail, because immigration judges are aware of the new law and will not
deport those who meet the qualifications for residency.

The Nicaraguan Fraternity will provide bilingual assistance free of charge and
also will help people practice answers to basic questions about the U.S.
government that will be asked on their residency tests. Federal immigration
officials expect to begin processing Nicaraguan residency cases in the next
several months. Meanwhile, applicants can call the Fraternity at 703-836-8575.

"There is no reason this should cost anyone more than $ 80, plus the cost of a
medical exam and fingerprints," Gutierrez said. "People need to be patient and
not get nervous, because they are not going to get deported."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              72 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 21, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Deportation Case Also Puts An INS Experiment on Trial

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1697 words


At a recent deportation hearing in an Arlington County courtroom, federal
immigration Judge John M. Bryant leaned back in his swivel chair, listening to
testimony. Prosecutor Deborah Todd stood at the lectern, asking questions.
Defense attorney Stanley Braverman sat at a table, taking notes.

But the defendant in the case, Angel Gomez, a Salvadoran immigrant, wasn't
present, except as a blurry figure on a small television screen. The 24-year-old
Springfield cook and welder was in a Virginia Beach jail 200 miles away,
watching his trial via a two-way video hookup.

An interpreter in the courtroom translated into a speakerphone for Gomez, who
speaks little English, but only when Gomez was asked a direct question. A
uniformed guard stood next to the prisoner, who sat in a chair and strained to
understand the proceedings through beeps and transmission static.

"It is very hard to cross-examine when I can't consult with my client, because
everyone in court can hear," Braverman said later, criticizing the
"videoconferencing" arrangement at Gomez's hearing. "You have one hand tied
behind your back. It's not fair. This kid is being deprived of his rights."

Gomez, who is being held without bond, has been in jail for eight months on a
charge of immigration fraud. His case illustrates the limitations of an
immigration system that is striving to cut costs and streamline its operations,
as well as the potential for human error in the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's vast bureaucracy.

A restaurant cook and part-time welder, Gomez was arrested April 17 at the White
House as he reported to work for a welding job there. He produced a valid green
card proving his legal residency, but when the Secret Service ran his name
through its computer, Gomez was listed as an illegal immigrant who had been
ordered deported in 1991.

INS agents arrived, put the astonished and agitated Gomez in handcuffs and leg
irons, and transported him to jail. As he was being arrested, according to
Secret Service and INS testimony, Gomez swore and spat at authorities and
threatened to shoot one agent when he was released.

Prosecutors concede that Gomez was, indeed, issued a valid residency permit by
the INS. Before that, he had been living in the United States under temporary
amnesty granted to Salvadoran war refugees and had even received INS permission
to visit El Salvador in 1994 for his father's funeral.

They argue, however, that Gomez should never have been given amnesty or a green
card because he failed to appear for a deportation hearing in Texas after his
1991 arrest there for crossing the border illegally -- a hearing Gomez says he
never knew about.

Had the INS computer records reflected his legal residency status, Gomez would
not have been arrested that day at the White House. But since his arrest,
prosecutors have accused him of lying on various immigration forms. They say he
failed to disclose a 1991 conviction for shoplifting a shirt and also failed to
disclose his INS-approved return visit to El Salvador.

Now, citing "national security" concerns stemming from his alleged behavior at
the time of his arrest, the government has asked that Gomez be kept in jail
pending the outcome of his deportation case.

For the last several months, the young Salvadoran has been part of the
immigration agency's new, controversial experiment in trial by video. In
October, the agency's Washington area office, which covers the District and
Northern Virginia, began using videoconferencing technology to expedite
deportation hearings for some of the 250 to 300 immigrants currently
incarcerated in six jails in Virginia.

When INS detainees are scheduled for deportation hearings, they no longer are
driven under guard to immigration court in Arlington. Instead, they are
transferred to the Virginia Beach Correctional Center, where the agency has
installed videoconferencing equipment to cut back on the time, expense and
security concerns associated with bringing the detainees to court.

Immigration officials, who also are using videoconferencing equipment in
Baltimore for more routine cases, say that if the experiment succeeds, they'll
expand its use throughout the country.

"This makes our operation more efficient and cost-effective. We can process and
interview more people because we don't lose all that travel time," said Russell
Bergeron, an INS spokesman. "The initial results are very favorable, and it has
tremendous potential for the future."

But area immigration lawyers and civil rights groups say that placing INS
detainees in distant jails, and not allowing them to be physically present in
court while their fates are being decided, denies immigrants such basic rights
as conferring with an attorney in the courtroom, having an interpreter handy and
receiving regular visits from family members.

"In theory, it's a good idea, but it creates a serious lack of representation,"
said Antoinette Rizzi, a lawyer in Falls Church who works with the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "With such remoteness, there is just no access.
And in court, it is impossible to lean over and whisper to your client."

Local immigration prosecutors also expressed concern about the fairness of trial
by video, especially in complicated cases. It is hard, they say, for a judge to
assess an immigrant's credibility if he cannot observe the person firsthand --
and impossible to hand defendants any documents they might need to review with
their attorneys.

"Videoconferencing has some great merit for routine hearings, but on the longer,
more complex merit cases, work needs to be done to be sure the needs of both the
government and the alien are being met," said Eloise Rosas, district counsel for
the Washington area INS office.

In an interview in the Virginia Beach jail, Gomez said he has had trouble
understanding proceedings at several hearings -- his case, like many deportation
cases, has been protracted.

"At the White House that day, my whole life turned upside down," said Gomez,
speaking in Spanish behind a thick glass partition. "It is very hard to be here.
All I want is to walk down the street with my wife."

He acknowledged being angry last spring when he was arrested but said he did not
seriously threaten authorities.

"I have always tried my best to be legal in this country, and I do not have a
character to hurt someone," he said. "I never drank or went in gangs. I always
worked."

In court, Gomez's two employers testified that he was an honest and
even-tempered worker. Michael Harlow, his boss and legal sponsor at Mike's
American Grill in Springfield, described him as "one of the best employees I
have ever had. He was always quiet, always avoided confrontation. I feel this is
a total injustice."

But prosecutors have painted a different picture. They say Gomez lied on
immigration forms to obtain certain permits, failing to disclose his deportation
order and his shoplifting conviction.

Gomez, who left Texas and moved to Washington shortly after his arrival in the
United States in April 1991, said he never knew about the deportation order. He
also said that his previous lawyer made an error by not noting his shoplifting
conviction, for which Gomez was fined $ 25, on an immigration form.

In a pretrial statement, Todd, the prosecutor, wrote that Gomez should be
deported because he "made a series of fraudulent assertions to obtain
immigration benefits" and showed a "complete lack of respect for the laws of the
country."

Prosecutors, however, were at a loss to explain why various immigration offices
had granted Gomez so many permits without realizing that he had been ordered
deported.

While his case has dragged on, Gomez has remained in prison in Virginia Beach,
where he is allowed one hour of exercise every two weeks and 30-minute visits by
family members on Thursday nights. He cannot receive phone calls, and his wife,
Flor de Maria, who cleans houses, has been able to make the long trip only once.

Gomez is permitted to make collect calls, including to his attorney in
Arlington. But his English is so poor that Braverman has dispatched a
Spanish-speaking associate to the jail for consultations.

Immigration officials said Gomez and other detainees awaiting deportation
hearings have been sent to Virginia Beach because prison authorities there
charge less to house inmates, about $ 45 a night, and because the prison was the
most receptive to letting the INS install videoconferencing equipment. The
agency, saying jails in Arlington and Alexandria have very little extra space,
also keeps prisoners in Manassas, Winchester, Fredericksburg, Hopewell and
Portsmouth.

In addition to their concerns about ensuring a fair trial, some local
immigration lawyers and civil rights groups say conditions in the Virginia Beach
jail are exceptionally poor, with crowded conditions and inadequate medical
care. They have met with INS officials, seeking to move the video hearings to
another facility.

"This situation is Kafkaesque," said Beth Lyon of the District-based Lawyers'
Committee for Human Rights. "They put the video equipment in the most remote
place and the facility all my clients dread most. Just when their cases are
active and they need the most support, they are the hardest to reach."

INS officials say that the agency inspects the jails it uses before renting
space and that they must meet federal standards.

By policy, INS detainees are kept separate from other prisoners, but Gomez and
another detainee say they have not been protected from other immigrants who are
in prison for drug dealing or violent crimes.

During a recent court session in Arlington, Flor de Maria Gomez testified on her
husband's behalf, weeping as she glanced at his face on the television monitor.
When she finished, the judge let the young Salvadoran woman, a legal resident
who married Gomez last year, speak to him.

"Have faith in God," she said in Spanish. "He is the only one who can bring you
tranquillity." Two hundred miles away, Gomez grimaced and brushed at his eyes
before the guard told him to move, leaving only an empty chair.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, lucian perkins; Photo, james thresher, Angel Gomez has been in
jail for eight months on a charge of immigration fraud.  Angel Gomez, 24, waits
to be taken back to his cell at the Virginia Beach Correctional Center after
talking with visitors.  Flor de Maria Gomez has been able to visit her jailed
husband only once.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              73 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 24, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Clinton Grants Extension to Thousands of Haitian Asylum-Seekers

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 450 words


President Clinton yesterday signed an order that temporarily lifts the threat of
deportation hanging over thousands of Haitian illegal immigrants who are seeking
political asylum in the United States.

The rarely used presidential order, called "deferred enforced departure," will
postpone deportations of eligible Haitians for a year while the administration
works with Congress to produce a long-term legislative solution to their plight,
Clinton said.

"I have directed the Attorney General and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to defer for one year the deportation of Haitians who were paroled into
the United States or applied for asylum prior to Dec. 31, 1995," Clinton said in
a statement.

He likened the Haitians' situation to that of Central Americans who were granted
opportunities to legalize their status and remain in the United States under a
law approved last month. The provision excluded Haitians, despite the objections
of the Congressional Black Caucus and immigration advocates.

The law provides amnesty to Nicaraguans and certain Cubans who have been in the
United States since at least Dec. 1, 1995. It allows Salvadorans, Guatemalans
and Eastern Europeans who entered the country and applied for asylum before
various cutoff dates in 1990 and 1991 to apply for "suspension of deportation"
under more lenient rules that were in effect before Congress passed an
immigration reform law last year.

As many as 400,000 Central Americans may be affected by the new law, immigration
advocates say. The White House did not say how many Haitians will be covered by
yesterday's order, but Congressional sources estimate the total at 30,000 to
40,000.

The order angered advocates of reduced immigration, while falling short of the
solution promoted by supporters of the Haitians. Rep. Carrie P. Meek (D-Fla.)
and other members of the Congressional Black Caucus have been pushing for an
amnesty -- like the one granted the Nicaraguans -- that would cover the entire
Haitian illegal immigrant population, estimated at about 105,000.

In signing the order, Clinton said that "Haitians deserve the same treatment we
sought for Central Americans."

Meek called the order "a good Christmas present" for many Haitians here "still
awaiting fairness in the immigration law," but said she would keep working for a
more comprehensive "permanent amnesty."

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), argued the opposite view last week, writing
Clinton that stopping the deportations of Haitians "circumvents immigration
reform legislation that you signed into law, threatens the integrity of the
asylum process and smacks of pandering to political pressure not grounded in
fact."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              74 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 28, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Haitians in the Queue

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 384 words


POLITICAL PRESSURES are forcing change upon last month's revision of last year's
immigration reform law. This time the intended beneficiaries are Haitian
immigrants. Their sponsors in Congress and in the advocacy community have now
induced President Clinton to lift for a year the threat of deportation hanging
over some tens of thousands of Haitians seeking political asylum in the United
States. The order will "shield these Haitians from deportation while we work
with Congress to provide them long-term legislative relief," the president said.

On a humanitarian basis, the Haitians' claim to avoid prompt deportation is
strong. They are poor, they are here, and if sent back they would face real
hardship. Moreover, they are not the only group to ask for exemption from the
legal asylum requirement to demonstrate a fear of political persecution. Just
last month, Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and others identified as "victims of
communism" were moved up in the queue, although the communist component in their
countries is no more. The Haitians are no less needy; their misfortune is to be
victims of current domestic deterioration rather than past international
communism. To spare Haiti the burden of their return will help create the stable
and democratic Haiti that is the best safeguard against a renewed flow of
Haitian migrants, Mr. Clinton said.

At the same time, the presidential order temporarily suspending Haitians'
deportation does seem, as House Immigration Committee Chairman Lamar Smith
(R-Tex.) argues, to cut across the very reform legislation that President
Clinton has just signed. The affected Haitians, he says, were given favored
treatment by being paroled into the United States to pursue their asylum claims,
were not the victims of unfair hearings and in many cases have abused the terms
of their parole by not applying for asylum.

You might expect that immigration would proceed under terms negotiated in the
national law-making process. But that procedure seems to be under heavy pressure
from different ethnic constituencies and their supporters, who, if they fall
short in one branch, then promptly appeal to the other. This would be fine if it
resulted in a consistent and well-thought-out immigration policy. But it is
producing improvisation instead.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              75 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 19, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Unfair Immigration Law

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 453 words


The Post's Dec. 28 editorial "Haitians in the Queue" misses the point about why
changes are needed in last November's revision to the 1996 immigration law. The
real reason is that the 1996 law is fundamentally unfair and that last year's
hastily conceived, back-room deal to revise it compounds the problem. It is
unfair in its impact and is inconsistent in its treatment of immigrants who live
and work side by side in communities like mine. President Clinton should be
praised for using his authority to mitigate the effects of an unfair law until
Congress corrects it.

The Post's editorial uncritically accepts the justifications of House Judiciary
immigration subcommittee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) for giving special,
favored treatment -- "green cards" -- to Nicaraguan and Cuban immigrants while
making it easier to deport Haitians and others. He argues that many Haitians
were given "special treatment" by being paroled into the United States and that
they were not the victims of unfair immigration hearings.

However, in a series of cases beginning in 1978, federal judges repeatedly have
found that Haitians seeking asylum were the victims of discrimination by the
federal government.

It is hard to argue seriously that the limited humanitarian parole granted to
14,000 Haitians by Presidents Bush and Clinton is somehow a sweeter deal than
the Cuban Adjustment Act, which for 30 years has allowed hundreds of thousands
of Cubans to live here with protection from deportation. Cubans were rescued at
sea, welcomed to our shores and given work permits. Haitians were interdicted at
sea but most were sent back to Haiti -- even when it was ruled by a bloody and
brutal dictatorship. It is hard to imagine less "special treatment."

Finally, the editorial appears to accept without question that many of the
Haitian parolees in this country have failed to make formal application for
asylum. This point was directly addressed in a Dec. 17 hearing in Miami
conducted by Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), chairman of the Senate immigration
subcommittee. The archbishop of Miami testified that most Haitians cannot obtain
the legal assistance needed to file these claims. For example, the archdiocese's
legal program in Miami has only two attorneys to represent more than 1,000
Haitian immigrants.

Last year, the House Republican leadership refused to allow the full House to
vote on my amendment to allow Haitians to be treated the same as Cubans and
Nicaraguans. Many believe that this refusal is based on race. Given the
erroneous information used to justify unequal treatment for Haitians, this
belief is difficult to overcome.

CARRIE P. MEEK

U.S. Representative (D-Fla.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              76 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 30, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Immigration Advocates to Seek Softening of Laws; Evidence Cited That Americans
Are Feeling 'Less Threatened' by Foreign Arrivals

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 766 words


Buoyed by what they say is a major shift in American attitudes toward
immigrants, immigration advocacy groups and their allies in Congress are opening
a campaign to further soften the effects of tough recent immigration and welfare
reform laws.

The advocates cite successes so far in easing the impact on immigrants from both
1996 laws, but say there are still a number of provisions that should be
amended. Among them are measures for the "expedited removal" of foreigners who
attempt to enter the United States with fraudulent documents and the mandatory
detention and deportation of immigrants convicted of "aggravated felonies."

In addition, some members of Congress are pushing to expand provisions passed in
November that grant amnesty to an estimated 75,000 illegal immigrants from
Nicaragua and Cuba and offer relief from deportation to more than 250,000
Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Eastern Europeans. They want to extend the amnesty
to as many as 80,000 Hondurans and 100,000 Haitians on grounds that these
emigres fled their homelands for some of the same reasons as the covered Central
Americans.

At a Capitol Hill news conference yesterday organized by the National
Immigration Forum, representatives of immigration lawyers and ethnic advocacy
groups also called for restoration of food stamps to legal immigrants and the
removal of a cap on a controversial visa program that lets businesses import as
many as 65,000 foreign professionals a year for "temporary" employment lasting
up to six years.

Frank Sharry, the forum's director, said the backdrop for these efforts is a
"remarkable shift" in U.S. public opinion about immigration. He cited an August
1997 poll showing that only 36 percent of respondents thought immigration should
be decreased from present levels, compared with 65 percent in 1993.

Americans these days are feeling "less threatened" by immigration and are "more
comfortable with the diversity it brings" than they were a few years ago, the
forum said. The change coincides with recent improvements in the economy
compared with the early 1990s and a greater availability of jobs. About 1.2
million legal and illegal immigrants now are settling in the United States each
year, according to Immigration and Naturalization Service figures.

In an interview Tuesday, INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said her agency
supports certain "fixes" to provisions that were "overreaching" in the 1996
immigration law. Congress already has rolled back some measures, restoring
eligibility for Supplemental Security Income to thousands of immigrants and
sparing more than 300,000 Central Americans from the threat of deportation. But
Meissner said, "I don't think the rethinking of the 1996 law is over."

One of the changes sought by the INS is restoration of discretionary authority
in dealing with immigrants who have been convicted of "aggravated felonies." The
new law expanded the definition of these crimes to include offenses as minor as
shoplifting, and it mandated the detention and deportation of those convicted on
such charges, even if the offenses took place decades before the law took
effect.

Meissner said she supports the expedited removal procedures, which let INS
officials summarily expel illegal immigrants who arrive at airports or border
crossings with false documents or none at all, and who fail to demonstrate a
credible fear of persecution if returned to their homelands.

The provision, which also eliminates judicial review in such cases, was meant to
prevent thousands of illegal aliens from entering the country every year with
patently phony asylum claims that end up dragging through the courts
indefinitely.

The law's provisions on expedited removal and judicial review are strongly
opposed by such groups as the forum, the American Bar Association and the
American Immigration Lawyers' Association, which hope to challenge them in
Congress this year.

But Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), a principal sponsor of the 1996 immigration
law, said he would strongly oppose such changes. He described the advocacy
groups' agenda as "an open-borders movement that is resisted by the great
majority of the American people."

He also criticized President Clinton for proposing $ 2 billion in next year's
budget to restore food stamps for about two-thirds of the estimated 900,000
immigrants who were cut out of the program last September under the welfare
reform law. Smith said the government should make the immigrants' sponsors live
up to their pledges of support rather than "force the taxpayers to foot the
bill."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              77 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 16, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Immigration Facts

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 186 words


William Branigan's Jan. 30 news story, "Immigration Advocates to Seek Softening
of Laws," cites shoplifting as a crime for which an alien may be deported under
the 1996 immigration reform law -- a view peddled in the media by immigration
lawyers. But it's false.

The law reflects the views of most Americans that aliens who commit a serious
crime, such as selling illegal drugs, should be returned to their home country
and not given an opportunity to commit another crime here.

The story also cited a statistic from a poll purported to demonstrate a
"remarkable shift" in public opinion on immigration. But as was stated in USA
Today, where the poll results were originally published, the percentage of
Americans who want to reduce legal immigration is 10 percentage points higher
than the figure given by immigration-reform opponents and printed in The Post.

Twenty years of polling research have shown that Americans consistently want to
reduce both legal and illegal immigration.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Chairman

House subcommittee on immigration and claims

Washington

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              78 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 26, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Political Asylum Application Workshop Scheduled

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03; METRO IN BRIEF: THE REGION

LENGTH: 228 words


A free workshop for immigrants seeking political asylum will be held Saturday to
help them apply for asylum by the April 1 deadline set by Congress. Any asylum
seeker who has been living in the United States for one year or longer must file
an application with the Immigration and Naturalization Service by that date.

The workshop, sponsored by human rights and immigrant aid groups, will be held
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Catholic University Theological College, 401
Michigan Ave. NE. It is open to all immigrants in the area who believe that they
have been persecuted in their native countries or that they could face
persecution if forced to return there.

Under the 1996 immigration reform law, anyone who enters the United States and
wants permanent political asylum must apply for it within one year. The first
deadline for all potential asylum seekers who arrived before that date is April
1, and applications must be sent by certified mail and received by the INS by
then. The address is US INS, Texas Service Center, Box 851892, Mesquite, Tex.
75185-1892.

Those interested in the workshop should make appointments in advance by calling
the Catholic Legal Immigration Network at 202-635-5825 or the Washington Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights at 202-835-0031. The workshop also will include
training for volunteer immigration counselors.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              79 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 01, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Family of Victim in Fatal Dupont Circle Crash Fights to Stay in America

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 1408 words


A year ago, Viviani Wagner was battling for justice for her daughter, a teenager
killed in a car crash caused by a drunken diplomat from Eastern Europe. The
36-year-old Brazilian woman prevailed, and the diplomat was eventually sentenced
to a prison term of seven to 21 years.

Now Wagner is fighting a new battle -- with U.S. immigration officials for
permission to remain in the United States.

During Wagner's campaign for justice, the question of whether she and her family
were legal immigrants, never arose. But, in fact, they had come to this country
on tourist visas, which do not permit permanent residence.

Wagner, her husband and their two sons have overstayed their visas, making them
illegal immigrants in the eyes of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. In
a letter last week, the INS gave the family until March 18 to leave the country.
Lawyers for the family are seeking an extension for at least six months.

The case illustrates some of the complexities of enforcing immigration law,
especially in circumstances that call for compassion and involve larger legal
issues. It also raises questions about the family's intentions in coming to the
United States in the first place, specifically whether they intended to settle
here permanently even though they had no legal immigrant status.

In any event, the tragedy of Joviane Waltrick, the 16-year-old who was killed
last year at Dupont Circle, has become what the family says is its main reason
for seeking to stay. Lawyers for the family members argue that they need to
remain in this country to further a "healing process," and to pursue a civil
suit in which they are demanding at least $ 15 million from several defendants,
including the jailed diplomat, Gueorgui Makharadze; his homeland, the Republic
of Georgia; the Ford Motor Co. and an L Street tavern.

George Doumar, one of Wagner's lawyers, said that as part of that process,
Wagner last week held a "personal and confidential" meeting with Makharadze in
jail. Doumar declined to elaborate on the meeting, except to say that "it had to
do with the whole incident, with trying to help her and Mr. Makharadze come to
terms with the incident emotionally."

Wagner declined to be interviewed for this story, Doumar said. Her family's aims
in their immigration case thus remain unclear, but other lawyers say the family
is not now seeking to stay in the United States permanently. If all else fails,
however, the attorneys say, they could request a rare form of relief from
deportation that was invoked two decades ago by John Lennon.

"Is this family going to be just one more victim of the new immigration law,
which stripped the INS of its historic discretionary authority to permit people
to remain in the United States when there are compelling humanitarian reasons?"
asked Michael Maggio, the lead attorney on the family's immigration case. The
family needs to stay not only to press its civil suit, "but also because
pursuing this litigation is part of the healing process," he said. "When you
have this kind of extraordinary tragedy, it's not right for the government to
say, 'well, you've got to get out of here.' "

Benedict J. Ferro, the district director of the INS office in Baltimore that has
jurisdiction over the case, said the agency had allowed the family to remain in
the United States while Wagner was waging a public campaign to lift Makharadze's
diplomatic immunity and prosecute him on criminal charges. Now that the case is
over -- Makharadze was sentenced in December -- Ferro said it was difficult to
justify further extensions to pursue a civil suit. He said that when plaintiffs
do not qualify for visas, they can be granted "parole" to enter the country as
needed.

INS officials said they became aware shortly after Waltrick's death in January
1997 that her stepfather, Jose Melero Filho, had overstayed his tourist visa and
was working illegally as a mechanic in a Maryland auto body shop. He had entered
the country around March 1996, with the rest of the family following by July.
The family rented a Kensington town house, and Wagner enrolled her children --
Joviane, her daughter by a previous marriage, and her two sons with Melero -- in
Maryland public schools. She later told reporters that she wanted her children
to have American educations because schools in the family's home town of Sao
Leopoldo were inadequate.

Immigration officials said those circumstances suggest visa fraud -- using
tourist visas to enter the United States ostensibly for a temporary stay, but
with the intention of settling permanently. Of the estimated 5 million illegal
immigrants living in the United States, about 41 percent overstayed temporary
visas, the INS said.

Waltrick was killed on Jan. 3, 1997, a few weeks before her six-month visa was
to expire.

The next month, Melero and the two boys went to the INS with their expired visas
and were granted a one-year grace period to leave the country, called "voluntary
departure." Wagner subsequently left the United States, returning on a new
tourist visa last June. That visa expired in December, and she applied for a
six-month extension, which the INS is considering.

On Feb. 18, the day that the "voluntary departure" period expired, Ferro granted
the family a one-month extension to allow the INS to "fully assess" Wagner's
application. In a letter, he told the family's lawyers that the agency was
"sympathetic to the situation of your clients," but could not justify an earlier
request for a longer extension of voluntary departure. He also cautioned that "I
can think of no mechanism that would allow this family to remain in the United
States" during the civil suit.

In arguing for a six-month extension, Maggio said in a letter to the INS that
Wagner has become active in the national organization Mothers Against Drunk
Driving and that the family is under the care of a psychologist, Macario
Giraldo. Wagner shows signs of chronic "post-traumatic stress disorder" and
suffers from "a general obsession with her daughter's death," Giraldo reported.
He recommended that the family be allowed to remain in the United States for six
months to a year.

Maggio also argued that grounds exist for "deferred action," a rarely invoked
measure in which the INS can decide not to deport someone because of
humanitarian or other considerations, including "adverse publicity" that the
expulsion would provoke. Citing extensive news coverage of Joviane's death, he
said the family's immigration problems were also likely to be covered
"intensively and in a manner sympathetic to the family." He said he is not
seeking deferred action, but suggested he might do so as a last resort. Deferred
action first gained renown when Lennon, the former Beatle, used it to remain in
the United States after he was refused legal immigrant status because of a drug
conviction.

Maggio further contended in the letter that pursuing the wrongful-death civil
suit was vital to the emotional well-being of the Wagner-Melero family.

In that case, the estate of Joviane Waltrick is suing Makharadze, the Republic
of Georgia, Ford Motor Co., Ford Motor Credit Co., Michigan Mutual Insurance
Co., Yanni's Greek Tavern in the District and the Jerry's Ford dealership in
Fairfax. In addition to charging that Makharadze was drunk when his Ford Taurus
caused a horrific chain-reaction wreck that took Waltrick's life, the complaint
asserts that the car had a "defective braking mechanism" for which the
manufacturer was responsible and was "negligently maintained" by the leasing
agent, Jerry's Ford.

Makharadze had claimed that defective brakes caused the accident, but
prosecutors presented tests during the trial that showed the brakes in good
working order.

The suit also names as "interested nonparties" the District of Columbia, the
state of Virginia and the U.S. State Department, asserting that they also bear
responsibility for failing to taken action on previous traffic violations by
Makharadze. Lawyers in the case said they are not suing any of the three
nonparties, but left open the possibility of such a course in the future.

Wagner "is a very courageous and determined woman whose life revolved to a great
degree around her daughter," said attorney Doumar. "She's going to fight for
justice in one way or another for the rest of her life, and she's determined to
turn her daughter's death into something positive."


LOAD-DATE: March 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/wildfredo lee, The family of Jovianne Waltrick, killed by
drunken diplomat driving in Dupont Circle, is trying to stay in the United
States to further a "healing process." Family includes from left, brother,
Ricardo Melero; stepfather, Jose Melero Filho; mother, Viviani Wagner; and
brother, Neto Melero.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              80 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 05, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Deportable for Shoplifting

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 357 words


In his Feb. 16 letter, Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) provided patently false
information. He says that an alien may not be deported for shoplifting under the
1996 immigration reform law. Maybe Mr. Smith should reread his own law. Not only
may a person be deported for shoplifting, but shoplifting, in some instances, is
classified as an "aggravated felony."

The law specifically states that "Any alien who is convicted of a crime
involving moral turpitude . . . for which a sentence of one year or longer may
be imposed is deportable." In Virginia and many other jurisdictions, a sentence
of one year may be imposed for shoplifting. So, for example, if someone
shoplifts food from a grocery store or a dress from a department store, that
person is deportable.

In addition, shoplifting can be classified as an "aggravated felony." The law
defines an aggravated felony to include "a theft offense . . . for which the
term of imprisonment is one year." Therefore, if an alien is convicted of
shoplifting and is sentenced to one year in prison, even if that one year is
entirely suspended and the alien spends no time in jail, that person is
deportable as an "aggravated felon."

The 1996 change in the immigration law went too far, and it is retroactive. It
penalizes almost everyone who has committed a low-level crime. There is no
flexibility, compassion or forgiveness in the law. American families are
suffering. Even people who have been lawful permanent residents for 20 years --
who have no other criminal convictions and have spouses, children and parents
who are U.S. citizens -- have no relief.

Most people agree that those who commit "serious crimes" should be deported. But
this law clumps together drug kingpins and shoplifters. Because of the
retroactivity, the law also changes the rules in the middle of the game. I think
most Americans find this unreasonable and offensive to our values of fair play.

If Rep. Smith really believes what he said in his letter, then he should change
the law to reflect it.

DENYSE SABAGH

Washington

The writer is past president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              81 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 12, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Anti-Saddam Iraqis Plan Appeal of U.S. Deportation Order

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 608 words


Lawyers for six Iraqis linked to a failed CIA effort to topple Saddam Hussein
said yesterday they plan to appeal a deportation order issued by a U.S.
immigration judge on the basis of secret evidence that their presence here
threatens national security.

After spending nearly a year in detention in California, the six were ordered
"excluded and deported from the United States" at the end of a 147-page
decision, most of which was classified and withheld even from defense lawyers.

Immigration Judge D.D. Sitgraves ruled Monday that the six could not claim
political asylum "because there are reasonable grounds for regarding [them] as a
danger to the national security of the United States."

Defense attorneys said that while they would probably ask the Board of
Immigration Appeals in Falls Church to take up the case, they are severely
hamstrung since they do not know what evidence the government has or even
precisely what the charges are.

"We're all a little bit in shock," said Houeida Saad of the American Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee. "Not only was evidence introduced in secret, but
the judicial opinion itself is secret." She said 92 pages of it were classified.

The case is one of a number of recent instances around the country in which
Arabs have been detained based on secret evidence that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has received from the FBI or other government agencies.

The six men ordered deported Monday are among more than 6,500 Kurds and Iraqis
who were brought to the United States last year after forces loyal to Saddam
Hussein dismantled a CIA-backed operation aimed at overthrowing the Iraqi
dictator. The evacuees were brought first to Turkey, then airlifted to the U.S.
territory of Guam in the Pacific. There they were screened by the FBI and CIA
during stays of several months before they were eventually flown to the United
States.

Of the Iraqi evacuees, 25 were found to be security risks because of allegations
that they were secretly serving as double-agents for Saddam Hussein, U.S.
officials said. They were detained in Guam and brought to California on "parole"
so that they could appear before immigration judges, who would determine whether
they should be "excluded" from the United States or granted asylum, the
officials said.

Nine currently face deportation. The rest have either been granted asylum or
have pending applications. If eventually deported, the Iraqis would not
necessarily be returned to their homeland, officials said, but could be sent to
other countries that agreed to accept them. Their lawyers say they face certain
death if sent back to Iraq.

Among those detained near Los Angeles is Safadin Batat, 33, a former aide to
Ahmed Chalabi, the leader of the Iraqi National Congress opposition group.
According to his lawyer, Daniel Levy, Batat barely escaped death at the hands of
Saddam Hussein's agents in northern Iraq in late 1995 when he drank a soda that
had been laced with rat poison. He was flown to Britain, where his case
attracted considerable publicity.

A retired CIA agent with experience in northern Iraq said he considered Batat a
trustworthy member of the Iraqi opposition to Saddam. He said he could not
understand why Batat was deemed a threat to U.S. national security.

Levy attributed the accusations against Batat in part to "personal animosities"
that surfaced among the evacuees in Guam. He said Batat and other detainees had
drawn up the lists of those who were to be pulled out of northern Iraq and that
many evacuees' relatives were left behind.

Staff writer Walter Pincus contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              82 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 18, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Family of Brazilian Girl Killed in Car Crash Faces Deportation

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 490 words


e

The family of Joviane Waltrick, the Brazilian teenager killed by a drunken
diplomat in a car crash here last year, yesterday dodged a U.S. immigration
deadline to leave the United States by today, but will have to depart in two
months or face deportation, immigration officials said.

The family, which moved to the Maryland suburbs in 1996 on tourist visas and has
since overstayed them, wants to remain to pursue a multimillion-dollar wrongful
death lawsuit on behalf of Waltrick, who was 16 when she died last year in a
Dupont Circle crash caused by Georgian diplomat Gueorgui Makharadze. Waltrick's
mother, Viviani Wagner, waged a public campaign to bring Makharadze to justice,
and he was eventually sentenced to a prison term of seven to 21 years.

Now Wagner, her husband and their two sons must produce airline tickets
confirming their plans to depart by May 28, said Benedict J. Ferro, the director
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service district office in Baltimore,
which has jurisdiction. If they fail to show up at the INS office there with the
tickets today, they will be placed in deportation proceedings, officials said.

According to their lawyers, Wagner and her family are the latest victims of a
tough immigration law that gives the INS little leeway in dealing with unusual
cases that fall under the agency's enforcement mandate.

"Congress has placed severe limitations on the immigration service's ability to
grant humanitarian relief even under the most extraordinary circumstances," said
Michael Maggio, who is representing the family before the INS.

In the agency's view, however, the family apparently intended from the start to
settle here illegally on tourist visas and cannot now be allowed to use their
tragedy to remain in the country indefinitely.

The INS is prepared to grant family members "parole" as necessary to reenter the
United States to pursue their civil case, in which they are seeking at least $
15 million from Makharadze, the Republic of Georgia, the Ford Motor Co. and
other defendants, U.S. officials said. But they said the agency would not permit
the family to take up residence here again under that status.

Last month, the INS gave the family until today to leave voluntarily. The agency
last week turned down a request by Wagner for a six-month extension of her
tourist visa. With the deadline looming, the family's lawyers yesterday asked
for an additional grace period, called "voluntary departure," that would allow a
stay of four more months, the maximum permitted under the new immigration law.

Citing the previous one-month grace period already granted, Ferro said the
family would have to leave by May 28 with no further extensions.

Maggio said he and the family's lawyers in the civil suit plan to meet with
Ferro next week to work out details of the "parole" under which Wagner and
possibly other family members would be allowed to return.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              83 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 19, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

A Tough Road to Citizenship; Cultural Differences, Language Barrier Make
Naturalization Hard for Somalis

Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 904 words


A mini-squadron of immigration lawyers determined to get Somali refugees on the
path to U.S. citizenship took its show on the road recently to Arlington.

The results: mixed, at best.

Many of the impediments to the naturalization process immediately were obvious
to the lawyers from the District-based Catholic Charities Immigration Services.

A married Somali woman -- her face almost completely covered, in accordance with
her religious and cultural customs -- had to be persuaded to remove her veil and
reveal her features for the photograph required for the citizenship application.

When she did, the men, with the exception of her husband, had to leave the room.

Candida Quinn, an immigration lawyer, went through the application's long
questionnaire, asking a Somali man questions such as, "Have you ever been a
habitual drunkard?"

The deeply religious and conservative Muslim man simply looked at Quinn. "Don't
you get it?" his expression seemed to say.

Somali men attending Friday services at the nearby mosque, Dar al Higra, off
Leesburg Pike, turned a deaf ear to the notion of attending a Catholic
Charities-sponsored clinic.

"They said, 'Hey, are you trying to convert us?' " said Farah Mohamed, a Somali
outreach worker hired by the Legal Services office to target refugees.

And a few elderly Somalis who ventured to the Arlington Mill Community Center,
where the lawyers set up shop for two days said they simply cannot learn the
English required to pass the citizenship test and interview required by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Two had taken about two years of English
classes previously.

"It won't enter my head," Ismail Muse, 71, said through an interpreter, as he
lightly pounded his fists on his skull for emphasis. "They tell me. I don't
remember anything."

His 70-year-old friend, Yusuf Warsame Jama, agreed, then pulled a tape recorder
out of his jacket pocket and punched the play button to prove that he, indeed,
has tried.

"Thanks, this coffee is surely good," said the language tape.

Warsame, who said he was shot in the head during the civil war that prompted an
exodus from Somalia in 1991, could not mimic the words.

Muse and Warsame are among an estimated 10,000 Somalis in the Washington area.
Most live in Arlington and Fairfax counties and Alexandria, according to
Mohamed, who works with organizations intent on reaching out to the Somali
community.

This school year, for example, Arlington school officials have held two
workshops for teachers on Somali culture to better understand Somali children --
almost 90 are enrolled in classes -- and their parents. A series of
college-credit classes on sub-Saharan cultures also is offered to Arlington
teachers, said Marta Pizarro, director of the Arlington Public Schools Intake
Center.

INS statistics show that about 3,000 Somalis resettled in the Washington area
from 1990 to 1996, but migration within the United States, Mohamed said, has
changed the refugee demographics of some states. Today the highest
concentrations of Somali refugees live in the Washington area, California,
Minnesota and Georgia.

What her office has determined, Jeanne Atkinson, acting director of Catholic
Charities Immigration Services, said is that Somalis, like some other African
and Middle Eastern refugees, have a low rate of naturalization in the United
States.

Catholic Charities, along with Hogar Hispano, an office of the Hispanic
Apostolate in the Catholic Diocese of Arlington, recently received grants from
the Catholic Legal Immigration Network to target Somalis for naturalization.
Similar organizations in Dallas, Detroit and California also received such
grants.

The goal, Atkinson said, is to assist refugees who are eligible for
naturalization after living in the United States for five years, to assess the
barriers to naturalization and to devise a curriculum to enhance their chances
of becoming citizens.

The lawyers also want to get the word out that the $ 95 naturalization
application fee soon will jump to $ 225 and that legal residents who are not
citizens soon will lose public assistance benefits such as Supplemental Security
Income.

Some Somalis, such as Hussein Mohamed Siad, 55, of Alexandria, don't have to be
convinced. Siad went to the community center with two of his daughters so they
could fill out naturalization applications with the help of the immigration
lawyers.

A former official in the toppled Somali government of Mohamed Siad Barre, Siad
has a master's degree from George Washington University and speaks English quite
well. His daughters attend college in Virginia. Even though the family, which
also includes his wife and four other daughters, dreams of returning to their
country someday, Safia Siad, 25, said that civil unrest there makes that goal
uncertain.

"The war has been going on for eight years; it's an uncertain future," she said.
"So you have to plan your future."

Her father said that becoming a U.S. citizen will enable him to participate more
fully in American life.

"I see this as gaining one more nationality, not losing my nationality," said
Siad, who does clerical work. "There's a [Somali] community here, and this is a
country of communities. I cannot vote and contribute to the political
development of the country. I may as well join it here and fully dedicate
[myself] to the country and the community."


LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, debbi morello for The Washington Post, Safia Siad said she is
uncertain about returning to Somalia because of civil unrest.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              84 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 23, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Aliens and Due Process

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 347 words


ON THE BASIS of classified evidence, the government has obtained a decision from
an immigration judge in California allowing it to deport six Iraqi nationals as
threats to national security. The bulk of the opinion itself, the government
contends, is classified and too sensitive to be seen by the lawyers for the six
Iraqis. These men worked with the CIA against Saddam Hussein's regime and were
among more than 6,500 Kurds and Iraqis evacuated by the agency when their
opposition base in northern Iraq was overrun in 1996. They have never been
admitted to the country formally but were put in a detention facility on their
arrival. And because the government has not disclosed the nature of the concern
about them (although there has been some suggestion that they are double
agents), they have been unable to counter the allegations against them. They
believe they will be executed if sent back to Iraq.

No one could argue that the government should be prevented from keeping
terrorists and foreign agents out of the country. And evidence that a given
alien is undesirable cannot always be disclosed without compromising
intelligence sources. The Supreme Court has held that an alien who has not yet
been admitted to this country has no due process rights under the Constitution.

But even if the government's position comports with the Constitution, it is
still extreme. In criminal cases involving national security, the government is
required by law to provide defendants with unclassified summaries of evidence
against them. These summaries must provide the accused with substantially the
same ability to defend themselves as the evidence itself would offer.

An exclusion proceeding may be a civil matter that does not, like a criminal
case, threaten to deprive anybody of liberty. But the government should not
contemplate taking an adverse action against someone -- and sending these men to
face execution at the hands of Saddam Hussein would certainly qualify -- without
allowing that person a chance to rebut even a summary of the evidence against
him.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              85 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 26, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Offers Reorganization Plan; Proposal Calls for Splitting Agency Into Three
Components

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 776 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, confronted with growing pressure for
its abolition, is putting forth its own plan for a drastic reorganization that
would separate its enforcement and service functions but leave the agency
intact.

The INS reorganization plan, drawn up by the Booz-Allen and Hamilton consulting
firm and being released today, is aimed in large part at responding to criticism
that the agency is overwhelmed by conflicting missions and should be broken up.
But the proposed solution is also drawing intense opposition within the INS,
senior officials said.

The overhaul of the INS, a 26,000-employee agency under the Justice Department,
is scheduled to be discussed at a hearing Tuesday of the House Appropriations
subcommittee with jurisdiction over the department. The panel has asked the INS
to present a reorganization plan by April 1.

The subcommittee's chairman, Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), has expressed support
for a recommendation to dismantle the agency. That recommendation was advanced
last September by the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform. The
commission said the INS was suffering from "mission overload" and that its major
functions should be dispersed to the departments of State, Justice and Labor.

In another proposal that takes the opposite approach, the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace yesterday said the INS should be elevated in status,
preferably to Cabinet level as an independent agency, and assigned the
immigration-related functions of other government departments.

The think tank also recommended setting up "chains of command" within the INS to
separate law enforcement activities -- such as the arrest and deportation of
illegal aliens -- from the administration of immigration benefits, including
citizenship and legal residence.

"There is a growing consensus that service and enforcement should be divided in
this way," said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a former top INS official who joined
Carnegie last year. But he added, "I think it is important to keep the two
functions within the same agency, so you have accountability."

Jeanne Butterfield, director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said the group supports the Carnegie approach but doubts that making the INS a
Cabinet agency is "politically feasible." She said immigration advocates like
the idea of separating the INS enforcement and service functions but strongly
oppose dismantling the agency.

The Booz-Allen plan would thoroughly reorganize the INS, according to officials
familiar with the proposal, abolishing the current nationwide structure of 33
districts, each headed by a powerful director responsible for both immigration
enforcement and benefits. It would divide the agency into three components --
enforcement, benefits and support services -- and create a single "enforcement
czar" with authority over investigations, inspections, border control and the
detention and deportation of illegal aliens.

The plan would replace the district directors with officials separately
responsible for enforcement and benefits. In place of the districts, as many as
24 INS regions would be created, half for enforcement and half for benefits.

The Booz-Allen proposal was presented here Monday and Tuesday to the district
directors, some of whom privately expressed resentment and said they doubted the
reorganization would solve the agency's problems, officials said.

"We think it's a disaster and that it's not going anywhere," one senior official
said.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner "seems to be thinking that if she puts forth
this reorganization, it will call off the wolves," he said. But the plan will do
nothing to address the agency's main shortcomings, which include growing
backlogs of applicants for citizenship, he said.

Another senior INS official said the Booz-Allen proposal is widely seen within
the agency as a way to buy time to fend off pressures for the dismantling of the
INS.

Over the past couple of years, the INS has been rocked by a succession of
breakdowns and scandals, most notably related to an accelerated naturalization
program called Citizenship USA. Congressional Republicans, who charged that the
White House tried to use it to create more than 1 million new voters beholden to
the Democratic Party before the 1996 elections. As a result, the critics said,
thousands, including people with criminal records, were improperly naturalized..

INS officials who oppose the Booz-Allen plan attributed this breakdown to what
they said has been a growing tendency to politicize the agency, rather than an
organizational problem.


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.) supports recommendation to dismantle
INS.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              86 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 26, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Central Americans Rally Outside Capitol; Groups Join Protest of Immigration Law

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 512 words


For the second time in three days, several thousand immigrants rallied outside
the U.S. Capitol yesterday, pressing Congress to grant them permanent residency
and ensure that they will not have to return to countries they fled years ago
amid bloody political turmoil.

This time, it was refugees from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras who
gathered, waving American flags along with those from their homelands and
carrying placards that evoked both the horrors they escaped and the sacrifices
they have made to survive in a new land.

"I am proud to say I have worked in this country for 10 years without ever
asking for welfare, and I just want to live here in peace," said Luis Salazar,
32, an electrician from Falls Church. He said he once was a student activist in
Guatemala and left because the armed forces began killing campus militants.

Jose Ponce, 30, a restaurant worker from the District, said he could not afford
to return to El Salvador, even though the 12-year civil war has ended. His
children were born here, he said, and his ailing parents depend on the $ 100 he
wires to them each month in rural Usulutan province.

The protesters, like a group of Haitian refugees who rallied here Monday, were
seeking equal treatment with Nicaraguans and Cubans, who were granted permanent
residency under a law passed in November. That law offered partial assistance to
Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees, by allowing them to appeal deportations more
easily, but gave no help to Haitians and Hondurans.

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) told the ralliers he will introduce a bill
granting permanent residency for refugees from all four countries not covered
under the new law, as long as they arrived here before December 1995. Many
entered the United States illegally and have been living here under temporary
amnesties.

"You all came fleeing civil conflicts in which the United States was involved,"
he said. "We cannot let Congress pass a law saying that one group of immigrants
is more or less equal than others."

But many members of Congress, which passed strict new immigration laws in 1996,
believe refugees who were accepted here during violent conflicts abroad should
not be allowed to parlay that temporary benefit into a permanent one.

Last fall, in a largely ideological concession, legislators permitted many
refugees from revolutionary regimes in Cuba and Nicaragua to remain here
permanently. But those who fled rightist repression in Haiti and other Central
American countries have no such political leverage.

Yesterday, a lone placard read, "We're victims of communism, too." But other
banners and speakers blamed Washington for financing and training the Salvadoran
armed forces during their war against leftist rebels in the 1980s.

Moreover, until now, the various refugee groups have failed to present a united
front in their demands, holding separate rallies and backing various bills that
have been given little chance of passage. Gutierrez's proposal is the first that
would benefit all the protesting nationalities.


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig, Refugees from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras
demand that Congress grant them the same protected status it has given to
refugees from Cuba and Nicaragua. Below, Eber Hernandez, 3, of Arlington, waves
an American flag.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              87 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 02, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Protesters Accuse INS of Discrimination; Md. Division Unfairly Targets Latinos,
Demonstrators at Justice Department Say

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 524 words


Pedro Lazo, a Salvadoran immigrant who owns Los Chorros restaurant in Wheaton,
was stunned when his son Jason called him from the restaurant March 19 and told
him that a squad of immigration agents had arrived. Jason, 19, and a half-dozen
other Latino employees were questioned and then released after they proved they
were here legally.

"They humiliated my son because he has a Latino face. I am a U.S. citizen, but I
have a Latino face, too. We should all have rights," Lazo said yesterday,
speaking at a demonstration outside the Justice Department. "I came here to
work, and I have worked 16 hours a day for 25 years. I don't want my name to be
destroyed."

Lazo, 46, was joined by immigrant advocates from Maryland, Virginia and the
District to protest a recent series of workplace raids by agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Maryland. They said the INS was
unfairly targeting both Latino employees and small-business owners, and they
called on Attorney General Janet Reno to investigate.

"The INS has the right to enforce the law, but they must distinguish between
enforcement and intimidation," said the Rev. Whit Hutchinson, a Protestant
pastor in the heavily Latino neighborhood of Columbia Heights in Northwest
Washington. "They need the same basic civics lesson required of immigrants to
obtain citizenship."

Federal immigration officials denied singling out any ethnic group in searching
for illegal immigrants. But they also said that in the Washington area, a large
percentage of illegal workers are Latino and that they tend to work in certain
industries such as restaurants.

"We do not discriminate, and we do not tolerate abuse. We take all allegations
of wrongdoing seriously," said Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokesman.
"On the other side, in industries here that do employ illegal aliens, most are
Latinos. If this were New York's Chinatown, probably everyone would be Chinese."

Benedict Ferro, director of the Baltimore INS office, said it was "ludicrous" to
suggest that the agency is singling out Latino busi ness owners, since 95
percent of INS raids in Maryland have been at non-Latino establishments.

Ferro said he was trying to address the immigrant leaders' concerns, but he also
complained that they are "asking us to stop doing workplace raids, in effect
providing sanctuary for undocumented workers, and that we will not do."

Since Jan. 1, INS agents have raided about 30 workplaces in Montgomery and
Prince George's counties. They have detained 188 workers suspected of being
illegal immigrants, mostly from Mexico and Central America.

One of the workers, Hector Cruz, spoke at yesterday's protest, where he
described being put in handcuffs and leg chains during an INS raid at a
restaurant in Bethesda on Jan. 29. Cruz, 33, an illegal worker from Mexico, is
free on $ 5,000 bond while awaiting a deportation hearing.

"They put us in chains like assassins," Cruz said. "In my whole life, I never
caused any trouble. I only came here to try to support my family. If I were
robbing or selling drugs, I would agree totally that they send me back."


LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dayna smith, Pedro and Reina Lazo were angered when a team of
INS agents raided their restaurant in Wheaton and interrogated their son and a
half-dozen other Latino employees. The husband and wife both are naturalized
U.S. citizens.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              88 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 04, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

INS's 'Expedited Removal' Attacked

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 690 words


A year after the government began implementing it, a controversial provision of
immigration law is under attack from human rights groups that charge the measure
may be sending refugees back to terrible fates in their homelands.

However, the Immigration and Naturalization Service maintains that there is no
evidence of that, and the General Accounting Office says the program is
generally working as Congress intended: It's keeping out illegal aliens who
attempt to enter the United States with no documents or with fraudulent ones.
From last August to January, some 30,000 foreigners without proper documents
were turned back under the process, according to the INS.

At issue is the 1996 immigration law's "expedited removal" process, which took
effect April 1 last year. The law allows immigration inspectors at ports of
entry to issue summary deportation orders to foreigners who arrive without
proper paperwork or to refer them to INS asylum officers if they indicate a fear
of returning to their countries.

Human rights groups and immigration advocates say the provision impairs the
ability of foreigners fleeing persecution to seek political asylum here, because
many escape with false papers and may not be able immediately to state a claim.

The groups also oppose a provision that requires asylum seekers to file
applications within one year of arriving in the United States, with exceptions
for those affected by changes in their homelands or "extraordinary
circumstances" that delay their ability to apply.

Wednesday was the first filing deadline -- for those prospective asylum seekers
who were already in the country as of April 1, 1997.

The law was intended primarily to weed out phony asylum claims by illegal
immigrants seeking to avoid deportation. But advocacy groups assert that many
legitimate asylum seekers are too traumatized to tell their stories or file
claims within a year of entry.

In a report entitled "Slamming 'The Golden Door': A Year of Expedited Removal,"
the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights this week said it found "numerous
shortcomings" in implementation of the measure. The group said it "poses serious
risks of sending refugees back to persecution without giving them a chance to
present their asylum claims."

A member of the committee's board, actress Sigourney Weaver, appeared at a
Capitol Hill news conference Tuesday to promote the report and the rights of
asylum seekers.

Amnesty International and the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, also
criticized expedited removal, saying it places too much power in the hands of
"low-level" INS officials and undermines the U.S. tradition of offering safe
haven to the persecuted.

Weaver presented the case of Mohamoud Farah, a Somali who claimed to have fled
persecution against him and his family in 1997. He was allegedly abused by INS
officials on arrival in New York and shackled at the airport for 14 hours, then
detained for 101 days before being granted asylum.

An INS spokesman, Russ Bergeron, said the agency is investigating Farah's charge
of mistreatment. He said Farah arrived as an "impostor," presenting someone
else's passport, which made him subject to expedited removal.

Bergeron said advocacy groups had "grossly mischaracterized" the role of INS
inspectors, who do not make decisions on asylum claims. He said there was no
evidence that any of the more than 30,000 people summarily deported since last
August have been persecuted on return to their homelands.

According to the INS, only about 2 percent of people subject to expedited
removal are actually asylum seekers. The vast majority are simply trying to
sneak into the United States, and more than 90 percent have been Mexicans, the
agency says.

In a study, the GAO found that INS inspectors and supervisors had documented
that the agency had followed correct expedited removal procedures 80 percent to
100 percent of the time. In cases in which asylum officers found there was no
"credible fear" of persecution, immigration judges upheld 83 percent of those
decisions. The GAO decided to make no recommendations in the study.

LOAD-DATE: April 04, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              89 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 08, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Granting Asylum

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 360 words


NO AMERICAN tradition is more deeply rooted and valued than the standing offer
of asylum for arrivals claiming to fear political persecution if sent back home.
Here lies the value of a report by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights on the
first-year workings of the asylum provisions of the immigration law of 1996. In
this law, Congress, acting on its fear of an unchecked flood of illegal
immigrants, set up a regime of "expedited removal" or summary deportation to bar
asylum seekers found not to qualify.

The report, "Slamming 'The Golden Door,' " focuses on the bureaucratic hurdles
facing those in flight. Decisions with potential life-or-death consequences are
made by low-level officials with little expertise in sorting out the situations
of people typically possessing faked or no papers. Initially the applicants are
denied access to legal assistance and processed in a matter of hours, sometimes
on the basis of inadequate translations. They can be treated abusively. At the
next hurdle, they must still convince an asylum officer and then perhaps an
immigration judge -- again, sometimes in haste and without counsel -- that their
professed fear of persecution is credible.

It seems that the bulk of those caught up at American ports and airports are
Mexicans trying to enter illegally. Only about 2 percent of the several tens of
thousands so far subjected to expedited removal are actually asylum seekers,
according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The service says there
is no evidence that any of them was actually persecuted once home.

But the Lawyers Committee establishes that the statistical evidence on the
asylum process is skimpy, that expedited removal is not fully open to public
view and that those caught up in it cannot be sure of the fair treatment they
are promised by tradition and law. These are shortcomings the committee would
correct by new legislation if possible, administratively if not. In a world
where the United States remains the harbor of hope, the chances that people
qualified for asylum will be tossed back to an arbitrary regime must be brought
down as close as possible to zero.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              90 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 22, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

House Republican Wants Immigration Policy to Favor the Educated

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 705 words


A key House Republican moved yesterday to reopen a debate on legal immigration,
citing research that indicates U.S. policy is failing to meet the nation's need
for skilled workers in the 21st century.

At a hearing of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, Rep. Lamar S.
Smith (R-Tex.), the panel's chairman, pointed to findings by three prominent
researchers in calling for changes in the way the United States admits legal
immigrants. Smith said he plans to introduce legislation that would move
applicants with the most education to the head of the line as a means of
ensuring that the changing U.S. economy gets the high-skilled workers it needs.

"Instead of providing key industries with large numbers of highly educated
immigrants, U.S. immigration policy serves primarily to increase the number of
U.S. residents who lack even a high-school degree," Alan Reynolds, director of
economic research at the Hudson Institute, told the panel. "America must stop
recruiting workers for jobs that do not exist or exist only at the lowest
wages."

Smith said that while 90 percent of future U.S. jobs will require higher
education, more than 40 percent of immigrants now lack even a high school
diploma. "Our economic engine will sputter without a steady supply of
ever-more-highly-educated workers," he said.

His proposal, which may be attached to legislation that would increase the
number of temporary visas available for foreign high-tech workers, immediately
came under attack from immigration advocates and ethnic groups. They called the
idea of setting educational standards for would-be immigrants "anti-family" and
a violation of longstanding American traditions.

The National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group, disputed Smith's projection
of the nation's future labor force needs, saying a 1997 Congressional Research
Service report shows that half the jobs in the next decade will require a high
school education or less.

The prospect of reopening a debate on any aspect of legal immigration is
anathema to immigrants' rights advocates, who joined with the business community
two years ago in a successful campaign to strip reforms of the system from a
major immigration bill. Ultimately, the bill focused mainly on illegal
immigration.

In a statement and a letter to Republican leaders in the House and Senate, the
forum and a coalition of religious and ethnic groups called Smith's proposal for
educational priorities a "poison pill" and urged the leadership to rein Smith in
or risk driving immigrant voters away from the GOP.

In testimony before the subcommittee yesterday, however, researchers George J.
Borjas of Harvard University, Georges Vernez of the RAND Corp. and Reynolds
criticized policies on legal immigration as failing to meet U.S. national
interests.

In California, Vernez said, the benefits of immigration still slightly outweigh
the costs, but the costs are increasing amid a "widening gap between the needs
of the state's economy and the skill levels of incoming immigrants." In
addition, "increasing numbers of low-skilled immigrants are competing with
native and foreign-born workers for low-skilled jobs, a sector that has not
grown in the last 30 years," he said.

Vernez recommended reducing legal immigration from its current level of more
than 900,000 a year to a "more moderate range" of between 300,000 and 800,000 a
year.

Reynolds said that since immigration accounted for half of new additions to the
labor force in the decade's first half, "the average skill level of U.S.
workers, productivity and real wages may be diluted in the future if too many
immigrants bring below-average skills to the job." Under law, he said, the
education or skill of legal immigrants now "is almost 90 percent a matter of
random luck," because two-thirds are admitted because they have family members
here; most of the rest are refugees, asylum seekers or winners of a "diversity
visa" lottery.

"What is needed," he said, "is not another rousing defense of immigration in
general, nor an equally indiscriminate closing of the borders, but a serious,
comprehensive reexamination of the criteria and methods by which rights to U.S.
residence have been regulated."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              91 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 22, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Green for Legal Immigrants, Not Forgers; With Hidden Devices, INS's New
Identification Card Should Counter Counterfeiters

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 449 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service unveiled its latest high-tech,
fraud-resistant "green card" yesterday and began mailing the first 50,000 to new
legal immigrants.

For the first time in more than 30 years, the card denoting U.S. permanent
immigrant status actually is green -- at least in part -- thanks to a stripe on
the back that bears its new official name: "permanent resident card." Previous
versions, officially called "alien registration receipt cards," ranged from pale
blue to pinkish.

For the INS, however, by far the most important aspects are security features,
some of them secret, that make the card difficult to counterfeit. These include
embedded digital images, multifaceted holograms, "laser etching" and the
"microprinting" of portraits of the country's 42 presidents plus the flags of
the 50 states.

There also is an optical stripe on the back of the card that contains the
holder's digitally encoded photo, fingerprints and biographical information,
which can be read only by a special INS scanner.

The card, issued as evidence of authorization to live and work in the United
States, "is now one of the most sophisticated, counterfeit-resistant documents
produced by the federal government," the agency said in a statement. Officials
said the laser-etched photo cannot be altered.

The new card represents "a major milestone in INS efforts to combat document
fraud and assist employers in identifying valid cards more easily," said INS
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner.

The estimated 10 million holders of the old green cards will not be required to
surrender them immediately, but will be issued new cards as their current ones
expire. Cards issued since 1989 are valid for 10 years. Several hundred thousand
cards issued earlier have no expiration date.

A new high-tech card was necessary, the INS said, because of widespread document
fraud. Counterfeiters have produced hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of
fake green cards to allow illegal immigrants to obtain jobs here, according to
INS officials. Some of the better ones sell for as much as $ 15,000, they said.

Immigrants' rights groups have expressed concern that the new card spells out
the holder's country of birth on the front, instead of numerically coding it as
previous versions did. The groups charged that this could lead to discrimination
by employers.

Distribution of the new cards was delayed for three months because of what the
INS described as "quality control problems" in manufacturing them. The problems
have been fixed, the agency said. It spent $ 38 million developing the new
cards, which cost $ 12 each to produce, about the same as the old cards.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Fore and aft views of the new card, in which portraits of the
nation's 42 presidents and flags of the 50 states are embedded electronically as
a security precaution.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              92 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 26, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Sierra Club Votes for Neutrality on Immigration; Population Issue 'Intensely
Debated'

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 737 words


Members of one of the nation's leading environmental organizations have voted to
maintain neutrality on U.S. immigration policy, turning back a call for reduced
immigration as a means of limiting U.S. population growth to preserve natural
resources.

In a referendum that generated intense debate, Sierra Club members voted 60
percent to 40 percent to "take no position" on immigration levels but to work
toward solving "the root causes of global population problems," the club
announced yesterday at its San Francisco headquarters.

The defeated proposal would have committed the club, one of the oldest and
largest environmental groups in the United States, to formulating "a
comprehensive population policy" to stabilize the U.S. population through both
birth control and a "reduction in net immigration."

While both sides agreed that "overpopulation" is a serious environmental
problem, they diverged sharply on whether it should be addressed at the U.S.
national level by limiting immigration, which the Census Bureau has identified
as the main driving force behind today's U.S. population growth, or by pushing
for "global" measures such as international birth control programs.

"This is a resounding defeat for a misguided policy," said Carl Pope, the Sierra
Club's executive director and a strong advocate of the neutrality position.
"Through this vote, our members have shown they understand that restricting
immigration in the United States will not solve the environmental problems
caused by global overpopulation."

He said club members "want us to get back to our real work: fighting pollution,
cleaning up our air and water, protecting our wild lands and wildlife and
reducing global overpopulation."

He added, "The common-sense solution to overpopulation is birth control, not
border patrols."

Adam Werbach, the club's president, said the vote means that "environmentalists
of all races and ethnicities will continue to work together to stop corporations
from polluting our air and water."

Proponents of reduced immigration levels said the vote was a victory for
political correctness instead of dealing forthrightly with a major cause of
environmental problems in the United States. They said that since most
immigrants these days are Hispanic or Asian, an argument has sprung up that to
call for lower immigration is somehow racially offensive.

"There just isn't a grasp of how rapid our growth will be as a result of these
unsustainable immigration measures," said Leon Kolankiewicz, a Washington-based
club member who favored calling for reductions in immigration. He complained
that the club's management had "muddied the waters" by placing an alternative
proposal on the ballot that called for global measures, which the
reduced-immigration side also supports, instead of allowing a straight yes or no
vote on the immigration question on the mail-in ballot.

"This vote hasn't magically changed the fact that there's a real crisis of
overpopulation and rapidly increasing population of the United States," said
Alan Kuper, a longtime club activist in Cleveland. He said his side would try
again, possibly next year, to have the issue placed on the club's annual ballots
for board members.

The issue had provoked an often nasty debate within the club, with opposing
sides accusing each other of racism or demagoguery. The vote was closely watched
by supporters and opponents of current immigration levels.

Including both legal and illegal immigration, the influx into the United States
approaches 1.2 million a year, according to government figures. When U.S. born
children of recent immigrants are factored into the equation, immigration
accounts for more than half of today's growth in the U.S. population, which
stands at 269 million. At the present rate of increase, the population is
projected to double in about 70 years.

The Sierra Club last month mailed ballots to its 550,000 members and received
about 85,000 responses, the highest number in a decade, club officials said.
About 78,000 voted on the referendum question.

"This was the most intensely debated issue in the club's history," Pope said. He
said that now that the issue has been settled, he wants to focus the club's
energy next week on opposing a measure supported by Senate Majority Leader Trent
Lott (R-Miss.) that Pope said would "dismantle support for international family
planning."


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/paul sakuma, Sierra Club executive director Carl Pope said:
"This is a resounding defeat for a misguided policy."

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              93 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 02, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Lawyer Pleads Guilty To Immigration Fraud

Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 460 words


An Annandale lawyer pleaded guilty yesterday to paying an Immigration and
Naturalization Service official to approve false green-card applications filed
by 101 South Korean immigrants.

Suk Bin Brian Im, 36, and three other people, including a special agent with the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, were arrested last month after an
undercover operation in which the deputy director of the Arlington office of the
INS pretended to process false visa forms for a fee. Im pleaded guilty in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria to bribing a public official and conspiracy to
commit immigration fraud.

David Key Lim, 58, the owner of a small Fairfax County garment factory, has also
pleaded guilty to conspiracy in connection with the scheme. Jimee Y. Choi, 32,
who has since been fired by the ATF, and Chul Choi, 33, a New York immigration
broker, are scheduled to go on trial June 8.

Im, a 1991 graduate of Georgetown University Law School, admitted he had filed
false worker visa applications on behalf of immigrants who said they were going
to work as skilled tailors in Lim's factory, Lorton Apparel Inc. In fact, the
applicants had no intention of working there, according to court documents.

Chul Choi paid Lim $ 10,000 for each person who claimed Lim's four-room factory
as a workplace, the court documents said.

During the nine-month sting, Im received $ 260,000 from the applicants. He and
Jimee Choi paid the supposedly corrupt INS official, James D. Goldman, $ 82,100
to approve passport stamps that would serve as temporary green cards, according
to court documents.

In exchange for Im's guilty plea to conspiracy and one count of bribery,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert A. Spencer asked the judge to dismiss 17 other
counts of immigration fraud and bribery. Im faces a legal maximum of 20 years in
prison, but is more likely to receive between two and three years under the
federal sentencing guidelines. He also agreed to forfeit $ 83,000 to the
government as part of his plea.

"The business of illegally selling the right to live and work in the United
States is lucrative. Brian Im acted out of greed to try to corrupt the INS,"
said Helen F. Fahey, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.

Im, a general practice lawyer, drew many clients from the Korean American
community in Northern Virginia and is known for his advertisements in local
Korean-language newspapers. He handled relatively few immigration cases before
becoming a part of the conspiracy.

Im said little during the hearing, but the father of three said later, "I am
glad it happened because God saved me from going any further toward destroying
my family and myself. . . . I am very sorry that because of my greed people were
hurt."

LOAD-DATE: May 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              94 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 13, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Food Stamps Voted for Some Immigrants; Senate Action Would Restore Benefit to
250,000 Thrown Off Rolls in Welfare Bill

Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 651 words


The Senate voted overwhelmingly yesterday to restore food stamps to a
quarter-million legal immigrants after conservatives failed to derail the
measure on grounds that it amounted to a retreat from welfare reform.

The controversial restoration was included in a wide-ranging bill that would
also provide new funds for agriculture research and guarantees for crop
insurance, reflecting an urban-rural coalition that has prevailed on food stamp
and farm issues for many years.

The bill, approved by a vote of 92 to 8, heads to the House, where it also has a
broad base of support but could face strong objections from conservatives. A
House leadership aide said the bill will not be taken up before the Memorial Day
recess. "After that, it depends on how much opposition there is to restoration
of welfare benefits," the aide said.

The key test in the Senate came on a move by Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) to send
the measure back to the House-Senate conference committee that pulled the
several proposals together into one bill.

While Gramm opposed restoration of food stamps to immigrants who had been
declared ineligible by the 1996 welfare overhaul legislation, he hoped to
maximize his support by trying to strip out just one provision that would let
refugees and recipients of political asylum collect food stamps for seven years
instead of five.

But he lost, 77 to 23, after critics charged his proposal could doom the whole
bill and argued it was unfairly targeting victims of foreign persecution, many
from communist or formerly communist countries.

Also, Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman had warned he would recommend a
presidential veto if these people were excluded.

By offering immigrants food stamps, the bill "puts a big neon sign at the border
of the United States of America, 'Come and get welfare,' " Gramm argued. "I want
people to come to America to go to work . . . not for welfare as a way of life."

"The Statue of Liberty holds a torch of freedom, not a book of food stamps and a
lifetime right not to have to work," added Sen. Lauch Faircloth (R-N.C.).

But Agriculture Committee Chairman Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind.) said the
House-Senate conferees would stick by its decision to include refugees and those
granted asylum. Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) said the seven-year extension was
included because it takes that long -- or longer -- for these groups to achieve
citizenship. They are "not swarming across our borders" and must prove they were
victims of persecution, Lugar said. The U.S. welcomes refugees because "this is
the kind of country we are," he added.

The 1996 welfare overhaul bill eliminated food stamps and other welfare benefits
for about 900,000 legal immigrants. Last year's budget-balancing bill restored
some benefits -- but not food stamps -- for about 250,000 of them, primarily
young, elderly and disabled immigrants who were in the country at the time the
welfare bill passed.

The current bill would restore food stamps to this same group of 250,000 at an
estimated annual cost of $ 818 million. Restoration to all the recipients could
have cost $ 3 billion, officials have estimated.

According to figures compiled by Harkin aides, failure to allow for food stamp
payments in the sixth and seventh year after arrival of a refugee or
asylum-seeker could have resulted in a cutoff for about 40,000 people a year
after the five-year period had passed.

Physicians for Human Rights, an advocacy group that supported the food stamp
restoration, released a study last week that it described as showing "alarmingly
high" levels of hunger among legal immigrants in three states: California, Texas
and Illinois.

President Clinton hailed the Senate's action and urged the House to act quickly,
saying the legislation "provides important benefits to America's farmers and to
those who have come to this country seeking a brighter future."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 1998

CORRECTION: An article yesterday on the Senate vote to restore food stamps to
some legal immigrants incorrectly stated the cost. The proposal would cost an
estimated $ 818 million over five years.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              95 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Immigration Directors Object to INS Overhaul

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 549 words


Plans to radically reorganize the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
including one put forward by the INS itself, came under concerted attack
yesterday from the agency's most senior field managers.

At a hearing of the House immigration subcommittee, the immigration service's
powerful district directors said proposals to split up the INS's operations
would not solve the problems of the beleaguered 27,000-member agency. The
directors said the INS's greatest failing was not its structure, but its
management.

Separating INS service functions from enforcement functions would "create more
chaos, more delay and provide us with more excuses for nonperformance," said
Robert L. Brown, INS district director in Cleveland. Brown is chairman of the
Immigration Directors' Association, which represents all but one of the agency's
33 senior field managers.

The subcommittee, chaired by Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), heard widely
divergent proposals to restructure the INS, which is responsible for keeping
illegal aliens from crossing the nation's borders and for delivering immigration
benefits to eligible applicants.

The plans range from one advanced by the bipartisan Commission on Immigration
Reform, which would break up the INS and disperse its activities to other
agencies, to an opposite approach by the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace. Carnegie wants to elevate the INS to independent, Cabinet-level status
and consolidate within it the visa and immigrant-related functions of other
government departments. Right now, the INS operates as an appendage of the
Justice Department.

The INS's own proposal would keep the agency whole but split enforcement
functions from service functions by abolishing the district director positions
and creating separate field offices for both functions.

In their first public comment on the issue, the district directors yesterday
sharply criticized that plan. "The functions performed by the immigration
service are too interdependent and necessary to each other to be separated into
competing agencies or cosmetically split internally by building 'walls' and then
putting 'windows' in the walls," Brown said in a statement on behalf of the
directors.

As examples of how immigration benefits and enforcement need to be closely
coordinated, Brown cited cases of terrorists who entered or stayed in the United
States by applying for visas, asylum or other benefits.

He also implicitly rebuked INS management for "speeding up" the citizenship
process in 1996 by taking it out of "normal district operations" and treating it
as benefit to be issued as quickly as possible. The resulting lack of
"enforcement emphasis" sidetracked the "normal proper scrutiny" of citizenship
applications and led to serious problems, he said.

More than 180,000 immigrants were granted citizenship without proper criminal
background checks. The INS was later forced to review tens of thousands of cases
to determine whether the applicants deserved to be naturalized or should have
their citizenship revoked.

The association denied that it was merely defending the status quo. It said a
radical restructuring would take three to five years, significantly raise costs,
increase duplication of work and sow confusion and turf battles.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              96 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 29, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

INS Frees Nigerian Woman During Appeal

Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 402 words


Federal immigration authorities yesterday released from detention a Nigerian
woman who says she is fighting deportation to protect her daughter from
undergoing female circumcision.

The release allowed Virginia Anikwata, of Rockville, who was held in a detention
center for three weeks, to rejoin her 10-year-old daughter, Chenidu. Chenidu has
been staying with friends and attending school in Montgomery County. Anikwata is
a widow, and Chenidu has no other relatives in the country.

Anikwata was released while officials consider two petitions filed with the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Her petitions contend that she was persecuted as a child in Nigeria by being
forced to undergo circumcision, a procedure called female genital mutilation by
human rights groups.

Anikwata contends that her daughter, a U.S. citizen, would be forced to undergo
the same procedure and that both of them could be forced into polygamous
marriages under the Ibo tribal tradition.

The decision to release Anikwata, 36, from detention was made by Benedict J.
Ferro, Baltimore district director of the INS.

She was released, Ferro said, while the appeals board considers her petition for
political asylum. The INS also is considering a new claim filed this week that
says Anikwata's daughter "would be forcibly subjected to female genital
mutilation as a result of the family preferences of her deceased father's
family, strong social pressures and government support for the practice of FGM
[female genital mutilation]."

Ferro said Anikwata would not "be taken back into custody or removed until both
of these issues are adjudicated."

The new petition, filed by Anikwata's attorney, Martha Saenz, and Morton Sklar,
director of the World Organization Against Torture, invokes the provisions of
the Convention Against Torture -- ratified by the United States in 1996. The
international convention prohibits the deportation of people who have
experienced torture or cruel and inhuman treatment or who are likely to
experience such treatment in the future.

Anikwata entered the United States legally in 1986 on her husband's student
visa, but she became an illegal immigrant after his death. She greeted news of
her release with joyful tears.

"I thank God for everything," she said in a telephone interview upon her
release. "That's all I can say."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              97 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 02, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

High Court To Review Immigrant Law of '96

Joan Biskupic, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 731 words


The Supreme Court said yesterday it will review for the first time whether a
1996 law unfairly bars immigrants who face deportation from protesting the
action in the nation's federal courts. The case arises from the government's
effort to deport eight foreigners it says are tied to Palestinian terrorists.

The high-profile case has become a cause of First Amendment advocates and other
civil libertarians because the immigrants say they were targeted for deportation
as a result of their association with the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine.

Now, it has become a crucial test of whether the 1996 immigration law went too
far in curtailing certain access to federal trial courts. A Supreme Court ruling
in the case could affect immigrants challenging deportation in a range of
situations.

The case before the court specifically tests whether immigrants who claim they
have been selectively prosecuted or otherwise suffered a violation of their
constitutional rights can go to court or must proceed instead through a limited
and sometimes lengthy administrative process.

Before the 1996 law, the Justice Department says, federal courts were generally
barred from hearing deportation challenges until all administrative routes were
exhausted. The department says the law strengthened and made explicit those
limits.

"Congress can't bar people, whether they be immigrants or citizens, from going
to federal court when substantial constitutional violations are at issue," said
Georgetown University law professor David D. Cole, representing seven
Palestinians and one Kenyan protesting deportation.

But Solicitor General Seth P. Waxman told the justices that Congress intended to
foreclose all judicial review of deportation proceedings until other
administrative avenues had been exhausted.

In his appeal of a lower-court decision favoring the immigrants, Waxman said
going through the administrative process before getting to a federal appeals
court would not irreparably hurt someone fighting deportation, even in a First
Amendment case. He noted the courts have long deferred to executive branch
enforcement of immigration laws.

The case of Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee traces to 1987,
when the Immigration and Naturalization Service tried to deport eight immigrants
in Los Angeles because of their activities on behalf of the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine. The Justice Department notes in its filing that the
PLPF violently opposes U.S. peace efforts in the Middle East and has been
responsible for numerous acts of terrorism and the deaths of many Americans over
the past three decades.

The immigrants argued to lower courts that the PLPF engages in a range of lawful
activities and that they had made a sufficient initial case that the government
was selectively enforcing deportation law.

After the group prevailed, the Justice Department appealed on various grounds.
Most recently, it contended that the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996 clarifies the law that courts may not hear a
challenge to a deportation case until other administrative procedures have been
followed. The government said the lower court never should have taken up the
selective prosecution case.

Oral arguments will be heard in the term that begins next October and a ruling
is not likely until 1999.

Separately yesterday, the justices ruled 6 to 3 that voters can sue the Federal
Election Commission over whether a political group must be required to disclose
how its funds are raised and spent. But the justices declined to decide the key
issue of the campaign financing case because the FEC policy on the topic is in
flux.

The high court sent the case back to the commission for further review on
whether the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) must comply with
FEC disclosure rules.

The core question in Federal Election Commission v. Akins was whether an
organization falls outside the FEC's definition of a "political committee" --
and its disclosure requirements -- if its major purpose is lobbying and not the
nomination or election of candidates.

In his opinion, Justice Stephen G. Breyer noted that the FEC has been revising
its rules on the subject and said the agency should determine whether AIPAC's
expenditures rise to the level of a political committee.

LOAD-DATE: June 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              98 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 06, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Ex-ATF Agent Guilty In Green-Card Scheme; Bribe Paid During Undercover Probe

Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 351 words


A former agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms pleaded guilty
to conspiracy and bribery yesterday for trying to pay an immigration official to
issue green cards to South Korean immigrants.

Jimee Choi, 33, who used to work at the ATF's Hyattsville office, admitted that
he and a local lawyer gave $ 82,100 to an Immigration and Naturalization Service
official who was posing as a corrupt bureaucrat. They were trying to get green
cards for 35 families, according to prosecutors.

Choi, who had previously met INS Assistant District Director James D. Goldman at
an official function, made the initial contact with Goldman, paid some of the
bribes and provided security for the operation, according to documents filed in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria. He faces a maximum of 20 years in prison but,
under sentencing guidelines, he is more likely to get about three years.

Choi received more than $ 35,000 for his role in the scheme. As part of the plea
agreement, he will forfeit $ 50,000 in assets. He has been released pending
sentencing Aug. 21.

At the hearing, Choi answered questions in a flat monotone that was barely
audible. "He's very nervous," Choi's attorney, William Moffitt, told U.S.
District Judge James C. Cacheris after Choi failed to respond to a question.

"Do you agree you are indeed guilty?" Cacheris asked.

"Yes, sir," Choi replied. He and Moffitt declined to comment after the short
hearing.

As part of the plea agreement, Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Connolly asked the
judge to dismiss 17 bribery and immigration fraud counts.

Three other men have also pleaded guilty in connection with the scheme:
Annandale lawyer Suk Bin Brian Im, 36; Fairfax factory owner David Key Lim, 58;
and New York immigration broker Chul Choi, 33.

"We are determined to aggressively pursue criminals who use bribery to
circumvent the legitimate process," said Ernestine Fobbs, spokeswoman for the
INS's Arlington office, which spearheaded the investigation. "Bribery and any
other illegal attempts to obtain immigration benefits will not be tolerated."

LOAD-DATE: June 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              99 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 15, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

...And Justice For Some

Robert Kuttner

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 827 words


Happy Flag Day. In this conservative era, the American flag seems to stand for
personal liberties, defined as "restraints on big government."

But, oddly, the police powers of the state are relentlessly gaining ground, at
the expense of the liberty and privacy of ordinary citizens. How can this be?

On closer inspection, it's the state's role in the economy that most
conservatives resent. With the exception of rare libertarian groups such as the
Cato Institute, the right is shockingly indulgent of government's police powers.
Consider these trends:

Police-State Treatment of Immigrants. Under the "expedited removal" provisions
of the 1996 Immigration Act, legal permanent residents who make innocent
technical mistakes face Kafkaesque nightmares. Hundreds of U.S. married couples
have been separated for years because a foreign-born spouse neglected to fill
out paperwork.

People guilty of only technical lapses have been led off in handcuffs and
jailed. Legitimate Canadian and Mexican business people, including corporate
board members, have been barred from entering the United States and treated like
criminals because they lacked some immigration form.

Other longtime legal residents have been abruptly deported because of minor
legal problems decades ago. The law disdains due process, makes judicial appeal
almost impossible and reinforces the thuggish tendencies of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Gangbuster Tactics by Local Police. In the benign version of "community
policing," cops walk neighborhood streets and earn the trust of residents. In
the malign version, they do whatever is necessary to maintain order.

Abner Louima, the Haitian immigrant brutalized by out-of-control New York cops,
is only an extreme example. There are countless reports of raids on the wrong
apartment, bystanders caught up in police sweeps and the chronic use of
excessive force. New York quietly spends tens of millions of dollars yearly to
settle police-brutality suits.

Summary Seizures of Property. The war on drugs has given new powers to police
agencies to take your house, car, bank account or business, if police think it
was used, however indirectly, in a drug deal -- say by an acquaintance of your
teenage son. Pending legislation pushed by both the Republican right and the
Clinton Justice Department would make summary property seizures even easier.

Starr Chamber Prosecutors. The Independent Counsel Act has created a true
monster -- a prosecutor effectively responsible to no one, with unlimited
resources and a psychology of getting a political target rather than weighing
whether a crime was committed. But the Starr investigation is only the logical
extension of recent precedents, in which personal diaries and other legitimately
private documents can be subpoenaed as evidence. Having compelled Monica
Lewinsky's mother to provide testimony against her own daughter, Starr's current
assault on the lawyer-client privilege is perfectly in character.

These trends are partly the consequence of right-wing judges chipping away at
Warren Court civil-liberties protections, and partly the fruit of recent,
bipartisan anti-crime legislation.

The Clinton administration, determined not to be out-Republicaned on crime, has
colluded in nastier immigration laws, more license for prosecutors, easier asset
seizures and the erosion of habeas corpus and other civil liberties. As a
target, Clinton is reaping what he helped sow.

The right's only recent contribution to the liberties of ordinary people was its
reining in of the Internal Revenue Service. But if you looked closely, what the
right really opposed were more the taxes and less the occasional tax-collection
excesses. The right's silence about abuses by other agencies is deafening.

Last year, I tore up my American Civil Liberties Union card. I was appalled that
the ACLU takes tobacco money and opposes anti-smoking regulation; that it
resists campaign finance reform on the bizarre theory that money equals speech.
But this year, I'm joining again, and you should too. Despite some peculiar
stands on extraneous issues, their core work of defending civil liberty is
urgently needed.

If the American flag stands for anything, it stands for liberty. Even in
democracies, people with badges start thinking of themselves as the law, and of
decent citizens as suspects. So liberty requires constant vigilance against
arbitrary power. This threat -- not government's economic role via Social
Security, Medicare, public schools or consumer regulation -- is how government
can truly menace freedom.

It's understandable that the FBI and CIA went a little crazy during the Red
Scare. But at a time when self-styled opponents of "big government" are in
charge, and there is no credible threat of subversion or invasion, it is weird
that our personal liberties are eroding, one by one.

The writer is co-editor of The American Prospect.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, dean rohrer

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              100 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 22, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

INS Tries Refining Raids

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


Following protests against a series of raids in Montgomery County, federal
immigration authorities have issued a directive mandating extra training for
agents and the presence of an Immigration and Naturalization Service community
liaison officer during all raids.

But immigrant and legal aid groups criticized the new policies last week at a
news conference in Bethesda, saying they have not gone far enough to protect the
rights of immigrants and workers.

"Although restrictions have been ordered, many human rights abuses and civil
rights violations in INS processing and detention centers remain to be
addressed," the groups said in a statement. The advocates said representatives
from church and nonprofit groups should be allowed to visit immigrant workers
after they are detained on the job and taken to regional jails.

The groups had complained to INS officials that immigrants seized during
restaurant raids in Bethesda and Wheaton were singled out because they looked
Latino, were denied adequate information about their rights and were in some
cases prevented from notifying their children they were in custody.

Immigration officials acknowledged that work raids are "sometimes misunderstood"
by the public, and that INS officers should "conduct ourselves professionally,
within the scope of our authority, in a manner which garners public support."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              101 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 22, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Hunt Widens for Leader of Ring That Held Dozens of Deaf Mexicans in 'Virtual
Slavery'

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 828 words


Federal agents and New York City police searched yesterday for an alleged
ringleader and other members of an alien-smuggling operation that forced dozens
of deaf and mute Mexicans to sell trinkets on the streets of New York while
being held in what officials called "virtual slavery."

As investigators continued a laborious process of trying to question the
Mexicans, many of whom communicate in a sign language they developed themselves,
federal agents across the United States were checking reports that similar rings
are operating in other parts of the country.

Seven Mexicans, all of them illegal immigrants, have been arrested so far on
state or federal charges in the case. In addition, 55 people, most of them deaf
Mexicans who were smuggled into the United States by the ring, are being held in
a motel by New York City authorities as material witnesses against their alleged
abusers. The victims were rescued Saturday from two cramped apartments in
Queens, after four of them alerted police to their situation.

While the abuse of people with disabilities has drawn outrage from officials in
New York, Washington and Mexico City, federal investigators said the phenomenon
of which it is a part -- the exploitation of illegal immigrants by
alien-smugglers -- has become depressingly common. Authorities in recent years
have unearthed a number of cases in which illegal immigrants have been forced
into debt bondage in the United States to pay off large smuggling fees by
working in garment sweatshops, restaurants and brothels.

Saying that she was "deeply disturbed" by the discovery of the deaf Mexicans who
were being held "in virtual slavery," Doris M. Meissner, the commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said she has ordered INS offices around
the country to investigate whether similar operations exist in other U.S.
cities. She told a news conference there have been "some indications" that the
ring is not confined to New York.

INS agents and New York police believe the alien-smuggling ring was headed by
Reinaldo Paoletti, a Mexican who so far has eluded police. Of the seven people
who have been arrested so far, four are in INS custody on charges of
alien-smuggling, harboring and transporting illegal aliens and conspiracy. The
other three are being held by New York City police on state charges including
coercion, grand larceny, harassment and assault. Paoletti and the seven in
custody are all apparently related, officials said.

One of those arraigned yesterday on federal charges was another alleged leader
in the organization, Alfredo Paoletti Rustrain, 37, who pretended to be deaf and
mute when he was initially detained Saturday.

Of the 55 people identified as victims in the case, 10 are juveniles, INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron said. Among them are four infants who have been
identified as U.S. citizens because they were born in this country. The rest are
Mexican nationals who are believed to have been living in the United States
illegally for periods ranging from a few months to a few years.

The Mexicans were recruited from homes and schools for the deaf in their
homeland, promised well-paying jobs in the United States and smuggled across the
border, officials said. Once in New York, they were forced to work long hours,
sometimes from dawn to midnight, peddling key chains, pens, toys and other
trinkets in the the subways and streets of the city while displaying signs
saying, "I am deaf." They were then forced to turn over the bulk of their
earnings to the ring and were sometimes beaten to ensure compliance.

The fact that most of the victims are deaf and speech-impaired "makes this case
more shocking and outrageous than most," INS spokesman Bergeron said. "But there
is no doubt that in other instances . . . individuals who are smuggled into the
United States are abused. This type of enslavement and abuse is a by-product of
smuggling."

Although INS officials yesterday praised the New York City government's
"cooperation" in this case, investigators in the past have expressed frustration
with a longstanding city policy of refusing to inform the agency when local law
enforcement officials encounter suspected illegal aliens. City police and
building inspectors reportedly visited the crowded apartments that housed the
abused Mexicans on at least a couple of occasions, but did not inform federal
authorities.

The policy is intended in part to encourage people to cooperate with the city
authorities and report crimes or other problems without fear of deportation if
they are illegal immigrants. But it also "certainly provides an added layer of
insulation" for the perpetrators of immigration-related crimes, a federal
official said.

Moreover, he said, neighbors who were aware that the Mexicans were being abused
did not alert authorities, in many cases because in the largely immigrant Queens
community, the neighbors themselves are in the country illegally.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              102 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 18, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

13 Indicted, 5 Guilty in Alien Smuggling

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04; WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 158 words


Federal authorities in El Paso yesterday announced the indictment of 13
suspected alien smugglers and guilty pleas by five others after the breakup of
two rings that allegedly have spirited thousands of illegal immigrants into the
United States since last year.

After a joint undercover investigation by the U.S. Border Patrol and the FBI,
agents arrested 11 of the 13 indicted suspects, who had been charged with
smuggling about 1,000 people from China, India, Nepal and various countries in
Central and South America over the last six months, officials in El Paso said.

A separate investigation by the Border Patrol there and the U.S. Attorney's
Office in San Antonio culminated in guilty pleas yesterday by five defendants
were arrested last September for smuggling as many as 100 illegal aliens --
mostly Mexicans -- a week across the border since February 1997. Five other
alleged ringleaders remain at large, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              103 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 30, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Smuggling Rings in Two Cities Allegedly Traded Deaf Vendors

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 600 words


Smuggling rings in Chicago and New York frequently traded deaf Mexicans as part
of a nationwide conspiracy to exploit the illegal immigrants, who were forced to
peddle $ 1 key chains and other trinkets, according to federal court documents.

In one case, a deaf woman identified as "Ana" was exchanged for three men, but
when one of the men proved violent, the smugglers who had traded Ana demanded
her back, the documents said. Ana's new bosses refused the refund, and
eventually the unruly man, a deaf illegal immigrant, was simply abandoned in the
streets of New York, according to the documents.

The smuggling rings have operated for nearly 10 years and were founded in
Chicago, according to complaints and affidavits filed in U.S. District Court
there following the arrest in recent days of three persons alleged to be among
the originators of the scheme. Nine others have been arrested in New York. The
man identified by the deaf Mexicans as the boss of the operation, Renato
Paoletti-Lemus, remains a fugitive.

The smuggling ring in Chicago allegedly operated similarly though on a smaller
scale than the one in New York. Another such ring was uncovered in North
Carolina last week. The new court documents depict a large and long-standing
conspiracy that also included an illegal border-crossing operation based in
Southern California, recruiters who preyed upon recently arrived illegal aliens
in Los Angeles and smugglers who transported the deaf Mexicans from the West
Coast to Chicago and New York by bus and plane.

"We believe we have established strong evidence of links between the operations
in Chicago and New York, and there are indications of links to activities in
several other cities which we are pursuing," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Investigators first learned of the deaf Mexicans' plight 10 days ago when four
of them walked into a police station in Queens and reported living and working
conditions that New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani described as "virtual
slavery." A total of 55 people were allegedly held by an alien-smuggling ring
that forced the Mexicans to work long hours selling trinkets on the subways,
seized most of their money and subjected them to various forms of physical
abuse.

Police found nearly $ 55,000 in cash in two houses in Queens where the deaf
peddlers were being held, including more than $ 10,000 in $ 1 bills, the court
documents said.

Several of those alleged to have operated the New York ring and some of the West
Coast operations are described as close relatives of Paoletti-Lemus, including
his sister Adriana, 29, who is in custody in New York charged with coercion and
grand larceny.

Renato and Adriana Paoletti-Lemus allegedly learned the racket from a couple
depicted in the Chicago documents as the first to use deaf Mexicans who were in
the country illegally to sell trinkets. Norma Alcantana, who is deaf, and Frank
Dueno, who is not deaf, allegedly originated the scheme in Chicago in 1988 or
1989. More recently, they are alleged to have traded trinket vendors with the
Paoletti-Lemus. In custody in Chicago, they are charged with transporting and
harboring illegal aliens.

The alien identified as "Ana" said that nearly four years ago, Dueno and
Alcantana smuggled her into the United States and started her working in Chicago
selling trinkets, collecting the proceeds of her sales every day. Last summer,
she said Alcantana drove her and several other deaf Mexicans to a city in North
Carolina where they plied their trade for several days.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              104 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 01, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

8 Illegal Immigrants Found at Md. Pizzeria

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D06

LENGTH: 209 words


Eight illegal immigrants were taken into custody yesterday at a Columbia
pizzeria after a routine check by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
found they had bogus work papers, officials said.

The seven men and one woman were working at the Bertucci's Brick Oven Pizzeria
in the Snowden Square shopping plaza in east Columbia, INS officials said. All
had fraudulent work and Social Security documents, the officials said.

Three of the men chose to return to Mexico and were to be flown out of the
United States last night, INS officials said. A woman from Honduras, a Peruvian
national and three other men from Mexico were being held in lieu of $ 5,000
bail. Their cases will be presented before an immigration judge within 10 days.

Tony Balletta, vice president for Boston-based Bertucci's Restaurant Corp., said
the employees worked in the kitchen and had presented what looked like bona fide
work documents. He said he did not know how long the eight employees had worked
there.

"We take an extra precaution with people we hire to avoid this from happening,"
Balletta said.

Knowingly hiring illegal workers can be punished by fines of as much as $ 2,000
per employee. INS officials said they are investigating the case.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              105 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 20, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Police in Arizona Accused Of Civil Rights Violations; Lawsuit Cites Sweep Aimed
at Illegal Immigrants

Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 635 words


A group of Hispanic residents has filed a $ 35 million lawsuit accusing police
in Chandler, Ariz., of violating the immigrants' civil rights during a July
roundup aimed at rooting out illegal immigrants.

During the roundup, police accompanied by federal Border Patrol agents detained
and questioned people they suspected of being illegal immigrants. The suit says
that police in Chandler, a fast-growing suburb of Phoenix, stopped individuals
as they walked down sidewalks, drove their cars or walked outside their homes
and asked them to prove that they were lawful residents of the United States.

The five-day action netted 432 illegal immigrants but also resulted in civil
rights violations against dozens of documented immigrants and Hispanic Americans
who were stopped and interrogated by police simply because of their ethnicity,
according to the lawsuit filed in federal court in Phoenix on Monday. The suit
names 16 citizens and legal residents who said they were illegally rousted
during the sweep.

"If the individuals interrogated by the Chandler Police Department were unable
to produce proof of United States citizenship or lawful residency, those
individuals were detained," the suit says. In all, the suit says, "several
hundred" people in Chandler -- all of whom were Hispanic -- were stopped during
the five-day sweep. About 17 percent of Chandler's 154,000 residents are
Hispanic.

The roundup, the third in a series of similar actions staged by police in
Chandler in the past three months, is being held up by civil rights leaders as
proof of an anti-Hispanic mood they say is being fanned by efforts to stop
illegal immigration. They also say the case highlights the problems inherent in
using municipal police to enforce immigration laws. Under new federal laws, the
Justice Department can deputize local police to enforce immigration laws, whose
enforcement previously was left to federal authorities.

"We are concerned that we're going to see a lot more of this kind of thing,"
said Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights group.

Chandler city officials, however, defended the sweeps as a legitimate response
to citizen complaints. In recent years, downtown merchants and residents have
complained that illegal immigrants have loitered outside their businesses, drank
liquor in public, climbed onto their property to use outdoor washing machines,
and sexually harassed children. Local authorities also blame illegal immigrants
for six murders in the past 15 years where the suspects are believed to have
fled across the Mexican border, about 220 miles away.  "Most recently this
spring and summer, neighborhood groups, individual citizens and business had
identified that a growing illegal immigrant population was causing a variety of
problems related to nuisances and criminal activity," said Patrick McDermott,
Chandler's assistant city manager. The city's roundups have netted 574 illegal
immigrants since June, McDermott said.

While Chandler's police chief has acknowledged mistakes in the operations in
published reports, city officials have suggested that the claims in the lawsuit
were exaggerated. They maintain that no people were detained or stopped by
police without "cause," which includes minor traffic or other violations.

Moreover, they said, only Border Patrol agents dealt with immigration law
issues, as federal law requires, since Chandler police have not been deputized
by federal authorities. "It is the position of the city that the police
department acted correctly in enforcing the law and we will aggressively
investigate any allegations of wrongdoing," said Dave Bigos, city spokesman for
Chandler. "We believe any lawsuit will ultimately show that we have acted
properly."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              106 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 26, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Border Patrol Beefed Up

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex.


Beefed-up border patrols went into action as federal officials launched a
campaign to slow illegal immigration across the Rio Grande.

Sixty-nine Border Patrol agents and a battery of surveillance equipment from
floodlights to night-vision scopes were put in place.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said
"Operation Rio Grande" was a continuation of similar get-tough efforts already
in place in San Diego and El Paso.

This "is the next major step in our efforts to gain control of the border and
improve the quality of life for border communities in Texas and New Mexico," she
said in a ceremony marking the start of the operation.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              107 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 04, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Border Patrol to Get New Chief and Headquarters Site

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 437 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has named a new chief for the
fast-growing Border Patrol and announced transfer of the unit's headquarters
from Washington to California.

Gustavo de la Vina, a 27-year INS veteran now the agency's western regional
director, will succeed Douglas M. Kruhm at the end of the year when Kruhm
retires after 30 years of government service. Meanwhile, the two will "work
together . . . to ensure an orderly transition," the INS said.

The appointment comes during a rapid growth in the Border Patrol as part of a
buildup of federal manpower and resources along the 2,000-mile border with
Mexico to stem illegal immigration and drug trafficking. In the last three
years, the Border Patrol has grown 63 percent, and it now fields nearly 7,000
agents nationwide.

In addition, major increases in funding have allowed procurement of new
equipment, including vehicles, aircraft, night-vision devices, motion sensors
and a high-tech fingerprint identification system that helps prosecution of
illegal aliens who commit crimes in the United States or who attempt multiple
crossings of the border using different names.

De la Vina, 58, will be based at the INS western regional headquarters in Laguna
Niguel in Southern California's Orange County -- about a 90-minute drive from
the border -- instead of at the INS Washington headquarters.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said this change reflects her belief that the
Border Patrol chief should be close to the area of greatest activity.

She said de la Vina will spend much of his time in the field, working with
agents and community leaders along the border.

With the impending resignation of Chris Sale, current INS deputy commissioner,
de la Vina will become the highest-ranking Hispanic in the INS and the first to
be named Border Patrol chief, an INS spokesman said. A native of Texas, de la
Vina is of Mexican ancestry.

He has served as chief patrol agent in San Diego, the agency's busiest sector,
and designed Operation Gatekeeper, a controversial border control effort that
cracked down on a huge and chaotic influx of illegal aliens in the San Diego
area.

Critics have charged, however, that the operation has done little more than
divert the flow eastward into more difficult terrain, where casualties have
risen among illegal border-crossers in the treacherous hills and deserts.

According to the INS, the Border Patrol made more than 1.5 million apprehensions
of illegal aliens last year, most on the U.S.-Mexican border.

Of the total, fewer than 12,000 were recorded on the border with Canada.

LOAD-DATE: September 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              108 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 05, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigration Hurts U.S.and Mexico, Study Finds

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 756 words


A binational study sponsored by the U.S. and Mexican governments has concluded
that illegal immigration from Mexico has taken on a life of its own here,
sustained by expanding networks that link Mexican workers to U.S. employers,
with detrimental results for both countries.

In the first joint study of migration from Mexico to the United States, 20
researchers who worked on the project for three years also found that the
"currently high levels of migration" may be at a "peak" and that the pressures
behind the flow are likely to ease over the next decade.

"It is to the clear benefit of both countries to work toward eliminating
unauthorized migration, which creates costs for both countries and makes
migrants vulnerable to exploitation," said the Binational Study on Migration, a
report issued Tuesday by a joint commission.

According to Susan Martin, executive director of the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform and a coordinator of the study, tougher U.S. border controls
have increasingly driven illegal migrants to use professional smuggling rings,
which often abuse their charges and have raised the level of violence along the
border.  U.S. officials said one of the study's most significant results was a
recognition by Mexican researchers that the steady exodus of illegal migrants
imposes costs not just on the United States, but on Mexico as well. For years,
Mexico has done virtually nothing to stop illegal emigration, tending to view it
with ambivalence as a major source of foreign exchange -- remittances are
estimated between $ 2.5 billion and $ 3.9 billion a year -- and as an important
"safety valve" for a job-scarce economy.

However, the study said, the phenomenon also costs Mexico heavily in a "loss of
human capital," especially working-age people with some education and good
health, which in turn discourages investment and the training of workers in
Mexico and tends to keep their communities mired in poverty. In addition, it
said, migration is commonly "accompanied by serious problems of family
disintegration" and other ills.

The study, conducted by 10 researchers from each country under the auspices of
the Mexico-United States Binational Commission, has been widely reported as
showing that illegal immigration from Mexico is much lower than claimed by some
U.S. politicians. However, U.S. officials said, the study's estimate that 2.3
million to 2.4 million Mexican illegal aliens are living permanently in the
United States does not differ significantly from the 2.7 million estimated in
February by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Officials said both
estimates were within a margin of error for a population that, by its
clandestine nature, is difficult to count. Neither figure includes people who
stay less than one year -- a category that accounts for the great majority of
Mexicans who cross the border illegally, according to the INS.

At the same time, the binational study said, the flow of labor back and forth
across the border seems to be slowing, in part because people are staying in the
United States longer. Beefed-up border patrols and tougher enforcement
techniques have made it more difficult to get across, many Mexicans have brought
their families to join them and reduced their need to return, and migrants are
seeking more long-term urban jobs rather than seasonal farm work.

Sustaining these movements are networks that operate independently of "push
factors" in Mexico, such as poverty and unemployment, and "pull factors" in the
United States, notably jobs and a higher living standard, the researchers found.

"Today, new employers and labor brokers, along with cross-border social networks
of relatives and friends, link an expanding list of U.S. industries, occupations
and areas to a lengthening list of Mexican communities that send migrants to the
U.S.," the report said.

These trends may be temporary, however, the researchers found. Factors such as
increased competition for low-skilled jobs from Americans coming off welfare,
combined with economic reforms in Mexico and slower growth in the population of
young job-seekers there, should reduce the supply and demand for Mexican
migrants "within the next decade," the report said.

The study also found that a "guest worker" program, proposed repeatedly in
Congress, would be unlikely to solve the problem of illegal immigration.
Instead, it would probably create "new migration networks," thus adding to the
numbers of illegal workers rather than replacing them.

LOAD-DATE: September 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              109 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 13, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Alleged Illegal Immigrants Arrested in Raids in Md.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 178 words


A three-day series of raids on restaurants, gift shops and food-processing
plants in the Maryland part of the Delmarva Peninsula has resulted in the
apprehension of 61 alleged illegal immigrants, officials said.

Anonymous tips and police investigations led to the raids, said John Shallman, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"I do think it points out the size of the problem of illegal employment in the
state of Maryland," he said.

Forty Guatemalan and Mexican nationals were arrested Tuesday at the Chestertown
Foods Inc. chicken-processing plant in Chestertown, Md.

Of the group, 16 were juveniles, Shallman said.

In addition, 11 immigrants were arrested Wednesday afternoon at two businesses
in Ocean City, Md.

Those immigrants were from El Salvador, Israel and Ireland and worked mostly as
retail clerks at a chain of Ocean City gift stores. Others were arrested at a
seafood restaurant in Ocean City.

Anyone who knowingly hires an unauthorized worker may be fined up to $ 2,000 per
worker, INS officials said.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              110 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 23, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Tour Service Officials Charged With Transporting Illegal Immigrants

Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 764 words


This was no ordinary tour van service, federal prosecutors allege: It operated
only in the stealth of night, crisscrossing the Eastern Seaboard with cargoes of
undocumented Mexican workers destined for the tobacco fields of southern
Virginia and the steamy kitchens of New York City.

It was, Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert A. Spencer said, the "link between the
people being snuck across the border in Texas and getting to the jobs in the
Northeast."

In a trial that opened yesterday in U.S. District Court in Alexandria,
prosecutors contended that for the last two years, Houston-based North Van Tours
transported about 23,000 undocumented Mexicans to jobs on the Eastern Seaboard,
in some cases delivering them right into the hands of tobacco labor contractors
in Virginia and North Carolina.

For that service, the van company and its principals -- two of whom are on trial
-- pocketed as much as $ 4 million a year, prosecutors said.

"This is a case about money," Spencer said in his opening statement to the jury.
"It's not a case about immigration; it's a case about smuggling."

Facing charges are Leticia Hernandez-Castro, 31, and her husband, Sergio
Gonzalez, 25, who worked at North Van Tours until their arrests in June in
Houston. She kept the books and passenger lists; he dispatched the drivers and
the vans nightly, according to testimony.

Two other principals, Eusebio Torres and his wife, Irma Torres, also are charged
in the indictment but are fugitives and believed to be living in Mexico,
according to authorities.

Each of the four defendants is charged with seven counts of transporting illegal
immigrants and one count of conspiracy. The transporting charge carries a
maximum penalty of seven years in prison, the conspiracy count five years.

The counts charge that North Van Tours and its principals transported illegal
immigrants to Vienna in August 1996. Two drivers for North Van Tours and their
seven illegal immigrant passengers were arrested in a Magruder's grocery store
parking lot in Vienna as they headed toward New York City. The defendants also
were charged with bringing illegal immigrants through Arlington, Alexandria,
Richmond and Woodbridge last spring and fall.

Attorneys for Hernandez-Castro and Gonzalez described the couple as successful
entrepreneurs who built a niche for themselves in Houston's competitive
transportation world. There is no crime, said Hernandez-Castro's attorney,
Roland Santos, of Harrisonburg, Va., in making money by transporting people
halfway across the country at low rates.

Hernandez-Castro, pregnant and wearing a rosary around her neck, said in an
interview during a court break that she and her husband ran a legitimate
business.

"All the people came to the office and bought a [van] ticket," she said. "Never
did I know about someone contracting for work."

But federal authorities said they believe North Van Tours was but one cog in a
thriving transportation network of "camionetas" -- 15-passenger vans that
shuttle undocumented Mexicans out of Texas and into thousands of unskilled farm
worker and service industry jobs along the East Coast.

Border Patrol agents testified yesterday about numerous seizures of North Van
Tour passengers as the vans rolled through Virginia, Mississippi, Tennessee and
Pennsylvania. The vans were stopped -- usually for traffic infractions -- always
in the middle of the night. The cargo, the agents said, always was illegal.

Former drivers for North Van Tours testified that they were aware that they were
transporting illegal immigrants. They said they saw the principals of North Van
Tours pay "coyotes" for delivering Mexicans to the company's office. For a fee,
coyotes help people cross illegally into the United States along the Mexican
border.

At the beginning of the trips, drivers said, they were handed maps designed to
help them skirt Border Patrol checkpoints. Upon arrival, drivers said, they
received cash-on-delivery from one of two sources: relatives of the passengers
or labor contractors who had made arrangements with North Van Tours to transport
the workers north.

"They would tell me where I had to go through, which places to go and which
places to go around," Rafael Trujillo Lopez said.

When asked if he knew what a labor contractor is, Trujillo said he did.

"The ones I knew would call Leticia and tell her they needed people. Many times,
contractors would pay for passengers," he said.

Santos said drivers such as Trujillo who testified against his client were
simply disgruntled former employees.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              111 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 24, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Tour Van Operators Convicted of Ferrying Illegal Immigrants to East Coast Jobs

Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 721 words


A federal jury in Alexandria convicted a Texas couple yesterday of running a van
service that ferried thousands of undocumented Mexican workers to jobs on the
East Coast.

The jury found Leticia Hernandez-Castro, 31, and her husband, Sergio Gonzalez,
25, each guilty of seven counts of transporting illegal immigrants and one count
of conspiracy. Jurors deliberated 70 minutes after a two-day trial before U.S.
District Judge Albert V. Bryan.

Bryan set sentencing for Dec. 5. Each transport charge carries a maximum penalty
of seven years in prison; the conspiracy count, five years.

Gonzalez has been in federal custody in Alexandria since his arrest in Houston
in June. Hernandez-Castro, who is five months pregnant and also was arrested in
June, was out on $ 50,000 bond. At the request of Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert
A. Spencer, the judge ordered Hernandez-Castro held until sentencing, sparking
an emotional uproar in the courtroom.

Turning toward her mother, who came from Mexico to attend the trial,
Hernandez-Castro wailed, "Mamacita, Mamacita! Mis hijos!" (Mama, Mama! My
children!), then appeared to faint and fell to the floor next to the defense
table. Her mother, sobbing loudly and calling for her daughter, tried to reach
her but was restrained by officials.

Gonzalez tried to talk to his wife as she lay on the floor and began sobbing
before she revived. The couple has four children.

The defendants are principals of North Van Tours, which last fall changed its
name to Transportes Las Palomitas, of Houston. Prosecutors allege they ran the
van company for the past two years and transported 23,000 illegal immigrants
from Mexico to jobs as far north as New York City and as far south as Florida.

Along the way, illegal immigrants were dropped off throughout Virginia, North
Carolina and Georgia -- some delivered to labor contractors seeking field hands
for tobacco and onion farms and some apparently to restaurants and other
employers in the Washington area, prosecutors said.

The federal indictment lists North Van Tours trips last year and this past
spring to Arlington, Alexandria, Vienna, Woodbridge and Richmond. In August
1996, authorities arrested two North Van drivers and seven illegal immigrant
passengers in the parking lot of a Vienna grocery store. The van was on its way
to New York City.

Authorities believe North Van Tours collected as much as $ 4 million a year from
mid-1995 through mid-1997, both from fares and from labor contractors who called
the company's office to place orders for workers.

Earlier yesterday, Hernandez-Castro testified that although company documents
listed her as owner, her brother-in-law was the actual owner.

Her name was put on all official documents in 1995, she said, because Eusebio
Torres had been sued in Texas for breach of contract by a former employer at a
competing van service. Torres and his wife, Irma Torres, also are charged but
are fugitives and believed to be living in Mexico, according to authorities.

Hernandez-Castro said she made no policy decisions for the company. Her job, she
said, was to answer the telephone, take passenger reservations and sell tickets.

Under repeated questioning by Assistant U.S. Attorney Tom Connolly about whether
she obtained workers for labor contractors or gave directions to van drivers
about how to skirt immigration checkpoints throughout the South,
Hernandez-Castro said she knew nothing about illegal activities.

On Monday, former North Van Tours drivers testified for the prosecution that
they were well aware they were carrying illegal immigrants across the country,
that their bosses contracted with labor crew bosses for the passengers, and that
they received maps outlining routes that would help them avoid immigration
checkpoints.

Defense attorneys called another former driver to the stand yesterday. Heriberto
Elizondo testified that he never received special driving instructions and never
delivered passengers to a farm or labor crew chief.

Hernandez-Castro, a Mexican national who said she is a legal U.S. resident,
maintained on the witness stand that she should not be held responsible for
monitoring the immigration status of her customers.

"I have traveled on Greyhound and on airplanes, and no one has ever asked me for
papers," she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              112 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 29, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Future Immigrants or Illegal Aliens?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 525 words


I am writing to clear up a misstatement in The Post's Sept. 18 front-page
article "Caught Between Home, Homeland." What was an otherwise excellent
discussion of Section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act contained
one critical error.

Section 245(i) does not "let illegal immigrants live in the United States while
applying for permanent residence." Rather, it permits those immigrants who
already have been approved for their green cards to adjust their status while in
the United States instead of forcing them to return temporarily to their home
countries to adjust their status. Those found ineligible for a green card then
would be placed in removal proceedings.

Section 245(i) provides no protection to those who are living in the United
States illegally. Regardless of family or business ties, anyone living in the
United States illegally is subject to deportation. The section does, however,
provide funding to the Immigration and Naturalization Service for detaining
illegal aliens. In addition, Section 245(i) is available only to those who have
been approved for green cards and who, once their paperwork is processed, have
undergone a personal interview.

If Section 245(i) were a protection program for illegal immigrants, it would not
have the support of my organization as well as that of the National Association
of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, B'nai B'rith, Americans for Tax
Reform and Microsoft, Motorola and more than 70 other national business
organizations.

JOHN SWENSON

Executive Director

United States Catholic Conference

Migration and Refugee Services

Washington

The compassion for the aliens facing tough choices expressed in the headline
"Caught Between Home, Homeland" is misplaced. The problems these individuals
face are the result of their own calculated and willful decisions to violate our
immigration laws. To describe the individuals involved as "immigrants in legal
limbo," as the subhead does, is a serious misstatement. Immigrants are aliens
lawfully admitted for permanent residence, not illegal residents.

The law adopted last year was intended to withdraw the welcome mat for such
illegal aliens. The new measures are intended to penalize both those who enter
the country illegally and those who intentionally violate the terms of their
visas by staying here illegally for at least six months after their visas
expire.

The new law that penalizes illegal aliens would be undermined if Congress allows
these aliens to remain here rather than requiring that they return home before
applying for legal residence. Some instances of hardship may result from the
law's enforcement. But that is the fault of the people who chose to break the
law, not the people of the United States.

It's time to remember that one of the main reasons so many people find the
United States a desirable place to live is the American people's respect for the
law. Concern for the circumstances of any individual should not blind us to the
danger that violation of our laws represents.

DAN STEIN

Executive Director

Federation for American Immigration Reform

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              113 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 24, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

INS Gives Salvadoran Mother The Gift of Christmas Future; Reprieve From
Deportation Tied to Ailing Child's Care

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 892 words


Maria Martinez has never heard of "A Christmas Carol." In fact, she never went
to school in her native El Salvador, she speaks no English, and she did not
learn to read Spanish until recently through her church in Silver Spring.

But her story is worthy of Dickens. A single mother who makes $ 7 an hour with a
company that cleans burned-out homes, she is trying to raise two U.S.-born
children, the eldest of whom is terminally ill with a rare degenerative disease
of the nervous system. As an illegal immigrant, Martinez has been facing a Jan.
2 deadline to leave the country, which would mean putting her American citizen
children into foster care here, since she says she would have no way of caring
for them in her impoverished homeland.

With the deadline looming, and facing deportation if she did not leave
voluntarily, Martinez yesterday got a reprieve from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the agency dreaded by Latino illegal aliens, who know it
as "La Migra."

After a Roman Catholic priest who formerly worked for the agency intervened on
her behalf, the INS district director in Baltimore, Benedict J. Ferro, yesterday
granted an "extension of voluntary departure" for Martinez, the first step in a
process that officials say will allow her to remain in the United States
indefinitely.

"I will do everything the law allows to ensure that [Martinez's] son can spend
an enjoyable Christmas with his family this year, and for many years to come,"
Ferro said in announcing the decision.

For the Brooklyn-born priest, Brian Jordan, the outcome shows, at Christmas,
that the much-maligned INS does indeed have a heart.

Other illegal immigrants may not receive such consideration. Local Latino and
immigrant groups plan to hold a Christmas eve vigil in Mount Pleasant to call
attention to what they say are stepped-up deportations of undocumented Latino
immigrants who, like Martinez, are not covered by recent legislation that will
allow thousands of Central Americans to remain in the United States.

The legislation passed last month grants amnesty to eligible Nicaraguans and
Cubans, while allowing Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Eastern Europeans who
entered the United States and applied for asylum before cutoff dates in 1990 and
1991 to receive "suspension of deportation," paving the way for permanent
resident status. Martinez's lawyer advised her earlier that she did not qualify
for asylum, and in July she withdrew a claim she filed after crossing the border
illegally in 1991. On his advice, she said, she accepted "voluntary departure."
It is a decision she now regrets and is trying to amend.

"I asked God, if the Migra has a heart, let me stay here, just let me work so I
can care for my children and give them an education like I never had," said
Martinez, 29, after returning home from a meeting with a deportation officer in
Baltimore. "I'm very happy they let me stay here. The only thing I want is to
give my children a better life."

The case illustrates some of the complexity of enforcing immigration law, which
affects the lives of many families in which the legal lines are blurred. Like
Martinez, many immigrants, although here illegally themselves, have children who
are U.S. citizens and thus cannot be deported with them. While the law does not
make U.S.-born children grounds for their parents to avoid deportation, in
practice the children often become a factor in their immigration cases and an
argument for being allowed to stay.

And while people like Martinez are not eligible for welfare benefits, their U.S.
citizen children are. In Martinez's case, her son, William, has received free
care through Medicaid that is estimated to be worth tens of thousands of
dollars.

The child, now 5, has been in and out of hospitals since he was a year old with
a variety of ailments. Within the last year, he was diagnosed with
leukodystrophy, an incurable genetic nerve disease.

Yesterday William toddled playfully around Martinez's sparsely furnished living
room in a Takoma Park apartment with his healthy four-year-old brother, Edgar.
But William is blind in one eye, poorly coordinated and suffers from
developmental problems. He can speak only a few words, cannot walk well and
"doesn't have any memory," his mother says.

"At some time or other he is going to die," Martinez said softly. "The doctors
say there is no cure for him. They don't know where his illness comes from."

There are no Christmas decorations in Martinez's apartment. She says she cannot
afford them. In fact, the only picture in the living room is a crude drawing,
tacked to the wall above some crayon marks that William colored in kindergarten.

According to Jordan, the INS will grant Martinez an "order of supervision,"
which will allow her to stay to care for her children provided that she provides
updates on William's condition.

"This is a genuine case of need," said Jordan, who quit the INS in September
after working for a year as a press spokesman. "I was very gratified by their
humane and decent response, especially before Christmas."

"This Christmas is going to pass very sadly, because I don't have enough money
to buy things for my children," Martinez said. "But if I had to leave and pay
for my trip, it would have been even worse. What could I have given my kids
then?"


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 1997

CORRECTION: A picture caption yesterday misidentified the sons of Maria
Martinez. Edgar, 4, was on the left, and William, 5, was on the right.

GRAPHIC: Photo, susan biddle , Maria Martinez, who faced January deportation,
can now remain to care for her son, William, 5, left, who has a genetic nerve
illness, and Edgar, 4.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              114 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 23, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Alleged Illegal Immigrants Arrested in Montgomery

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B09; CRIME AND JUSTICE: MARYLAND

LENGTH: 206 words


Federal agents arrested 13 suspected illegal immigrants in Montgomery County
yesterday -- 10 at a high school construction site in Silver Spring and three at
a restaurant in Potomac.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said 10 employees doing drywall
work at Montgomery Blair High School were arrested at 11 a.m. Three hours later,
three kitchen workers were arrested at Umberto's restaurant in Potomac. Agents
said the workers were from Mexico, Bolivia, El Salvador and other Latin American
countries. Twelve of the 13 were men.

All were being processed by immigration officials last night, pending
deportation and other proceedings. Umberto's owner Joe Pinataro said that two
workers arrested at his restaurant had "proper papers" and "were in the process
of becoming legal." The third, whose status he did not know, had been hired just
for the afternoon "to help make salads," Pinataro said.

Yesterday's arrests follow similar arrests by INS agents of 11 suspected illegal
immigrants in Columbia on Tuesday. Six were arrested at a television company
cable-laying site, two at a landscaping site and one in a parking lot.

Agents said all the arrests resulted from tips, some dating back to September.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              115 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 30, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

7 Held After INS Raids Restaurant

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07; CRIME AND JUSTICE: MARYLAND

LENGTH: 114 words


Federal agents raided a Bethesda restaurant yesterday, taking away six
waitresses, kitchen workers and other suspected illegal immigrant employees.

Acting on a tip, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said, agents
arrested three men and three women, all from Latin American countries, at the
Thyme Square Restaurant. They later arrested a seventh person whom officials
said lived with one of the employees.

All seven were at an INS holding facility in suburban Baltimore, pending
deportation and other proceedings.

Max Knoepfel, manager of the restaurant, said the employees had told the
restaurant they had papers indicating they were legal residents.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              116 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 14, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Agents Arrest 29

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07; CRIME AND JUSTICE: MARYLAND

LENGTH: 129 words


Federal agents arrested 29 suspected illegal immigrants early yesterday during a
raid at a Carroll County aviation and auto parts manufacturing plant in
Westminster.

Acting on an anonymous tip, Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
arrested the 28 men and one woman, all Mexican nationals, during a midnight
shift change at Marada Industries, INS officials said.

Two of the suspects were released on personal bond. The others were being held
yesterday at an INS facility in suburban Baltimore awaiting deportation and
other proceedings. Officials said agents also were investigating whether Marada
had knowingly hired undocumented workers, which could result in fines of $ 250
to $ 2,000 per person hired. A Marada representative declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              117 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 26, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

13 Arrested In INS Raid

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 180 words


Agents from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested 13
suspected illegal immigrants in the Adams-Morgan area of Northwest Washington
yesterday as part of an undercover operation targeting what officials described
as an open-air market for fake immigration documents.

James Goldman, assistant INS district director for investigations, said the 13
men have been identified as Mexican nationals and were being held last night
pending deportation and criminal hearings. Five of the men are facing charges
relating to the manufacture and sale of false documents.

"It was an open-air market," Goldman said of the operation near Columbia and
Ontario roads NW. "You would come in with biographical information, and they
would bring back Social Security cards, green cards, work permits -- anything
you needed to set up a new identity and work in the United States."

The U.S. Secret Service and D.C. police assisted with the raid, Goldman said.
"We're taking a proactive, zero-tolerance stance against fraudulent document
makers and vendors," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              118 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 11, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Hires 1,000 Border Patrol Agents; Most Going to Texas, Director of INS Says

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 260 words


The United States has hired an extra 1,000 agents to patrol the Mexican border
as part of a multibillion-dollar campaign to keep out illegal immigrants,
criminals and drug smugglers.

Doris M. Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said yesterday that the INS would deploy most of the new agents to Texas, in the
hope of matching the successes the INS claims in California.

The United States has increased spending on the INS by about 53 percent since
1993, making it one of the fastest growing federal agencies. By the end of this
year it will have 7,000 Border Patrol agents, twice as many as it had in 1993.

The INS, with a 1998 budget of $ 3.8 billion, 19.5 percent up on 1997, gave no
detailed evidence of how it measures the success of its tougher enforcement
efforts.

A report in December by the General Accounting Office of Congress said that four
years into the Mexican border campaign no one knew if it was working because the
Justice Department had no formal method for judging the effects.

"Without such an evaluation the Attorney General and Congress will have no way
of knowing whether the billions of dollars invested in reducing illegal
immigration have produced the intended results," added the report.

Higher levels of arrests could mean either that patrolling is more effective or
that more people are crossing illegally.

The government estimates there were 5 million illegal immigrants in the United
States in October 1996 and that the number was growing at a rate of 275,000 a
year.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              119 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 19, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Suspected Illegal Immigrants Arrested

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 97 words


Federal agents arrested three suspected illegal immigrants at three restaurants
in the Wheaton-Silver Spring area yesterday, officials said.

Two were held on $ 5,000 bond each, pending deportation and other proceedings.
The third, a 17-year-old, was released to a relative, officials said.

A fourth worker was questioned by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
and released. All four were from Central American countries.

Agents have arrested 117 alleged illegal immigrants at 25 work sites in the
Washington-Baltimore area since Jan. 1, INS officials said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              120 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 26, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Arrests 71 During 2 Raids in Maryland; Tips Pointed Agents To Bladensburg
Firms

Paul W. Valentine; Ruben Castaneda , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 598 words


In simultaneous raids, federal agents hit two Bladensburg businesses yesterday,
arresting 71 workers suspected of being illegal immigrants and bringing the
total arrested this year in Maryland to 188, more than double the number
arrested in the same period last year.

Acting on a series of tips and armed with search warrants, 30 Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents sealed off a commercial laundry and a chicken
processing plant in an industrial park in the 5200 block of Monroe Place during
the midday raids.

Taken into custody at Nutech Laundry & Textiles were 31 workers, while at nearby
Poultry Processing Inc., agents arrested 40 employees. Most of those arrested
were women. INS officials said 56 suspects were from Mexico and the rest were
from other Latin American countries.

The suspects, ranging in age from 18 to 50, were taken in detention buses to an
INS holding facility in suburban Baltimore for processing. Officials said they
expected most to be released last night on bonds ranging from $ 5,000 to $
15,000, pending deportation and other proceedings.

Those with children, officials said, were allowed to telephone relatives to
arrange for child care. One mother who had a sick child on a respirator was
released on her own recognizance, officials said.

The raids marked the latest in a series of raids in the Washington-Baltimore
area fueled by a glut of tips, many anonymous, coming into the INS District
Office in Baltimore.

"I've got more than 300 leads on my desk right now for Prince George's County
and Montgomery County alone," said Benedict Ferro, INS district director. "We're
targeting only the most aggravated cases."

Most of the 188 suspected illegal immigrants arrested in Maryland this year have
been from Central or South America, raising complaints from advocacy groups that
the INS is unfairly targeting Hispanic workers. Ferro and other officials deny
that arrests are selective, saying agents rely heavily on anonymous leads about
undocumented workers.

Ferro noted in an interview yesterday that a large percentage of Maryland's
foreign-born population -- both legal and illegal - comes from Latin America.
And unlike many others, who generally must have visas and airline tickets that
are screened before entry into the United States, he said, foreigners from Latin
America "can walk across the Mexican border and be in downtown Baltimore in 72
hours."

INS spokesman John Shallman said the arrests this year involved 27 work sites
where employers are subject to INS sanctions, including fines of up to $ 2,000
for each illegal worker knowingly hired.

About 10 INS agents raided Nutech. Some of the agents trained their handguns on
terrified workers, said a company official who saw part of the raid.

The official said that one agent, who was not displaying a badge or wearing any
identifying clothing, waved a gun at workers who were hiding in laundry bins and
ordered them, in English, to come out.

The arrested workers were led away in handcuffs and manacles, Nutech workers
said. The raid occurred on a street of red brick and concrete industrial
buildings.

Under federal immigration law, employers are required to ask prospective
employees to show documentation that they can work legally, but the employers
are not required to verify those papers.

Nutech's president, Jack Robinson, said each of the 31 employees arrested
yesterday had shown documentation.

"They're all honest employees," Robinson said. "They all pay taxes. They all
have Social Security withheld. None are paid in cash."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              121 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 06, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Feature Article Is Bad News for Illegal Immigrant

Howard Kurtz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D01; MEDIA NOTES

LENGTH: 1035 words


Julio Granados works 11 hours a day in a North Carolina bodega so he can send
money back to his mother in Mexico. He is also, according to a long and touching
profile in the Raleigh News and Observer, an illegal immigrant.

It didn't take long for federal authorities to arrest Granados and five
co-workers on charges that likely will lead to their deportation. And many
Hispanics are furious at the News and Observer for announcing his illegal status
in neon lights.

"We're deeply sorry for what happened," said Anders Gyllenhaal, the paper's
executive editor. "I think we could have told pretty much the same story and not
detailed the place where he worked, a place with an address. That probably would
have meant that none of this would've happened."

Gigi Anders, a Cuban American who is the paper's only Hispanic reporter, said
she repeatedly talked to Granados about the possibility that having his name and
picture in the paper could lead to deportation. In the course of two months of
interviews conducted in Spanish, she says, the 21-year-old Mexican said he
understood the risk and that it was all right because his mother missed him.

"I did my job," Anders said. "I told him and told him. Am I supposed to try to
talk him out of it? . . . The point was to give a face and a voice to people no
one cares about."

Anders, a former Washington Post copy aide, said she has "been through hell" and
received a number of death threats. The story has divided the paper, where many
staffers have criticized the decision to identify Granados. But perhaps the
harshest reaction has come from readers.

"Your earlier story . . . should have protected his privacy, since the outcome
was truly inevitable," wrote Raquel Hernandez.

"Whatever happened to journalistic integrity?" asked Charles Ramirez.

"Surely [the editors] knew they had flung down a gauntlet that federal
immigration agents couldn't ignore," said Micaela Massimino.

Indeed, an Immigration and Naturalization Service special agent told the paper
that the article was "the catalyst" for the arrests. Gyllenhaal met with 25
angry Hispanic leaders last week in an effort to calm things down.

In a column, Gyllenhaal questioned whether the paper "failed to think enough
about the impact on this one, largely powerless, fairly ordinary young Mexican.
The answer is yes, and we'd approach this story somewhat differently if we had
it to do over."

He added in an interview that the News and Observer has been trying to boost its
credibility by moving away from unnamed sources and pseudonyms. "First-name
stories, I just really hate those things," Gyllenhaal said. "When you're trying
to describe someone's life, the fact that it's real, filled with details, makes
all the difference for the reader." But he acknowledged that some people now
view the paper "as being insensitive or callous."

Playing Favorites

The Chicago Sun-Times has acknowledged that it tilts news coverage in favor of
advertisers.

The unusual approach sounds like every journalist's nightmare, but Editor in
Chief Nigel Wade says it applies only to "discretionary" stories. "If we've got
two Santa Clauses to choose from and one of them works for a store that
advertises in our paper and the other refuses to advertise in our paper, then
it's a no-brainer," he said. "We're going to go with the friendly store." But
the stores would get "equal treatment" for their year-end reports.

The policy, first reported by the Los Angeles Times, has various permutations.
For a story on shopping trends, Wade said, "you don't send a reporter to a store
that routinely refuses to support us with their advertising. On the fashion
page, you don't choose a gown from a store that refuses to do business with us."

One target of the campaign is Neiman Marcus, which advertises in the Chicago
Tribune but not its crosstown rival. Wade says he would run a picture of a
pedestrian with a shopping bag from Marshall Field, a Sun-Times advertiser, but
not one from Neiman Marcus. Executives from Neiman Marcus have complained to the
tabloid's publisher about the freezeout.

Is the Sun-Times using its news columns to subtly pressure local companies to
buy ads? "I think so," Wade said. "If someone whose Santa Claus we didn't favor
decided to support us, our view would change."

Street Logic

An online business magazine is using Wall Street-style financial incentives to
boost its journalistic productivity.

TheStreet.com has told its 30-person editorial staff that anyone whose story is
picked up elsewhere in the media will get a $ 2,000 bonus. "It's to reward good
work and make people work a little harder and underscore the challenge we face
as pioneers in this new medium," said Editor in Chief David Kansas.

The Webzine has paid the bonus twice so far and expects to pony up at least 25
times a year. "Right now the bar is pretty low," said Kansas, noting that a
mention by a wire service or radio or TV station qualifies a reporter for the
extra cash. But he warns that he will not tolerate "shenanigans," such as a
reporter calling a pal at another news outlet and offering to split the bonus in
exchange for a mention.

Beer Blast

London's sober Financial Times served up an intoxicating story about Guinness,
saying the Irish beer giant would become an official sponsor for the Greenwich
Observatory countdown to the millennium. The piece said Greenwich Mean Time
would be renamed Guinness Mean Time, and that one of the clocks would feature
"pint drips."

It was all based on a Guinness press release -- which was, to the financial
paper's embarrassment, an April Fool's gag.

Death Wish

Steve Dunleavy, a conservative New York Post columnist, doesn't pull punches.
During a recent stint on New York's WABC radio, he practically lobbed a grenade
at Jane Fonda for her antiwar activism during the 1960s and '70s. Dunleavy began
with a top-of-the-lungs blast at "that liberal, Ted Turner, and Hanoi Jane, who
should've been assassinated, put up against the wall and shot dead! That's what
she should've been, shot dead for what she did in Vietnam!"

Dunleavy is fortunate that the First Amendment protects even overheated
columnists.

LOAD-DATE: April 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              122 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 07, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Detains 11 in Silver Spring

Katherine Shaver, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 300 words


Eleven Mexican nationals were taken into custody yesterday after U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials were informed that they were
living illegally in a Silver Spring home and that one may have sexually abused a
young boy, authorities said.

The house, in the 1200 block of Sarah Drive, may be part of a larger, organized
smuggling operation of safe houses that hide Mexicans who are smuggled into the
United States, said INS agents in Baltimore.

"Our concern is this is a new level of intensity in alien smuggling" into
Maryland, said Benedict Ferro, director of the INS office in Baltimore. "Until
now, safe houses have generally been something we find in border areas or in
well-settled illegal alien communities."

Montgomery County police told INS agents about the home after police received
information that a boy had been sexually assaulted by one of the men living in
the basement, according to court documents. Police are investigating the
allegations of sexual abuse, said Lt. Frank Young, who oversees child abuse
investigations.

INS agents served a search warrant on the home about 6:10 a.m. yesterday and
took 11 men into custody, Ferro said. The men, from their early twenties to
mid-thirties, did drywall work for the homeowner, Leandro Zamora Sanchez. The
boy told authorities that Sanchez travels to Mexico frequently to bring men into
the United States illegally, according to court documents.

Sanchez is being investigated regarding how the men were smuggled into the
United States, INS agents said. The 11 men were being held last night without
bond in the Wicomico County Detention Center until their cases are heard before
an immigration judge. If found to have entered the country illegally, they could
be deported, an INS official said.

LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              123 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 14, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Arrests Texan in Fairfax City

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04; CRIME AND JUSTICE: VIRGINIA

LENGTH: 113 words


A Texas man was arrested in Fairfax City yesterday and charged by federal
authorities with transporting illegal immigrants.

The man was identified by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service as
Juan Echavarria, of Houston. He was driving a van near Route 123 and Lee Highway
when he was stopped by Fairfax City police at 1:55 a.m. The van had 15
passengers from Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador. Some were destined for
Northern Virginia and Maryland, an INS official said.

Echavarria is a legal permanent U.S. resident who works for a transportation
company in Houston. The case was turned over to the U.S. attorney's office in
Alexandria for prosecution.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              124 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 18, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Vans Crash Through Border

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A van stuffed with 34 illegal immigrants drove through a border crossing from
Mexico yesterday and led U.S. agents on a freeway chase before crashing into the
wall of a store, officials said.

Twenty-four people, including the driver, were injured and taken to area
hospitals. The others in the van were detained.

Earlier, the van and a second vehicle carrying another 30 illegal immigrants had
crashed through the port of entry at Otay Mesa, east of San Diego, and headed
north in the southbound lanes.

After the van that pulled into the Lucky's supermarket parking lot lost control
trying to make a sharp turn and crashed into the building, the Border Patrol
gave up pursuing the second van. But a news helicopter spotted it stopped in an
orange grove. Thirty undocumented immigrants were arrested.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              125 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 24, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Man Accused of Hiding 11 Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C05; CRIME AND JUSTICE: MARYLAND

LENGTH: 119 words


A Silver Spring man was arrested yesterday and charged with hiding illegal
immigrants in his home, according to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

INS agents said Leandro Zamora Sanchez, 30, a legal permanent resident from
Mexico, allowed at least 11 illegal Mexican nationals to live in his home in the
1200 block of Sarah Drive and employed them in his drywall business.

Sanchez was charged with harboring illegal aliens, authorities said. He was
released on a property bond yesterday.

INS agents served a search warrant on Sanchez's home April 6 after neighbors
complained about many men living in the single-family home. The 11 Mexican
nationals there were taken into custody.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              126 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 30, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Deportation Bar Poses Difficulty For Agency; INS Must Keep Those Who Fear
Torture

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 862 words


After an odyssey that took him from his native Iraq to Iran, then Brazil and
finally the United States, Hussein had reason to think he had finally found
freedom and safety. Instead, he spent the next 13 months in a New Jersey jail
for illegal immigrants and at one point tried to commit suicide.

Last week, the 28-year-old Iraqi army deserter became the first person in the
United States to gain protection from deportation under a United Nations
convention against torture. Hussein was released from an Immigration and
Naturalization Service detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., and now is awaiting
a work permit. He did not want his last name published for fear of retaliation
against relatives still in Iraq.

Under the U.N. convention, which has been binding on the United States since
1994, Washington agreed not to "expel, return or extradite" anyone to a state
where the person would be subject to torture. But the injunction has posed a
dilemma for the INS, which did not have specific regulations on how it should be
implemented, especially in cases where the applicant did not qualify for U.S.
political asylum under existing rules.

According to the INS, there are about 80 pending cases in which illegal
immigrants are trying to avoid deportation under the torture convention. Most
are being detained, human rights lawyers say. But U.S. officials say they are
struggling to sort through a number of issues that arise. They're concerned, for
example, that people found ineligible for asylum -- because of criminal activity
or terrorism -- could invoke the U.N. convention to settle here.

In a close vote Tuesday, the Senate passed legislation that contains a provision
declaring the torture convention "the policy of the United States." The
provision requires the INS to write regulations to implement it, but says the
convention will not limit U.S. authority to "detain any person under any
provision of law."

The legislation faces a likely veto by President Clinton because of an
antiabortion provision. In any case, the INS says, it is already working on the
regulations. According to his lawyer, Mary McClenahan of the Catholic Legal
Immigration Network in New Jersey, Hussein was drafted into the Iraqi army in
1989 and served in the Gulf war. But he came under suspicion because his father
belongs to the Kurdish minority that opposes Iraqi strongman Saddam Hussein, and
he says he was beaten, whipped and hung by his heels from a ceiling fan.

In 1994, Hussein deserted when he was able to buy an identity card that would
get him through checkpoints, said McClenahan. He fled to neighboring Iran,
became a dockworker for a couple of years, then stowed away on a ship bound for
Brazil. Eventually, he was able to sneak onto a ship bound for Newark and was
detained by the INS as a stowaway when he arrived in March 1997.

According to a source familiar with his case, Hussein was interviewed in jail by
the FBI and became convinced that, in return for his cooperation, the agency was
going to ensure he received political asylum. As a result, he never got a lawyer
to represent him at his asylum hearing and did not present a substantial case.

Hussein was shocked when the immigration judge denied his claim and ordered him
deported. "He was under the misconception that the fix was in," the source said.

The Iraqi declined to be interviewed, and McClenahan would not discuss this
aspect of his case.

Anxious to get out of jail and thinking that he would merely be sent back to
Brazil, Hussein waived his right to appeal, McClenahan said. He came in for
another shock when he found out that Brazil would not accept him and that "he
had to be sent to Iraq," she said.

Shortly afterward, in July last year, Hussein tried to slash his wrists with a
detainee ID card and was sent to the hospital, McClenahan said. It was at that
point that the 28-year-old lawyer took up the case, her first major one. As a
last resort, she filed to head off deportation to Iraq under the torture
convention, arguing that as a deserter, he faced almost certain torture there.

Although the official regulations governing such cases are still being drafted,
the INS decided that he qualified for relief under the torture convention. The
agency released him on "parole" last week after McClenahan found him a place to
live with the owners of a local Middle Eastern restaurant.

"We will suspend his deportation to Iraq at this time," an INS official said.
But doing so under the U.N. torture convention does not confer any asylum or
other legal status, "so he remains with an outstanding order of deportation,"
the official said. If another country agreed to accept him, or if conditions in
Iraq changed to eliminate the torture threat, he could still be deported.

Now, McClenahan said, she wants to reopen Hussein's asylum case and obtain some
permanent legal status for him. "I really hope this is the start of other
decisions" in the cases of the 80 people who are seeking the same kind of
protection, she said. "It's very difficult for people to be in detention and not
know whether they will be sent back" to countries that practice torture.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              127 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 13, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Clinton Proposes Global Crime-Fighting Plan

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04; WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 187 words


Calling on the world's nations to "create a global community of crime-fighters,"
President Clinton yesterday proposed steps to control the threats from
international terrorism, drug trafficking, illegal immigration and money
laundering.

The president unveiled his International Crime Control Act of 1998 at the White
House about two hours before he left for Europe, where he will attend the G-8
economic summit in Birmingham, England. There, the world's leading
industrialized nations will seek ways to weaken and disband international crime
rings that Clinton said are preying upon weaker governments and threatening
democracy. "International crime requires an international response," he said.

Under Clinton's plan, U.S. officials would seek new international agreements on
extraditing criminals, step up prosecution of "select criminal acts committed
abroad" and bolster interdiction of illegal technology exports. It calls for $
280 million to help combat drug trafficking and illegal immigration at U.S.
borders, improve terrorism intelligence and target havens for money launderers
off U.S. shores.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              128 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 27, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Death on the Frontier; U.S. Border Crackdown Pushes Illegal Migrants Onto
Treacherous Ground

John Ward Anderson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: FALFURRIAS, Tex.


A huge wave sweeps nine people off a Gulf of Mexico sand bar to their deaths. A
flash flood kills eight people trapped in an underground drainage pipe. Eighteen
people freeze to death in the mountains outside San Diego in a freak winter
storm. Seven men die when their pickup truck careers off the road and crashes.

Those are a few of the headlines -- some call it the body count -- from the
U.S.-Mexican border, a 2,000-mile stretch of treacherous rivers, highways,
mountains and deserts that immigration experts say is becoming increasingly
dangerous for illegal immigrants. By some counts, at least six people die each
week trying to sneak into the United States from Mexico.

"We've got more than our share of bodies; I wish I could get some help," said
Kenedy County Sheriff Rafael Cuellar Jr., who said 38 people died -- most from
heat and dehydration -- after crossing the border into his South Texas county
over the last two years. "And there's no telling how many we don't find."

A study last fall by researchers at the University of Houston found that at
least 1,185 would-be immigrants -- and probably many more -- died trying to
cross into the United States illegally from 1993 to 1996. About 72 percent of
the victims drowned, roughly 8 percent were struck by cars -- usually while
running across a highway near the border -- and about 5 percent died of
environmental causes, such as heat, cold or dehydration.

The danger has become particularly acute as the United States pours more money,
manpower and equipment into tightening the border against the flow of illegal
immigrants and drugs. Most of the effort has focused on beefing up law
enforcement in heavily traveled urban corridors near El Paso and Brownsville,
Texas, and San Diego.

As a result, illegal immigrants try to go around the 38 official border
crossings. They attempt riskier trips through more remote and dangerous areas --
over higher mountains, through harsher deserts, across deeper and swifter
sections of river -- often on foot, under cover of darkness and at the mercy of
unreliable immigrant smugglers who abandon them if they get sick or cannot keep
up. Many bodies dressed in street clothes have been found on remote ranches
dozens of miles from the nearest road or watering hole.

Some critics of U.S. immigration policy say it deliberately elevates the risk of
death or serious injury among illegal immigrants. "This policy is very
destructive and militaristic, and many people are being victimized by the
criminalization of their entry and the enormous risks they are being forced to
take," said Jonathan Jones, who works for an immigration and refugee human
rights organization in South Texas.

Supporters of the policy say it makes sense to concentrate resources in the
urban areas where illegal crossings are rampant, and if people choose to go
around those areas, that is their decision.

"It's a big border from Brownsville to San Diego, and we have to start
somewhere," said Joe Garza, the top U.S. Border Patrol official in South Texas.
"The frontier is a dangerous place. At 3 a.m., you have aliens and drug
smugglers and bandits, and the only friend the illegal immigrant has is the
Border Patrol."

"I wouldn't take the blame for the number of aliens crossing, and I wouldn't
take the blame for the number of deaths, either," said Chuck Roberson, head of a
U.S. Border Patrol checkpoint in Falfurrias. This remote outpost is 75 miles
from the Mexican border in a desert-like area of South Texas with massive
ranches and few roads, people, or water -- particularly during the current
drought. The checkpoint is on the only road heading north for 50 miles, and
Roberson's agents have found groups of up to 60 people trying to skirt it on
foot, trekking for three days with little food and water through parched terrain
that is a tangled mess of mesquite, cactus and scrub brush.

Ironically, experts said, U.S. border enforcement policy is forcing illegal
aliens to turn to smugglers, known as "coyotes," because the border is so much
harder to cross. U.S. officials say that the rising difficulty and expense of
illegal entries eventually will deter undocumented migrants.

But a report five months ago by the General Accounting Office said that while
higher smuggling costs and more sophisticated techniques suggest it is now
harder to cross the border, "these data do not indicate whether the increased
difficulty of entry has deterred the flow of illegal entries into the country."
There is "no way of knowing," the report said, "whether the billions of dollars
invested in reducing illegal immigration have produced the desired results."

Experts said that rather than stopping the flow of illegal immigrants, the
strategy seems to redirect the flow into more desolate, dangerous areas. In the
first five days of May, for instance, the most popular illegal crossing --
judging by the number of undocumented aliens arrested -- was the rugged Arizona
desert near the towns of Nogales and Douglas. Border Patrol officials said they
caught 5,195 would-be immigrants near the two towns, more than 1,000 a day.

There have been many near disasters this year. In early February, U.S. Border
Patrol agents rescued 16 illegal immigrants from a freezing rainstorm in a
mountainous area east of San Diego -- roughly the same spot where 18 people died
during a winter storm last year.

Later that month, agents rescued 10 migrants who had been stranded for three
days without food or water on two tiny sand bars off the Texas coast about 45
miles north of the Rio Grande. The incident recalled a November 1996 tragedy in
which a huge wave swept nine Pakistanis off a sand bar near the mouth of the Rio
Grande, killing them all.

In March, agents in South Texas found 107 illegal aliens, many dehydrated and
struggling to breathe, inside a tractor-trailer more than 90 miles north of the
nearest border crossing. In another incident, 19 Mexicans were rescued after
three days in a railroad boxcar without food or water. The incidents were
reminiscent of a 1987 tragedy near El Paso in which 18 immigrants died while
locked inside a boxcar that sat in scorching heat for 14 hours.

The danger is so acute in South Texas that in the fall of 1996 -- after a
blistering summer claimed the lives of nine people secreted in railroad boxcars
and eight who tried to walk across the desert -- television stations on both
sides of the border aired 30-second ads in Spanish and English showing a map of
the huge, desert-like region that straddles the border, with an ominous voice
warning, "No dream is worth dying for. Stay out. Stay alive."


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, louis spirito; Photo, michael williamson, Death on the
Border The U.S.-Mexico border is treacherous for illegal immigrants, and an
average of six died every week between 1993 and 1996. Most people drowned along
the Texas border, many were struck by cars in San Diego County and others died
of exposure or dehydration, particularly while trying to cross into Arizona.
Below are the main causes of deaths, 1993-96, of the 1,198 officially reported.
All other causes: 15.9% Environmental, such as exposure and dehydration: 5.2%
Vehicular: 7.6% Drownings: 71.3% Of the 1,198 reported deaths, 683 victims were
male, 77 were female; the gender of the 438 others was not recorded. Most were
Mexican.  Ages of those reported victims: 0 to 19 102 20 to 39 369 40 to 59 86
60+ 16 Unknown 625 Total 1,198 Nationalities of those reported victims: Mexican
295 Salvadoran 3 Guatemalan 2 Honduran 2 Ecuadoran 1 Pakistani 2 Indian 1
Unknown 892 Total 1,198 SOURCE: University of Houston, "Death on the Border"
report These Mexican men were found in the desert south of Tucson, where they
had been wandering for three days after crossing the border.  A man carrying an
immigrant crosses a canal near El Paso in which scores have drowned in recent
years.  Illegal border-crossers dodge vehicles on Interstate 5 in San Ysidro,
Calif.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              129 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 15, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Border Patrol Cleared Of Alleged Misconduct

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 662 words


The Justice Department's inspector general yesterday absolved the U.S. Border
Patrol of two-year-old allegations that it engaged in a pattern of fraud and
misconduct to portray a controversial border-control operation as a success.

In a 346-page report, the inspector general's office said it found no credible
evidence that the Border Patrol or its parent agency, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, falsified records on apprehensions of illegal
immigrants, suppressed agents' efforts to catch border-crossers or otherwise
tried to mislead the public about Operation Gatekeeper, a 1994 initiative along
the U.S.-Mexican border south of San Diego.

Inspector General Michael R. Bromwich said interviews with 337 witnesses and the
examination of 100,000 pages of documents led to a conclusion that "the
allegations have no merit." The charges, first published in Harper's magazine,
were advanced in testimony before the California State Assembly and Congress by
four officials of the Border Patrol's union and an anonymous agent in 1996.

Operation Gatekeeper, which involved beefing up a 66-mile stretch of border from
the Pacific Ocean to the eastern edge of San Diego County, was aimed at taking
back control of the area from illegal immigrants, smugglers, bandits and drug
traffickers. It also was intended to drive illegal crossings away from San Diego
and into more remote and rugged terrain where the Border Patrol would have the
advantage.

The operation became the linchpin of a new border-control strategy that the INS
has since sought to extend to other sectors of the 2,000-mile frontier.

Before Gatekeeper was launched, the San Diego sector was "chaotic and
dangerous," with thousands of people dashing across the border every night,
often against traffic in the southbound lanes of the San Ysidro crossing point,
the report said. The sector accounted for nearly 44 percent of all Border Patrol
apprehensions nationwide, but agents were being overwhelmed. Thousands of
illegal immigrants were getting through and quickly melding into urban areas on
the U.S. side.

The operation fundamentally changed the way many Border Patrol agents did their
jobs. Instead of roaming around searching for illegal immigrants to apprehend,
frontline agents were ordered to stay in fixed positions to deter illegal
crossers, while other agents behind them arrested those who got through. The
strategy involved an infusion of new agents and equipment, including
night-vision scopes, movement sensors and an electronic fingerprinting system.

Many agents, who previously had operated with substantial autonomy, "disliked
these new methods and believed Gatekeeper was merely a political ploy rather
than a legitimate strategy," the report said.

Claiming that the operation was a failure, several Border Patrol agents charged
that supervisors altered records to show fewer apprehensions than actually
occurred, since lower figures were seen as evidence that the deterrence strategy
was working. The critics also claimed that agents were ordered to limit their
apprehensions and that busloads of illegal immigrants were sent back to Mexico
without being processed.

The investigation did find "isolated instances" in which immigrants were not
properly processed, but it said these "generally involved intoxicated or
pregnant aliens and non-Mexican nationals" -- cases requiring extra effort or
paperwork that some agents sought to avoid. The report also said the Border
Patrol's management had failed to inform agents adequately about the mission and
strategy of Operation Gatekeeper, thus creating "an atmosphere of suspicion."

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner welcomed the report, saying Gatekeeper had
enabled the agency to "restore the rule of law to the San Diego border region."
She said apprehensions there at the end of fiscal 1997 were at a 17-year low and
that the crime rate in San Diego County fell nearly 30 percent from 1992 to
1996.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              130 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 07, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 136 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees: none

HOUSE

Meets at 9 a.m.

Committees:

Commerce -- 9:30 a.m. Oversight & investigations subc. Energy Dept. funding of
Molten Metal Technology. 2123 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

Government Reform & Oversight -- 10 a.m. Campaign finance investigation. 2154
RHOB.

House Oversight -- 10 a.m. Campaign finance reform. 1310 Longworth House Office
Bldg.

International Relations -- 1 p.m. U.S. role in Bosnia. 2172 RHOB.

Joint Economic Committee -- 9:30 a.m. Employment & consumer price index for Oct.
'97. 1334 LHOB.

Judiciary -- 9:30 a.m. Immigration & claims subc. Oversight hearing final report
of Commission on Immigration Reform. 2226 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Crime subc. Combating crimes against children facilitated
by Internet. 2237 RHOB.

LOAD-DATE: November 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              131 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 29, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

U.S. Issuing More Visas To Investors; Critics Say 1990 Statute Opens Path to
Citizenship For Wealthy Foreigners

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1487 words


For those with a desire to emigrate and cash to spare, the recent ad in the
Times of Oman offered an enticing proposition: "U.S. Green Card for anyone who
can show U.S. $ 500,000."

Green cards for sale? Those coveted credit card-size documents, which confer
legal U.S. resident status and constitute the first step toward citizenship, on
the block for cold cash in a Persian Gulf sultanate?

What appeared on the face of it to be a dubious offer in fact was based on a
little-known -- but quite legal -- U.S. government program to encourage
immigration by wealthy foreign investors. The investor visa program, passed by
Congress in 1990 as a way to compete for foreign capital and create U.S. jobs,
reserves up to 10,000 green cards a year for investors and their immediate
families.

To qualify, the principals must each create at least 10 full-time U.S. jobs by
investing $ 1 million -- or $ 500,000 if the jobs are in certain
high-unemployment areas -- in the establishment of a new business, or the rescue
or expansion of an existing one. The workers must not be relatives of the
investors, but they do not necessarily have to be U.S. citizens.

So far, the program has not really taken off. In recent years, issuances of
investor visas have numbered only in the hundreds. In 1996, the latest fiscal
year for which figures are available, 936 people received them, including
spouses and children. More than 80 percent of the visas went to Asians, mostly
from Taiwan, South Korea, China and Hong Kong.

In part because of promotions like the one by a private consulting firm in Oman,
however, the investor visa program gradually is becoming better known around the
world. Its boosters expect the 1997 numbers to show a sharp increase, perhaps
double the 1996 total. And with Hong Kong now under Beijing's control and Asian
economies in turmoil, the promoters hope to attract even greater numbers of
wealthy Asians.

The program has spurred an industry of consultants and facilitators who link
investors with business opportunities in the United States, handle the visa
applications and even arrange financing for the required investment money. The
industry leader is a Greenbelt-based firm called AIS Inc. (originally American
Immigration Services) that specializes in pooling investors together to bankroll
larger projects. It says it has obtained visa approvals for more than 1,000
investors who have committed more than $ 500 million to U.S. businesses since
1991.

The firm boasts a high-profile management team led by Diego C. Asencio, a
retired senior U.S. diplomat, as president. Gene McNary, a former commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, is one of the company's top
lawyers. Its board of directors includes former ambassadors Stephen W. Bosworth
and Jack F. Matlock Jr., former assistant secretaries of state William Clark and
Richard W. Murphy, retired Democratic congressman John Bryant of Texas and
Prescott S. Bush, the brother of former president George Bush and chairman of
the private USA-China Chamber of Commerce.

Among the projects to which AIS has channeled investments are restaurants,
hotels, apparel and equipment manufacturing companies and a chain of retirement
homes. The investors include businessmen, bankers, doctors and other
professionals.

The visa program's advocates argue that it brings in immigrants with needed
capital, saves troubled companies and creates or preserves jobs. By contrast,
they point out, growing numbers of immigrants who enter the United States under
the current system, which stresses family ties, are poor, unskilled and
uneducated, and thus often a burden to society.

But critics of the scheme say there is something unsettling about marketing
immigrant visas like a commodity. Although the green cards are "conditional" for
two years under the program, pending verification that the investment has been
made and the jobs created, the transaction is viewed by some as only one step
removed from selling U.S. citizenship.

"If it's one step, it's a mile wide," said McNary, who disputes that view. The
program lately has met with some recalcitrance within the INS and the State
Department, just as it did in 1990 when congressional opponents charged it would
allow well-off foreigners to "buy green cards," he said. But that notion is
misguided, McNary insisted, because the participants "are investing in our
economy and serving the national interest. These are good people who blend into
American culture."

In its literature, AIS describes the investor visa program as offering "the best
of both worlds": the security and convenience of "alternate residency" in the
United States, with no real requirement to live here full time. An AIS brochure
touts the program as less restrictive and expensive than similar plans in other
countries such as Canada, which requires investor immigrants to stay there at
least 183 days of the year. The U.S. program also sets no requirements on age,
prior business training or experience, education level or language skill, the
brochure points out.

"The only requirement for the investor," it says, "is that he have the required
net worth and initial capital," which must come from a "lawful source" but may
include gifts, inheritances and bank loans.

The AIS program is geared to those who want U.S. resident status without
actually having to run the businesses they invest in or live where they are
located. To that end, it uses a provision in the law allowing the investor to be
a "limited partner" in the business to meet a requirement for an "active"
management role. It also guarantees applicants a return on their investment
after they receive their green cards.

Investors normally must come up with $ 35,000 to cover various fees, plus at
least $ 100,000 of the minimum capital investment. AIS then can arrange a bank
loan for the remaining $ 400,000 investment amount, its literature says.

Many applicants seek green cards not so much for themselves, but for their
families, AIS officials said.

"They do it so their kids can go to college here and work here," said Andrew
Palmer, one of the firm's vice presidents. For students, legal resident status
means "lower tuition costs" at many U.S. universities, "facilitates admittance
to medical school" and allows employment during and after their studies, the
company says.

A drawback of permanent resident status is that it subjects the immigrant to
U.S. taxes on worldwide income, even if the person does not live full time in
the United States. However, the law contains a loophole allowing spouses and
children to be the applicants, rather than the family's bread-winner. Many
wealthy heads of families choose to remain in their homelands and run their
businesses without taking the U.S. tax hit.

For those who want the green cards themselves, AIS also offers advice on
"financial planning . . . to improve their tax consequences," said Daniel Green,
another of the company's vice presidents. "It's not a tax avoidance issue. It's
simply a tax planning issue."

Local businesses that have received investments through the program -- mostly
from Asians -- include a Fuddruckers restaurant in Tysons Corner, a Ramada hotel
in Springfield and the Sunrise Retirement Center in Fairfax. The cash-strapped
retirement center received about $ 2.5 million from eight investors, most of
them from South Korea, who were paid back in three years, Palmer said.

They were committed to investing $ 1 million each but were able to receive their
green cards by paying much less than that because promissory notes for the
balance were not yet due by the time the business recovered and bought back
their shares, Palmer said. Some of the investors still live in South Korea but
travel to the United States at least twice a year to meet the minimum
requirements for holding a green card, he added.

Now, he said, the INS wants to tighten the rules by requiring investors to pay
their shares completely before getting their permanent green cards.

Compared with most other family- or employment-based U.S. visa categories, the
investor program "is a much faster way of securing a green card," said Brian
Telfer, who runs a private immigration consulting firm in Dubai and advertises
his services in the Times of Oman and other papers. The ads are directed toward
third-country "expatriates" living in the Persian Gulf sheikdoms, since the
local rulers "take a real dim view of their nationals emigrating anywhere," he
said.

Telfer also advertises "second passports from U.S. $ 75,000," a reference to
what he calls "economic citizenship" in such countries as Ireland and several
Caribbean and Pacific island states. Of these, he said, Grenada, a former
British colony, offers "the best value for money" because its passport affords
"visa-free travel" to Canada, Britain and "a number of other First World
countries."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              132 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 22, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Identification Scheme Alleged

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04; CRIME AND JUSTICE: DISTRICT

LENGTH: 195 words


Two men arrested this week in a D.C. apartment where authorities seized computer
equipment and allegedly counterfeit identification documents were ordered held
without bond in U.S. District Court yesterday, pending an immigration status
review, the Secret Service said.

Jeffrey Walandow, 21, and Fordyanto Widjaja, 23, were picked up Monday in an
apartment in the 3200 block of Wisconsin Avenue NW, where both were living,
according to a statement released by the agency.

Authorities said they had been investigating Walandow in connection with a
scheme in which someone assumed other people's identities by using their names,
birth dates and Social Security numbers, thus making it possible to open
checking, credit card and cellular telephone service accounts in their names.

Secret Service agents and D.C. police who executed a search warrant in the
apartment found equipment that was being used to counterfeit immigration
documents known as green cards, the statement said.

A Secret Service spokesman said Walandow was charged with one count of access
device fraud and Widjaja with one count of fraud in connection with
identification documents.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              133 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 23, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

OBITUARIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D06

LENGTH: 1898 words


John E. Barriere

Congressional Aide

John E. Barriere, 78, executive director of the House Democratic Steering and
Policy Committee from 1965 to 1978, died of cancer April 22 at his home in
Alexandria.

As director, Mr. Barriere served as an aide to three Democratic speakers of the
House, John W. McCormack and Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill Jr., both of Massachusetts,
and Carl B. Albert, of Oklahoma.

Mr. Barriere was an adviser to Rep. Richard Bolling (D-Mo.) before retiring from
Capitol Hill in 1984.

He was a graduate of Clark University in his native Worcester, Mass. He served
as an Army medic in China during World War II.

After the war, he did graduate work in economics at the University of Chicago.
He began his Washington career in 1948 as an intern at the National Institute of
Public Affairs. He joined the Democratic National Committee as a researcher,
then moved to the House Banking and Currency Committee staff as an aide to Rep.
Brent Spence (D-Ky.), who was then chairman.

Survivors include his wife of 44 years, Ruth Bennett Barriere of Alexandria; two
children, Laura Barriere of Silver Spring and Brent Barriere of New Orleans; a
sister; and two grandchildren.

Ronald S. Chirlin

Immigration Official

Ronald S. Chirlin, 51, a lawyer who was an adjudication officer at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, died of lymphoma April 12 at Georgetown
University Hospital.

Mr. Chirlin, a resident of Washington since 1970, was born in Philadelphia.
After his graduation from the University of Pennsylvania in 1968, he served in
the Peace Corps in Ethiopia. He received a law degree from American University
in 1973.

He worked in Washington initially for Ayuda, a community-based legal aid office
for Spanish-speaking people in the Adams-Morgan neighborhood. He was a staff and
supervisory lawyer with the organization until 1980, when he established a
private practice in immigration law.

Mr. Chirlin later worked for the Association of Farmworker Opportunity Programs
and for Regan Associates, a law firm. In 1993, he joined the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Survivors include his wife, Janet Walker Chirlin, and two children, Elsbeth and
Benjamin Chirlin, all of Washington; his mother, Evelyn Chirlin of Atlantic
City; and a sister, Helene Friedberg of Morgantown, W.Va.

Mary A. Carleton

Administrative Assistant

Mary A. Carleton, 62, an administrative assistant with Raytheon Corp., died
April 20 at Washington Hospital Center of injuries sustained in a car accident
last month.

Mrs. Carleton, who had lived in McLean since 1962, was driving to work early
March 20 on Route 110 near the Pentagon when her car skidded off the road and
struck a guardrail, an Arlington County police spokesman said.

She was born in Elizabeth, N.J. The daughter of an Army officer, she grew up in
several areas in the United States including Arlington, where she attended
Washington-Lee High School. She also attended Dickenson College and George
Washington University.

A permanent Washington area resident since the mid-1950s, she was active in
social and cultural activities. She was a member of St. Luke's Catholic Church
in McLean.

Survivors include her husband, Robert P. Carleton of McLean; three children,
Charles E. Carleton of San Francisco, Mary E. Carleton of New York and Patrick
D. Carleton of Davis, Calif.; a sister, Jane A. Harvey of McLean; and a
granddaughter.

Oscar S. Hargett Jr.

Navy Official

Oscar S. Hargett Jr., 83, a retired office assistant director in the office of
the secretary of the Navy who also was a retired Navy Reserve captain, died
April 18 at his home in Bethesda. He had arteriosclerosis.

Capt. Hargett, who retired from the Navy Reserve in 1975, worked for the Navy
Department's analysis and review office for 24 years before retiring in 1973.

In retirement, he did volunteer work for the Bethesda-Chevy Chase YMCA. He was a
member of St. Francis Episcopal Church in Potomac and the Military Order of the
World Wars.

Capt. Hargett, a Washington area resident since 1938, was a graduate of
Birmingham Southern College in his native Alabama, and received a master's
degree in economics from George Washington University. He served as a Navy
officer aboard the carrier Shangri-La in the Pacific during World War II.

Survivors include his wife of 60 years, Mary Bennett Hargett of Bethesda; three
sons, Richard, of Loganville, Ga., James, of Wheaton, and J. David Hargett of
Annapolis; two daughters, Jane Martens of Potomac and Laura Rubbley of Bethesda;
two sisters, Dorothy Jumper of Gastonia, N.C., and Nell Jones of Lakeland, Fla.;
and five grandchildren.

Walter Grechanik

Navy Captain

Walter Grechanik, 73, a Navy captain and supply officer who retired in 1976 as
commander of the Navy Regional Finance Center in Norfolk, died of lung cancer
April 20 at the Hospice of Northern Virginia. A resident of Alexandria, he had
lived in the Washington area off and on since the 1940s.

He was a native of New York who enlisted in the Navy during World War II and
served in the Pacific. After the war, he attended the U.S. Naval Academy,
graduating in 1948.

He was stationed off Korea during the war there and also was posted to Japan and
Morocco. His honors included three Meritorious Service Medals.

Capt. Grechanik was a volunteer tax adviser for the American Association. He
participated in swimming events of Senior Olympics held in Fairfax County in the
1980s and officiated at competitions. He was a member of the American Legion,
Veterans of Foreign Wars and Disabled American Veterans.

His first wife, Cynthia Grechanik, died in 1971.

Survivors include his wife, Betty Grechanik, from whom he was separated, of
Springfield; three children from his first marriage, Air Force Lt. Col. Jeff
Grechanik, stationed in Garmisch, Germany, Cynthia Grechanik of Woodbridge and
Karen Grechanik of Alexandria; and a grandson.

Dorothy M. S. Oelke

Mathematician

Dorothy Marie Schneider Oelke, 79, a mathematician from 1941 to 1959 in the
tides and currents division of the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, died of a
stroke April 18 at Sibley Memorial Hospital.

She was a lifelong resident of Washington and a graduate of Wilson High School
and American University. She also attended Bucknell and Valparaiso universities.
She received a master's degree in mathematics from the University of Maryland.

Mrs. Oelke taught math at Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School before going to work
at the survey.

She was a volunteer with First Trinity Lutheran Church in Washington, Community
Family Life Services, the Lifeline agency for disabled persons, Fellowship
Square Foundation and the Lisner Home. She also was an officer of the Lutheran
Women's League and Valparaiso University Guild and a member of the Chevy Chase
Citizens Association.

Survivors include her husband 46 years, Harlan Oelke of Washington; two
daughters, Olivia Schueler of West Lafayette, Ind., and Amelia Oelke of
Arlington; a brother, J. Ernest Schneider of Rockville; a sister, Elizabeth S.
Powell of Culpeper, Va.; and a grandson.

Ross Dana Davis

Attorney

Ross Dana Davis, 79, a retired lawyer and government administrator who was
assistant secretary of Commerce for economic development during the
administration of Lyndon B. Johnson, died April 19 at George Washington
University Hospital. He had prostate cancer and had suffered a cerebral
hemorrhage.

He began his federal career during the Eisenhower administration, when he was
associate general counsel of the Small Business Administration. From 1961 to
1966, he was general counsel of the Development Loan Fund, deputy assistant
administrator of the Agency for International Development and executive
administrator of the SBA.

From 1969 to 1975, he was counsel to the National League of Cities and U.S.
Conference of Mayors. He was a senior partner in the law firm of Davis and
Simpich until he retired in 1991.

Mr. Ross, who lived in Washington, was a native of New York City. He was a
graduate of Brown University and Columbia University law school. He served in
the Army Signal Corps in the Pacific during World War II.

He was a member of the Cosmos Club and the West River and Chesapeake Tartan
sailing clubs.

His marriage to Susan Davis ended in divorce. His second wife, Margo Roos Davis,
to whom he was married for 40 years, died March 22.

There are no immediate survivors.

Wesley R. Nelson

Bureau of Reclamation Official

Wesley R. Nelson, 100, a construction engineer who retired in 1952 as assistant
commissioner of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, died of a cardiovascular
disorder April 21 at his home in Arlington.

Mr. Nelson was born in Norwood, Colo. He served in the Army during World War I
and graduated from the University of Southern California.

He began his career with the bureau in 1931 as an assistant engineer and worked
on construction of the Hoover Dam. He was later chief of the engineering
division and a regional director. As assistant commissioner, he supervised
projects for water conservation, irrigation, hydroelectric power production, and
flood and silt control.

Mr. Nelson wrote 40 technical books and articles on the construction of
infrastructures.

After he retired from the government, he worked on site surveys for construction
projects in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and other countries. He retired
in 1964 from Litchfield, Whiting and Bowne, an architectural and engineering
consulting firm based in New York.

He was a fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers.

His wife of 57 years, Etta Lucille Bennett, died in 1981.

Survivors include his wife of 16 years, Dorothy Bilbo Nelson of Arlington.

Charles Chalom Suissa

Typographer

Charles Chalom Suissa, 66, a typographer at The Washington Post since
immigrating to the United States from his native Casablanca, Morocco, in 1967,
died of liver failure April 21 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He lived
in Wheaton.

He worked for a newspaper in Casablanca earlier in his career.

He was a member of Magen David Synagogue in Rockville.

Survivors include his wife of 40 years, Denise Suissa of Wheaton; five children;
five sisters; and three grandchildren.

Robert Sidney 'Sid' Arthur

Accountant

Robert Sidney "Sid" Arthur, 60, an Alexandria native who retired in 1994 after
35 years as an accountant with the Navy Facilities Command in Alexandria, died
of cancer April 21 at Inova Alexandria Hospital.

After he retired, he was an accountant with the Fairfax law firm of Kellogg,
Krebs & Moran.

Mr. Arthur, who lived in Alexandria, was a graduate of George Washington High
School and George Washington University, where he also received a master's
degree in government administration and accounting.

He was vice president of the Alexandria Sunrise Optimist Club, past grand knight
of the Knights of Columbus and a member of St. Lawrence Catholic Church in
Alexandria, the Coast Guard Auxiliary, Toastmasters International and Mended
Hearts, a nonprofit organization that provides assistance to people who have
undergone heart surgery.

Survivors include his wife of 40 years, Adelaide Arthur of Alexandria; three
children, Deborah J. Daugherty of Warrenton, Robert Arthur Jr. of Alexandria and
Gary D. Arthur of Dale City; three brothers; and five grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1998

CORRECTION: The obituary of Ross Dane Davis, which appeared in The Post April
23, incorrectly spelled his middle name.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              134 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 10, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Food Stamp Cuts, Immigrant Hunger Linked

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 673 words


A prominent human rights group is urging Congress to restore food stamp benefits
to legal immigrants, citing a new study that it says shows "alarmingly high"
levels of hunger among immigrants in three U.S. states.

The Boston-based group, Physicians for Human Rights, released the results of its
survey last week to support a recommendation for the passage of a Senate bill
that would partially restore food stamps to legal immigrants, benefiting about
250,000 people at a cost of $ 818 million. The benefits of about 900,000 legal
immigrants were cut in August as part of a welfare reform law. Full restoration
of food stamps to this group would cost as much as $ 3 billion, advocates
estimate.

The bill, dealing mainly with agricultural research and crop insurance, has been
stalled by opposition to the food stamp provision from Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.)
and Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.). But nearly a quarter of the Senate's
members have signed letters urging a vote on the bill, and it seems likely to
come to the Senate floor this week.

In a survey conducted in March among Latino and Asian legal immigrants at
inner-city clinics and community centers in California, Texas and Illinois,
Physicians for Human Rights said it found "an alarmingly high prevalence of food
insecurity and hunger." It urged the restoration "on medical and human rights
grounds" of food stamp benefits "to all legal immigrants."

Some congressional Republicans have argued that the immigrants should be
supported by their sponsors, not the taxpayers. Other critics questioned the
survey's methodology, saying the sample consisted mostly of poor people. But
they said it illustrates a larger concern: that the United States is admitting
too many unskilled and poorly educated immigrants who are likely to remain mired
in poverty and become a drain on public services.

The human rights group said its physicians found that 79 percent of the 682
households surveyed were "food insecure, with varying degrees of hunger
severity." It defined food insecurity as the "limited or uncertain availability"
of nutritious foods and said this was measured using Agriculture Department
guidelines. The level of food insecurity among the immigrants surveyed was seven
times higher than that of the general U.S. citizen population, the group said.
More than a third of the immigrant households surveyed were suffering from at
least "moderate" hunger, and 8.5 percent reported "severe hunger" -- more than
10 times the rate in the general population, the group said. It said "the
discriminatory aspect of the food stamp cuts against individuals who are in the
U.S. legally and who pay taxes constitutes a serious human rights violation."

"We were quite surprised that the numbers were so high," said Jennifer Kasper,
the study's coordinator. She said failing to restore food stamps to legal
immigrants could have "quite significant health implications" and require even
greater expenditures in the long run "to meet these medical needs as a
consequence of hunger, instead of taking a more preventive approach."

On the other hand, immigration policy critics said, the physicians did not
consider another preventive measure: limiting the intake of people likely to
become public charges.

"Food stamp eligibility should be restored to legal immigrants, but we should
cut the number of immigrants we take in who are likely to end up on food
stamps," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies
here. "It's unsustainable to allow in a million immigrants a year, very few of
whom are picked based on their skills or education, and extend full safety net
benefits to this large and growing pool of people."

He said a new study by the center shows that poverty increased among immigrant
households from 1990 to 1997 while declining slightly among the native-born. "So
it's no surprise that there are immigrants who need food stamps," he said. "It's
not their fault. It's the result of a dysfunctional immigration policy."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              135 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 23, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

House Halts Bid to Kill Food Stamp Restoration

Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 413 words


An angry coalition of urban and rural House members yesterday blocked a
last-minute maneuver by Republican leaders to kill a farm bill provision that
would restore food stamps to a quarter-million legal immigrants, leaving the
whole measure in limbo.

The vote was 289 to 120. Nearly 100 Republicans joined virtually all Democrats
in rejecting the procedure for what was to have been the final congressional
vote on the measure, a procedure described by critics as unprecedented in its
heavy-handedness.

"There is no excuse for this nastiness," complained Rep. Tony P. Hall (D-Ohio).
"These are the neediest of immigrants. Why on earth do we want to take away
their food stamps?"

But Rules Committee Chairman Gerald B.H. Solomon (R-N.Y.) defended the rule,
adopted by the committee late Thursday. Solomon said it was necessary to prevent
a retreat from the 1996 welfare reform bill, new costs to state and local
governments and what he called "egregious" violations of House rules.

The five-year, $ 1.9 billion measure would establish mandatory funding for
agricultural research, continue federal crop insurance payments and restore food
stamps to 250,000 of the roughly 900,000 legal immigrants who lost them in the
1996 welfare overhaul bill.

The House and Senate approved the research funding last year. The crop insurance
and food stamp provisions were added by a House-Senate conference, but
conservatives objected to both items, delaying the bill until the Senate
approved it, 92 to 8, last week after emphatically rejecting a move to narrow
the food stamp provisions.

House Republican leaders balked at voting until two days ago. But, in a surprise
move, Solomon, who said he was acting with the encouragement of House Speaker
Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.), drafted a rule that, if approved, probably would have led
to the food stamp provisions being stripped from the bill for procedural
reasons. This led to a rebellion by farm state and moderate Republicans who
feared that the whole bill would die if it were split up and that farm state
voters would retaliate at the polls in November.

No further action was scheduled on the measure in the House. But Senate
Agriculture Committee Chairman Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind.) said a new attempt to
pass the measure will be made when Congress returns. "There's an overwhelming
majority in both houses for all three elements . . . and nothing will pass, or
be signed, without all three elements," Lugar said.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              136 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 06, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Citizen of the World (Cup); Little-Known Law Enables French Player to Join U.S.
Team

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1165 words


As a talented soccer player, David Regis will compete in the World Cup this
summer in France, the country he has called home for the last 19 years. But he
won't be playing for the French national team, which did not select him.

Instead, he will take the field as the newest member of the U.S. soccer squad --
thanks to an American wife, a little-known provision of immigration law, a
determined U.S. Soccer Federation and, apparently, some soccer fans at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Under the obscure legal provision, Regis, a native of the French island of
Martinique, went from being a French citizen to an American in about three
months, bypassing a U.S. residency requirement and other hurdles of a process
that normally takes years. Regis, 29, whose English is limited, was sworn in as
a U.S. citizen during a private ceremony in Los Angeles last month, just in time
to play in a World Cup tuneup against Kuwait in Portland, Ore.

The fleet-footed defender, who moved to France at age 10 to attend boarding
school and play soccer, was named to fill the last spot on the U.S. team's
22-player roster on Tuesday. Thursday, he joined the team on its trip to France,
where it will open first-round play June 15 against Germany.

The quick acquisition of U.S. citizenship suits Regis, who wins a chance to
fulfill every soccer player's dream: competing in the sport's premier
tournament. And it comes as a blessing to the U.S. soccer team, which gets a
star with 10 years of professional experience.

But not everybody is happy. Critics of U.S. immigration policy see Regis's case
as an example of a growing trend toward citizenships of convenience, which they
say devalue the meaning of becoming an American. And it threatens to stir
resentment among some of the 2 million people stuck in a huge backlog of
citizenship applicants.

Because of record numbers of applications, the naturalization process now takes
two to three years to complete, on top of the five years that one usually must
spend in the United States as a legal permanent resident, or green-card holder,
before becoming eligible to apply.

The citizenship fast-track for Regis, a former French First Division standout
who now plays in the German First Division, began late last year when a sports
agent based in Luxembourg alerted the U.S. team's coach, Steve Sampson, that
Regis was married to Nikki Fogle of Savannah, Ga. The couple met in Strasbourg,
France, when Fogle was a student there, and married in June 1995. They have a
young daughter.

Sampson saw Regis play on television for his German team, Karlsruhe, in
December, then watched one of his matches in person a month later, said Jim
Froslid, a spokesman for the U.S. Soccer Federation.

A Los Angeles-based immigration lawyer, Barbara Federman, applied for a green
card for Regis in February. It came through a month later -- in less time than
applicants usually wait for their initial INS interview. The application for his
U.S. citizenship took longer, Federman said, because the INS lost his
fingerprints.

The application was based on a provision of immigration law designed primarily
to expedite citizenship for foreign spouses of U.S. government employees or
members of the armed forces to protect them overseas. Also covered are spouses
of American employees stationed abroad for U.S. firms engaged in "the
development of foreign trade and commerce of the United States."

Applicants for naturalization under the provision are allowed to bypass the
requirement for five years of green-card status in the United States -- three
years if married to an American -- but they must pledge to take up U.S.
residence immediately after the spouse's foreign employment ends.

For Regis to qualify, the U.S. Soccer Federation helped set up a job for his
wife in France with Gullivers Sports Travel, a travel agency based in Southern
California that offers World Cup tours and is handling travel arrangements for
the relatives and friends of U.S. players. Nikki Regis started the job last
month and plans to work for the agency in France for at least a year to meet the
law's requirements, Federman said.

However, neither Federman nor U.S. soccer officials could say when the couple
plans to move to the United States, or whether Regis intends to play for a U.S.
pro team.

If Regis does not take up U.S. residence, "there is not a whole lot we can do .
. . but it probably weakens the chances of the next person who comes along,"
said Bill Strassberger, an INS spokesman. He said the player's citizenship
application was processed and approved in accordance with the legal provision,
called Section 319(b), which was invoked in only 25 of the 133,518
naturalization cases in Los Angeles last year.

"No rules were broken," Strassberger said. "No laws were bent to make this
happen." But he acknowledged that there are some serious soccer fans in the Los
Angeles district of the INS.

"I'm not going to say that didn't play into it," he said. "Everyone's rooting
for the team against overwhelming odds."

"The way our laws are written, people can elect to become citizens for the most
noble reasons or most cynical reasons," said Michael Maggio, a Washington
immigration lawyer.

Maggio said that while many people waiting years to get U.S. citizenship were
likely to see the case as an example of "someone rich and famous who jumps the
queue," Congress created the "statutory springboard" for such queue-jumpers. The
biggest users of the provision, he said, are federal employees.

While his path to naturalization might have been unusual, Regis is hardly unique
as a foreign-born member of the U.S. squad, said Tom King, the team's general
manager. Of the 22 players, seven were born outside the United States. Captain
Thomas Dooley grew up in Germany but claimed U.S. citizenship as the son of an
American serviceman.

To some skeptics, the job that provided the basis for expediting Regis's
application was a stretch.

"You really have to wonder what kind of message we're sending to immigrants
around the country" who have to wait for years to become citizens, said Mark
Krikorian, director of the Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies. "In
some sense it cheapens citizenship. . . . The U.S. government is telling the
rest of the world that citizenship is in fact a matter of convenience."

That, anyway, is what a U.S. passport seemed to be for Ulf Samuelsson, an NHL
defenseman who was booted off the Swedish ice hockey team at the Winter Olympics
in Japan. The action was taken by the International Ice Hockey Federation
because Swedish law requires those who naturalize in another country to give up
their Swedish citizenship.

Samuelsson explained, to no avail, that he became a U.S. citizen to avoid the
hassles that foreigners face in working in the United States and that he never
intended to give up his Swedish citizenship.

Staff writer Devon Spurgeon contributed to this report.


NAME: DAVID REGIS

LOAD-DATE: June 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp/Hector Mata, David Regis became a U.S. citizen in a matter
of months.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              137 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 20, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

7 Former MPs Indicted in Attack on Migrants

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Dec. 19


Seven ex-military police officers in the Marine Corps, including four later
hired by civilian law enforcement agencies, have been indicted in a 1994 assault
on three illegal migrants living in the bushes outside San Diego County's Camp
Pendleton, officials announced Friday.

Of the seven, three have pleaded guilty. All seven were enlisted personnel in
their early 20s and were assigned to a special SWAT-style squad within the
military police.

According to an indictment, five of the MPs, while off-duty but wearing military
garb, raided a migrant encampment late one night, dragging one man from his hut,
pushing a woman down and beating a 55-year-old man into unconsciousness. One of
the Marines allegedly brandished a gun, and the group pretended to be Border
Patrol or police.

Five who allegedly participated in the attack were charged with civil rights
violations, while two others were indicted for participating in an alleged
coverup that initially stymied an investigation by civilian police and the Naval
Investigative Service.

U.S. Attorney Alan Bersin said the defendants had targeted the illegal migrants
because they felt they would not report the attack lest they be deported. No
other motive was revealed.

The investigation reportedly was reopened this spring after one of the
defendants, while applying for a civilian law enforcement job on the East Coast,
flunked a polygraph test used in the screening process.

The four who had jobs in law enforcement after leaving the Marine Corps either
have been fired or are in the process of being fired. The agencies, all in
California, are the San Diego Sheriff's Department, Carlsbad Police Department,
Los Angeles Police Department and Escondido Police Department.

Although only one of the defendants is still on active duty, the Marine Corps
was part of the FBI investigation that led to the indictments.

"The Marine Corps condemns this kind of behavior," said Marine Corps spokesman
Maj. Tom Peery. "It runs counter to our core values of honor, courage and
commitment."

Migrants rights activists decried the long delay in bringing charges in the
case.

"Three years ago nobody in law enforcement cared enough to get to the bottom of
this hate crime," said Roberto Martinez of the San Diego-based American Friends
Service Committee.

Bersin denied this assertion and said that investigators in 1994 "ran up against
a stone wall of silence and deceit."

According to the Associated Press, John Patrick Wolf, 29; Shawn Davis Simonet,
24; Corey Paul Gautreaux; Mark Adam Burton, 23; and Brian David Gadway, 25, were
charged with violating the migrants' civil rights. Gadway, 25, and Gautreaux,
27, pleaded guilty today and could be imprisoned for up to 10 years and fined $
250,000.

Charles Frederick Byrne, 28, was charged with being an accessory and providing a
false alibi for the assailants, the AP reported, and James Bennett Graham, 26,
pleaded guilty today to tampering with a witness.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              138 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 13, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Three Charged With Abusing Illegal Aliens

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 164 words


Immigration agents have arrested three residents of a Texas border town on
charges of abusing two deaf Mexicans and their two children, who were forced to
sell trinkets in the Southwest for more than five years, U.S. officials in El
Paso said yesterday.

The defendants -- a 33-year-old Mexican woman, her husband and her younger
sister -- had connections to a widespread alien-smuggling network that brought
scores of deaf and speech-impaired Mexicans into the United States and forced
them to sell trinkets in cities across the country.

The three were arrested in Fabens, Tex., and charged with offenses including
kidnapping, alien smuggling and involuntary servitude. Their victims were found
living nearby in a dilapidated trailer without heat and with little food. The
defendants not only forced the four to peddle trinkets, but pressed the deaf
mother of the two children into prostitution, prosecutors said. The three face
up to life imprisonment if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              139 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 23, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Metro Riders Report Vendors Operating Like Those of N.Y. Deaf Alien Ring

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 792 words


Federal and local authorities yesterday began investigating reports that an
alien-smuggling ring similar to one that exploited deaf Mexicans in New York may
have been operating in the District in recent months.

Following the weekend bust of a ring that forced deaf and speech-impaired
Mexicans to sell trinkets on New York City subways and held them in virtual
bondage, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has received tips that the
practice is much more widespread and involves similar sales in other U.S.
cities, including on Metro trains in Washington, officials said

While the smuggling of illegal immigrants into the United States has become a
growing problem in recent years and has involved occasional egregious human
rights violations, the abuse of disabled people has aroused widespread outrage
in both the United States and Mexico.

According to a complaint filed in federal court in New York, the ring lured deaf
Mexicans with the promise of well-paying jobs in the United States, smuggled
them across the border and forced them through threats and beatings to work as
peddlers. Some of the women were also sexually abused, and the vendors faced
cutoffs of food rations and other sanctions if they did not turn in enough
money, the complaint said.

In addition to the probes already initiated by the INS and New York City police,
the Justice Department's civil rights division announced yesterday that it is
opening an investigation into possible violations of the deaf Mexicans' civil
rights with a view to filing peonage or slavery charges against their alleged
abusers. So far, seven Mexicans have been arrested on various state and federal
charges in the case, including alien-smuggling and assault. Other suspects are
being sought, notably a Mexican identified as Reinaldo or Renato Paoletti, whom
vendors have tagged as the "boss" of the New York ring.

In Washington, the INS contacted Metro authorities yesterday afternoon after
receiving tips from passengers, including INS employees, who had witnessed sales
of trinkets on Metro trains. However, there was no immediate information on the
vendors' nationality or living conditions, or whether they were working for an
organized ring.

One regular Metro rider who spoke with The Washington Post said she told the INS
that she recently saw a young Hispanic woman selling key chains similar to those
sold by victims of the New York ring. The rider, who did not want to be
identified, said the key chains bore tags reading, "I am deaf" and "$ 1.00." The
vendor, who looked to be in her late teens or early twenties, walked the length
of the Metro car laying the trinkets in the laps of seated passengers, the rider
said. Then she walked back and collected dollar bills from buyers or the key
chains from those who declined. Without uttering a sound, the woman got off the
car at the next station and boarded another Metro car on the same train.

Other riders have reported similar incidents involving Hispanic men and women
who boarded trains to sell pens and pencils with similar tags attached.

The INS has received reports of similar sales in Los Angeles and Chicago,
officials said. In Mexico City, students at schools for the hearing- and
speech-impaired have reported that friends also have wound up working in Dallas
and Boston after being recruited by rings known in Mexico as "the mafia of the
deaf."

In Washington, a Metro spokeswoman said the transit police have been contacted
by the INS and will cooperate with the agency in its investigation. Metro had
not previously received reports from riders who have been approached by deaf
people in rail cars to solicit contributions for key chains or other trinkets,
she said. Transit police chief Barry J. McDevitt advised riders who see
solicitors to step off the train and report them immediately to police.

INS officials said they doubted, given the publicity stirred by the New York
case, that deaf vendors recruited by a smuggling ring would still be selling
trinkets on Metro trains. They said the investigation would focus on locating
places where groups of such vendors live and on checking into any reports of
abuse by an organized ring.

Meanwhile, the INS was working out an agreement with New York City authorities
on the transfer of at least 55 victims of the ring to federal custody. The men,
women and children -- including at least four infants identified as U.S.
citizens because they were born here -- are being held in a Queens motel by New
York police as material witnesses in the case.

The ring bought the trinkets in bulk for about 25 cents each and priced them at
$ 1 each, keeping almost all the profits.

Staff writer Stephen C. Fehr contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              140 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 25, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Deaf Aliens In INS Care; Task Force to Probe Abuse of Immigrants

William Branigin; Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 707 words


The federal government and New York City reached an agreement yesterday to
transfer custody of more than 50 deaf Mexican victims of an alien-smuggling ring
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which will form a national task
force to root out abuse of illegal immigrants.

New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said
the city and the federal agency would share the costs of keeping the 55 men,
women and children at a Queens motel, where they are currently being held as
material witnesses in a case against their alleged exploiters.

Seven Mexicans were arrested last weekend on charges of smuggling their deaf
compatriots into the United States and forcing them to peddle trinkets on city
subways. Authorities said the defendants held the vendors in "virtual slavery,"
keeping them in two cramped apartments and subjecting them to beatings, food
deprivation and sexual abuse.

The case has aroused widespread public outrage and generated tips about similar
trinket sales in a number of other cities across the country. In Washington,
Metro riders have reported seeing Hispanic-looking vendors selling key chains
with tags saying "I am deaf" to passengers for $ 1 apiece. The key chains, tags,
price and sales technique here were the same as in New York, according to
witnesses who have seen the vendors in both cities.

However, it is not yet known whether those in Washington and other cities were
also victims of a smuggling ring and whether they were working under the kind of
coercion discovered in New York. According to INS officials, tips have been
received about deaf vendors of similar trinkets in subways, streets or airports
in Atlanta, Houston, New Orleans, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Diego, San
Francisco and Wilmington, N.C.

Potentially, an INS official said, this could mean that the trinket sales are
part of a nationwide racket involving multiple rings and hundreds of exploited
vendors. Besides the seven Mexicans in custody, other suspects are being sought,
including a Mexican identified by the New York victims as the "boss" of the
operation.

To pursue the New York case and pull together leads from around the country, the
INS is forming a "National Anti-Exploitation Task Force," Meissner said. The
task force, which is expected to start operating next week, will dismantle other
alien-smuggling rings and "work with U.S. attorneys to aggressively investigate
and prosecute abuse cases wherever else we may find them," she said.

Meissner said the INS will assume "all costs" for housing and caring for the
deaf Mexicans at the Queens motel, but that New York City will continue to
provide security, meals and clothing. She said the victims will have full access
to legal and social services until the criminal investigation is completed.

Both Meissner and Giuliani stressed that the vendors will not be punished or
quickly deported by U.S. authorities.  Of the 55, at least four are infants who
were born in the United States and thus are American citizens. The rest are
believed to be illegal aliens.

"I want to be very clear on this point," Meissner said. "There are absolutely no
plans to remove any of these people from the United States at this time."

Meissner said the Mexicans could be eligible for "S visas," a special type of
visa for persons who provide information in criminal investigations. Holders of
such visas are allowed to apply for legal permanent residence.

"We are not going to be processing these people, who we consider to be in the
main victims, out of the United States until . . . all considerations that are
relevant to determining their long-term interest have been fully pursued," said
U.S. Attorney Zachary Carter in New York.

Carter said the Mexicans, if they wish, will be able to return home after
federal and state investigations are completed, a process likely to take several
weeks.

Giuliani has gone out of his way to show empathy for the Mexican vendors,
spending parts of last Saturday, Sunday and Monday with them as well as making
himself available to the press for interviews. Foreign-born inhabitants make up
a third of New York City's population.

Harden reported from New York.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/todd plitt, New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, aide Colleen
Roche and Mexican Consul General Jorge Pinto confer at a news conference where
the Immigration and Naturalization Service said it would take custody of 55
Mexican nationals.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              141 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 15, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

6 Convicted of Smuggling Immigrants

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Six people linked to organized crime were convicted of arranging the 1993
smuggling of 280 illegal Chinese immigrants.

The immigrants, who paid up to $ 30,000 to sneak into the United States, were
expected to work off their debt in brothels or other gang-run operations in New
York, prosecutors said.

The six convicted Friday, who face up to four years in prison and possible
deportation, were the last of 23 reputed Asian gang members charged with
smuggling, conspiracy and related crimes. All but one have been convicted or
pleaded guilty, Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Gruel said.

The defendants denied involvement in the smuggling ring during the nine-week
trial.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              142 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 30, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Urges Cuba to Lower Emigres' Fees

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 29


The United States urged Cuba today to lower exit fees for those wishing to
migrate but said bilateral agreements on immigration are working, despite recent
evidence of organized human smuggling.

The two countries held their ninth round of talks since 1994 on implementing
agreements whereby the United States turns back most illegal "rafters" trying to
reach American shores but takes 20,000 immigrants a year who apply through legal
channels.

"In the main, the agreements are working," said John Hamilton, deputy assistant
secretary of state for Central America, the Caribbean and Cuba, who conducted
the talks with Ricardo Alarcon, Cuba's parliamentary president.

"Illegal migration attempts across the Florida Straits -- even with the recent
alien smuggling -- are at historically low levels," Hamilton said. Coast Guard
crews have rescued 102 migrants at sea so far this month in a summer influx of
fleeing Cubans.

But Hamilton said the high fees associated with various steps of the immigration
process in Cuba led many Cubans to abandon the effort to leave the island
legally.

In recent months, U.S. authorities say that smuggling rings dropping migrants
off in fast boats appear to be behind most attempts to flee, unlike in previous
years, when Cubans often put to sea in rafts or leaky boats in risky individual
efforts.

Alarcon did not address the news media after the talks conducted at the U.S.
Mission to the United Nations, across the street from U.N. headquarters.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              143 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 12, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Visas Cut Off for High-Tech Workers; Citing 'Critical' Labor Shortage, Senator
Pushes to Raise Cap

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 623 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday stopped issuing new visas
for temporary high-tech workers, saying it already has reached the category's
annual limit. The move injected new urgency into congressional efforts to raise
the cap.

Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), sponsor of a bill to address what he calls a
"critical shortage of high-tech workers," said the INS announcement has made
passage of his measure "urgent" and that he hopes for a vote as early as today.

But the Clinton administration opposes raising the cap without also reforming
the visa program for these foreign employees to protect U.S. workers and provide
more training for Americans seeking entry into high-tech fields.

Moreover, groups representing U.S. technology workers say claims of a labor
shortage have been vastly exaggerated by employers who want to use immigration
to hold down wages in a tight labor market.

The visa program, called H-1B, allows as many as 65,000 skilled foreign workers
to enter the United States every year on "temporary" visas valid for up to six
years. The "specialty occupations" covered by the category include computer
programmers, engineers, architects, doctors and college professors. Largely
because of increasing demand from high-tech companies, the cap was hit last year
for the first time. Now the limit has been reached again -- nearly five months
before the end of fiscal 1998 on Sept. 30.

Unless legislation raises the cap, the INS said, employers now may petition for
new H-1B workers only if their employment begins on or after Oct. 1, when a new
65,000 visa limit takes effect with the start of fiscal 1999.

Abraham says his bill would raise the cap to 105,000 over the next five years
and provide 20,000 college scholarships for low-income students. Opponents say
the complex proposal would raise the cap to 115,000 a year starting in 1999,
because it would add unused visas from other categories to the allotment for
high-tech workers.

In the House, a bill sponsored by Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) would raise the
ceiling to 95,000 this year, 105,000 in 1999 and 115,000 in 2000, then revert to
the current 65,000 limit.

The high-tech industry supports the Abraham bill but opposes Smith's, mainly
because it would require employers to attest that they had looked for U.S.
workers before seeking foreigners and that they had not laid off Americans to
replace them with H-1B workers.

Critics of both bills say the problem is not a shortage of high tech workers,
but a preference by companies for imported workers or recent U.S. college
graduates because they have more up-to-date skills and are willing to accept
lower entry salaries and longer working hours. These critics say a 17 percent
unemployment rate among computer programmers over age 50, layoffs by high-tech
companies and no marked jump in salary levels indicate that no acute labor
shortage exists.

Meanwhile, the health-care industry and local governments complain that the
debate over high-tech workers has overshadowed a critical need for foreign
doctors in federally designated "under-served areas," such as Appalachia, and
some Veterans Administration hospitals. By law, foreign doctors who complete
residency programs in U.S. hospitals must return to their home countries for two
years before they can be considered for permanent immigrant status -- unless
they agree to work for three years in a medically under-served area under the
H-1B program.

"This is a huge problem," said Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer in the
District. "If the H-1B cap isn't lifted, we're going to have hundreds of doctors
who agreed to work in medically under-served areas who are unable to accept that
employment."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              144 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 07, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Thailand Extradites Key Suspect In Ill-Fated Alien-Smuggling Ring

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 621 words


After a four-year investigation, federal authorities have taken into custody the
alleged kingpin behind the attempted smuggling of nearly 300 Chinese illegal
aliens into the United States aboard the ship Golden Venture.

Lee Peng Fei, a 47-year-old Taiwanese who allegedly ran one of the world's most
notorious alien-smuggling rings from Thailand, was extradited by the Thai
government to the United States on Friday and arraigned in U.S. District Court
in New York yesterday. He pleaded not guilty to 10 federal charges, including
one homicide count for each of at least six Chinese who drowned while trying to
swim to shore after the Golden Venture ran aground off New York City four years
ago.

The dramatic scene, combined with a series of other smuggling attempts, raised
concerns that the United States was facing a deluge of long-distance Chinese
"boat people" and spurred countermeasures to track and intercept the freighters
at sea. Attention then shifted largely to the plight of the Golden Venture
passengers, many of whom were detained for years in U.S. jails while their
claims for political asylum were making their way through a heavily backlogged
system.

All but lost from view was the criminal conspiracy that launched the ship in the
first place and abused its illegal human cargo.

Lee, alias "Char Lee" and "Ma Lee," arranged the circuitous Golden Venture
operation, which took the Chinese passengers from Thailand to Kenya before
heading for New York. Lee was waiting for the freighter on a beach in Queens
when it ran aground, federal prosecutors charged. When police and Immigration
and Naturalization Service (INS) agents arrived to round up the Golden Venture's
passengers and crew, Lee escaped and later made his way back to Thailand.

As investigators unraveled the complex smuggling operation, a federal grand jury
in Brooklyn indicted Lee in August 1994. Acting on a U.S. extradition request,
Thai police arrested him in November 1995 in Bangkok. The Thai government
finally ordered his extradition in September after a long legal battle.

The Golden Venture case highlighted a problem of growing concern to U.S.
authorities: the smuggling of thousands of Chinese into the United States aboard
crowded freighters during months-long voyages in atrocious conditions. The
government two years ago estimated that as many as 50,000 Chinese were being
smuggled into the United States every year by various means in return for fees
of $ 30,000 to $ 40,000 each. Many have been pressed into debt bondage upon
their arrival, toiling long hours in garment sweatshops, restaurants and other
businesses to pay off their smuggling fees.

Of about 286 passengers on board the Golden Venture, six were known to have died
after jumping into the frigid waters off Rockaway Beach. The bodies of four
other Chinese, also presumably passengers, later washed ashore. About 100 of the
passengers were subsequently returned to China, a dozen were taken in by Latin
American countries, and most of the rest were granted asylum, paroled into the
United States for humanitarian reasons or otherwise released from custody.

Early this year, 53 still remained in detention. But all were freed following a
decision in February by the Clinton administration to let them pursue their
claims while living with sponsors under federal supervision.

Before the extradition of Lee, 21 people -- including Chinese smugglers and
shipboard "enforcers," as well as crew members from Indonesia and Burma -- had
been convicted on alien-smuggling charges and sentenced to prison terms ranging
from six months to 10 years. If convicted, Lee faces up to 80 years in prison
and $ 2.5 million in fines, prosecutors said.

LOAD-DATE: October 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              145 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 17, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Poor Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 138 words


Fairfax County's problems with poor immigrants as described by Eric Lipton
["Discouraging the Poor in Fairfax," front page, June 29] never will be remedied
at the county level. With more than 1 million poor, unskilled immigrants
entering the United States from developing countries every year, local efforts
to deal with problems such as failing schools and falling property values are
certain to be overwhelmed. Any real respite for communities such as Fairfax
County must come from the federal government in the form of a substantial
reduction in immigration levels and an abandonment of the disastrous Immigration
and Naturalization Act of 1965, which provides for the immigration of extended
family members with no consideration for the best interests of U.S. citizens
already here.

RODGER J. DEUERLEIN

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              146 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 20, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

New Energy For an Aging Country

Stanley Karnow

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X01

LENGTH: 878 words


THE OTHER AMERICANS

How Immigrants Renew Our Country,

Our Economy, and Our Values

By Joel Millman

Viking. 369 pp. $ 24.95

FOR A NATION of immigrants, America throughout its history has been peculiarly
schizoid on the question of immigration. Franklin fulminated against the German
influx into Pennsylvania, the Know-Nothing Party accused the Irish of promoting
papist plots, and the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 sparked a series of
egregiously racist statutes designed to keep Asians out of the country. By
contrast, the Poles who worked in Pittsburgh's steel mills are exalted as
industrial heroes, the Jewish scientists responsible for nuclear energy have
been deified, and a renovated Ellis Island is currently a shrine to the "huddled
masses."

The debate still rages as restrictionists seek to scrap the key provisions of
the 1965 immigration reform, which drastically liberalized earlier statutes and,
over the past three decades, has opened the door to hundreds of thousands --
most of them Hispanics, Africans, Caribbeans and Asians. The chauvinists
maintain that they are stealing jobs from native-born labor, clogging the
welfare rolls and inflicting costly bilingual classes on schools. President
Clinton, in yet another effort to appease his conservative adversaries, has
approved legislation making it easier to deny asylum to refugees or to deport
aliens convicted of minor infractions, such as possessing a reefer of marijuana.

But as Joel Millman amply illustrates, the case against immigrants is flimsy. By
nature they are a superior breed. Knowing that they face adjustment problems in
a strange and frequently hostile environment, they are nevertheless ready to
leave their homelands in hopes of improving their lives. And, while they often
encounter difficulties, on the whole they contribute significantly to the
American economy as entrepreneurs, technicians, craftsmen, farmers and unskilled
workers. Their crime rate is remarkably low, and, contrary to allegations that
they are a fiscal burden, they generate more tax revenues than they take in
services. New York, for instance, owes its revival to their presence. Going into
derelict ghettos, they have refurbished crumbling buildings and created
middle-class neighborhoods.

Their achievements hinge on a trait ideally prized by Americans: devotion to
family. As Millman observes, the chief motive for the vast majority of them in
coming to the United States is to join relatives already here. They bring with
them their "village culture," which requires members of the clan to assist each
other -- a traditional practice that accounts for much of their dynamism.
Parents sacrifice themselves to educate their children, who in turn strive to
succeed in order to repay their debt to their parents. This sense of mutual
obligation stretches back to Latin America and Asia, where millions depend for
survival on remittances from kinfolk in America.

A reporter by trade, Millman describes the experiences of newcomers in different
parts of the country. He is a meticulous researcher and vivid writer, and his
approach is far more effective than if had he involved himself in the polemics
of the immigration controversy.

Consider Fernando Sanchez, who arrived from Mexico in 1968. He settled in the
burned-out South Bronx, toiled as a dishwasher and cook, and imported two
brothers and a wife. By 1986, with $ 10,000 in savings, he bought a used
tortilla press and launched Tortilleria Piaxtla, named for his hometown, in an
abandoned garage. Today his company has a branch in Providence and a string of
Brooklyn bakeries, and grosses $ 4 million annually. Sanchez owns real estate
and a snazzy sports car.

Pakistani immigrants also exemplify vibrant enterprise. In 1995, when New York
authorized the issuance of new taxi medallions, they expanded the flotillas of
cabs they already ran. Meanwhile, Dominicans, Senegalese, Haitians and others
were entering the jitney business, shuttling commuters to the subways, which
have boomed as a result. The spread of these gypsy cars has further stimulated
the growth of small auto-repair shops, insurance firms and all-night diners that
cater to drivers. Thus a seemingly inconsequential venture is funneling sizable
sums into the city's treasury.

IMMIGRANTS are usually regarded as urban dwellers, but Millman finds them
tilling the land as well. In New Jersey, Koreans cultivate Oriental vegetables
for Asian restaurants, and in California a former encyclopedia salesman from
Hong Kong called Tom Lam earns a fortune by furnishing gourmets with such
esoteric delicacies as baby choy mue, a variety cabbage.

Millman's perhaps overly rosy picture of immigrants may incur the wrath of both
xenophobes determined to prove that immigrants are a drain on society and
advocacy groups that contend that they cannot flourish without government help.
If so, he is right on the mark. My chief criticism of his otherwise perceptive
book is its title, The Other Americans. No matter when they or their ancestors
reached these shores, they are just as American as the rest of us.

Stanley Karnow was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in history in 1990. His new book,
"Paris in the Fifties," is scheduled for publication in October.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              147 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 24, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Lessons From Deaf Aliens; 'Gross social injustice is not introduced into a
society overnight.'

Garrett Epps

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 784 words


On Monday, New York authorities arrested seven people on charges of smuggling
deaf Mexican nationals into the United States, then holding them in virtual
slavery to exploit them as beggars. The arrests are a troubling reminder that
predatory people always are willing to exploit the weak.

But it may also be a stark portent of things to come if American society
continues restricting the rights of so-called illegal aliens.

The '90s have seen a rise in political movements aimed at restricting the access
of immigrants -- legal or "illegal" -- to protection by the courts, the police
and other institutions most Americans take for granted. The most obvious example
is California's Proposition 187, designed to deny emergency medical services,
education and other basic social services to "illegal aliens." Proposition 187
also imposes a duty on teachers, police and other state employees to report to
federal authorities any person they suspect of being in the country without
authorization.

The net effect of these restrictions -- already amply documented by news reports
from California in the wake of the passage of Proposition 187 -- is to make many
foreign-born people reluctant to seek assistance from the police or other
authorities. Perhaps the most poignant detail to emerge from news accounts of
Monday's raid is how hesitant the victims were to approach the police for help.
The four deaf immigrants had prepared a three-page letter and took it to a
police station in Jackson Heights on Saturday. However, they left the station
several times without handing in the letter, obviously afraid the police would
punish them, rather than those who were forcing them to beg 18 hours on the
subway and beating them when they did not collect enough.

In a post-Prop 187 society, of course, the immigrants' hesitation would be well
advised. And I am forced to conclude that the authors of Prop 187 and other
anti-immigrant measures in fact intend these measures to have exactly that
effect. Restricting the rights of immigrants -- whether legal or illegal --
creates a population with little recourse against those who subject them to
inhuman conditions or even outright slavery.

Gross social injustice is not introduced into a society overnight; instead, it
arises bit by bit, as some segment of the population is rendered more easily
exploitable. Slavery in the United States grew in just this way. The first
Africans brought to the United States in 1619 were indentured servants, with
most of the same rights as English colonists who signed indentures -- promises
of labor for a fixed number of years to pay for their passage to the New World.
A significant number of 17th century Africans worked out their indentures,
obtained their freedom by court order and became free members of the community.

However, as the demand for inexpensive labor grew, some began to argue that
Africans should not have the right to sue for their freedom. Once Africans lost
their access to the courts, full enslavement followed within a few decades.
Similarly, the wartime internment of Japanese Americans arose from 19th century
laws that denied Japanese immigrants the right to become American citizens. And
historian Lucy Davidowicz argues in her history of the Holocaust, "The War
Against the Jews," that Hitler's "final solution" flowed inexorably from the
Nuremberg Laws, which relegated German Jews to a lower legal status than
"Aryans."

Such comparisons seem far-fetched today. So far our society's response to the
plight of the deaf Mexican illegals has been one of compassion and concern. But
as Samuel Johnson said, "Reason is by degrees accustomed to folly, as the eye is
accustomed to darkness." Given the moral reinforcement of the law, inequality
becomes easier to accept, and legal inequality inevitably gives rise to
brutality and exploitation.

By attempting to exclude some immigrants from our national community, America is
thus walking on a risky path. This is true even though the groups being denied
full rights can be defined by some seemingly neutral category such as
citizenship or legal immigration status. In time, such distinctions come to seem
"natural," a result of some inferiority in the lesser group.

The result is almost invariably tragic, both for the subordinated population and
for the society that exploits them. So far, we have taken only the first few
steps toward a society in which the conditions described by New York prosecutors
are commonplace. But the road we are on leads down a steep and slippery slope.

The writer teaches constitutional law at the University of Oregon Law School. He
is a contributing editor of U.S. News & World Report.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, tim brinton

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              148 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 25, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Welfare Reform Act Upheld in Federal Court; Ruling Allows Aid Cuts To Infirm
Legal Aliens

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, July 24


A federal judge today issued the first ruling upholding the constitutionality of
the 1996 Welfare Reform Act that cuts off benefits to most legal resident aliens
who are aged, poor or disabled.

U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan of the Southern District of New York said that
while the act imposes a severe hardship on aliens, Congress had the authority to
enact the law on Aug. 22, 1996.

"Under our Constitution . . . the responsibility for making judgments such as
these rests principally with Congress. It is in Congress that this troublesome
situation must be addressed," he said.

Kaplan said if Congress does not act to restore benefits, the consequences are
likely to include evictions, homelessness and the inability to pay medical
expenses. The judge said it would also shift a substantial financial burden to
New York City.

The ruling throws out most claims filed by the city and plaintiffs representing
10,000 aliens in New York, Connecticut and Vermont who had sued the federal
government over the act.

They had argued that the law improperly discriminates between citizens and
permanent resident aliens in violation of the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment.

A similar challenge has been argued in San Francisco federal court and is
awaiting decision.

Nancy Chang, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights, which
represented some of the plaintiffs, said she expects the ruling will be
appealed.

For many years legal aliens who were poor, blind, disabled or aged were entitled
to receive Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and food stamps. The 1996 act cuts
off benefits to the vast majority of those aliens. Benefits to most of those
previously receiving help are scheduled to end on Sept. 30.

However, there is legislation now moving through Congress as part of the
balanced budget bill that would continue SSI to some legal aliens.

Republicans have offered to continue SSI disability benefits to legal immigrants
who were on the rolls when the welfare law was signed Aug. 22, 1996. Immigrants
in the country before that date but not receiving SSI would be eligible for the
first seven years they were in the country.

The Clinton administration wants to go beyond that offer to ensure that
immigrants who become disabled in the future would be eligible for SSI.

Neither the White House nor Republicans are moving to continue food stamps. The
cutoff of nutrition aid is expected to affect about 1 million legal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              149 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 25, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Plan to Protect Refugees Gets Bipartian Support

Pamela Constable

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16; ON CAPITOL HILL

LENGTH: 203 words


z

In a bipartisan gesture to Central American refugees, Florida Sens. Connie Mack
(R) and Bob Graham (D) announced yesterday they will introduce legislation to
protect up to 200,000 refugees from being deported under a tough new immigration
law.

The measure, proposed by the Clinton administration, would allow those refugees
who received a deportation notice before April 1 to seek an exception under the
more lenient rules of the old law. The bill would also exempt them from the new,
4,000-per-year cap on visas for such cases.

Until the law was changed, an illegal immigrant had to live in the United States
for seven years and prove he would suffer hardship if deported. Under the new
law, the person must have lived here 10 years and prove that his immediate
relatives who are legal residents would suffer "extreme" hardship.

To support the legislation, about 300 Central Americans, many of whom traveled
by van from Miami, rallied yesterday on the Capitol steps. "Ten years ago, in
the mountains of Nicaragua, I spoke to thousands of young men who were fighting
for freedom. I told them then we would not forget them, and I tell you now we
will not forget you," Mack told the gathering.

--

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              150 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 26, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Raid Finds Deaf Mexican Vendors Held in N. Carolina

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 935 words


Immigration agents raided two houses in a North Carolina town yesterday and
found another group of deaf Mexicans who apparently had been smuggled into the
United States to sell trinkets in a racket that officials now believe may span
the nation.

Acting on a tip from a Mexican consulate, the federal agents and local police
found 17 people, including two teenagers and a toddler, living in two small
one-story houses in a working-class neighborhood of Sanford, N.C., a town about
44 miles southwest of Raleigh. All the adults and at least one of the children
are deaf and speech-impaired Mexicans.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said the raid appeared to
confirm their worst suspicions that a group of Mexican illegal immigrants found
selling trinkets under a form of indentured servitude in New York City may be
part of a nationwide racket.

In Chicago, immigration agents are questioning 11 deaf Mexican vendors,
including two juveniles, at their residence to determine if their activities are
connected to those in New York and North Carolina, INS officials said. They said
none of the 11 has yet been taken into custody and that the investigation is
continuing.

Since the New York case came to light, provoking outrage in the United States
and Mexico, the INS has received dozens of tips from citizens about similar
sales of key chains, pens and toys by deaf Hispanics in subways, airports,
streets and malls. The vendors have been reported operating in such cities as
Washington, Atlanta, Houston, New Orleans, Boston, Los Angeles, San Diego, San
Francisco and Wilmington, N.C. However, officials cautioned, it is not yet clear
whether these other vendors are also the victims of abuse by organized rings or
simply selling the trinkets voluntarily on their own.

In Sanford, N.C., a preliminary investigation indicated that the Mexicans found
yesterday morning "have been exploited," INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said. He
said they appeared to be in a situation similar to that of the Mexicans who were
rescued from two crowded apartments in New York.

The Sanford immigrants were living in two adjacent four-room brick houses
cluttered with belongings and crammed with bunk beds against all the available
wall space. Neighbors said the Mexicans were taken in vans every day to sell
their trinkets, and one woman said she had seen as many as nine vans parked
outside on various occasions.

Russ Parry, an INS supervisory special agent from Atlanta, told reporters that
one of the men taken into custody in Sanford was believed to be a "boss" of the
operation. He said the ring leaders transported the deaf immigrants from Sanford
to cities in the area, such as Charlotte, Chapel Hill and Raleigh. The vendors
made the wares they sold -- along with tags saying, "I am deaf" -- in their
homes, according to Parry. More Mexicans may be held in other residences in
Sanford, he said.

Mexican consular officials took a statement from one of the vendors in Sanford,
"who gave details of exploitation and abuse to which they had been subjected,"
the Mexican Foreign Ministry said. According to a Mexican diplomat, the tip that
led to the raid originally came from a deaf Mexican girl who had been rescued
from the Sanford operation by her parents and taken to Detroit, where she now
lives. After hearing of the New York case, she alerted the Mexican consulate in
Detroit to what she described as abusive conditions in Sanford.

"They didn't have complaints of beatings, but they were being held captive and
were forced to work and to turn over the money and to bring in a minimum of
money every day," Teodoro Maus, the Mexican consul general in Atlanta, told the
Associated Press.

The 55 Mexicans found in New York last weekend had been held in what officials
described as "virtual slavery" by an alien-smuggling ring that forced the adults
to work long hours selling trinkets on city subways, seized most of their
earnings and subjected them to beatings, food deprivation and sexual abuse.
Seven Mexicans were arrested on a variety of state and federal charges,
including assault and smuggling illegal aliens.

No one has been arrested so far in the North Carolina case, and the INS is
continuing its investigation to determine whether there are any links to the New
York ring, Bergeron said. "We're developing strong leads regarding the
perpetrators in Sanford," he said.

According to Walter C. Holton Jr., the U.S. attorney in Greensboro, N.C., the
search by INS agents and Sanford police "resulted from information received by
INS that several deaf mute individuals had been transported from Mexico to
Sanford for the purpose of selling trinkets." He said the 17 included nine men,
five women and three children, the youngest of whom is 18 months old and is
apparently an American citizen by virtue of having been born in the United
States.

The INS bused the group to Charlotte, N.C., where they are to be housed in a
motel and interviewed by INS agents with the help of sign-language interpreters.

Yesterday's raid came as a shock to Sanford, which has a sizable immigrant
population made up mostly of Mexicans who work at a poultry processing plant and
on farms in the area.

"I'd see them go by here, talking on their hands," a neighbor, Johann Coley,
said of the deaf vendors. "They were quiet enough."

"They never bothered anybody," said Edna Dowdy, whose son owns a nearby grocery
store. "They always came into the store to get stuff, and they always had a lot
of money. Cash."

Special correspondent Carlene Hempel reported from Sanford, N.C.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map, brad wye

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              151 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 30, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Duncan Blasts INS Dealings With Libraries

Peter A. McKay, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 478 words


Federal immigration agents were rude and intimidating and acted beyond their
authority when they demanded employment records from two Montgomery County
libraries recently, County Executive Douglas M. Duncan said yesterday.

Duncan (D) said agents should have had a warrant when they asked a Long Branch
Community Library supervisor July 21 to see records dating to 1986 to verify the
citizenship of every employee. And an agent was unreasonable when she called the
Silver Spring Community Library on July 18 to make a similar request, Duncan and
a librarian said.

Benedict J. Ferro, the Immigration and Naturalization Service's district
director for Maryland, said the visit to the Long Branch library, at 8800
Garland Ave., was routine and was conducted professionally. He said he was not
familiar with the call to the Silver Spring library, at 8901 Colesville Rd.

"They have to respect the rights of our county workers," said Duncan, who added
that this was the first time the INS had checked records of Montgomery
employees. "And if they want to come in and question employees, they need a
warrant."

Ferro, however, said INS agents do not need warrants to make such requests.

Jan Baird-Adams, manager of the Long Branch library, said she spoke to INS agent
Kathleen Meyler and a male agent in her office. She said that the agents weren't
rude but that she had to "negotiate" with them to go to the county government's
Rockville offices, where the worker records are kept.

Larry Dickter, a librarian in Silver Spring, said a woman from the INS called to
say agents would come to inspect records. Dickter said the agent became
indignant when he explained that they should go to Rockville, instead.

"She really wouldn't take my explanation," Dickter said. "This is the first time
I've been treated with that kind of disrespect."

Duncan said the county has not yet turned over any records to the INS because
agents haven't gone to the Human Resources Department, where the files are kept.

He said he will send a letter today to INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner
complaining about the agents' behavior.

In particular, the agents' visit to Long Branch has caused concern among staff
throughout the library system and in Montgomery County's Latino community,
Duncan said.

"It's kind of interesting that they pick a library to visit that's in the part
of the county that has the highest concentration of Latinos," Duncan said.

Ferro said INS agents conduct visits similar to the one made to Long Branch at
random and when they have received tips about violations.

Ferro said agents routinely ask for records to verify employees' citizenship
dating to 1986 because that was when the law requiring employers to keep them
went into effect.

He said yesterday that Montgomery officials have not contacted him about the
visit or the call.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              152 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 08, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Justice Dept. Probes Immigration Process; Handling of Alleged N.Y. Subway
Bomb-Plotter Raises Questions

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 616 words


The Justice Department is investigating immigration procedures that allowed
alleged bomb-maker Ghazi Abu Mezer to live in the United States several months
after he admitted Israeli authorities once had arrested him as a terrorist,
senior department officials said yesterday.

Abu Mezer and his roommate in a Brooklyn tenement house, Lafi Khalil, are
accused of plotting to explode bombs in the New York City subway system as an
act of terrorist revenge for U.S. support of Israel. Both men were shot and
wounded during a police raid July 31. A federal complaint alleges that five
explosive devices were discovered in their apartment.

Attorney General Janet Reno said yesterday the Justice Department's inspector
general has started an investigation of how the immigration system operated in
this case and she has asked her staff for a detailed review of the events.

Finally, Reno also said she had asked the FBI and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service "to look at the process and to see if there is anything
that needs to be done to strengthen the appropriate exchange of information"
between the two agencies.

Abu Mezer, a Palestinian, was caught last January sneaking across the
U.S.-Canadian border and was allowed to remain here on bond. In April, he
applied for political asylum on grounds that he would face persecution if forced
to return to Israel. He said Israeli police had arrested him for being a member
of Hamas, a radical Palestinian group, a charge he denied.

Abu Mezer later withdrew the asylum request and, on June 23, an immigration
judge gave him 60 days to leave the country voluntarily. During that time he
moved to New York City.

New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani criticized the immigration system at a news
conference last week, saying, "I think it is appropriate to question just why it
is that this person was allowed to come into the country announcing that he is
accused of being part of a terrorist group. Maybe in the future we can learn
something from it."

Last year, Congress enacted major changes in asylum procedures and other aspects
of the immigration system with the intent of making it more difficult for
terrorists to enter the country.

The legislation was prompted in part by the realization that key figures in the
1993 World Trade Center bombing had slipped through the immigration system.

Among other things, Abu Mezer's case raises concern about the apparent lack of
control over people ordered out of the country but who are not incarcerated,
according to Michael R. Bromwich, the inspector general.

"This is a chance to conduct a case study of how the INS operates in a vital
area that needs more attention," Bromwich said. A recent study by his office
found that as few as 11 percent of aliens under orders of deportation leave when
they are scheduled.

Abu Mezer was under an order of voluntary departure, which involves even less
compulsion than deportation.

His roommate, Khalil, had entered the country legally on a tourist visa and then
remained here illegally after the visa expired.

In the week following the raid on the Brooklyn apartment, federal investigators
tried to determine whether Abu Mezer and Khalil were solo operators or members
of a larger plot. The probe has yet to reach any conclusions, officials said.

The investigation grew more confused this week with discovery in the apartment
of a copy of a letter sent to a State Department program providing rewards for
information that helps combat terrorism, officials said.

The letter has led to speculation that the explosive devices could have been
part of an elaborate ruse to get reward money rather than a terrorist operation.

LOAD-DATE: August 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              153 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 11, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

A Stew of Cultures Living and Learning; At a Fairfax Apartment Complex,
Immigrants From 20 Countries Provide a Potent Mix

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1792 words


The mailboxes in one typical building at Fairmont Gardens read like a
cross-section of the Third World. Suong. Hassan. Arias. Silah. Zhang. Among the
nine families who live in this section of the sprawling Annandale development,
there is only one Anglo-Saxon: Calhoun.

In the laundry room, Suong Pham, gray-haired and stick thin from years in a
North Vietnamese prison camp, piles clothes into a washing machine. Scurrying
back to his apartment, he steps aside with a silent bow as Nama Silah, a young
refugee from Iraq, struggles up the steps with her baby in one arm and a
stroller bumping behind her. Unsure what to say, she smiles.

Out front, as a peppy salsa beats from his car radio, Julio Arias chats with a
friend from back home in El Salvador who is changing the oil. Two parking spaces
down, a Greek American carpenter named Tasos Venetsanos sits in his van, sipping
coffee and nodding with approval as he watches children from several countries
chase a soccer ball across the grass.

The residents of Fairmont Gardens, a collection of 31 low brick buildings off
Little River Turnpike, are neighbors in a new world. Altogether, immigrants from
at least 20 countries live in 378 apartments clustered around a vast,
tree-shaded parking lot. About 60 percent are Latino, 25 percent are Asian, and
10 percent are Middle Eastern or African, with a handful of native-born
Americans completing the diverse community.

"What we have here is one big mezcolanza," or mishmash, said Hector Carcamo, 51,
a disabled former house painter from El Salvador who often spends his afternoons
chatting on the front steps with his Latino neighbors. "Some groups are more
united than others, but we all have to live together, we are all equal, and we
all share the same cause: to survive."

In the last decade, as the immigrant population in the greater Washington region
has soared to more than 300,000, foreign-born tenants have become a majority in
numerous moderate-income apartment buildings in the Virginia and Maryland
suburbs. Today, Fairfax and Montgomery counties alone are each home to more than
140,000 immigrants.

Most are blue-collar or service workers who gravitate to developments where
monthly rents are moderate -- Fairmont's range from $ 675 to $ 965, utilities
included -- bus routes are nearby and other tenants speak their language. Some
residents are newly arrived political refugees, settled near one another by
government agencies. Others are longtime immigrants who have fled rougher,
noisier neighborhoods in Washington.

Many of Fairmont's tenants, whose native languages vary from Spanish to Kurdish
to Vietnamese, are unable to communicate with each other beyond a perfunctory
hello in their shared but often limited English. And some Middle Eastern and
Asian professionals say they have little in common with rural refugees from poor
societies in Central America.

Yet these diverse foreigners must coexist in close quarters, sharing laundry
rooms, hallways and playground swings. At one time or another, all have faced
identical daily challenges: learning bus schedules, deciphering help-wanted ads
or explaining to the property manager that the sink is backed up.

"I want to treat well with all other refugees," said Namat Salih, a Kurdish
woman who was evacuated last year from Iraq with her four children. "We all have
the same problems. We all need help each other. But some do not have education
or culture, so it can be difficult. In Iraq, we lived in private, enclosed
house. We had big garden, much space. Here, everyone lives right with us."

To reduce misunderstandings, property manager Wynn Banks has hired a Vietnamese
maintenance engineer and a Guatemalan rental assistant. They, in turn, seek
translation help from residents when needed.

Tenants' children often practice their English together, and on summer
afternoons, the Fairmont Gardens pool is filled with shrieks and chatter in
several languages. Occasionally, in poolside or front-step chats, the immigrant
residents learn that they have more in common than they had imagined. Quite a
few are refugees from civil conflict or military repression, whether they fled
El Salvador in 1982 or Iraq in 1996.

Once the language barrier is broken, prejudices start to fade. One recent hot
afternoon, a 16-year-old Kurdish boy and a 42-year-old Vietnamese computer
repairman sat outside their building. As a maintenance worker from Sierra Leone
scrubbed graffiti off the steps, the Iraqi youth and his Southeast Asian
neighbor tried to make conversation.

"I like it here because we have freedom of speech. We didn't have that in my
country," said the boy, Lawk Salih.

"Me too," said his neighbor, Kiet Li. "In my country, people have little money,
little food. Everything under control."

"Same, same," Salih agreed. Then he described how two Latino boys had harassed
him at the pool. "I am Kurdish. We always had guns. But here I call the police."

"You bad like Saddam Hussein, like Mike Tyson," Li joked, laughing and turning
beet red.

More often, though, residents either socialize with neighbors from their own
countries or seclude themselves behind apartment doors. Arias, the Salvadoran,
has lived at Fairmont Gardens for five years and become friends with Venetsanos,
his Greek American neighbor, but said he has never exchanged more than a few
words with several Asian families upstairs.

"I like learning about other customs, but there is not much opportunity here,"
said Arias, 40, a drywall finisher, speaking in Spanish. "People leave for work
early and come home late. . . . Mostly I stick with my own people. There's a
family from my village in another building, so we always get together."

For the most part, the diverse cultural traditions and political histories of
Fairmont's immigrants remain locked inside their apartments. Many units are
sparsely decorated except for elaborate, private shrines to the past: portraits
of relatives left behind, diplomas in a dozen languages, Muslim wall hangings or
Buddhist figurines or Virgins of Guadalupe.

Inside Irina Kats's apartment is a used piano and a collection of posters from
the concerts she once gave in Moscow. Kats, a new mother who immigrated to the
United States last year, said acquaintances from the region's well-established
Russian Jewish community have offered her English lessons, baby strollers and a
used car -- but she has barely spoken to her nearby neighbors.

"We don't know anyone here, except to say hello. Our circle is other Russian
families from different parts of Virginia," said Kats, 40. "But I love these
apartments. There is so much space, and if something goes wrong, they fix it
right away. In Russia, that would never happen."

Across the complex, the Pham family's apartment is crammed with jars of herbs
and Vietnamese texts on herbal medicine, which Suong Pham, 48, practiced in his
homeland before becoming a soldier and then a Vietnam War prisoner. Now he works
as an elementary school custodian and shares his healing knowledge only with
other Vietnamese families from his Episcopal church.

"We get along with everybody, but we go to work for many hours, so we don't have
the chance to play or eat together," he said. "Vietnamese like to meet with
other Vietnamese. Hispanic like to meet with other Hispanic. They are not the
enemy, but there is a limit to friendship."

In some cases, differences in culture and class have led to confrontations among
residents. In recent interviews, a number of Asian and Middle Eastern families
complained that groups of young Salvadoran men were gathering outside,
especially on weekends, to drink and play loud music.

A Kurdish woman, who asked not to be named, complained that young Latino
neighbors spoke to her lewdly and made her nervous. In contrast, she said, after
a fender-bender in the parking lot with a Vietnamese neighbor, the man reassured
her family not to worry because he empathized with them as a fellow refugee.

But most longtime residents say the atmosphere at Fairmont Gardens, which was
built in 1969 and gradually began to fill with immigrants in the 1980s, has
improved markedly in the last two years. The managers evicted some of the
rowdier tenants, who often lived in crowded units. They also hired off-duty
Fairfax County police officers to walk the grounds in pairs each evening. Last
year, the county opened a police substation at the complex.

"It's like night and day. There used to be drunks and fights all over the place,
mostly Salvadorans, but now they're gone," said Venetsanos, 43, who has lived in
Fairmont for more than a decade and was among its earliest foreign-born tenants.
"Just look at these kids playing, Indians and Koreans and all. My daughter gets
along with all of them. It feels like home."

Tenants from some Spanish-speaking countries, including Guatemala and Colombia,
also said they were glad that Salvadoran troublemakers had been removed and
complained that they had given all Latino residents a bad name. But some
Salvadoran tenants protested that they are still singled out for socializing
more publicly than other groups.

"It is our custom to sit outside and talk, but a lot of people don't like that,
and the police call it loitering," said Jose Medrano, 20, an equipment operator.
"They should definitely send back the ones who came here to ruin the country,
but I am an honest worker. I have a family, and I have the right to relax."

For the few U.S.-born residents, living in Fairmont Gardens can feel like being
an international tourist in one's own neighborhood. Michael Calhoun, who teaches
piano in his basement apartment, says he is constantly learning from his
students, many of whom are the children of his immigrant neighbors.

"I came from West Virginia, which was all German and WASP, so this has been an
eye opener," said Calhoun, 45, whose bookshelves are cluttered with little gifts
from his foreign-born students. "I love it here. . . . If people can all get
along so well at the unit level, why not throughout the world?"

For Banks, the African American property manager who spent most of his career
supervising apartments in Prince George's County, being transferred to Fairmont
Gardens last year has brought both frustration and relief.

"This is my first opportunity to work in a multicultural community. It's
different, but I like it," he said. "You get some . . . who don't know what a
garbage disposal is, some with wall-to-wall mattresses who are here to survive
rather than to live in a community. But most of the people are more patient and
polite than what I was used to before. And if I stay here five years, who knows,
I may even learn to speak quite a few languages."


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, khue bui; Map, scott mclallen, Golzar Salih plays with Bawer
Alissa as the baby's mother, Namam Alissa, looks on. At left are Soone and Shene
Salih, Golzar Salih's daughters.  Suong Pham, and wife Cuonz Pran, from Vietnam,
are among Fairmont Gardens' many immigrants.  Jerry Spriggs, 14, left, Brian
Regis, 12, and Miguel Alas, 13, pause on their bikes to talk in the Fairmont
Gardens parking lot.  Michael Calhoun, one of Fairmont Gardens' few U.S.-born
residents, helps neighbor Dang Pham with his piano lesson. "I came from West
Virginia, which was all German and WASP, so this has been an eye opener,"
Calhoun said.  Eugenia Arevalo, left, Yohana Arevalo, 2, and Hermelinda
Alvarenga enter a building. Tenants' native languages vary from Spanish to
Kurdish to Vietnamese.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              154 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 16, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Mexican Immigrant Couple Arrested in Smuggling Ring; 10 More Forced to Sell
Trinkets in U.S. Discovered

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 697 words


In the latest blow to an international smuggling network built on the
exploitation of deaf Mexicans, federal agents in Dallas have arrested a Mexican
immigrant couple and found 10 more people who had been forced to peddle
trinkets.

The arrests Thursday brought to 24 the number of suspects who have been taken
into custody in the United States and Mexico after the discovery last month of
an immigrant smuggling ring operating out of New York. It had held more than 50
deaf Mexicans in what officials described as "virtual slavery," confining them
to two crowded apartments and forcing them to sell key chains and other items on
city subways.

So far, 11 persons have been arrested in New York, four in Chicago, three in Los
Angeles and two in Dallas. Four people, including an alleged ringleader, were
arrested in Mexico City last week. More arrests are expected in Sanford, N.C.,
where immigration agents broke up a similar operation last month, and in other
U.S. cities. Of those arrested, at least one is a U.S. citizen. Most of the
others are Mexican illegal immigrants, many of them members of a single extended
family and deaf themselves.

To date, more than 80 deaf Mexicans identified as victims of the smuggling
operations have been found in five U.S. cities, and intensive searches are under
way for others, some of whom are thought by officials to be held in conditions
similar to those discovered in New York.

Investigators have uncovered linkages among the groups operating in Chicago, New
York, Dallas and Sanford, but much about the rings remains murky, and a
nationwide probe is continuing in an effort to determine the extent of the
racket. Deaf Hispanic vendors have been sighted in recent months selling similar
trinkets -- notably key chains with tags reading, "I am deaf" and "$ 1.00" -- in
numerous cities across the country, including the District.

In Dallas this week, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
arrested Victor Cervantes, 49, and his wife, Maria Estela Cervantes, 46, as they
were driving five deaf, undocumented Mexicans away from an apartment in a van,
apparently to take them to work selling trinkets in public areas of the city.
The couple, both legal immigrants from Mexico who are also deaf, were charged
with transporting and harboring illegal aliens. Five more deaf Mexican vendors
were found in or near the apartment, officials said.

According to a federal complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Dallas, the
arrests stemmed from a tip by a deaf and speech-impaired woman of Mexican origin
who is now a U.S. citizen. The informant, Guadalupe Lozano, told an INS
investigator that deaf Mexicans are "recruited in Mexico," smuggled into the
United States and "sold into slavery, quite literally to the highest bidder,"
the complaint said. It said the deaf Mexicans are "forced to perform numerous
tasks such as peddling trinkets," with the profits "kept by their 'owners.' "

Lozano said she herself had been victimized by the ring in North Carolina,
according to the complaint. It quoted her as saying she had been held against
her will for more than a year in Sanford by another deaf Mexican couple, Marcos
Campos and Guadalupe Moises, and that Campos had beaten her and abused her
sexually. She said that physical and sexual abuse of deaf Mexican women by their
"owners" was common.

Campos and Moises, who were among 16 Mexicans found in a raid on two small
houses in Sanford last month, have not yet been formally arrested in the case,
but are being held without bond by the INS as illegal aliens and are likely to
face criminal charges soon, sources said.

Lozano also gave INS the names of the Cervantes couple, who she said had picked
up deaf undocumented Mexicans on numerous occasions at the U.S.-Mexican border
and moved them to Dallas. In addition, the couple's address was found in a
notebook belonging to Moises and recovered from a van in Sanford.

In Mexico, police last week arrested the alleged leader of the New York ring,
Renato Paoletti Lemus, and his father, Jose Paoletti Moreda, after two
associates tried to withdraw $ 250,000 from one of the Paolettis' bank accounts.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              155 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 21, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Peasants in the Metropolis

Jonathan Groner

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X03

LENGTH: 921 words


MUDDY CUP

A Dominican Family Comes of Age

in a New America

By Barbara Fischkin

Scribner. 367 pp. $ 24

EVERYONE seems to be talking about immigration, but who are the immigrants? Many
of them are probably similar to the Almontes, an impoverished rural family whose
transition from the Dominican Republic to New York City in the 1980s is the
topic of journalist Barbara Fischkin's new book.

Muddy Cup is based on a year of first-person reportage in which Fischkin, with
some difficulty, gained the Almontes' confidence and obtained access to their
daily life. Her goal was to understand immigration by looking very closely at a
typical extended family of immigrants. In 1986 and 1987, Fischkin, then a
reporter for the now-defunct New York Newsday, transformed her research into a
prize-winning series of articles. This book, 10 years later, represents a
considerable expansion and updating of the series, and Fischkin has largely
succeeded in her objective of telling us who is immigrating to the United States
and why.

Fischkin correctly begins with the premise that to understand the Almontes, one
first has to understand the Dominican Republic, the Caribbean country that
shares an island with Haiti and traces its much-interrupted independence to
1844. The residents of this small nation have been exploited for centuries by
outsiders (beginning as far back as Christopher Columbus's first voyage) and by
their own people (notoriously, by the brutal dictator Rafael Trujillo, who ruled
with an iron hand for three decades). The United States has had an ambiguous and
complex relationship with the Dominican Republic, intervening with troops twice
this century -- ostensibly to preserve civil order and keep the Dominicans from
suffering an even worse fate than Yankee occupation.

It is thus no surprise that many Dominicans have had to deal not only with rural
poverty but also with the absence of a political culture that could provide them
with hope for a better future in their country of birth. After decades of coups,
assassinations and political corruption, cynicism is rampant. One result is that
despite the ambivalence of many Dominicans about the United States, immigration
to these shores has boomed: Only 90,000 Dominicans came here in the 1960s, and
140,000 came in the 1970s, but in the 1980s so many came that some estimates say
there are now one million Dominicans in this country. This from a nation with
only eight million people.

Fischkin is very convincing when she shows what makes these families leave
behind the roosters, the dirt roads, the sheep, the churches, and the faith
healers of their homeland and brave the streets and sidewalks of New York. In a
word, it is jobs. Typically, one family member hears that by driving a taxi or
working on a construction site or cleaning houses, a Dominican can make enough
money in New York to send most of it back home and eventually to bring the rest
of the family over as well. Although families may have to be separated for
years, the expectation that they will someday be reunited is enough to keep them
going. Meanwhile, those who are in the United States become more and more
American every day.

THE PIVOTAL moment in Muddy Cup, retold from several characters' points of view,
is the 1986 decision by a U.S. immigration officer in the case of Roselia
Amonte, the mother of three children, that only the oldest would be permitted to
emigrate with Roselia to New York to join Roselia's husband, Javier; the younger
children would have to stay in the Dominican Republic. But by that time,
Fischkin's series had come out in Newsday; a congressman from Queens read the
story, leaned on the immigration service, and got the decision reversed. Of
course, this intervention itself makes the Almontes stand out as not so ordinary
a family after all; but the subsequent daily slights, language barriers, and
cultural obstacles that the Almontes encountered do represent a typical
immigrant experience.

As Fischkin points out, many of the characteristics of Dominican immigration --
the flight from persecution and poverty, the temporary separation of families,
the difficulties with the English language -- are also characteristic of the
mass migration of Eastern European Jews to the United States between about 1880
and 1920. Fischkin tries to make something of this analogy, pointing out that
she herself is the daughter of a Jewish immigrant and that her mother's story is
parallel with that of the Almontes: "Our families sounded the same when they
spoke about the materials that make a house, for example, or when they used a
particular appellation for an oppressor."

But this turns out to be the most disappointing aspect of the book. Fischkin
tells us rather than shows us the connection. She thinks it sufficient simply to
mention the comparison; she does not seem connected enough herself to the Jewish
tradition to make the analogy meaningful. What is it in the culture of
Dominicans and Jews that made them react similarly to New York? Or were they
really that similar?

Fischkin's rather perplexing title stems from the traditions of yet another
strand of American migration. She quotes the Irish poet John Montage's verse "A
Muddy Cup": "My mother's memories of America; a muddy cup she refused to drink."
If the Almontes' experience, however, is at all typical, immigrants are drinking
deep from American culture -- and enjoying every moment of it.

Jonathan Groner is a Washington-based writer and editor.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              156 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 25, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

America's Not-So-Welcome Mat

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 426 words


A MILLION PEOPLE wait, in their homelands or in the United States, for status as
the spouses and minor children of legal American permanent residents. Yet visas
are capped at 88,000 a year. Those getting visas now had to wait more than four
years, and those applying today can expect to wait for 10. These cruel numbers
explain the pressure on people in the line to jump it and enter illegally, and
the desire of those who have played by the rules to soften them. The latter
group has now gained, in this project, the renewed support of the federal
advisory Commission on Immigration Reform.

The nearly third of a million permanent residents who played by the rules and
left their families behind have a keen grievance. They resent provisions in the
law that they say have advantaged people who entered the United States illegally
and who then brought in their relatives also illegally. They have a point. Not
only did the government amnesty 2.7 million illegal immigrants in 1986. It
permitted the family members they had illegally brought in to stay, to receive
work permits under a "family unity" provision and to join the long line waiting
for legal-immigrant status. Hence the reform commission's call to favor
unification of nuclear families (spouses and minor children) and to drop
extended-family categories, including the adult children and siblings of U.S.
citizens.

In the unavoidable competition for scarce immigration slots, the claims of
nuclear families seem to us to have an undeniable emotional force. But such a
faceoff between nuclear and extended families can be no one's idea of a happy
encounter. Inevitably, it will be politically one-sided, since the appealing
members of nuclear families are only legal residents while the appealing members
of extended families are U.S. citizens and voters. Nor is that the only
consideration. The preference to illegals bestowed in the 1986 amnesty was a
one-time calculation meant to knit up a problem that had been allowed to unravel
for many years. The different and tougher standard now facing separated nuclear
families is certainly painful to live with but was known to them from the start.

All conflicts of this kind could be resolved, of course, if there were no upper
limit on the numbers of immigrants to the United States. But there is a ceiling,
and while the traditional American openness to immigrants is not entirely a
thing of the past, strong political currents favor a reduced flow. The
apportionment of disappointment is what these issues are finally about.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              157 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 16, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

932 Got Citizenship Improperly in 1996; INS Still Investigating 5,000 Cases,
Reno Tells House Panel

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 419 words


A federal review of a controversial naturalization program has found more than
900 immigrants who were improperly granted U.S. citizenship, and nearly 5,000
other cases are still under investigation, Attorney General Janet Reno said
yesterday.

Appearing at a House Judiciary Committee hearing devoted mainly to campaign
finance issues, Reno said the Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued
"notices of intent to revoke citizenship" to 932 immigrants who were naturalized
during 1996.

She said the applications of nearly 5,000 others are still being reviewed to
determine whether they were eligible for citizenship.

The review stemmed from intense congressional criticism of the naturalization
program, which granted citizenship to a record 1.05 million immigrants last
year, including about 71,500 who had criminal records and nearly 180,000 others
who had not undergone complete background checks.

Republicans charged that the administration had naturalized ineligible
applicants as part of a "rush" to create 1 million new citizens before the
November elections in hopes that they would vote Democratic.

The INS said it was trying to reduce growing backlogs of applicants for
citizenship and deal with record numbers of new applications.

The agency pointed out that the existence of a criminal record on file with the
FBI did not necessarily mean the applicant was ineligible, and that a manual
review of the files was needed to determine whether anyone had been naturalized
improperly.

In reviewing the files, the INS found that 16,400 new citizens had felony
arrests and that 5,200 others may have lied on their applications, INS spokesman
Andrew Lluberes said.

From those numbers, the review whittled the cases down to about 6,000 in which
the applicant was "presumptively ineligible" or needed further investigation, he
said.

Responding to questions from Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), Reno said no one has
yet been "denaturalized" as a result of the review. INS officials said that
although new rules allow the agency to revoke citizenship in an internal
administrative process, the procedures for doing so remain slow and allow for
multiple appeals. After the notice is served, the new citizen must reply in
writing and can request a hearing before an INS examiner.

If the examiner decides to revoke citizenship, the immigrant can appeal to an
INS administrative unit and, ultimately, to a federal court.

"This is a long, slow, deliberative process," Lluberes said.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              158 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 17, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

The (Open) Road to Singapore

Nora Boustany, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A32; DIPLOMATIC DISPATCHES

LENGTH: 963 words


While issues of immigration are becoming a flash point between conservative and
liberal ideologues here, other countries have decided to take a leaf out of the
book of the American immigrant experience. Singapore's ambassador here,
Heng-Chee Chan, has unveiled an enterprising national initiative to attract
immigrants, urging young and adventurous professionals seeking a bright future
to "go west" -- farther, farther and farther west until they hit Asia, a region
she described as "full of opportunities".

Singapore's post-colonial educational system is growing stronger and more
productive every year, she said in an interview, but "we recognize that we need
more people to contribute to our vision for an intelligent city, a city of the
future." The idea of seeking immigrants stemmed from a survey of thriving
societies, such as those of the United States and Britain, which prosper because
of their openness and diversity, she said. "We discovered that societies that
are open remain innovative and move on."

Such demographic engineering, she said, is aimed at keeping Singapore's economy
dynamic and in perpetual renewal through "cross-fertilization" in the fields of
information technology, engineering, pharmaceuticals, and research and
development, as well as banking. "You will continue to see growth in these
[diverse] countries," she said. "That is why Singapore is quite confident in
recruiting talent."

Singapore, one of Asia's four "economic tigers," is fighting the notion that
recent glitches in Southeast Asian economies indicate that the much talked about
miracle of regional growth is a myth. She insists that although there may have
been some hype about the economic miracle all along, no one can deny the last 30
years of steady growth took some countries from the developing stage to the
advanced developing stage, with growth rates of 7 percent and beyond into double
digits.

"It did not come out of nothing but because of sheer hard work and the right
package of policies, so maybe the word miracle was a misnomer," she added. No
country can sustain such growth forever, she said. "Now there is a correction
that is needed, and there will be a period of painful but necessary adjustment,"
Chan said of her government's response to a recent bout of currency fluctuations
that led the Singapore dollar to slip vis a vis the U.S. dollar.

Before globalization, she said, weaknesses in the economy remained hidden; now
they are more accessible and subject to pressure. The "Contact Singapore" labor
strategy to lure professionals there was launched in Boston on Oct. 2 but
applies nationwide, Chan said. Elsewhere around the world, the program has
attracted many young Australians and Europeans, but it is open to all
nationalities, she said. However, it also is drawing a lot of mid-career
professionals who would like to spend some time in Asia. Chan said salaries
being offered are high and competitive with Silicon Valley standards.

"Economies today are borderless; people go wherever their life phase takes
them," Chan said, noting that English is the main language in Singapore and,
yes, it does have Brooklyn Bagels.

P.S. Growth curves and head hunting are not all that preoccupy Chan. She says
she is more anxious about an event she is planning for next Tuesday -- an
evening of dance by the Washington Ballet at the Warner Theatre to benefit the
Capital Children's Museum.

An Eye on Belarus

Ivan Antanovich, the foreign minister of Belarus, assured Washington Post
editors and reporters last week that his country has "no wicked tendencies to
become the Cuba of the eastern hemisphere." He emphasized, however, that there
are still radical forces there that see the restoration of the Soviet Union as a
major aim, "but this is neither the president's position nor the present
government's position."

Antanovich acknowledged that constitutional amendments introduced recently
reinforce the position of the president in relation to parliament, a move that
prompted distrust in the West about a commitment to democratization in Belarus.
He said his government had invited the European Union and the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe to send experts to evaluate the changes. He
acknowledged State Department complaints about human rights violations,
conceding overcrowding in some prisons and delays in judicial cases, but he said
many countries have such problems.

"This is not by way of rebuttal," he said, "but by way of needing to enter into
dialogue. What we need is assistance to come to terms with the European and
internationally accepted norms of behavior. This has appeared to be the most
difficult process of all." He warned that isolating Belarus, rather than
engaging in dialogue with it on what needs to be done, could make things much
worse. Strengthened political and economic ties with Russia have had a "jerky
start," he conceded, despite what he described as a "tremendous push from the
depth of society" for a reunion in the romantic illusion that all problems would
fade away.

There was a "serious geopolitical reason" for President Alexander Lukashenko to
take this lead, Antanovich added. "A country of 10 million like Belarus cannot
afford to have poor relations with a country like Russia of 160 million," he
said. In addition to traditional ties of Slavic culture and language, "we are 95
percent dependent on the energy supply of Russian gas and oil. We have no
currency to buy it elsewhere," Antanovich said.

Despite some acerbic exchanges between Russian President Boris Yeltsin and
Lukashenko, each man respects the other, and a summit between the two men and
leaders of other former Soviet republics is planned, Antanovich said. "So watch
us closely," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HENG-CHEE CHAN

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              159 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 18, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

A Sore Point Among Refugees; Efforts to Protect Nicaraguans From Deportation
Goad Other Central American Immigrants

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1023 words


A decade ago, Yalile Barilla fled her native Nicaragua after the leftist
Sandinista government forcibly drafted her younger brother into the army and
sent shouting crowds to picket her mother's sewing factory because she refused
to sell shirts at prices set by the state.

Like many Central American refugees in the United States, the Alexandria woman
has spent years cleaning offices and houses to make ends meet. And, like most of
the others, she has been granted temporary legal amnesty to live here and is
hoping the U.S. government eventually will let her stay permanently.

Now, Barilla's wish is close to coming true.

In Congress, key House Republicans and critics of illegal immigration have
agreed to get behind a bill that would make about 50,000 Nicaraguan refugees,
including several thousand in the Washington area, permanent legal residents --
even though most entered the United States illegally or remained here after
their visas expired.

"We deserve this," said Barilla, 36. "We were victims of a war that was
sponsored by the Americans, so it's only fair that they don't turn their backs
on us now."

She plans to attend a special Catholic Mass at Our Lady Queen of the Americas
Church in Northwest Washington tomorrow and then join what organizers say will
be hundreds of other Nicaraguans from across the country at a Capitol Hill rally
Tuesday to thank supporters in Congress and press the Senate to back similar
legislation.

But there are more than 275,000 refugees in the United States from Central
American countries other than Nicaragua, including tens of thousands of
Salvadorans and a lesser number of Guatemalans in the Washington area. They fled
equally harsh conditions during the 1980s while civil wars raged in their
countries.

As is the case with the Nicaraguans, their temporary amnesty programs have now
ended, and most will lose the right to stay here within a year. But there is no
strong movement in Congress to make refugees from those other Central American
nations permanent legal residents.

Instead, current legislative proposals, including a Senate bill backed by the
Clinton administration, would offer refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala a
chance to fight deportation under the more lenient guidelines that existed
before a tough new immigration law took effect in April. They could remain only
by proving to an immigration judge that they would suffer hardship if forced to
return to their native countries. (The new law requires them to prove "extreme
and unusual" hardship.)

In Congress, the effort to grant Nicaraguans permanent residence is being led by
the same Cuban American Republicans who championed laws granting special status
to refugees from communist Cuba.

"This is not to say we are putting one group against another," said Rep. Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), a co-sponsor of the measure. But Nicaraguan refugees "had
direct impact and participation during all those years when we fought a military
battle. . . . Nicaraguans deserve [special] recognition."

But local Salvadoran leaders are fuming about such special treatment, which they
say favors Nicaraguan refugees for ideological reasons.

"There is no reason to make a distinction -- because American foreign policy
toward the region had exactly the same effect on people in all these countries,"
said Saul Solorzano, a Salvadoran immigrant who heads the Washington-based
Central American Resource Center. "We are pleased that Congress wants to help,
but Salvadorans and Guatemalans should not be receiving the short end of the
deal."

Many Nicaraguans fled the revolutionary Sandinista government, named for Augusto
Cesar Sandino, an anti-U.S. insurgent of the 1920s, and some joined a guerrilla
movement that was supported by the Reagan administration.

In contrast, refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala came to this country to get
away from anti-communist military regimes supported by Washington in wars
against Marxist rebels. Many of those refugees were granted temporary amnesty
only because of a 1990 lawsuit against the U.S. government, which accused U.S.
officials of granting political asylum to Nicaraguans far more often than to
other Central Americans.

Roberto and Rosa Dominguez, a District couple, entered the United States
illegally with their three children in 1989. They vividly recall fleeing to a
school when their San Salvador neighborhood was bombed during a major civil war
offensive -- and venturing into the streets waving white flags to avoid being
shot.

"We were driven to despair, and we had to leave for the children's sake," said
Rosa Dominguez, 40, who cleans offices by day while her husband works at a
similar job at night. Both were granted temporary amnesty that expires next
year.

"The war is over now, but there is so much crime back home," she said. "We have
good jobs here, and our children are moving up. I would never, ever want to go
back."

Local Nicaraguan leaders say they are concerned about the fates of other Central
American refugees, and several national Nicaraguan groups support making them
permanent residents, too. Yet they believe that the situation for Nicaraguan
refugees is a special case.

"We were allies of the United States in the struggle against communism," said
Onofre Gutierrez, 67, an Alexandria man who heads the local branch of the
Nicaraguan Brotherhood, a group that helps refugees. "We are disposed to help
the Salvadorans, and we admire many of them. But let there be no doubt: We are
of the right, and they are of the left."

Yet for Central Americans who have lived in the United States for more than a
decade, and whose children are growing up as Americans, the divisions that once
seemed so sharp at home have faded.

In the daily struggle of immigrant life, economic survival matters far more than
political allegiances.

"We are all human beings, and we all should be treated the same," said Rosa
Dominguez. "We are here because of war; the Nicaraguans are here because of war;
and the Guatemalans are here because of war. We all need support, and none of us
should be selfish about it."


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, frank johnston; Photo, ray lustig, Jessenia Barilla, a
Nicaraguan refugee, holds family photos. Her sister, Yalile Barilla, contends
that Nicaraguan immigrants deserve special help from Congress.  Saul Solorzano
and Roberto Dominguez are among Salvadoran immigrants who worry about unequal
treatment of Central American refugees.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              160 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 19, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Secret U.S. Evidence Entangles Immigrants; Rarely Used Law Now Falls Most
Heavily on Arabs

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1179 words


The day began as usual for Mazen Najjar, a Palestinian who has lived in the
United States 16 years. After having breakfast with his wife and their three
daughters, he was preparing to take the two eldest to school. Then came a knock
on the door of his Tampa apartment.

As his family looked on, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and FBI, accompanied by local sheriff's deputies, took Najjar away in handcuffs.

That was on May 19. Six months later, Najjar, 40, is still being held in a
Florida county jail. Although he was arrested on a charge of overstaying his
student visa, his continued detention stems from a more serious accusation, but
one that U.S. authorities refuse to spell out.

Like more than a dozen other Arabs around the country, Najjar, former editor of
an Islamic journal and a pastor at a Tampa mosque, has been denied bond on the
basis of secret evidence the government only will say indicates an association
"with a known terrorist group." So far, none of those being detained has been
charged with any crime.

In trying to defend Najjar, "his lawyers felt they were fighting a ghost," said
his sister, Nahla Arian, a naturalized U.S. citizen. She said he belonged to a
Tampa committee that supported the Palestinian uprising known as the intifada
before disbanding in 1992, but denied he has any connection to Middle Eastern
terrorists.

After Najjar's arrest, his sister said, FBI agents interrogated him for two
hours and offered to help solve his immigration problems for cooperation in
their investigation. The FBI office in Tampa declined comment on grounds that
the inquiry is "ongoing."

The use of secret evidence is prohibited in criminal cases, including spy trials
involving issues of national security. But a little-known provision of
immigration law in effect since the 1950s allows secret evidence to be
introduced in certain immigration proceedings. The classified information,
usually from the FBI, is shared with judges, but withheld from the accused and
their lawyers.

Lately the rarely used provision has fallen most heavily on Arabs, and their
advocates say this is no coincidence. U.S. Islamic and civil rights groups claim
Muslims and Arabs are being targeted in a campaign of guilt-by-association that
relies on secret evidence to brand opponents of Israel as terrorists.

Government officials maintain that no group is being singled out unfairly, but
say there is evidence Muslim organizations in the United States have been used
to raise funds for militant groups, such as Islamic Jihad and Hamas, that oppose
the Arab-Israeli peace process and whose military wings have claimed
responsibility for a number of bombings against civilian targets in Israel.

The American Civil Liberties Union and Arab-American groups are challenging the
INS policy, and both sides say they expect the issue eventually to reach the
Supreme Court.

Secret evidence also was introduced in at least two of six immigration cases
involving members of the Irish Republican Army, but Attorney General Janet Reno
last month suspended those cases after the State Department suggested that
pursuing them could disrupt the peace process in Northern Ireland.

In using secret evidence, the INS says it observes legal distinctions based on
court rulings that go back to the early 1950s. The agency cannot, for example,
use secret evidence to determine whether someone should be deported. But it can
present such information to block someone from receiving political asylum,
permanent residence, naturalization or release on bond.

Critics argue that the use of secret evidence for any purpose ought to be
illegal.

"In my view, it is unconstitutional to deprive someone of his liberty based on
secret evidence that he has no opportunity to rebut," said David Cole, a
Georgetown University law professor suing the government over the issue. "Secret
evidence simply cannot be squared with the basic requirements of due process."

In Najjar's case, his arrest came after a long wrangle with the INS that began
while he was studying at the University of South Florida. When he applied to
adjust his status from student to legal permanent resident, the INS took his
Egyptian-issued travel document identifying him as a Palestinian refugee, then
lost his file for seven years, his sister says. The INS denies losing the file.
In any event, the document expired, and the Egyptian Embassy has refused to
renew it.

Najjar's family says his troubles mounted when the FBI in 1995 started
investigating an Islamic think tank affiliated with the university, the World
and Islam Studies Enterprise, which employed Najjar as chief editor of its
research journal. The institute came under scrutiny after a former
administrator, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, became the leader of Islamic Jihad,
succeeding a Palestinian militant assassinated by suspected Israeli agents on
Malta in October 1995.

A founder of the think tank and brother-in-law of Najjar, Sami Arian, also was
investigated by the FBI and INS, which opposed his application for U.S.
citizenship in part on the basis of secret evidence. When Arian asked the INS
for his file, the agency withheld 20 pages it had received from the FBI. In
August, two years after requesting the pages under the Freedom of Information
Act, the FBI produced them. They were clippings from Tampa newspapers.

According to Houeida Saad of the Washington-based American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, part of the problem in the INS cases is that
groups involved in terrorist attacks, such as Hezbollah and Hamas, also run
clinics, orphanages and other social welfare services, a dual role that federal
authorities often do not acknowledge. She cited the case of Ali Khalil Termos, a
30-year-old Lebanese held by the INS in Detroit for more than a year on the
basis of secret FBI evidence. Under FBI questioning, she said, he had admitted
sending more than $ 300 to a Hezbollah-run orphanage in southern Lebanon to help
care for two children of a relative killed in an Israeli raid.

The INS says the secret evidence was used to deny Termos bond, but he was picked
up and eventually deported this month because he overstayed his student visa,
worked illegally in a gas station and failed to heed a deadline for voluntary
departure. He is married to an American citizen, which normally would make him
eligible for an immigrant visa.

Among the most controversial cases is that of Nasser Ahmed, a 37-year-old
Egyptian associate of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, a Muslim cleric convicted of
involvement in a terrorist bombing plot in New York last year. Ahmed, who has
lived in the United States 11 years, helped run a Brooklyn mosque and served as
the sheik's court-appointed translator.

When he showed up for an immigration hearing in April 1996 after his application
for political asylum was denied, he was arrested on a charge of overstaying his
visa. For the last 1 1/2 years, he has been held in solitary confinement in a
New York City jail, denied bond because of secret evidence.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, st. petersburg times/bill serne, Six months after his arrest,
Mazen Najjar, who has lived in the United States 16 years, is still being held
without bond.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              161 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 19, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Newcomers Give Maryland a Boost

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C10; CLOSE TO HOME

LENGTH: 699 words


Like so many fads from California, the anti-immigrant sentiment that threatened
to sweep the country in the early 1990s seems to have waned with the upturn in
the economy. Through it all, though, Marylanders have remained remarkably
resistant to nativism. The population survey released last April by the U.S.
Census Bureau may suggest why.

Maryland, unlike many other states where one or two ethnic groups predominate --
say, Cubans in Florida, or Hmong in Minnesota -- has immigrants from 145
countries. In 1990 no single group represented more than 7 percent of its total
foreign-born population. While Salvadorans now appear to exceed 10 percent,
according to the most recent population survey, Koreans, Indians, Chinese and
Filipinos all vie for second place, while still making up only a small share of
the foreign-born total.

Hispanics account for about 25 percent of Maryland's immigrants, but this figure
pales against their 44 percent share nationally. And in Maryland the "Hispanic"
label must be stretched to cover more than 20 nationalities. The Guatemalan
housekeeper at the suburban Holiday Inn and the Argentine oncologist at Johns
Hopkins may both speak Spanish, but they have little else in common. This sort
of heterogeneity makes it hard for natives to stereotype newcomers or to see
them as a unified threat.

As for education, Maryland's newcomers have attained higher levels than their
counterparts nationally. Nearly 46 percent have a bachelor's or professional
degree compared with 24 percent nationwide for both foreign-born and natives.
Most impressive are the immigrants who have arrived in the '90s, 31 percent of
whom have graduate or professional degrees.

In October 1995, American Demographics reported that five Maryland communities
-- Chevy Chase, Potomac, Cabin John-Brookmont, Bethesda and North Potomac --
were among the most educated places in the country, with more than 60 percent of
resident adults having at least a bachelor's degree. Four of these towns also
were labeled "foreign and smart" -- highly educated communities with heavy
concentrations of immigrants. Not coincidentally, all are in Montgomery County,
which has both the highest share of foreign-born residents (21 percent) and the
most educated population in the state, with more than half of its foreign-born
and native-born having earned college degrees (54 percent and 56 percent
respectively).

These attainments should be kept in mind when discussion turns to the costs of
educating immigrant children. While such costs are high, particularly if the
children start out speaking little English, their parents' educations largely
were paid for by their home countries. In this light, Maryland is a prime
beneficiary of the international brain drain.

Closely linked to education are employment and income. Here, too, Maryland's
newcomers fare well. Nationwide, some 5 percent of immigrants are unemployed,
about the same for native-born. In Maryland, 2 percent of the adult immigrant
population are without jobs. And while more than 22 percent of America's
foreign-born fall below the poverty line, only 10 percent are poor in Maryland,
a figure more than offset by the 23 percent who make more than $ 35,000 a year.

What about illegal immigration? Nationally, one in five immigrants is
undocumented. In Maryland that figure is estimated at about 11 percent, or
44,000 out of the state's 412,000 immigrants.

Is there any bad news about Maryland's immigrants? Perhaps. Among the most
recent newcomers to Maryland, poverty and high school dropout rates are up. Yet
if the history of immigration to this country teaches us anything, it is that
newcomers have an uncanny knack for improving their lot, no matter what their
initial "quality."

While this debate may never be resolved for the nation as a whole, it seems
clear that Maryland's newcomers have exceptional qualities. They bring to the
state cultural variety, educational attainments and an admirable work ethic. In
short, they are quite an asset to the Free State.

-- Martin Ford and Asnake Yeheyis are, respectively, an anthropologist and a
statistician with the Maryland Office for New Americans.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, randy mack bishop

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              162 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 26, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Out of A Linguistic Ghetto

George F. Will

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The conservative case for a welcoming policy toward immigrants is that the very
act of immigrating is an act of entrepreneurship. Passive, risk-averse people do
not immigrate. So immigration leavens a successful, complacency-prone society
with a ferment for change from below.

It is, therefore, appropriate that the campaign in this state to make bilingual
education voluntary, which would virtually end it, is being organized by a
conservative entrepreneur inspired by an insurrection of immigrant parents. The
spark was a boycott protesting compulsory bilingual education at an elementary
school in downtown Los Angeles. The growing campaign will culminate next June
when Californians, as is their wont, take lawmaking into their own hands. They
will vote on the initiative which, if passed, will emancipate immigrant children
-- primarily Hispanics -- from a linguistic ghetto.

A Los Angeles Times poll shows that 80 percent of white Californians and 80
percent of all Californians support it -- and 84 percent of Latinos do, too. As
Ron Unz says, "There is almost no support for the existing system." Indeed, the
opposition includes most teachers -- other than those involved in bilingual
education.

Unz, 36, grew up in the San Fernando Valley, studied theoretical physics at
Harvard and Cambridge, then made a lot of money in the Silicon Valley, in the
software business. His libertarian conservatism prompted him to challenge the
incumbent, Pete Wilson, in the 1994 Republican gubernatorial primary. Unz got 34
percent of the vote, but any challenger with a pulse and conservative
credentials would have done about that well, such was the hostility of
conservatives toward Wilson at that time.

Unz is more comfortable dealing with policy than politics, and he had a dandy
time looking eloquently incredulous when, in a television debate, James Lyons of
the National Association for Bilingual Education declared that "adults are much
more efficient and quicker language-learners than children." Among the many who
disagree is the honorary chairman of Unz's "English for the Children" campaign,
Jaime Escalante, the teacher whose success in teaching advanced calculus to high
school students in an East Los Angeles barrio was the subject of the movie
"Stand and Deliver."

Lyons's theory, although eccentric, serves as a rationalization for assuming
that it takes at least five to seven years for children of limited proficiency
in English to acquire proficiency. Twenty-three percent of California's pupils
-- 1.3 million children -- are classified as limited. Most parents whose
children are assigned to bilingual education and are often taught for all but 30
minutes a day in a language other than English believe their children are being
shunted onto a slow academic track.

Compulsory bilingual education is not simply another case of compassion that
cripples -- of misguided government solicitousness that weakens the social
competence of the intended beneficiaries. Precious little real compassion enters
into this grab for government money. This is a matter of perverse incentives:
School districts get extra jobs and government payments totaling more than $ 320
million for bilingual education.

One argument against a welcoming immigration policy is this: that such a policy
was fine a century ago, but is incompatible with today's welfare state, which
acts as a magnet for persons immigrating in search of comfortable dependency. A
second argument is that in the 1990s, unlike in the 1890s, a significant portion
of the American intelligentsia does not much like America. This portion's
ambivalence about America is expressed in the ideology of multiculturalism. It
is the doctrine that a common culture is "oppressive," and that Americans should
be disaggregated into groups, each cultivating its cultural distinctiveness,
resisting assimilation in the name of "diversity."

The weakness of the first argument is that there is scant evidence of a "magnet
effect" of the welfare state. The vast majority of immigrants are motivated by a
desire to participate in, not be parasitic off of, the American economy. And
they believe that the sooner their children learn English, the better the
children will be at participating. Regarding the second argument, the support of
Latinos for Unz's initiative is a powerful refutation of the fear that
immigrants accept the "diversity" argument by which anti-American Americans
advance their agenda of Balkanization.

America has long been, in the words of the Hispanic-American writer Richard
Rodriguez, "a marinade of sounds." But as Rodriguez wrote in "Hunger of Memory,"
his brilliant meditation on language and the immigrant experience, those who are
not proficient in English risk "being lured into a linguistic nursery." Next
June Californians can empower parents to rescue their children from confinement
in that nursery.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              163 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 27, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Making Immigration Tougher

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 430 words


THE LATEST sign of a national tightening on immigration is the issuance of
federal regulations imposing new minimum-income and financial-support
requirements on the sponsors of immigrants. The regulations particularly affect
the sensitive matter of the reunification of families separated by the American
border. Sponsors have long had to pledge to support arriving relatives (or
workers). But for better or worse these pledges were not legally enforceable.
Now they are enforceable: Agencies can seek to recover the cost of welfare
benefits, including food stamps and Medicaid. Moreover, the financial standards
are tougher too. Sponsors must prove their income is at least 25 percent over
the poverty line ($ 20,000 for a household of four) and must promise to keep up
support until the arriving immigrant has worked 10 years or become a citizen.

Congress, in writing the 1996 law these regulations implement, meant to deal
with the widespread but not everywhere accepted image of new immigrants feeding
off welfare and other federal benefits. The image has some statistical merit in
that, for instance, immigrant applications for Supplemental Security Income have
risen. But the image belittles the industry and the commitment to America of
many immigrants past and present. It also ignores the stresses of prolonged
family separation.

Surely, very few immigrants in this category need a lesson in self-reliance.
Most of them have invested their labor for mean recompense and want to reap only
the fruits that earlier immigrants enjoyed as a matter of course. Instead, they
find that the new minimum-income requirement is far above what many individuals,
and even some whole families, earn. Two consequences are predictable: more
family strain and more illegal immigration by relatives who no longer can count
on reuniting the family in America by legal entry.

The new regulations have been called a "back door" way to reduce legal
immigration, now running at 900,000 a year. But since the backlog of people
awaiting family-sponsored immigrant visas stands at 3.5 million, there will be
no shortage of other candidates to fill in. Among the sponsors, it is the poorer
ones who, with their relatives, face the keenest disappointment; in practice,
this means families that started out in Mexico and Central America. Many
families sent a parent ahead expecting him or her to bring in kin after gaining
a foothold. Now that foothold is harder to establish. The new rules may be
politically logical, but they are going to have a rough effect on many people's
lives.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              164 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 01, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Countywide Sweep Yields 30 Arrests; INS Raid Targets Gang Members

Leef Smith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE WILLIAM EXTRA; Pg. V03

LENGTH: 396 words


More than 100 local, state and federal law enforcement agents, led by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, swept Prince William County on Thursday
night and arrested 30 people, including several gang members targeted for
deportation.

The operation, code named "Switchblade," was intended to rid the community of
illegal aliens with criminal backgrounds, particularly gang members.

Launched simultaneously at four locations -- Georgetown South, the Irongate and
Yorkshire areas and Bayview Terrace apartments -- the operation resulted most
notably in the arrest of an alleged gang leader.

Roberto Sosa, 17, a native Mexican and convicted criminal, was arrested and is
awaiting deportation.

"We're especially pleased he's been arrested," said Prince William County police
spokeswoman Kim Chinn. "We had information he might have been the leader of a
large gang faction on the west end of the county."

Other individuals targeted in the sweep were wanted for crimes ranging from
malicious wounding to rape and at least six were the subjects of outstanding
deportation warrants.

Among those arrested were four members of one family: Jose Cervantes-Galiendo,
23, wanted on a hit and run charge, and his brothers, Gerardo, 26, and Gabriel,
20, along with a cousin, Alverado Morales-Cervantes, 22, all natives of Mexico.

Also arrested were Amilcar Rosa-Carcamo, 35, of Honduras and his brother Pedro,
33; Angels Martinez, 19, of Mexico; and Elesandro Estrada-Hernandez, 19, of
Guatemala.

Of the remaining 21 people arrested, 16 men and three women were being held on
INS administrative charges. Two other suspects are in custody to face charges in
Prince William.

"This was a pretty substantial operation for us," said Robert Schofield, acting
spokesman for the INS Washington district. "We spent a lot of time on planning."

Switchblade is an ongoing operation to determine the deportation status of gang
members in Northern Virginia and the District.

According to INS data, more than 110,000 people were deported from the United
States in the last 12 months. Of those, more than 50,000 had criminal records.

"This operation reflects the efforts of the agents and police officers involved
to rid our communities of dangerous criminal alien gang members," William J.
Carroll, Washington district director of INS, said in a statement yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: November 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              165 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 02, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Home & Away; Holiday celebrations around the world are built on distinctive
cooking traditions, from Hanukah doughnuts in Israel to Mexico's Christmas Eve
cod. Once in the U.S., immigrants create from a menu of customs new and old

Stephanie Witt Sedgwick

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. W22

LENGTH: 3003 words


THANKSGIVING

It's a meal, it's a harvest festival, and it's an affirmation of family life,
but Thanksgiving is also a melding of cultures.

The modern Thanksgiving was born in the mid-1800s, when Lincoln revived this
national feast day. Over the next century, the teaching of Thanksgiving in the
public schools became standard practice, part of the larger goal of assimilating
new immigrants. Says Donna Gabaccia, professor of history at the University of
North Carolina at Charlotte, "The schools tried to Americanize the kids and the
kids went home and tried to Americanize the family."

Thanksgiving may be the most accessible holiday for immigrants because it tells
a story that most can relate to. "Everyone has an exodus story that is the
modern version of the Pilgrims' voyage," says Matthew Dennis, historian and
author of an upcoming book on holidays and American identity.

In the spirit of the holiday, immigrant traditions have always blended with the
standard elements. Gabaccia remembers the story of an Italian mother who thought
turkey was too expensive, so she built one out of ground meat. In the Latin
American community, says Rafael Toro, director of public relations for Goya
Foods, "as people become acculturated they start serving turkey, but make it
their own. Instead of bread stuffing in the turkey, it's common to see a
stuffing made of ground pork or beef and raisins." At a Mexican American
Thanksgiving, tamales often turn up alongside the turkey.

Ken Hom, Chinese cooking expert and cookbook author, still prepares his turkey
the way his mother did when he was a boy living in Chicago's Chinatown. "To my
mother, turkeys were from outer space -- they were big enough to feed a whole
village," Hom remembers. "She cooked the turkey Cantonese style. She marinated
it overnight, stuffed it with a filling made of rice and Chinese sausage and
steamed it. Then she put it in the oven for a few minutes just to crisp the
skin."

Barbara Simpson, North American correspondent for the Jamaican Weekly Gleaner,
has lived in the United States for more than 25 years, but she still prepares
Jamaican food for Thanksgiving. "My daughter tries to cook more in the American
style, but the kids love Jamaican food. I make rice and peas, a very seasoned
roast beef, oxtails or curried goat. I don't do a turkey, but I love candied
yams, so I make them from scratch."

BAKED SWEET POTATOES

(4 to 6 servings)

When asked what Jamaican dish Americans might like for Thanksgiving, Lucinda
Scala Quinn immediately picked this recipe for sweet potatoes. While writing her
new cookbook, Jamaican Cooking: 140 Roadside and Homestyle Recipes (Macmillan,
1997), Quinn remembered a dish of sweet potatoes and lime that she had in
Jamaica. The following is her re-creation.

2 pounds sweet potatoes, washed

1 teaspoon orange rind

1/4 teaspoon nutmeg

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper

1/2 cup light or dark brown sugar

2 tablespoons butter

1 tablespoon fresh lime juice

3 tablespoons dark rum

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Bake the sweet potatoes for 1 hour. Remove from
the oven and reduce the heat to 350 degrees. When cool enough to handle, peel
and slice the potatoes. In a shallow 10-inch round or similar-size baking dish,
arrange the slices in two layers, sprinkling the orange rind, nutmeg, salt and
pepper over each slice. Set aside.

In a small pan over medium-low heat, heat the brown sugar, butter, lime juice
and rum until the sugar is dissolved. Pour this mixture over the top of the
potatoes and bake for 40 minutes, brushing the glaze that accumulates in the
bottom of the pan over the top layer every 10 or 15 minutes. Let stand for 10 to
15 minutes before serving, to allow the potatoes to soak up the glaze.

HANUKAH

At Hanukah, Jews around the world celebrate not just by lighting the menorah,
but also by eating something fried. Potato pancakes, doughnuts, fritters, fish
-- what it is doesn't matter so much as how it's cooked.

Frying, like the eight candles of the menorah, symbolizes the miracle of the
oil, a legend associated with Hanukah. When the Jews reclaimed the temple from
the Syrians in 165 BCE, there was almost no oil left to keep the lights burning.
Miraculously, the legend goes, the oil burned for eight days, until fresh
supplies were found.

As a purely religious matter, Hanukah is a minor Jewish holiday compared with
Passover or Rosh Hashanah. But in the United States, thanks in part to its
proximity to Christmas, it's become a more elaborate event. Here, the fried food
most commonly served for the holiday has been potato pancakes, or latkes, the
tradition Eastern European Jews brought with them. "Since potatoes were so
abundant, the special preparation of them became associated with holidays," says
Sharon Sobel, rabbi at Temple Sinai in Stamford, Conn. "There's an old Yiddish
song that goes along the lines of, 'On Monday we eat potatoes, on Tuesday we eat
potatoes,' and so on until you get to Friday. Then it says, 'But on Friday we
eat potato kugel.' "

The latke tradition, though, is only one of many. In Israel, jelly doughnuts
called soufiganoyt are common at Hanukah. And Sephardic Jews, who come from the
Mediterranean, North Africa or the Middle East and who represent a minority of
Jews in the United States, often have some form of fried dough, called
birmuelos, which are served with honey or a honey-based syrup.

Like so many Sephardic dishes, the birmuelos reflect a strong Spanish and
Portuguese influence. Derived from the customs of the Jews exiled from Spain
during the Inquisition, Sephardic cooking also incorporates elements of Greek,
Turkish and North African cuisines.

Jodi Sidel-Kassorla, the rabbanit, or wife of the rabbi, at the Magen David Beit
Eliahu Sephardic Congregation in Rockville, learned to cook Sephardic food from
her mother-in-law. "For Hanukah, I might make birmuelos, stuffed grape leaves,
fried onions with pine nuts and lemon, a spinach frittata, borekas -- that's a
Sephardic-style knish -- and potato pancakes."

The cuisine is still evolving, as it has for the last couple of thousand years.
Gilda Angel is a cookbook author and the wife of the rabbi at Congregation
Shearith Israel in New York, commonly known as the Spanish and Portuguese
Synagogue. "I always make the birmuelos at least once during Hanukah, but not
during the rest of the year," says Angel. It's not that they're difficult to
prepare; it's just that in this day and age, she says, "we try to stay away from
fried food."

BIRMUELOS

(Makes 4 dozen; 12 to 16 servings)

Gilda Angel's birmuelos are very light and not too sweet. You can drizzle honey
or confectioners' sugar over the pastries, or you can serve them with shallow
dishes of honey and let your guests dip the pastries themselves. This recipe is
from Angel's cookbook Sephardic Holiday Cooking (Decalogue Books, 1986).

2 packages dry yeast

3 cups warm water

2 tablespoons sugar

1 teaspoon salt

2 tablespoons plus 6 cups vegetable oil

6 1/2 cups all-purpose flour

Confectioners' sugar or honey

In a large bowl, combine the yeast, water and sugar. Let the mixture stand for 5
to 20 minutes, until foam begins to form on the surface.

Add the salt, 2 tablespoons of the vegetable oil and the flour. Mix well to make
a smooth, sticky dough. Cover the bowl with a clean dish towel and let the dough
rise in a warm, draft-free place for 1 hour, or until it has doubled in bulk.

Punch down the dough. Cover and let it rise an additional 30 minutes.

In a deep saucepan, heat the remaining 6 cups of vegetable oil to 375 degrees.
(Use a candy/deep-fry thermometer.)

Wet your hands. Break off 2-inch balls of dough (about the size of Ping-Pong
balls) and drop them into the hot oil, three or four at a time. You will need to
wet your hands each time you make a ball.

Turn the balls when golden on one side. When they are golden on the second side,
remove them with a slotted spoon and let them drain on paper towels.

You may sprinkle the birmuelos with confectioners' sugar or drizzle them with
honey before serving, or simply pass the honey for dipping. These are best
served immediately.

CHRISTMAS

Picture a big roast beef or a goose with all the trimmings, followed by pies,
puddings, sugar cookies -- sounds a lot like Christmas dinner, doesn't it?

Now how about cod in the style of the Basque country? Or maybe a
chocolate-cinnamon porridge called champurrado? How about turrones, a nougat
candy? Or a whole roast pig? Drawing their inspiration from Spain, not
Dickensian England, the Latin countries across the Caribbean and into South
America celebrate Christmas with a look, sound and taste all their own.

Mexico has one of the richest traditions, says Maricel E. Presilla, author of
Feliz Nochebuena, Feliz Navidad: Christmas Feasts of the Hispanic Caribbean
(Henry Holt, 1994). "The holiday celebrations begin on December 16th and go
through January 6th. In San Miguel," she says, "there are processions of
children dressed like angels and shepherds who go from house to house, singing
and asking for lodging. Inside the houses, the children are given chocolates,
candies and champurrado, which may be spiked with rum for the adults."

On Christmas Eve, the tradition is to eat bacalao a la Vizcaina, a dish of
salted cod layered with potatoes and jalapenos. Christmas Day might mean roasted
and stuffed turkey, turkey mole, beautiful colored salads, atole (corn porridge)
with almonds, all kinds of fritters and eggnog-like drinks.

In other countries of Latin America, the foods associated with the holiday vary.
In Chile, people eat casseroles with turkey and lamb. Stuffed chicken is common
in Nicaragua. And, says Presilla, "as you get down into South America it is not
uncommon to see ravioli served, part of the Italian influence."

One of the strongest traditions is in Cuba, where despite economic and political
constraints, Cubans still try to celebrate Christmas Eve with a whole
spit-roasted pig. Friends, neighbors and relatives chip in to buy and roast a
huge hog.

Presilla and her family, who came to the United States from Cuba in 1970, have
tried to keep the tradition alive. "We've actually done it in our back yard
here," she says. "We dug a pit, filled it with charcoal and covered the whole
thing with corrugated metal. It was lots of fun."

BACALAO A LA VIZCAINA PARA NOCHEBUENA

(8 to 12 servings)

This recipe will appear in Presilla's upcoming cookbook with the working title
of Latin American Cooking (Scribner's, fall 1998).

3 pounds salt cod fillets, preferably Canadian

2 large white onions

2 pounds ripe plum tomatoes

8 cloves garlic, peeled

2 1/2 to 3 pounds russet potatoes, peeled and sliced into 1/4-inch rounds

5 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil

4 large bell peppers, charred in the broiler, peeled, seeded and cut into 1-by-1
1/2-inch strips

1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley

24 pimento-stuffed green olives, whole or sliced

1/4 cup drained capers

About 1 teaspoon salt

12 canned pickled jalapenos, drained and coarsely chopped, with 1/2 cup of the
pickling liquid reserved

Place the cod in a large bowl and cover with cold water. Refrigerate for 24
hours, changing the water at least three times. Drain.

Boil 3 quarts of water. Add the drained cod fillets and cook for 3 minutes.
Drain immediately, reserving the cooking water. Let the cod cool, then shred
into small pieces with your hands. Set the cod and the reserved water aside.

Preheat the broiler. Quarter one of the onions. Broil the onion quarters and the
plum tomatoes until lightly charred on all sides, about 20 minutes. Broil the
garlic until lightly brown, about 4 minutes. In a blender or food processor,
puree the tomatoes, onion and garlic until fairly smooth. Set aside.

In a clean pot, bring the reserved cooking liquid back to a boil. Add the potato
slices and cook until barely tender, about 15 minutes. Drain, reserving the
cooking liquid.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.

In a large pot, heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil, add the tomato puree and cook
over medium heat for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in the cod, pepper
strips, 1/2 cup of the parsley, olives and capers. Add the salt and enough of
the reserved cooking liquid to moisten the mixture, about 1 cup. Mix well, bring
to a simmer and cook for 5 minutes (or more if the mixture seems watery).

Line the bottom of a lightly oiled 12-inch round or 13-by-9-inch casserole with
half the potato rounds. Ladle half the cod mixture over the potatoes. Add the
remaining potatoes in a layer and finish with the remaining cod. Bake for 20
minutes.

While the casserole bakes, slice the remaining onion into 1/4-inch-thick rings.
Heat the remaining 3 tablespoons of oil in a saute pan. Add the onions and cook,
stirring, until wilted and barely golden, about 10 minutes. Remove from the pan,
draining away excess oil. Combine with the jalapenos and the pickling liquid.
Taste and add salt if desired. Keep warm.

When the casserole is ready, sprinkle with the remaining 2 tablespoons of
parsley and top with the onion-jalapeno mixture.

NEW YEAR'S

By the time New Year's comes, almost everyone has had enough of family
gatherings and cooking marathons -- which may explain why around the world New
Year's celebrations commonly take place in restaurants.

In Spain, tradition calls for eating 12 grapes, one for every bell, at midnight.
Says Diane Flamini, social secretary for the Spanish Embassy, "Many people go
out to dinner around 10:30 p.m., so dessert will come at midnight. The custom is
to stand on your right leg, eat one grape and have a slug of champagne every
time the bell rings."

The Scottish celebrate hogmanay -- New Year's Eve -- with passion. Some
traditions have faded over time, like that of children going house to house
collecting pieces of black bun, a Scottish version of fruitcake. But many are
still strong, including "first footing." It's said to be good luck if the first
person to step into your house in the New Year is a dark male carrying a piece
of coal. "Everyone carries their own bottle of Scotch, and every house has
Scotch," says transplanted Scot Vivienne Lassman, co-owner of the Troyer
Fitzpatrick Lassman gallery in Washington. "Then everyone goes to a ceilidh --
that's Gaelic for a party." There an authentic menu includes haggis (an organ
sausage) and neeps (turnips).

In Lebanon, stuffed lamb is served at any celebration, including New Year's.
According to Grace Abi-Najem, of the Lebanese Embassy's cultural committee, in
some communities there may also be a certain amount of plate-throwing,
"following the Lebanese tradition of breaking anything old."

The Japanese celebration of the New Year takes place at home. Kaori Inui, press
officer at the Japanese Embassy, explains: "We spend three days getting ready.
First we clean the house, then we prepare osechi, a traditional meal that can
all be made in advance so the hostess can greet her guests on New Year's Day."
The meal consists of symbolic foods, such as herring rolls (for fertility),
sweet black beans (for diligence), baked chestnuts (for victory) and marinated
carrot and horseradish (for happy celebrations).

Stella Cawley-Kouros and Yanni Kragiopoulos, co-owners of Stella's Bakery in
Rockville, sell hundreds of loaves of the Greek bread called basilopita every
New Year's, each with a coin baked in. At midnight, says Cawley-Kouros, Greeks
"make a cross in the bread, then cut a piece out and give it to the house (the
house should get luck also). Then everyone gets a piece and whoever gets the
piece with coin gets especially good luck."

GREEK BASILOPITA

(Makes one 18-inch round loaf)

This bread, traditionally served in Greece, is probably one of the easiest items
to add to your New Year's celebration.

1/4 cup warm water

2 tablespoons dry yeast

1 cup warm milk

4 1/2 cups bread flour

4 large eggs

1/2 cup sugar

1 teaspoon ground mahleb*

5 tablespoons melted butter

6 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Salt

EGG WASH:

2 eggs

1 tablespoon milk

Pinch sugar

Pinch salt

Sesame seeds or sliced almonds

*NOTE: Mahleb, a seed used in Greek cooking, can be purchased at Asadur, 5536
Randolph Rd., Rockville (301-770-5558), or Thomas Market, 2650 University Blvd.,
Wheaton (301-942-0839).

In a large bowl, dissolve the yeast in the water. Stir in the milk. Add 11/2
cups of the bread flour and stir until smooth. Cover with plastic wrap and let
sit for 15 minutes to proof.

While the dough is proofing, place the eggs, sugar and a pinch of salt in the
bowl of a 5-quart mixer. Whip on medium-high for 10 minutes.

Combine the dough and the egg mixture. Using the electric mixer fitted with a
dough hook, knead in the mahleb, butter, all-purpose flour, the remaining 3 cups
bread flour and 1 teaspoon salt. Place the dough in a clean, lightly oiled
container, cover and refrigerate for 24 hours.

Turn the dough out onto a board and cut in half. On a large nonstick baking
sheet, or a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, press one half of the dough
into an 8-inch circle. Set aside.

Cut the other half into three pieces. Roll each piece into a 30-inch-long strip.
Braid the three strips together. Wrap the braid around the outside of the dough
circle, pressing the ends together to seal. Bury a coin inside the dough. Cover
loosely with plastic wrap or clean towels and place in a warm spot to rise until
the bread is 1 1/2 times its original size, about 3 1/2 hours.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Prepare the egg wash by whisking together the
eggs, milk, sugar and salt. Lightly brush the surface of the bread with egg
wash. Sprinkle sesame seeds or almond slices around the edge of the bread. Bake
for 30 to 35 minutes, until nicely browned. Let cool 90 minutes before serving.

Stephanie Witt Sedgwick is the recipe editor of The Post's Food section.


LOAD-DATE: November 02, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Alan Richardson

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              166 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 05, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 554 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees:

Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs -- 9:30 a.m. Financial institutions &
regulatory relief subc. Legislation; monitoring foreign investments in U.S.
financial markets. 538 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 9:30 a.m. Global warming. 253 Russell
Office Bldg.

Energy & Natural Resources -- Business meeting follows first roll-call vote;
nominations. S-216 Capitol.

Environment & Public Works -- 10 a.m. Transportation & infrastructure subc.
Housing Dept. of Transportation in 2000. 406 DOB.

Finance -- 2 p.m. Women's Health & Cancer Rights Act of '97. 215 DOB.

Foreign Relations -- 10 a.m. Public views on NATO enlargement. 419 DOB.

Governmental Affairs -- 10 a.m. Mark up legislation. 342 DOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration subc. Impact of Section 110 of 1996 Immigration
Act on U.S. borders. 562 DOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Youth violence subc. Prevention of juvenile crime. 226 DOB.

Judiciary -- 2 p.m. Nomination. 226 DOB.

Judiciary -- 3 p.m. Terrorism, technology & government information subc. Report
of President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure. 192 DOB.

Rules & Administration -- 9:30 a.m. Mark up pending business. 301 ROB.

HOUSE

Meets at 10 a.m.

Committees:

Agriculture -- 9:30 a.m. Forestry, resource conservation & research subc. Mark
up declining health of forests on federal lands. 1300 Longworth House Office
Bldg.

Agriculture -- 1 p.m. Risk management & specialty crops subc. Federal crop
insurance. 1300 LHOB.

Banking & Financial Services -- 10 a.m. Mark up block grant consolidation of
federal programs of housing assistance to homeless. 2128 Rayburn House Office
Bldg.

Commerce -- 10:30 a.m. Energy & power subc. Status of global climate change
agreement negotiations. 2123 RHOB.

Commerce -- 10:30 a.m. Oversight & investigations subc. Energy Dept. funding of
molten metal technology. 2322 RHOB.

Education & the Workforce -- 10:30 a.m. Business meeting. Vote on motion to
approve contract agreement with Joseph diGenova & Victoria Toensing to provide
services during Teamsters election investigation. 2175 RHOB.

Government Reform & Oversight -- 10 a.m. Civil service subc. Civil Service
Retirement System & Federal Employee Retirement System. 2154 RHOB.

Government Reform & Oversight -- 2 p.m. Government management, information &
technology subc. Oversight hearing; Advisory Committee Act. 2247 RHOB.

International Relations -- 11 a.m. Situation in Central Africa. 2172 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Oversight of antitrust enforcement. 2141 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Courts & intellectual property subc. Oversight hearing;
Internet domain name trademark protection. 2226 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration & claims subc. Temporary visa for immigrant
nurses. 2237 RHOB.

National Security -- 1 p.m. Military research & development subc. Ballistic
missile threat posed by Iran. 2118 RHOB.

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence -- 2:30 p.m. Nonproliferation. H-405
Cap.

Resources -- 11 a.m. Mark up legislation. 1324 LHOB.

Rules -- 10:30 a.m. Mark up repealing House rule requiring all public committee
meetings to be open to media. H-313 Cap.

Science -- 1 p.m. Space & aeronautics subc. Status & cost overruns of
international space station. 2318 RHOB.

LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              167 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 07, 1997, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

A Test Of Faith; In the Orthodox Church, New and Old Ways Clash

Caryle Murphy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1183 words


In November 1904, 30 Greek immigrant families in Washington, steeped in the
religious faith they had brought from home, began renting a hall near the
Capitol each Sunday to celebrate the Divine Liturgy of their Eastern Orthodox
Church. They called their community Saint Sophia, meaning "holy wisdom."

Nine decades later, the American-born descendants of those early immigrants,
though just as eager to hold fast to their faith, are very different. Most
members of the congregation, now prosperous and well educated, speak little
Greek; about 80 percent of the 5,000 communicants have non-Orthodox spouses.
They drive in from the suburbs for services at Saint Sophia Greek Orthodox
Cathedral, an imposing stone edifice at 36th Street and Massachusetts Avenue NW
that is lavishly gilded with gold and Byzantine mosaics.

Saint Sophia's transformation from a tiny, diaspora outpost of a distant and
foreign church to an established parish shaped by America's pluralist,
democratic culture helps explain why many among Washington's 25,000 Greek
Orthodox faithful felt conflicting emotions during the recent visit of their top
spiritual leader, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I.  Bartholomew, whose U.S.
visit continues until Nov. 17, had a four-day stay here last month that was a
joyful, spiritual event responsible for bringing the Orthodox Church
long-overdue public recognition.

"It was quite an exciting time," said Peter D. Koutsandreas, of Bethesda, an
American University administrator and president of the parish board at Saint
Sophia, one of at least seven Greek Orthodox churches in the region. "The church
was packed during the Divine Liturgy," and "people were crowding around" the
patriarch hoping to speak with him at a reception.

But his presence also stirred up deep undercurrents of discontent -- and
unprecedented open dissent -- from laity who say their Istanbul-based patriarch
has failed to appreciate that his American flock has grown up and can no longer
be led by Old World notions of authority.

"We are a theologically, financially and numerically mature Orthodox church,"
said Dean Popps, 49, of McLean, a member of Saint Sophia who is married to a
convert to his faith and owns a satellite communications firm. "I don't want to
change the lines of authority. I don't want women priests. . . . But I want the
recognition and consideration that we are Americans and that we have a uniquely
American Orthodox experience."

Effie Walsh, a 65-year-old Chevy Chase resident with a doctorate in theology,
calls her patriarch "a very learned scholar and diplomat and theologian. But I
don't think the church in Istanbul is aware of the direction the church has
taken in this country. I think that there has been a lack of appreciation of . .
. the very democratic lay-based church that we have."

The focus of their concern is Archbishop Spyridon, 57, who heads the 1.5
million-member Greek Orthodox Church in this country. Widely seen as having a
mandate from Bartholomew to curb an increasingly independent-minded American
laity, the New York-based Spyridon has been criticized for his autocratic style.
He also has antagonized some by speaking Greek instead of English and by
complaining about women in choirs, the Western style of some icons and the
American practice of kneeling during the liturgy. (The custom elsewhere is to
stand throughout.)

Bartholomew, meanwhile, has drawn fire for partitioning the archdiocese, which
once covered the Western Hemisphere, into four separate dioceses for the United
States, Canada, Central and South America. The decision, Walsh said, was
announced with no warning or consultation with the church's lay congress.

Many Greek Orthodox worry that Bartholomew -- despite his assurances to the
contrary -- will separate the U.S. archdiocese into several districts, each with
a bishop reporting directly to him, in a divide-and-rule strategy that will
weaken the archdiocese's political clout while still tapping its financial
resources.

The American archdiocese sends at least a half-million dollars a year to
Bartholomew, according to church sources, and much more is given by individuals
in private donations.

These concerns have aroused Greek Orthodox laity, who have been lobbying for a
greater role in the church for several years. The 2,000-member Orthodox
Christian Laity, a group based in Chicago, already has published proposals for
reform in such areas as the role of women, financial accountability and the
laity's role in selecting bishops.

A more activist and confrontational group, Voithia, which means "help" in Greek,
has emerged in recent months. Its Web site features newspaper articles and
unsubstantiated allegations of financial and moral improprieties by the church's
hierarchy.

Popps said he and other Voithia members "are sincere reformists" who want a
greater say in governing the church. Spyridon, he said, "was absolutely the
wrong choice to lead this church into the next millennium. And the patriarch has
done little to understand that problem."

Political tensions within the Greek Orthodox Church were reflected in the
refusal of several members to discuss the disagreements openly, for fear of
retaliation.

"Obviously, the church is in turmoil right now," said one local congregant.
"Most people I know deeply love their church, and that love is why they are
upset at what is happening. It's a culture clash of authoritarianism versus the
American style of doing things. . . . We love to do things by rules and to form
committees. We're not used to authoritarian solutions for problems we have."

Koutsandreas acknowledges the criticism but contends that it is overdrawn. "I do
know there is an awful lot of conversation out there," he said. The patriarch
"comes from a different perspective than we do. After all, he is from Istanbul,
and he comes from an ancient church. We in America are far more modernistic than
our church."

At the parish level, Koutsandreas said, lay boards "control the money of the
church, the salaries of everyone, including the priests, who have to sit down
and negotiate with us." And parishioners, he said, have a say in choosing
priests.

Louis J. Tiches, 70, who drives 65 miles from his home in Smithsburg, Md., to
attend services at Saints Constantine and Helen Greek Orthodox Church at 16th
and Upshur streets NW, said he supports some reforms advocated by the lay
dissenters, but not all. The idea of laity electing bishops, for example, is
"certainly in conflict with the traditions of our church," he said. "We are a
hierarchical church, and as such, it is the clergy who will select bishops."

Scott Rafferty, parish board president at Saint George Greek Orthodox Church in
Bethesda, said he also has little sympathy for those who seek more lay powers in
a church that traces its roots to the Apostle Andrew. "The entire notion of
being an Orthodox Church is fidelity to the Apostolic tradition, which is a
clergy-directed church," he said. "So the notion that the laity doesn't have a
large enough role isn't Orthodox."


LOAD-DATE: November 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 1997

CORRECTION: A photo caption that accompanied a story in yesterday's Metro
section about the Eastern Orthodox Church incorrectly referred to a worship
service at St. Sophia Greek Orthodox Cathedral as a Mass. The service is called
the Divine Liturgy.

GRAPHIC: Photo, debbi morello for The Washington Post, Peter D. Koutsandreas,
above, of St. Sophia Greek Orthodox Cathedral, called the visit by Ecumenical
Patriarch Bartholomew I "exciting" but knows the patriarch's perspective differs
from that of the U.S. church. At left, altar boy Nick Saridakis, the Rev. John
T. Taularides and the Rev. Steven Zorzos prepare for Communion during Mass at
St. Sophia.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              168 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 14, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

White House Lambastes Congress; Conservatives Block U.N. Arrears Payment,
Increase in IMF Credit Line

Eric Pianin; Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1067 words


The White House yesterday called "utterly boneheaded" a last-minute maneuver by
Congress that took away United Nations funds just as the administration is
trying to hold together a fragile international coalition against Iraq.

Outraged White House officials and Democrats accused Republican leaders of
undermining the president's leverage with the international community by denying
the administration's request for payment of $ 926 million of U.N. arrears and a
$ 3.5 billion credit line for the International Monetary Fund because of a
long-festering dispute over abortion policy. But by day's end, the White House
appeared resigned to have to again take up the matter when Congress returns next
year.

The move came as Congress concluded what became a highly fractious session that
produced a major balanced budget and tax cut plan but took no action on the
administration's "fast track" trade negotiations legislation. Congress completed
work on all 13 annual spending bills, including one that finances the D.C.
government before adjourning for the year. In other developments:

Legislation aimed at averting insolvency by the Amtrak rail passenger system was
approved by the House and Senate.

Both houses approved a bill relaxing controversial provisions of the tough 1996
immigration law that could have led to deportation of hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants and refugees.

A bill to speed adoptions of abused and neglected children was also passed by
both houses.

Continuing his standoff with legislators of both parties, President Clinton last
night vetoed -- for the second time -- a package of 38 military construction
projects that he had earlier called unjustified.

The 38 projects, with a cost of $ 287 million, had been struck in September when
Clinton became the first president to use line-item veto power. The
administration later acknowledged that perhaps a dozen or so of the projects may
have been struck on the basis of incorrect information, and pledged to correct
the matter. But large majorities in both chambers voted to put all 38 projects
in a single bill and send it to Clinton; administration officials said this gave
Clinton no choice but to veto the whole package. Congress can try to override
this veto with two-thirds majorities when it returns next year.

The first session of the 105th Congress reached its high-water mark in early
August with enactment of a complex agreement with the White House to balance the
budget by 2002, cut taxes and put the Medicare health care program for seniors
on a sound financial footing for the coming decade. Gingrich and GOP leaders
worked closely with the White House in an unsuccessful drive for passage of the
fast-track trade bill. Yet much of the fall was marked by trench warfare over
details of the annual spending bills.

During a meeting with reporters yesterday, Gingrich graded the Congress a
"B-minus" because of its failure to pass the fast-track bill and other
priorities.

The past two months have been dominated by several contentious social issues,
the last being abortion. The White House and House Republican conservatives led
by Reps. Christopher Smith (R-N.J.) and Steve Largent (Okla.) have repeatedly
fought to a standstill over the international family planning issue, and this
year was no exception. The $ 13.1 billion Foreign Operations spending bill
became the backdrop for the fight over conservatives' efforts to prevent
U.S.-backed international family planning agencies from using their own funds to
perform abortions or promote liberalized abortion laws overseas.

The White House threatened to veto the bill if it included any of the
antiabortion language. Frustrated by the administration's unwillingness to
compromise, House leaders stripped the U.N. and IMF funding measures and another
provision aimed at reorganizing foreign policy agencies from the bill. That move
was made with the blessing of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), and
with time running out, the Senate had little choice but to accept the
scaled-back spending bill.

"This is a particularly ill-timed move by Congress at a moment when we are
attempting to work with the United Nations to build an international support for
an appropriate response to provocations by Saddam Hussein," presidential
spokesman Michael McCurry said. "It is utterly boneheaded for Congress to fail
to meet the commitments that the United States has at the U.N. in terms of our
arrears."

Senators on both sides of the family planning dispute took to the floor to
denounce the House.

"It is reckless for the House to do anything to undermine [U.N.] Ambassador
[Bill]Richardson or Secretary [of State Madeleine K.] Albright" in their
negotiations at the U.N., said Sen. Rod Grams (R-Minn.), who supports the
antiabortion restriction.. He said the House action also jeopardizes U.N.
management reforms.

Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.), a supporter of unrestricted family planning
assistance, called the House action "outrageous . . . shortsighted . .
.vindictive . . . inexplicable."

But House GOP leaders said they retaliated only after Clinton and his advisers
refused to give any ground to settle the dispute over the family planning
programs, which receive $ 384 million annually. By limiting their final demands
to restricting groups such as the International Planned Parenthood Federation
from lobbying foreign countries to liberalize their abortion laws, Republican
leaders sought to portray the president as a captive of abortion rights
"extremists."

"They rejected any compromise . . . and they were rigid in their position and I
think it was entirely driven by domestic politics," said House Speaker Newt
Gingrich (R-Ga.). House Appropriations Committee Chairman Bob Livington (R-La.)
insisted, "There's plenty of money to take care of those crises, so we're not
leaving the president in the lurch."

Appearing before the House Banking Committee, Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence
Summers said the congressional action on IMF funding would not affect rescue
plans already announced for Indonesia and Thailand. But he warned that it could
"diminish our capacity to respond to what unpredictable future may bring." That
was a veiled reference to a possible IMF rescue for Korea, where the currency
has come under heavy selling presure and banks are wallowing in a sea of bad
loans.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              169 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 17, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Testaments of Faith

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 271 words


The reference to early Greek immigrants to the District described in "Test of
Faith" [Metro, Nov. 7] was of particular interest to me because my late
grandfather, the Rev. Basil Lambrides, was the priest at St. Sophia Church from
March 1919 until his death in December 1920. Although obituary accounts refer to
funeral services at St. Sophia at 6th and G streets NW, worship actually took
place in the basement of an unfinished building at that location. During his
time at the church, my grandfather participated in groundbreaking ceremonies for
a new building at 8th and L streets NW, but he died before the building was
completed.

Unfortunately, the spirit of ecumenism was not abroad at that time. Although my
grandfather had fled from persecution and torture by the Turks in
Constantinople, he served without incident in Lynn, Mass.; Birmingham, Ala.;
Atlanta; Salt Lake City; Providence, R.I.; and Bridgeport, Conn. However, he
encountered a hostile environment in the District, where he was subjected to
repeated acts of discrimination. As he walked home from church in his billowing
black robes and speaking foreign languages (my grandfather was fluent in seven
languages), he was attacked by mocking townspeople who hurled rocks and mud at
him and his young family. His home was often vandalized.

Nevertheless, as was the case with most immigrants of that period, the traits of
faith, high resolve, resilience and persistence prevailed. Ultimately, the
current St. Sophia and other churches of all denominations are physical and
spiritual testaments to those traits.

DAPHNE R. ROSS

Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              170 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 21, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Immigration Raid Leads to 19 Arrests in Fairfax

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D07; CRIME AND JUSTICE: VIRGINIA

LENGTH: 85 words


Federal immigration agents arrested 19 workers at a Fairfax County landscaping
business yesterday, authorities said.

Agents raided STM Landscape Services Inc., on Phoenix Drive just outside Fairfax
City, shortly after daybreak and charged the workers with being in the country
illegally. Eight workers were from Mexico, eight from El Salvador, two from
Honduras and one from Guatemala.

The same firm was raided in 1989, when agents arrested 26 illegal workers. The
company was fined $ 20,000.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              171 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 26, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Giving a Special Thanks to Eight Immigrants; American Jewish Committee Honors
Foreign-Born Citizens for Their Contributions to U.S. Society

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 761 words


Kamala Edwards, a native of India who lives in Silver Spring, arrived in the
United States 30 years ago with $ 10 in her pocket, terrified of unchaperoned
dating and puzzled when she first heard someone say, "Holy cow!"

Yesterday, dressed in an elegant pastel sari, the professor of English
literature at Montgomery College said she delights in preparing both curried
string beans and Southern pecan pie for Thanksgiving dinners. Then she quoted
Walt Whitman by heart on the essence of diversity in the United States:

Of every hue and every caste I am;

Of every rank and religion.

Whoever degrades another degrades me,

And whatever is done or said

Returns at last to me.

Edwards, 55, was one of eight immigrants living in the greater Washington area
who were honored for their contributions to American society at a midday
"Immigrant Thanksgiving Program" on Capitol Hill. It was sponsored by the
American Jewish Committee, a nonprofit national organization that advocates
Jewish and immigrant causes.

The foreign-born speakers, most of whom became citizens years ago, described
their widely differing backgrounds and odysseys. Among them were an 84-year-old
Polish survivor of the Holocaust, a 25-year-old carpet-cleaning entrepreneur
from El Salvador and a Lebanese American middle school principal whose students
today come from 40 countries.

But two common themes echoed through their stories: gratitude for the
opportunity to live in the United States and support for the principles of
tolerance and diversity that traditionally have allowed immigrants to assimilate
and thrive here.

"Since I arrived here in 1991, it has been like being reborn," said Yelena
Gorina, 45, a Russian Jew who lives in Rockville and is a consultant on air
pollution problems. "For the first time in my life, I feel I am in my place."
Thanksgiving, she added, celebrates not only "those first immigrants who came
here in the Mayflower. It celebrates everyone else who has come here since."

Tuan Pham, 59, a Vietnamese refugee who is now a business consultant in Fairfax
County, described waiting tables and delivering newspapers in Langley Park when
he arrived 24 years ago. He kept a tiny English dictionary in his pocket to
study between jobs. Today, he said, his four children are a computer programmer,
a pharmacist, a government trade promoter and an environmental researcher for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

At home, Pham added, his family celebrates both Asian and American holidays.
Once his wife hinted that it was a special occasion, so he brought home roses
and candy. She thanked him tearfully, saying, "This is the best Ground Hog Day I
ever had."

Although none of the speakers said they had felt unwelcome in this country,
officials of the American Jewish Committee struck a note of concern about
current attitudes toward immigrants. Martin Bresler, a committee official and
board member, said Americans should not cling to "overly romantic notions" about
newcomers, but he also expressed alarm at public ambivalence and hostility
toward immigrants that seem "to be growing wider and deeper."

Last year, Congress passed sweeping legislation aimed at cutting back on both
legal and illegal immigration, largely in response to growing public concern
that immigrants are arriving in excessive numbers, using public benefits without
paying taxes and taking jobs that native U.S. citizens need.

But Doris Meissner, commissioner of the federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service, told the group yesterday that immigrants to the United States have done
"precisely the opposite of what some fear," with the great majority becoming
"exemplary Americans" and adding "immense strength" to the society and economy.

Ghassam Tarazi, 49, said he has gained a firsthand view of the trials and
triumphs of immigrants as principal of Glasgow Middle School in Fairfax County.
With students speaking 32 languages and more foreign-born pupils arriving all
the time, the Lebanese immigrant said, he faces a constant challenge to
introduce them to American culture, institutions and even slang.

During one math class, Tarazi recounted, a math teacher used a sports example
about a batter getting five hits in 10 times at bat. One puzzled foreign-born
student asked, "What's a batter?" Another asked, "What's a hit?"

On the other hand, Tarazi said, the school's diversity has enriched all its
students. "If we look at the ties that bind us, not the ones that divide us," he
said, "we can be way ahead of the curve."


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig, Jan Nowak, a hero of the Polish home army during
World War II and an adviser to U.S. presidents on Eastern Europe, tells of his
personal experiences at an "Immigrant Thanksgiving Program" on Capitol Hill.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              172 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 05, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

INS May Deport Mother Accused of Killing Son

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D07; CRIME & JUSTICE: VIRGINIA

LENGTH: 129 words


A woman accused of killing her infant son by feeding him a prescription drug
dissolved in his baby formula could face deportation proceedings, federal
officials said yesterday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has notified Fairfax County
authorities that Elvia Garcia, 20, may be an illegal immigrant.

Garcia, a native of Mexico, was arrested last week and charged with murder in
the death of her 11-day-old son.

Yesterday, Juvenile and Domestic Relations Judge Michael J. Valentine set
Garcia's bail at $ 50,000.

INS spokesman Ross Bergeron said Garcia could be detained if she is released on
bond or when the criminal case against her is resolved.

However, no deportation proceedings will be initiated until the criminal case is
finished.

LOAD-DATE: December 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              173 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 06, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

'White Australia' in Identity Crisis; Many Fear Asian Immigrants Are Taking Away
Jobs, Culture

Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1471 words

DATELINE: CABRAMATTA, Australia


Danh Ngoc Phung fled her native Vietnam by boat 20 years ago and eventually
found her way to this busy suburb south of Sydney, where she opened a pharmacy
and raised six children.

Now 65, she is a classic immigrant success story: She owns two pharmacies; two
of her children are pharmacists, one is an architect, and three own small
businesses. "It's been good for us here," she said.

Far too good for some Australians, who wish she would just go home. Phung and
other Asian immigrants are keenly aware that they are in the cross hairs of this
country's divisive debate about race relations, immigration and the identity of
a mainly European nation at the far end of Asia.

"I'm scared sometimes," Phung said, noting an increase in verbal and physical
abuse of Asians in the last year. "But there's nothing I can do about it except
remind my children not to go out at night -- it's dangerous."

Since World War II, Australia has grown from a land of 7 million people of
almost purely British and Irish descent into a multihued melting pot of 18
million people, almost a quarter of them born overseas. The transition generally
has been smooth, unmarked by the sporadic violence toward immigrants in parts of
Europe and the United States. But with unemployment now hovering around 9
percent, some native-born Australians are convinced that immigrants are taking
away their jobs and destroying their traditional way of life.

The government's "White Australia" immigration policy, which officially ended in
1973, required immigrants to be of European descent. Since then, Australia
rapidly has become a society of immigrants from 150 nations in Latin America,
Africa, the Middle East, the former Soviet states and many Asian nations.

Last year, almost 100,000 newcomers settled here, more than half of them from
Asian countries and Pacific islands. Sydney has an ever-growing Chinatown, and
outside the United States, Australia has the world's largest community of
overseas Vietnamese, about 200,000 people.

Australia's changing makeup has been welcomed by many who see a new richness in
the nation's culture, food and lifestyle. But some people feel uneasy watching
comfortable old traditions such as cold ale and hot meat pies being replaced by
Singha beer from Thailand and Vietnamese pho soup.

It's 10,000 miles from Sydney to London, Australia's former colonial capital,
and the distance has never seemed greater. Cultural and personal relations have
thinned between Britain and its former colony, as it has vigorously fostered
links with its Asian neighbors. About 75 percent of Australia's exports now go
to Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, China and other Asian nations.

Sensing its changing place in the world, Australia has chosen a decidedly more
Asian tack in its economic and foreign policy. In terms of trade and security,
Australia now pays closer attention to its 200 million neighbors in Indonesia
than to its 3 million English-speaking cousins in New Zealand.

The changes have affected nearly everyone here, from the rising number of
scholarships and slots at public universities won by Asian students, to Chinese
spoken on the streets of Sydney, to the ornate Balinese hardwood furniture that
fills store windows.

But for some Australians, an increasingly vocal force, the changes seem a direct
threat to their security and their children's future.

So when blunt-talking Pauline Hanson, a fish-and-chips shop owner, was elected
to the federal Parliament in 1996, she was like lightning striking a parched
forest. The ultraconservative Hanson's maiden speech in Parliament was an angry
screed against immigration.

"I believe we are in danger of being swamped by Asians," she said. "They have
their own culture and religion, they form ghettos, and they do not assimilate."

When Hanson started her One Nation political party, which claimed that Australia
might soon be run by "multiracial lesbians," thousands of people turned out for
rallies where she autographed posters that show her wrapped in the Australian
flag, standing beneath a banner that proclaims "Pauline the Patriot, and her
fellow patriots."

More angry than articulate, Hanson predictably drew support from extreme
right-wingers, from biker gangs to groups linked to the Ku Klux Klan. But what
startled most observers here was the hidden middle-class rage that Hanson seemed
to have tapped. It was a kind of anger comparable in some ways to the paranoia
that has fueled the American militia movement. Hanson says Australia is being
run by a "bunch of academic snobs" who "wouldn't know what a hard damn day's
work is like." She worries that the United Nations is trying to take over the
world.

"She gives a lot of unhappy people someone to kick," said Phillip Adams, a
prominent columnist and radio talk show host in Sydney.

"They're signing up with Pauline because their kids don't do what they tell
them, because they've got weight problems, because their husband or wife doesn't
love them anymore," Adams said. "They're there because other people seem smarter
or prettier or richer than they are. Because other people win the lottery. . . .
We're looking at problems that require therapy rather than legislation."

Analysts here say Hanson's popularity has peaked, and polls indicate it is now
around 4 percent. Hanson still travels with bodyguards and rarely gives media
interviews. There have been threats of violence toward her, and there also has
been an increase in abuse of Asians, largely attributed to the anti-foreigner
feeling whipped up by Hanson's supporters.

Hanson is still prominent in the public debate here, as she has been for more
than a year. Ask any Australian about any topic, and the conversation seems to
turn inevitably to Hanson, race relations and immigration questions.

Many Australians are clearly embarrassed. They fear she has set back the race
debate by 40 years, to the days when another Australian legislator discussing
Asian immigration uttered the notorious observation, "Two Wongs don't make a
white."

Many here say Prime Minister John Howard is manipulating the immigration debate
for political gain. It took Howard eight months to disavow Hanson's original
speech in Parliament. Even then it was carefully qualified criticism, intended
apparently not to offend Hanson's supporters. "It would be a serious mistake,"
Howard said, "to attack those who are attracted to her as bigoted, narrow-minded
and racist. A few no doubt are. Most, however, are not."

Many political analysts fear Howard may further divide the nation along racial
lines by not fully denouncing Hanson's positions on the Aborigines, who
inhabited Australia before white settlers arrived. She said "red-blooded
Australians" were "fed up to the back teeth" with social welfare programs
designed to correct two centuries of discrimination against the Aborigines.

Australia's highest courts have issued rulings in recent years giving Aborigines
new land rights. Howard's government has proposed legislation to diminish the
effect of those decisions. Parliament has been bitterly debating the issue all
week, and it appears headed for an angry confrontation in the coming days. Some
here worry that the issue could be divisive enough to cause Howard to dissolve
Parliament and call early elections.

"We fear we'll have a federal election based on race, which will tear this
country apart," said Adams, the columnist.

Polls here show that support for immigration is at an all-time low, mainly
because people here believe that it costs jobs. Howard has responded to that
sentiment, cutting next year's immigration quota by 8 percent, or a total of 20
percent since he took office in 1996, claiming that "there is a link between
high unemployment and high immigration."

Most economic analysts disagree. They say many immigrants today tend to be
creative entrepreneurs who start businesses and create jobs in places like
Cabramatta. Crime rates and problems with drugs and gangs are more acute in this
suburb than in most of Australia, but the Vietnamese community also produces
some of Australia's top students, and first-generation immigrants who get their
start here move out to more affluent areas.

The center of Cabramatta has the feel of Adams-Morgan, lively and filled with
small shops and restaurants. A pagoda-style gate leading to a shopping street
known as Freedom Plaza greets visitors in English and at least six Asian
languages.

Clare Khanh Dinhvu, who came to Australia two decades ago as a refugee from
Vietnam and is now an optometrist with her own shop in Cabramatta, says she
thinks Australia is "more racist now than it was 20 years ago."

"Right now we're the scapegoat, it's our turn," she said. "Twenty years down the
road, it will be somebody else's turn."


LOAD-DATE: December 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, kevin sullivan; Illustration, john anderson, NATION OF
IMMIGRANTS Australia has received more than 5.3 million immigrants since World
War II, and since 1973, more and more have come from Asia. While integration of
immigrants has been smooth for decades, there has been grumbling of late that
immigrants are taking away jobs from native-born Australians and changing their
traditional way of life.  Arrival of permanent settlers by decade: 1945 to 1966
1.6 million 1960s 1.3 1970s 0.96 1980s 1.1 1990s (to 1996) 0.39 Immigration by
region of origin in 1995-96 and 1986-87: 1995-96 Asia 39.9 Europe/former Soviet
Union 26.7% Oceania 16.4% N. Africa/Mideast 7.7% Sub-Saharan Africa 5.5% N.
America 2.5% S. America/Caribbean 1.3 % 1986-87 Asia 33.8% Europe/Soviet Union
32.1% Oceania 14.7% N. Africa/Mideast 6.6% Subsaharan Africa 6.5% S.
America/Caribbean 3.7% N. America 2.6 % SOURCE: Australian Department of
Immigration and Multicultural Affairs Asian immigrant Clare Khanh Dinhvu stands
in the doorway of her office.  Danh Ngoc Phung, here accepting a delivery at her
pharmacy in a Sydney suburb, fled Vietnam 20 years ago and has built a
successful business.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              174 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 10, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Red Tape Is Their Specialty; Rockville Service Smooths the Way for Working
Parents, Foreign-Born Nannies

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1033 words


A nervous new mother returning to work is desperate to find a nanny. An obliging
immigrant shows up, asking for modest wages and cooing sweetly to the baby. The
mother is tempted to hire her on the spot.

Then she thinks about Louise Woodward, the British au pair convicted last month
of killing a baby in Massachusetts, and Zoe Baird, whose U.S. attorney general
nomination was scuttled in 1993 because she hired an illegal Peruvian couple and
never paid Social Security taxes for them.

The mother starts getting cold feet. Is the woman's scratchy immigration card a
valid work permit? How will she behave alone with a cranky baby? Is she a good
driver? Can her would-be employers get into serious legal trouble if they lose
their way in the maze of government forms required of those who hire immigrants?

These and other concerns have been the driving force behind Nannylaw, an
18-month-old legal service in Rockville that helps put a working parent's mind
at ease. For a hefty fee that starts at $ 800, co-founders Anne Albright and
Laura Rhodes will check references of prospective household employees, search
police and motor vehicle records for any problems, make sure the employees are
authorized to work in the United States and file the proper tax, insurance and
Social Security forms.

"We got the idea for this practice because I have a great nanny at home, and I
want people to be as happy with theirs as I am," said Albright, 36, a Georgetown
University Law Center graduate who has a 2-year-old and is the daughter of
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright.

In the Washington area, nearly 70 percent of mothers with small children work,
and 11 percent of all families hire at-home sitters for their preschool children
-- more than double the national average. At the same time, finding nannies and
other domestic help is getting harder, particularly given the passage of tough
new immigration laws. Affluent couples and career women are increasingly turning
to other professionals to oversee child-care arrangements.

At Nannylaw, if a family is sponsoring its foreign-born nanny to become a
permanent legal resident, Albright and Rhodes will shepherd the application
through. They advise parents on how to deal with emergencies or ask questions
that will uncover a nanny's views on physical discipline. In a pinch, they also
will get on the phone and explain to an employee in Spanish what she is supposed
to get at the grocery store.

The company is not the only local business that assists employers in hiring
immigrants as domestics. Many families ask their tax lawyers or accountants to
handle the paperwork. Immigration lawyers routinely help employers sponsor
babysitters for green cards. And there are a dozen employment agencies that
specialize in providing qualified, often foreign-born, nannies.

"People have a baby on the way or they lose a nanny, and they panic about hiring
someone," said Rhodes, 39, an immigration and criminal lawyer who speaks fluent
Spanish and is expecting her first child next month. "Many of our clients work
in government or law, and they are very aware of the Zoe Baird situation. They
want to make sure there are no mistakes."

One way to keep a good foreign-born nanny is to sponsor her for permanent legal
residence. But under recent changes in immigration law, the number of visas
issued for such unskilled workers has been cut from 10,000 to 5,000 a year. This
means many applicants will have to wait 10 years or more -- long after their
initial work permits expire -- to be granted legal residence.

At the same time, Congress has made it much harder for illegal immigrants to
stay here, or to return to the United States if they are caught. Last month,
Congress briefly extended a law that lets illegal immigrants who are on track to
becoming permanent residents remain in the United States if they pay a $ 1,000
fine. But after next month, that loophole, too, will be closed, and illegal
immigrants will have to return to their native countries to wait for their
residence permit, or risk being banned from ever returning.

No one knows how many nannies are in the Washington area illegally. But for many
families, the new immigration restrictions have created an agonizing dilemma:
give up a trusted employee or break the law.

Albright and Rhodes try to nudge the legalization process along, but sometimes
there is nothing they can do.

In that case, they explain the legal risks to employer and employee. Sometimes
the employee is let go, and occasionally a family will help her find another job
abroad. But often, neither the family nor the nanny is willing to part company.

"I'm afraid there is very little relief for people in this situation now," said
one lawyer and mother in Maryland who did not want to be identified. "The bottom
line for many of us is this: Unless you're going into public life, what should
you care about more, whether the person has a green card or whether she is a
loving caregiver?"

Carol Smoots, a mother of two children, travels often as a lawyer for McKenna &
Cuneo, a downtown law firm where Albright and Rhodes recently gave a seminar on
nanny-related law. Over the last 13 years, she said, she has employed live-in
sitters from five countries.

"I used to put up with things I wasn't happy with, because the process of
finding a new nanny was so scary," Smoots said. "I've gotten a lot smarter over
time, but you have to take care of all those little things, as much to protect
the nanny and yourself in case anything should go wrong."

In addition to filing the paperwork, Albright and Rhodes try to make sure the
employee is reliable and honest. If a job applicant lies about her immigration
status, references or driving record, for instance, she may lie about other
things. And if she is too young or inexperienced, they can alert the employer.

"A serious crime is very rare, but the Boston au pair case has raised issues of
age and training in foreign workers," Rhodes said. "People have called asking if
background checks will guarantee something like that won't happen. Of course
they can't, but we say the more you know about the person, the better."


LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dayna smith, Laura Rhodes, left, and Anne Albright, co-founders
of the legal service Nannylaw, talk to a client in their Rockville offices.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              175 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 17, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Given High Marks In Naturalization Audit; Citizenship Process Improved, but
Backlog Grows

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 723 words


The good news for the Immigration and Naturalization Service is that after more
than a year of criticism, an independent audit shows it has finally corrected
major flaws in its procedures for granting citizenship to immigrants.

The bad news is that because of a continuing surge in applications and a
processing slowdown while the problems were being addressed, the backlog of
applicants and the waiting times for citizenship -- the factors that spawned the
whole mess in the first place -- are greater than ever.

Having achieved a "dramatic turnaround" in the quality of citizenship
processing, the INS plans to tackle the backlog and waiting times in the coming
year, Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said yesterday. She said the agency expects
to receive at least as many citizenship applications in 1998 as the record 1.6
million it handled in fiscal 1997, but will be better equipped to deal with them
because of increased automation, a new fingerprinting process and other
resources.

In a report released at an INS news conference yesterday, the KPMG Peak Marwick
accounting firm said a new audit of naturalization procedures found that "the
INS has made significant improvements" to its internal controls and "greatly
reduced the risk of incorrectly naturalizing an applicant." An audit released by
the firm in April sharply criticized the INS after finding that new safeguards,
part of an effort to prevent improper naturalizations, were not being
implemented by 23 of 24 INS field offices. Meissner called that report
"extremely troubling."

The problems started after the INS, in late 1995, launched "Citizenship USA," a
program to deal with an unprecedented surge in naturalization applications
stemming largely from a 1986 amnesty that legalized about 2.6 million illegal
aliens. The surge had created a backlog of nearly 600,000 applicants, many of
whom were having to wait a year or more to take their oath of citizenship.

As the 1996 election campaign heated up, the INS came under pressure from the
administration to speed up the program. The aim, as memos from the vice
president's office put it, was to create at least 1 million new citizens by
Election Day, a goal that Democrats saw as helping their chances. The INS says
it rebuffed the pressures.

Republicans soon charged that thousands of "criminals" were being improperly
naturalized in a "rush" to turn out new Democratic voters. An audit found that
out of 1.05 million people who were granted citizenship during the first year of
the program, 180,000 did not undergo proper FBI background checks and more than
70,000 had criminal records.

A subsequent detailed inquiry has narrowed the problem cases to 6,200 --
representing new citizens who were "presumptively ineligible" because of a
criminal conviction or who may have lied on their applications. The INS expects
a final report in early 1998.

The Justice Department's inspector general is pursuing a separate probe of
Citizenship USA to determine, among other matters, whether the program was
manipulated for political ends.

In its follow-up audit of 24 INS field offices that account for 85 percent of
the naturalization workload, KPMG Peat Marwick found that only 11 of 4,000
sample citizenship cases contained processing errors and that no one had been
improperly naturalized. The errors were committed in four offices -- Dallas, El
Paso, Phoenix and Omaha -- and the rest fully implemented the new safeguards,
the audit found.

"This is no small feat," Meissner said. "This audit shows that systemic problems
that have existed . . . for more than 15 years have been fixed." She said she
was confident that all applicants with disqualifying criminal records are now
being caught.

Republican critics charged, however, that the damage has been done and said the
administration may have trouble revoking the citizenship of those found
ineligible.

Immigration advocates lauded the improvement in procedures but urged the INS and
Congress to turn their attention now to the huge backlog of immigrants waiting
to become citizens -- a list that has reached a record 1.7 million people,
nearly triple the number waiting when Citizenship USA was announced. In some
cities, applicants now must wait at least two years to become citizens,
according to the National Immigration Forum.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              176 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 17, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Considers Suspending Deportations of Haitians; Islanders Were Not Protected
Under New Law

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 465 words


The administration is considering ways to formally suspend deportations of
illegal immigrants from Haiti while Congress works out legislation that would
add them to a list of nationalities allowed to stay here under a law passed last
month, officials said yesterday.

The proposed action is aimed at rectifying what the administration regards as
the new law's inequitable treatment of different nationalities among as many as
400,000 people who fled warfare, repression and poverty in Central America and
other countries in the 1980s and early 1990s. The law granted amnesty to
Nicaraguans and certain Cubans. It offered Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Eastern
Europeans an opportunity to remain in the United States through a more
cumbersome and costly process of individual court hearings on suspension of
deportation.

Haitians were left out of the law entirely, stirring protests from the
Congressional Black Caucus and immigration advocates.

"The administration really believes that similarly situated aliens should have
similar treatment," an administration official said.

One option that sources said may be recommended to President Clinton would be to
declare "deferred enforced departure" for the Haitians, a little-used foreign
policy action that can be taken only by the president. Since it came into
existence in 1990, it has been invoked only in the cases of Salvadorans, Chinese
students after the Tiananmen Square massacre and evacuees from Persian Gulf
countries.

Another option could be an instruction to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to exercise "prosecutorial discretion" in Haitian cases, which
essentially would continue the administration's current policy of not pursuing
Haitians for deportation.

After the amnesty law was passed last month, Attorney General Janet Reno ordered
the INS to refrain from deporting Haitians pending a decision by the
administration on how to deal with those cases. Haitian community leaders
estimate that at least 18,000 Haitians, and possibly twice that many, may be
subject to deportation.

Either option would represent a more formal approach than the current policy,
but would still be a temporary solution, officials said. The options are under
discussion in the National Security Council and the Justice Department, and
nothing has been forwarded to the president, they said.

"We're hoping to work with Congress on finding a long-term solution," an
administration source said.

The Senate Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration has scheduled a
hearing in Miami today on the Haitians' plight. Several bills have been drafted
to grant Haitians some form of relief, similar to that accorded Central
Americans. Officials expect the bills to be taken up when Congress reconvenes
next year.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              177 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 01, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Military Changes Guard; Gen. Shalikashvili Retires; Polish Immigrant, Former
Private Saluted by Dignitaries as 39-Year Career Ends

John F. Harris, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 346 words


The nation's military changed guard yesterday, as President Clinton saluted
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. John Shalikashvili at a full-dress farewell
ceremony, awarding him the Presidential Medal of Freedom and hailing the
Polish-born immigrant as an exemplary soldier who "always told me exactly what
he thought the truth was."

Hours later, Shalikashvili's successor, Army Gen. H. Hugh Shelton, a Green Beret
and paratrooper, was sworn in at a private ceremony.

Clinton, Vice President Gore and a gallery of senior military and administration
officials assembled yesterday morning at the parade ground at Fort Myer in
Arlington for the traditional ceremony the Pentagon gives its highest officers
when they leave.

There were marching bands, a flyover of helicopters and jets and a flood of warm
words for the man who in the Army was known as "Shali."

Born in Warsaw in 1936, Shalikashvili saw war early when Hitler's army swept
over his native land.

Moving to Peoria, Ill., after World War II, he went on to a 39-year Army career
that saw him rise from private to the nation's top military officer, the first
foreign-born American ever to hold that position.

Clinton called Shalikashvili, 61, an "exceptional adviser and a good friend" and
said that in a career that took him to Vietnam and Iraq, "Shali has filled a
resume that would turn others olive drab with envy."

In his remarks, Shalikashvili paid special notice to two in the crowd, former
defense secretary William J. Perry, whom he called "my mentor and friend," and
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, whom he called "my special friend."
Albright and Shalikashvili frequently traveled abroad together and worked
closely on Bosnia policy.

But Shalikashvili, who is retiring to Tacoma, Wash., said he wanted to be
remembered for looking out for the interests of average enlisted personnel.
"Others might envy us our high technology equipment," he said, "but they stand
in awe of our young men and women in uniform and the sergeants and the petty
officers who lead them."


NAME: JOHN SHALIKASHVILI

LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, gerald martineau, Changing the Guard At Fort Myer, Gen. John
Shalikashvili gives his wife, Joan, a pat as she cries during ceremony marking
his retirement as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Shalikashvili, a Polish
immigrant who rose in the ranks from private, served 39 years in Army. (Photo
ran on page A01)

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              178 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 01, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Cuban Baseball Defector Gets 'Humanitarian Parole'

William Branigin; Mark Asher, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1031 words


A few weeks ago, when he was earning $ 10 a month as a sports trainer in a Cuban
mental hospital, Orlando Hernandez said he wasn't interested in playing baseball
for money. Now he stands to make millions in the major leagues.

Last night, after a flurry of political and diplomatic activity over the fate of
the star Cuban pitcher, the State Department announced that Hernandez, his
common-law wife and another top baseball player who escaped with them would be
granted "humanitarian parole," allowing them to come to the United States from
the Bahamas.

Plowing through a veritable Bermuda Triangle of political, legal and foreign
policy issues, as well as Major League Baseball rules, the State Department said
the three had been subjected to "harassment" in Cuba and would ordinarily have
qualified for visas granted to athletes and their families. It said five other
Cubans who escaped with them would remain in the Bahamas in the custody of
immigration authorities.

Hernandez, the half brother of Florida Marlins star Livan Hernandez, and the
seven others were picked up from a 20-foot raft by the U.S. Coast Guard in
Bahamian waters Monday and delivered to local authorities, who put them in a
detention center for illegal immigrants.

"For a long time I've wanted to do this but it wasn't convenient," Orlando
Hernandez yesterday in a news conference at Bahamian immigration headquarters.
"I know this decision is going to have a rippling effect on others."

He said the group spent four days at sea and had to eat seaweed and whatever
they could catch. He said they did not plan to come to the Bahamas, but had no
choice once their rickety vessel began to sink.

Greeted by an uncle who arrived from Miami with clothes, including Florida
Marlins gear, Hernandez tearfully embraced his relative and said he wanted to
pitch in the major leagues for his daughters, whom he had left behind in Havana
with his ex-wife. The right-handed pitcher, who has been banned from Cuban
baseball, said his daughters had not known he was leaving.

Yesterday, as Cuban American baseball agents and political activists flew to
Nassau to see the defectors, the group became the subject of maneuvering in
Washington, the Bahamas and Miami, with officials in the White House, State
Department, Congress, the Cuban-American National Foundation and the office of
the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees seeking to sort out their fate.

According to U.S. officials, the White House came under pressure from the Cuban
American community to bring the defectors to the United States as quickly as
possible. However, because of Major League Baseball rules governing free agents,
such a solution might not be in the pitcher's best financial interests.

The case presented delicate problems for both the United States and the Bahamas
in dealing with Cuba, because each country has an agreement with President Fidel
Castro's government to repatriate Cubans who leave the country illegally.

State Department spokesman James Foley, in a daily briefing that was largely
devoted to the Cuban escapees, said the United States "has received assurances
from the Bahamian authorities that a repatriation is not going to happen in the
immediate future."

Foley said the Cubans were all "in excellent health" when they were picked up
and that "all expressed an interest in coming to the United States." Foley said
that because the group was picked up in Bahamian rather than international
waters, the repatriation agreement between Washington and Havana does not apply.
And he described the pitcher as fitting the definition of a refugee, saying he
faces "a well-grounded fear of persecution if he had to go back to Cuba" and
that he has suffered "reprisals" and "harassment" in Cuba because of his half
brother's defection in 1995, "including being banned from playing baseball in
Cuba."

In an interview conducted in Cuba earlier this month and broadcast yesterday on
National Public Radio, Orlando Hernandez said that "I'm paying for what my
brother did." He said that in banning him from playing baseball in Cuba for
life, authorities told him that "since Roman times, the traitors have to pay,
and the families too."

Cuba says it imposed the ban because Orlando Hernandez had received money from a
U.S. baseball agent, a cousin of renowned Cuban American agent Joe Cubas. The
agent is serving a jail term in Cuba.

Another player that Cubans authorities say was banned for the same reason,
Alberto Hernandez, was among the other Cubans picked up with Orlando Hernandez,
to whom he is not related. Milton Jamail, a University of Texas professor who is
writing a book on Cuban baseball, said Alberto Hernandez, a catcher, may be a
better prospect than Orlando Hernandez, although the latter stands to get more
attention because of his relationship with the Florida Marlins pitcher, who won
the World Series Most Valuable Player Award in October.

Orlando Hernandez told NPR that during a 10-year career in Cuba, he won 129
games and lost 47, giving him the best record in Cuban baseball history. Known
in his homeland as The Duke, he said, "I was never interested in playing
baseball for money. I just love to do it."

Although he told Bahamian authorities he is 28 years old, Jamail said Cuban
records show he was born in October 1965, making him 32. Jamail said agents in
the past have often instructed foreign players to lie about their ages to
improve their "marketability."

If the players come directly to the United States and remain here, Major League
Baseball would require them to go through the annual entry draft, in which there
would be no open bidding for their services.

In recent years, some players, including Livan Hernandez, have defected to third
countries such as Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic, established residency
there and became eligible to sign as free agents with any major league team.
Livan Hernandez defected in Mexico and went to the Dominican Republic in
September 1995. He eventually signed a four-year, $ 4.5 million contract with
the Marlins, including a $ 2.5 million signing bonus.

Staff writer Donald P. Baker reported from Nassau.


LOAD-DATE: January 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/marta lavandier, Orlando Hernandez and wife, Noris Bosch,
after news conference in the Bahamas.  Agent Joe Cubas talks to star Cuban
ballplayers Alberto Hernandez, center, and Orlando Hernandez.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              179 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 03, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Driver's Run-In Could Bring Deportation

Wendy Melillo, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 634 words


An Irish citizen who lost her temper over a parking space at a shopping mall and
snatched a man's glasses from his face could be deported if she is convicted of
the felony charge against her, authorities said yesterday.

Catherine Murray, 36, who lives in Herndon, was charged with misdemeanor assault
and felony grand larceny in connection with the Christmas Eve incident in Tysons
Corner. She said she was only responding to what she termed American rudeness
after the driver stole the spot she had staked out as hers.

"At this time, there are no grounds for deportation, but if there is a felony
conviction, we would reassess the situation," said Robert Schofield, a spokesman
for the Washington District Office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service. "We are aware of her problems with Fairfax County police, and if she is
convicted, Immigration will start proceedings."

Murray said she is expecting the worst, but "I don't really care" what
authorities do. "So they send me home," she said yesterday. "It would not be the
end of my world. . . . It should not happen over something as ridiculous as
this."

The homemaker and mother of three has criticized Fairfax County police for
arresting her at home on Christmas and for discounting her claim that the other
driver pushed her first, before she grabbed his glasses. Police said she
declined an offer to defer the arrest until after the holiday.

"If I am convicted, I would not want to stay here anyway," she said. "I am a
law-abiding citizen, and I would have a criminal record for no reason."

Murray said she came to the United States a year ago on her British husband's
intercompany transfer visa, which allows foreign firms with offices in this
country to temporarily bring in highly skilled executives, managers or other
employees. Under such a visa, spouses and children also may reside in the
country for a fixed period of time. Murray declined to discuss her husband's
work, but she said his visa would not expire for two more years.

Schofield said he could not comment on Murray's immigration status. "We are
monitoring the outcome of the court case," he said.

Murray said it would be ironic if a nation founded by immigrants deports her.
"If they try to make immigration an issue, that is not fair or nice," she said.
"The biggest export from Ireland is our people. They have some of the best Irish
people over here."

Of the 50,165 criminal aliens the INS deported last year, 201 were from the
District and Virginia, officials said.

The incident at a Tysons Corner Center garage unfolded about 2:30 p.m. on
Christmas Eve after Murray, with her 8- and 9-year-old daughters and 3-year-old
son, went out for some last-minute shopping. She said she had her turn signal on
and was waiting for someone leaving a parking space when, she said, Ray Johnson
took the spot.

Murray said she never intended to steal Johnson's glasses. "It was something
that was a momentary madness. My inability to walk away from a rude man has
landed me in this situation," she said. She later returned and left the glasses
on his windshield.

Johnson, 47, of Fairfax, later gave Murray's license number to police. Reached
at his home yesterday, Johnson would not comment on the incident. "I have
nothing to say," he said.

If convicted of grand larceny, Murray would face a maximum sentence of five
years in prison and a $ 2,500 fine, while the assault charge carries a maximum
of 12 months and a $ 1,000 fine.

Murray said although she realizes she should have just let it go when she lost
her space, she is glad she defended herself.

"At the end of the day, no matter what happens, I feel fine about myself," she
said. "I don't have any regrets. I can look at myself in the mirror and say, 'I
stuck up for myself.' "

LOAD-DATE: January 03, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              180 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 04, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Months After Tragedy, Manassas Man Fights Deportation

Leef Smith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE WILLIAM EXTRA; Pg. V03

LENGTH: 703 words


Five months after his girlfriend and two children drowned in a Loudoun County
reservoir, Oscar Quinterros is fighting to remain in the United States.

Last week, an Immigration and Naturalization Service judge in Arlington ordered
that the 27-year-old Manassas resident be sent back to his native El Salvador.
Quinterros entered the United States illegally in 1986 and would have been
considered eligible for legal status in this country until he returned to El
Salvador in 1994 to visit his mother, who he believed was dying.

Judge J.M. Bryant denied Quinterros's application to suspend deportation and
said Quinterros must return to El Salvador by Feb. 23.

Quinterros's attorney, Kay Leslie Ackerman, said she plans to fight the ruling
and has written to William Carroll, district director of the INS, asking him to
reconsider the Quinterros case as one requiring "humanitarian relief."
Deportation sometimes is halted if illegal immigrants can prove that leaving
their adopted country would have a devastating effect on either themselves or
their families, Ackerman said.

The deaths of Quinterros's loved ones, Ackerman said, meet that qualification.
"This terrible tragedy that occurred was an overwhelming thing," she said.

If Quinterros were deported, he would have to either leave his daughter, Cindy,
who was born in the United States, or take her to a country she has never known,
Ackerman said.

"View what would happen to Cindy," she said. "The memories of her mother,
brother and sister exist in her Manassas home. To leave the family home would
mean losing the only things she has left."

Quinterros, like many Salvadorans who fled the unrest in that country, was
granted temporary protective status after entering the United States. He would
have been eligible for legal immigrant status here until he returned for the
visit to El Salvador.

Ackerman said trouble started for Quinterros when his mother became ill in 1994.

"My mom was dying, and she called me and she said she wants to see me,"
Quinterros said. His mother, whom Quinterros said he had not seen in nine years,
was "going to die and wants to see me [for the] last time."

Quinterros said he went to El Salvador with his son, Oscar, whom his mother
wanted to meet. But after being admitted to the hospital, Quinterros's mother
began to improve. Quinterros stayed in El Salvador for about a month.

But Quinterros's temporary protective order was valid only if he remained in the
United States; it did not give him license to come and go as he pleased. So
Quinterros paid a smuggler to bring him back to the United States. He was picked
up by INS while crossing the U.S. border into Arizona, and his temporary
protective status was revoked.

Quinterros is a foreman for a Virginia Power subcontractor that lays underground
power lines. Lorena Lima, 28, was a stay-at-home mom. The couple were not
married. Ashley Hernandez, 8, was Lorena's child from another relationship. The
couple had two other children, Oscar, 6, and Cindy, 5. Quinterros told his
attorney that they were very much a family and that he and Lorena planned to be
married and hoped to buy their own house.

Those dreams were dashed last summer.

The family was on an outing at the Beaverdown Reservoir when Lorena, Ashley and
Oscar drowned.

Although it is still unclear how the Aug. 2 accident happened, officials said
Quinterros was the only member of the family who could swim and was about 50
feet from shore when Cindy began jumping and waving her arms. Cindy was
uninjured in the incident.

Quinterros swam toward her, found one of his children and tried to administer
cardiopulmonary resuscitation while still in the water, officials said. Other
rescuers pulled his wife and second child from the water and administered CPR.

Swimming is prohibited at the reservoir, which is between Leesburg and Dulles
International Airport, but officials said people swim there frequently.
Officials said the area is particularly popular with Hispanic families, who
fish, boat and picnic there.

Witnesses told investigators that Quinterros almost drowned in his attempt to
help.

Staff writer Martin Weil contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, family photo , Oscar Quinterros and Lorena Lima with their
children, Cindy, left, and Oscar, and Lima's daughter, Ashley Hernandez. Lima,
Ashley and Oscar drowned in an accident Aug. 2.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              181 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 05, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Democrats Hope to Translate Latino Distrust of GOP Into Votes

Guy Gugliotta, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1731 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


In their drive to win back the House in 1998, Democrats are counting on Latino
distrust of the GOP to unseat Republican incumbents here and in a half-dozen
other districts nationwide.

For Alicia Duran, the discontent is obvious. At 60, she has made a momentous
decision to seek U.S. citizenship, in large part because she fears the federal
government could deny her the social services she earned during 11 years as a
legal, resident alien. If she holds true to form, she, like most new Latin
American immigrants, will end up blaming the Republicans for her inconvenience,
and when -- or if -- she votes, she will vote Democratic.

"Sure, I was afraid they were going to throw me out or take away my benefits,"
Duran said as she waited for an interview by the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service last month. "No, I haven't thought about voting. Why
should I? You have to be a citizen for that."

Like many Latin Americans, the Mexico City-born Duran regards government as an
intrusive, sometimes oppressive presence. And for the moment, citizenship is
something she needs to fend off trouble -- not a civic opportunity. The
Democrats want to change her world view.

"We look at a 10 to 15 percent Latino base, and generally it's not going to be
important in an election," said Rob Engel, political director of the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee. "But when you have activists at work [getting
out the vote], suddenly you have a different situation."

And Duran is one of a multitude. In 1996, Latino voter registration rose an
impressive 28.7 percent over 1992 to 6.6 million, making Hispanics easily the
fastest growing segment of the American electorate. They come from every country
in the hemisphere and make themselves felt politically in areas as diverse as
downtown New York and the Northern Virginia suburbs. But the overwhelming
majority of America's Latino voters are Mexican Americans clustered in a handful
of western and southwestern states where the House Democrats believe they can
prove decisive.

In the San Diego area alone, INS received 50,000 naturalization applications in
the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, more than double the total for the previous
year. In 1996, San Diego resident Al Ducheny registered 18,000 new voters for
the Podemos Votar (We Can Vote) Project.

"It was about six to one Democrats to Republicans," said Ducheny, whose
organization receives money from Democratic-oriented donors. "When I first
started 2 1/2 years ago, it was about 50-50, leaning slightly Democrat."

The policies that helped fuel this growth have been identified with Republicans
ever since Gov. Pete Wilson (R) used California's Proposition 187, denying all
medical, educational and social services to illegal aliens, as a vehicle to help
him win reelection in 1994.

Wilson's success anticipated later actions by the Republican Congress, which has
passed laws restricting immigration and denying social benefits to legal aliens,
and which opposes affirmative action and only reluctantly agreed to raise the
minimum wage.

House Democrats also are portraying Republicans as Latino bashers for their
prolonged investigation into Rep. Loretta Sanchez's contested 1996 election
victory over Republican incumbent Robert K. Dornan north of here in Orange
County. Dornan has alleged that Sanchez stole his seat with the tainted votes of
hundreds of noncitizens.

Courts voided Proposition 187 last year and Congress backed away from much of
its earlier immigration agenda, but the damage is done and Republicans remain
imbued with what a San Diego community activist, the Rev. Henry Rodriguez, calls
"an anti-immigration spirit.

"It opened people's eyes," Rodriguez said. "People who had done everything right
suddenly felt like they were in trouble. They ask me, 'Where do I go?' 'What do
I do?' " The answer, Rodriguez tells them, is, "Get out and vote. And if you
can't vote, get your kids to vote."

This may prove to be the real challenge for the Democrats, because getting the
Alicia Durans of America to go to the polls has always been easier said than
done.

"There is a perception of lack of empowerment," said Gilbert Partida, the first
Latino president of San Diego's Chamber of Commerce. "There is a perception of
lack of power to make a difference."

Among older immigrants like Duran, government may remain a cipher. But for many
younger Latinos struggling to overcome the same lack of skills, education and
money that plagues other minority populations, the system is noteworthy only for
its indifference.

"The politicians came around and said things were going to change," said Daniel
Olivera, 18, a sheet metal worker from inner-city San Diego. "Now it's a year
later, and nothing's changed. It seems like they don't care."

Activists say this attitude is changing, and cite as proof the record 5 million
Latinos who voted in the 1996 general election. But University of Texas
political scientist Rodolfo de la Garza suggests this 19 percent rise over 1992
may owe as much to population increase as enthusiasm.

"The Latino vote, if it turns out, is going to be Democratic. But the dilemma is
to turn them out," de la Garza said. "The evidence [in 1996] is that turnout
increased because the population has grown. We really don't know yet if it's a
trend."

Democrats, who need a net gain of 11 seats to regain control of the House, say
it is. They are betting that Latinos can be the difference in defeating perhaps
a half-dozen Republican incumbents nationwide, including downtown San Diego's
Rep. Brian P. Bilbray, a longtime advocate of the GOP's immigration agenda.

Bilbray would appear to be the perfect target for a Latino insurgency. He
supports measures forcing illegal aliens to return home to legitimize their
status and denying access to public school for the children of illegal aliens.
He is also the author of a bill denying citizenship to U.S.-born babies of
illegal aliens.

His views, he says, are rooted in the belief that no one suffers more from
illegal immigration than legal immigrants -- and that they know it. "I have been
high profile, and I have done it purposely," Bilbray said. "If they want to try
to take me out on illegal immigration, go ahead -- make my day."

The national Democrats intend to try, but City Councilwoman Christine Kehoe (D),
Bilbray's probable opponent, is cautious about relying on a voting block that
has never been there in the past.

Her own council district has a 20 percent Hispanic voting-age population, but of
this number, likely voters are "under 5 percent," she said. "Where California's
Latinos are population-wise is one thing. Where they are on Election Day is
another."

Kehoe currently is most widely known for being openly lesbian, but House
Democrats also believe she is strong enough to win a congressional district that
is virtually split between Republicans and Democrats and where a 13 percent
Latino voting-age population could tip the balance.

To make this happen in San Diego and elsewhere, the House Democratic leadership
has embarked on a single-minded strategy designed to raise Hispanic voter
consciousness and keep the Republicans firmly on the defensive.

The campaign is not subtle. Beginning last summer, Democrats began hammering the
Republicans on the Sanchez-Dornan investigation, using delaying tactics on the
House floor to hold impromptu symposia on what Rep. Sam Gejdenson (D-Conn.) in
an Oct. 19 speech described as GOP "paranoia" over illegal aliens streaming
across the border and "taking over our country."

At the DCCC, Democratic House members are taping Spanish and English interviews
on Sanchez-Dornan, immigration and other issues, and sending feeds to
Latino-audience radio and television stations all over the country.

In an Oct. 29 television spot, Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.), president of the
Hispanic Caucus, noted first in English that GOP handling of the Sanchez affair
"lost all objectivity and merit about seven months ago." Then, in the Spanish
version, he called on "the Republican leadership" to "pay a little attention to
the people that are rising up to say 'enough!' "

And finally, just before the current recess began, House Minority Leader Richard
A. Gephardt (D-Mo.) issued "The GOP-Anti-Latino Congress," an eight-page
diatribe denouncing Republicans for a multitude of sins and stopping just short
of calling them racists.

The Sanchez-Dornan flap was "an all-out effort to intimidate and harass new
citizens and those with foreign surnames and stop them from voting," the
pamphlet said, and Republicans "are advocating an agenda that is openly hostile
to minorities in this country -- particularly Hispanic Americans."

Republicans have been uncomfortably aware of their problems with Hispanics since
the 1996 election, when President Clinton won 72 percent of the Latino vote,
eclipsing Republican nominee Robert J. Dole's 21 percent.

Since then, the GOP has worked hard to regroup. The party has formed a New
Majority Council to promote outreach among Latino voters, and House Speaker Newt
Gingrich (R-Ga.) hired an assistant whose first Spanish-language news release
trumpeted part of the GOP's immigration rollback.

A protracted debate over the party's future course has begun, highlighted in a
memo written in November by veteran California political operative Stuart
Spencer warning that Republicans risk "political suicide" by driving away "the
fastest growing segment of the electorate."

California Republicans have split over an upcoming ballot initiative that would
virtually end bilingual education for 1.3 million public school students
described as "not proficient in English." Democrats have taken no position as
yet, content to let the enemy sweat.

Bilingual education is a complex issue and potentially divisive even among
Latinos. Many recent immigrants want their children to learn English as quickly
as possible, while second- and third-generation Latinos want their children to
learn Spanish in order to maintain their culture.

But nuances disappear in a rough-and-tumble election year, and New Majority
Council President Patricia Harrison acknowledges "we have our work cut out for
us" among Latino voters nationwide.

"Who claims the ground first defines the debate," she added, and the Democrats
raised their flag long ago.


LOAD-DATE: January 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig; Photo, To Democratic strategist Rob Engel, turnout
efforts are key.  REP. LORETTA SANCHEZ

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              182 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 10, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Announces Increases in 30 of 40 Fees

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 531 words


The cost of applying for U.S. citizenship would more than double under a
controversial plan that the administration detailed yesterday, saying it needs
to raise the fees charged for various immigration benefits.

Citing shortfalls of nearly $ 1 million a day in covering costs that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is required to recoup, Commissioner Doris
M. Meissner said she has directed the agency to "take the first step" toward
increases in 30 of the 40 fees it charges for processing applications. The
proposed increases are to be published in the Federal Register on Monday as part
of a procedure for inviting public comment over a 60-day period. If finally
approved by the Justice Department and Office of Management and Budget, the fee
increases would take effect in about six months.

Acknowledging previous criticism of the proposed increases, Meissner said the
fees would not be raised until the INS had improved its "customer service" in
several areas, notably in reducing the waiting times and backlogs for
naturalization. A record 1.7 million immigrants are awaiting decisions on their
citizenship applications, a process that can take up to two years in some
cities.

In perhaps the most controversial of the proposed new fees, the cost of applying
for naturalization, now $ 95, would jump to $ 225. An application for a "green
card," denoting legal immigrant status, would rise from $ 130 to $ 220. A work
permit would increase from $ 70 to $ 100. Petitioning for a foreign relative,
the usual first step in the immigration process, would cost $ 110, an increase
of $ 30.

Some of the steepest increases would involve foreign adoptions and immigrant
visas for wealthy investors. The fee for classifying a foreign orphan as an
"immediate relative" of a U.S. citizen would rise from $ 155 to $ 405, and the
charge for processing an investor visa application would climb from $ 155 to $
350. Making the investor's green card permanent after a two-year conditional
period would cost $ 345, up from $ 90.

"Without eventual increases, which currently are causing INS to lose close to $
1 million a day in fees, the agency would not be able to continue to provide
these services," an INS statement said.

The agency "is in a Catch-22 situation," Meissner said. "We want to improve our
services, and we know our customers deserve better service. But in order to get
there, we have to charge what it costs."

A major problem was that, until recently, the INS has not been able to determine
the real costs of processing its applications for various benefits. That changed
when the agency hired a private management consulting firm to analyze the
largest of its four fee accounts.

A leading critic of the proposed increases, Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.),
yesterday called the INS announcement "a glaring example of the government
imposing a higher price on its customers while continuing to offer inadequate
and inefficient service."

Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) expressed support for ensuring that the fees cover
actual processing costs. "The burden of paying for these benefits should fall on
the immigrants and not on U.S. taxpayers," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              183 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 11, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Ellis Island, N.J. or N.Y.: This Land Is Whose Land?; Dispute Over Immigrants'
Portal to U.S. Goes to High Court

Joan Biskupic, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1230 words

DATELINE: ELLIS ISLAND


Here on the island where America opened its doors to more than 12 million
immigrants, it is easy to understand why New Jersey and New York are engaged in
a duel over which state has proper claim to the island. An ornate four-towered
building from the turn of the century still marks the point that divided a
foreigner's past and future.

"Every time I'm on the island, I feel like I'm walking in my late mother's
footsteps," said Manny Strumpf, a federal worker whose job regularly takes him
to the island. His mother arrived from Lithuania in early 1900 and, like the
others, traveled from station to station in the once-clamorous halls for medical
screening, and questions about work, financial means and moral fitness. This
imposing main building, accented by copper domes and ornaments, is now a museum
visited by close to 2 million people a year.

New York says the Ellis Island legacy began within its borders and the state's
claim to the island should not be stripped away now, despite New Jersey
officials' contention that most of the 27-acre Ellis Island really belongs to
them. Their dispute reaches the Supreme Court on Monday, when the justices will
hear arguments over which state can claim that most of the island is within its
boundaries.

To the victor will go political authority and regulation over a place at the
core of America's historic identity. Because the federal government holds title
to the land, it controls activities on the island and its preservation. But
there is potential for a state to earn revenue from any future building and use
of the island. Except for the renovated main building, which is operated by the
National Park Service, the old immigration structures are dilapidated and most
of the island is undeveloped. New York now collects sales taxes on items sold at
the museum shops, and New Jersey gets revenue from water, electricity and gas it
provides the island. Strumpf, a spokesman for the park service's regional
office, said each state gets about $ 500,000 a year from activities on the
island.

While the financial stakes may be relatively small, bragging rights to a symbol
of American immigration are huge.

"There is no evidence that anyone who lived on, worked at or passed through
Ellis Island during the immigration period believed that the island was in New
Jersey," asserts New York Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco in a filing at the
court.

New York's argument takes on an incredulous tone at some points, seeming
surprised that anyone would challenge the Empire State's claim to the island. In
one section, it compares New Jerseyites to "distant relatives who have neglected
the deceased while he was alive but still hope to inherit his estate." The New
York Times, editorializing on the battle four years ago, called "New Jersey's
attempt to snatch Ellis Island . . . unfriendly, unbecoming, un-American,
untoward, unhelpful, unprincipled, unseemly, unwarranted and underhanded."

But New Jersey officials retort that "a deal's a deal," pointing to an 1834
compact signed by both states that gave New York what was then only a three-acre
island and New Jersey the surrounding waters. As a result, they say the 24 acres
that were created with landfill in the late 1800s and early 1900s for the
immigration center are New Jersey's. That land now holds dormitories, two
hospitals and other administration offices supporting the main registration
building.

Ellis Island's role as a port of entry for immigrants ended in 1954 when the
federal government shut down the main facility, several decades after the
country's peak immigration years around the turn of the century. The grounds and
many of the brick and stone buildings fell into disrepair. In 1990, the
handsomely renovated main building opened as a museum and today remains the
island's only real attraction.

Last year a "special master" appointed by the Supreme Court to take evidence in
the case essentially sided with New Jersey's interpretation of the 1834
agreement and said the state should be able to regulate all but about five acres
of the island.

On Monday, the justices will hear objections from both states to the report of
special master Paul R. Verkuil. The high court is expected to resolve the
dispute of New Jersey v. New York by next summer.

New York insists that the 1834 compact envisioned New York controlling the
island, even if it were enlarged. It also argues that even if New Jersey might
have been able to assert control of the landfill portions, it lost that chance
over the decades as New York exercised longtime possession and New Jersey
acquiesced.

New Jersey, through its filing by state Attorney General Peter Verniero,
counters, "A century of conflict is not acquiescence." The state also points to
historical documents that suggest New Jersey had authority over much of the
island, including tax rolls and maps identifying the land as "Ellis Island,
N.J."

"Some people say Ellis Island is New York's tradition," Verniero said in an
interview. "Well, that's New York's view of the tradition. . . . All we're
really asking is to share. We're talking about a shared history and a shared
claim. We want joint custody of a national treasure."

The Supreme Court has "original jurisdiction" in the dispute between the two
states, meaning no other lower court has heard the case. As a result, the court
had to engage in the unusual practice of collecting evidence, a task it
appointed Verkuil to do. And so for three weeks in the summer of 1996, the
former law professor heard testimony and accepted historical records, some
dating to pre-Revolution days.

In the end, Verkuil agreed mostly with New Jersey and recommended that it should
have control of all but five acres. But in his advisory report to the justices,
Verkuil departed slightly from what he believed the 1834 agreement and a land
survey soon after required. For practical reasons, he adjusted the boundary
between the two states to ensure that New York could reach its part of the
island and to avoid splitting in two jurisdiction over buildings. If he had not,
New Jersey could have ended up with thin strips of land between the main
building (on New York's property) and the ferry slip.

Predictably, New York objects to the bulk of the special master's
recommendations, and New Jersey agrees with most of them.

The Supreme Court can pick and choose among Verkuil's recommendations The
Justice Department, which had discouraged the court from even taking up the
case, generally sides with New Jersey. Its lawyers say because the federal
government holds title to the land, there is little practical consequence from
New Jersey or New York getting greater regulatory control of the activities.

No matter to these two grudge neighbors, who have dug in on their claims to the
historical significance of the island and any future commercial development.

More than 100 million people today can claim a relative came through Ellis
Island.

"Few landmarks have touched the lives of more Americans than Ellis Island," says
the National Trust for Historic Preservation, siding with New York.

"If . . . the federal government were to relinquish control of all or part of
the island and the 'split sovereignty' remedy were adopted," says the National
Trust, "the integrity of Ellis Island's historic character could be in
jeopardy."


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig; Map, larry fogel , "Special master" Paul R. Verkuil
was named by the U.S. Supreme Court to gather facts in the conflicting claims of
New Jersey and New York. He sided with New Jersey's interpretation of an 1834
compact that gave New York what was then a three-acre island and New Jersey the
surrounding waters. Verkuil recommends that New Jersey should regulate all but
five acres of what is now a 27-acre island. The Empire State wraps itself in the
mantle of history, saying that none of the millions of immigrants who landed on
Ellis Island thought they were arriving in New Jersey.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              184 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 20, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Ellis Island Database in the Works; Computerization of Immigrants' Records May
End Visitors' Frustrations

Devon Spurgeon, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 709 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Tuija Itkonen-Cohen knew the date and the boat. But that was of no help when she
came here this week to the heart of American immigration, seeking clues to her
great uncle's arrival in the United States.

Like 2 million others who come to Ellis Island each year in search of
information about immigrant forebears, Itkonen-Cohen was told she had to go
elsewhere. To learn about the arrival of her great uncle and of the family that
he later brought over from Finland, she had to get back on a boat, cross the
Hudson, take a subway to the National Archives regional office in Manhattan and
spend four hours reading microfilm. She sifted through more than 600 names on a
ship's manifest.

"The most frequently asked question is always: Where are the records?" said Peg
Zitko, director of public affairs for the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation.

The foundation hopes to have a better answer by the year 2000, which would
simplify the efforts of immigrants' descendents to find their roots.

Organizers are trying to raise $ 15 million for the foundation, which is not
federally funded, to computerize records for all immigrants who came ashore here
until the immigration offices were closed in 1954. The initial phase will
computerize the records of the 20 million people who came through between 1892
and 1924.

The immigration records will be accessible on the Internet and on terminals here
on the island.

The archives project is run by the foundation, which works with the National
Park Service.

According to the foundation, 40 percent of all Americans can trace their
ancestry back to the island.

That 27-acre island in New York Harbor was a ruin until a $ 162 million
restoration project began to reclaim some of its buildings in the 1970s. Its
symbolic importance for a nation of immigrants has fueled an acrimonious court
battle between New York and New Jersey, each of which claims the island. The
Supreme Court last week heard arguments over where the state line should run
across an island that is as much history as real estate.

The crown jewel of Ellis Island is the Great Room, with its tiled cathedral
ceilings and windows looking out at the New York skyline. The Great Room, which
has been restored to its early splendor, was where the original immigration
records were compiled. Each immigrant was interviewed by immigration officers
who noted the name of the ship used, the person's name, date of arrival, city
and country of origin, marital status, relatives in the United States and
destinations.

The immigration officers often spelled the names wrong. But on the restored
Ellis Island, this problem will be addressed. For those who don't have a clue as
to the correct spelling but know the pronunciation, the foundation has developed
a computer program that upon hearing a name will formulate a list of possible
spellings.

Given the progress that has been made in restoring Ellis Island, the inability
of visitors to find out about their relatives while they are at the site has
been a source of frustration.

For those without specific immigration information, an ancestor's surname may be
all that will be needed if it is uncommon enough, once the computerized database
becomes operational. A printout of immigration information will be made
available and, for a fee, so will a reproduction of the actual manifest.
Foundation officials have yet to determine the costs of using the system.

"If you have the name but that is all you have, you cannot go right to the
manifest," said Zitko. "If you have the name and know they came through during
that era, that data should come up for the bulk of the people."

Almost everyone who delves into immigration records finds something new.
Itkonen-Cohen found at the National Archives a record on her great aunt, who she
learned made the journey with two small children while pregnant. Since women
were not allowed to leave Ellis Island unescorted, she thinks her great uncle
must have met them there.

But the biggest surprise was that the record indicates that their destination
was Red Lodge, Mont. Said Itkonen-Cohen, 35, who came to this country eight
years ago to work as a graphic artist: "I have no idea what they were doing in
Montana."


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, library of congress, Millions of immigrants entered the United
States through the main building on Ellis Island. (1905 photo)

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              185 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 28, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

20 Indicted in Alleged Scheme To Falsify Citizenship Test Data; As Many as
13,000 Immigrants' Exams Involved

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 822 words


Federal authorities yesterday announced the indictment of 20 people accused of
involvement in a nationwide scheme to falsify the citizenship test results of as
many as 13,000 immigrants in 22 states, including Virginia and Maryland.

Capping a two-year investigation, federal agents began rounding up the alleged
ring members in California and three other states as the indictments were
unsealed by the U.S. attorney's office in Sacramento.

It was not immediately known how many of the 13,000 immigrants who benefited
from the testing fraud have already received U.S. citizenship, officials said.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which participated in the
investigation, said it would review each case to determine whether the agency
should require a new test, revoke the citizenship or prosecute the applicant for
immigration fraud.

Critics of the INS said the agency has failed to take adequate measures against
citizenship testing fraud and has persisted in using private entities despite
evidence that they could not be properly monitored.

In an interview yesterday with reporters and editors of The Washington Post, INS
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said citizenship testing procedures would be
overhauled in the next several months.

Meanwhile, she said, the "parent companies" responsible for the testing under a
privatization program should strictly monitor their own operations and those of
their affiliates. She said that only 15 percent of citizenship tests are
conducted by private groups, with the INS administering the rest.

The case represents the latest blow to an INS naturalization program that has
been plagued by charges of fraud and mismanagement in recent years.
Congressional Republicans have charged that thousands of immigrants with
criminal records were improperly naturalized under the program during 1996 as
part of a "rush" to turn out new citizens in time for the elections. The INS
insists the program was intended to deal with record increases in citizenship
applications.

"The conduct alleged in these indictments is appalling," said Paul L. Seave, the
U.S. attorney in Sacramento. The defendants have "tarnished the honor" of U.S.
citizenship by selling a piece of the process "like a used appliance at a flea
market," he said.

Justice Department Inspector General Michael R. Bromwich said his office
launched the investigation in late 1995 after receiving a tip from one of the
six private entities that had been authorized by the INS to conduct testing of
citizenship applicants. Since the privatization program began in 1991, the six
organizations have subcontracted the actual administration of the tests to
hundreds of groups around the country.

The 20 defendants named yesterday were subcontractors for three INS-accredited
organizations: Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N.J.; Southeast College
National Testing Organization of Houston; and a group called NAS that was kicked
out of the program last year over irregularities by its affiliates. Bromwich
said no evidence of wrongdoing by any of the three was found in this case.

The defendants ran six testing sites, mostly in California. In return for fees
ranging from $ 150 to $ 300 per applicant, the defendants would guarantee that
those seeking citizenship would pass the tests that the INS requires to
demonstrate knowledge of U.S. history, civics and the English language,
prosecutors said. The tests normally cost $ 30.

Prosecutors said the defendants would supply correct answers to the test-takers,
permit them to compare answers and even complete the exams for them. Some
clients were permitted to fail the first time, then given passing grades in a
subsequent exam so that passage rates would not appear abnormally high. As part
of the investigation, undercover agents posing as citizenship applicants took
the tests and even received certificates of passage by mail on behalf of
nonexistent applicants.

Of the 20 defendants, all but two are naturalized immigrants, mostly from
Vietnam, Cambodia, Afghanistan and India. Their clients paid them a total of
more than $ 3 million for the test results, prosecutors said. They operated
primarily in California, Oregon, New York and Nebraska, but used associates to
recruit applicants in ethnic communities in other states, including Vietnamese
and Cambodians in Maryland and Virginia, officials said.

Among those arrested were Vietnamese-born Thanh Ngoc Nguyen, 37, and his wife,
Ha Nguyen, 25, of Elk Grove, Calif., who ran a company called International
Multiple Services, which served as a subcontractor for Educational Testing
Service. A spokesman for Educational Testing Service, a nonprofit company, said
it welcomes the arrests and believes that private groups can still play a useful
role in citizenship testing.

If convicted on the fraud charges, the defendants face up to 10 years in prison
and a $ 1 million fine.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              186 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 28, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Building a Business on the American Dream; Special Properties Realty Wants to
Empower Immigrants and Minorities Through Homeownership

Peter A. McKay, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE WILLIAM EXTRA; Pg. V05

LENGTH: 742 words


Tina Garcia remembers an Asian immigrant who came to her after other real estate
agents said he wouldn't be able to buy a house because he had no money in the
bank for a down payment.

Garcia instead asked him, "Do you have anything of value?"

"He went out to his car and came back with $ 22,000 in a pillowcase," said
Garcia, president of Special Properties Inc. in Lake Ridge. "He just didn't
trust banks."

Special Properties specializes in serving minorities and immigrants, whose
values and customs about personal finance sometimes distinctly influence their
home-buying decisions, Garcia said.

In addition, the company's work educating home buyers and as a government
contractor has gained Garcia a national reputation as an expert on issues such
as housing discrimination, military relocations and turning low-income families
into homeowners. First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton named Garcia the 1997
National Working Woman of the Year.

Garcia, whose own family received welfare during her childhood in Manassas, said
her main goal is to empower people through homeownership, not just to sell
houses. She declined to disclose Special Properties' revenue but said 1997 was
the most profitable year in its 12-year existance.

Special Properties participated in the sale of about 1,000 houses in 1997, most
of them in the Washington area, Garcia said.

"A house not only represents a place to live, but it represents security, a
place to put down roots," said Garcia, 41. "I would do what I do for free,
people appreciate it so much."

Chang Man Park, of Manassas, is one such appreciative customer. When Park bought
his first house, Garcia acted as his agent for a now-defunct real estate sales
company. Since starting Special Properties, Garcia has helped Park buy two more
houses, a condominium and the office space for his Manassas martial arts school.

"What makes Tina different is that she'll help you buy a $ 50,000 home, and
she'll help you buy a $ 10 million home," said Park, owner of Oriental Sports
Academy. "Whether you drive in with an Escort or a Rolls Royce, there's no
difference to her."

Park, who immigrated to the United States from Korea in 1969, said he already
understood the home-buying process fairly well when he went to Special
Properties. But that's not necessarily true of clients who immigrated more
recently, Garcia said.

Garcia said she remembers one Egyptian man who bought a house for himself in
Lake Ridge through Special Properties and another one nearby for his family but
through another agency.

"I asked him why he didn't use us for the second one, if we'd done something
wrong," Garcia recalled. "He said, 'No, but you never said you could sell more
than one.' "

Besides its work with Prince William area residents, Special Properties also
operates a housing office at Anacostia Naval Station that serves about 2,000
military staff members and retirees a month, said Garcia, who served in the Air
Force after graduating from Stonewall Jackson High School.

At the Anacostia office, which has been open since 1996, agents use a nationwide
database of real estate agents, properties and other local agents to help
military families with their frequent, often abrupt, relocations, said Anacostia
office manager Jean Bayuk.

Special Properties also maintains a World Wide Web site,
http://www.militaryhousing.com, which provides information about relocating.

Under a separate government contract, Special Properties manages Department of
Housing and Urban Development properties in the Washington area, preparing them
for move-in and sometimes helping low-income residents secure government loans
to buy houses.

Garcia, Special Properties' staff and the company's contractors also give
lectures to consumers and real estate professionals on subjects such as
diversity and fair housing.

"We're really more like real estate consultants," Special Properties agent Julie
Allardyce said, describing the company's philosophy.

Although the real estate industry norm is to pay agents solely through
commissions, Allardyce and Special Properties' 11 other agents are salaried,
company officials said. That arrangement allows the brokers to act more in the
customer's interest rather than their own, they said.

"Real estate agents can help people a lot, but on commission they sometimes
don't," Allardyce said. "I can spend more time here giving advice, just helping
people."


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, larry kobelka for The Washington Post, "A house not only
represents a place to live, but it represents security, a place to put down
roots. I would do what I do for free, people appreciate it so much," says Tina
Garcia, president of Special Properties Inc., which specializes in serving
minorities and immigrants. She says her main goal is to empower people through
homeownership, not just to sell houses.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              187 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 31, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

EU Ministers Agree to Fingerprint Refugees

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16; WORLD IN BRIEF: EUROPE

LENGTH: 149 words

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, England


European Union interior ministers agreed that their countries can fingerprint
refugees, said the Italian minister, whose country faces increased flows of
Kurdish asylum-seekers.

"It means we can make real progress . . . in preventing multiple applications by
asylum-seekers in different countries," Giorgio Napolitano said at the end of
the two-day gathering of interior and justice ministers of the 15 EU nations.

The EU's concern about illegal immigration was heightened by the possibility
that thousands more Iraqi and Turkish Kurds could flee if the United States
bombs Iraq, Napolitano said.

A plan to fingerprint refugees and exchange prints among EU countries was
proposed in an action plan on immigration announced earlier this week in EU
headquarters in Brussels. It was a reaction to the recent arrival on Italian
shores of hundreds of Kurdish refugees from Turkey.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              188 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 31, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

21 Face Sham-Marriage Counts

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, N.Y.


Twenty-one people were indicted on charges of arranging or entering into
marriages of convenience to help 10 foreigners get their green cards.

The three alleged ringleaders who set up the nuptials and served as marriage
witnesses were charged along with 18 of the marriage partners.

The immigrants, nine men and a woman from Peru, Colombia, Brazil and Ecuador,
were married to 10 U.S. residents from western New York and Pennsylvania. Two
women who were married were not charged. Prosecutors would not say why.

After obtaining marriage licenses from small-town justices between 1995 and
1997, the couples allegedly went their separate ways.

Each of the Americans was paid to be wed, but prosecutors would not say how
much. The defendants were charged with conspiring to commit immigration marriage
fraud. Each could get five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine.

Immigrants who marry American citizens can obtain a U.S. residency visa, or
green card.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              189 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 08, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

The Bilingualism Debate Remakes California Politics

Gregory Rodriguez

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 1695 words


Over the past two decades, there has been no more potent symbol of the tension
over immigrants and how they assimilate than bilingual education. We have come
to think of it in ideological rather than instructional terms, to approve or
disapprove according to our political affiliations. Since federal law first
required that public schools provide special language instruction to English
learners, liberals have generally rallied in support, citing the benefits of
maintaining immigrant children's ethnic and linguistic heritage. Conservatives
and anti-immigrant activists, meanwhile, have tended to react against such
measures, arguing that today's immigrants are not as eager to "Americanize" as
their predecessors were. The racial implications are clear.

But in California, where socially divisive ballot measures have recently sparked
national debate, this characteristic political split is becoming a thing of the
past. Beyond the state's rapid demographic shifts, what is striking to observe
here today is how both liberals and conservatives are refraining from rushing
into potentially racially charged issues. And there's no clearer example of that
than in their responses to a recent ballot measure that would all but abolish
bilingual education in California's public schools.

When "English for the Children" first surfaced last May, it looked like the
logical political descendant of the state's recent campaigns against illegal
immigration and affirmative action -- the newest target for the state's
disproportionately large Anglo electorate. Presumably, much of the white
electorate, led by conservatives and anti-immigrant activists, would line up to
support the initiative, while liberals and Latinos would reject it.

But with Election Day only four months away, an entirely different political
dynamic has emerged. Surprisingly, polls show that the majority of Latino voters
favor the initiative. And neither the state's Republican Party nor the ascendant
Latino political leadership has stepped forward to spearhead campaigns for or
against the ballot initiative. This new detente is a marked shift from the
contentious racial battlefield of California's past few elections.

The new educational initiative would reduce an uneven, controversial and widely
misunderstood program to a single year of transitional classes for children who
speak English as a second language. Despite its name, bilingual education has
nothing to do with bilingualism -- and never has. The language of the current
policy is both simple and vague in stating its primary goal: "as effectively and
efficiently as possible, to develop in each child fluency in English." The vast
majority of bilingual programs already expect children to move into mainstream
English classes after three or four years of instruction in their primary
language. They are designed to teach children how to read and write in their
native language in the belief that they will then be better able to learn
English.

The implementation of these programs varies widely from district to district. In
fact, only 30 percent of California's 1.4 million limited-English students are
now in bilingual programs. And the jury is still out as to whether bilingual
education can be effective on a wide scale. A year ago, the National Research
Council released a report claiming that politicization of the issue was
hampering reliable research. Add all that uncertainty to California's current
political scene and you come up with some surprising results.

Until recently, the state's Republican Party could back a potentially racially
divisive campaign like "English for the Children" without tempting electoral
fate. Whatever else it may have been, Proposition 187 -- the measure on the 1994
ballot that denied educational and medical benefits to illegal immigrants -- was
an attempt to turn back the Latinization of the Golden State. And Proposition
209, the initiative against affirmative action that passed in 1996, was a
soon-to-be minority group (whites) attempting to level a playing field many felt
had turned against them. Within the next four years, according to the state
Department of Finance, non-Hispanic whites will become a minority group in the
largest state in the union.

But whites are still the majority at the voting booth, comprising 74 percent of
California's voters in 1996. And while Latinos make up nearly one-third of the
state population, they have been proportionately underrepresented in the state's
electorate. For decades, both major parties have routinely factored Latinos out
of their voting calculus.

But, beyond demographics, the state GOP has reason to fear the fast-growing
Latino electorate. Anger engendered by Proposition 187 and the partial denial of
government benefits to legal immigrants have pushed Latino civic and political
participation rates to all-time highs. Mexican immigrants are applying for
citizenship at historically unprecedented levels. In the 1996 presidential
election, Latino voters cast ballots at a higher rate than the state's voters as
a whole, and they also punished the GOP by voting more heavily Democratic than
they had before.

As a result, California's Republican leadership is wary of attaching the party
to any initiative that could open them up to new charges of being anti-Latino or
anti-immigrant. Indeed, state GOP chairman Michael Schroeder, who personally
opposes bilingual education, has publicly distanced the party from the "English
for the Children" ballot measure.

The State Republican Caucus, which most likely would have championed this
measure a year ago, is split over how to deal with the initiative. Rod Pacheco,
who in 1996 became the first Latino Republican elected to the Assembly in 115
years, says that among Republican lawmakers "there's a reticence to plunge
headlong into a political issue until we've surveyed the whole scene to see what
impact it would have on other populations." Three months ago, Republican
strategist Stuart Spencer warned that the party was committing "political
suicide" by alienating Latinos.

Yet the early polls have shown that Latino registered voters support the
initiative by as big a margin as 66 percent to 30 percent -- though the numbers
may not remain as lopsided once the media campaign begins in earnest. Those
figures are forcing the state's Latino activists and lawmakers to rethink their
strategy on bilingual education (not long ago, they would have gone down
fighting any attempt to overhaul it). And while most caucus members oppose the
ballot initiative, they are reluctant to resort to calls of racism to fight it.

The growing political power and maturity of the 17-member State Latino Caucus
has also made Latino lawmakers far less parochial than they once were. For the
past year and a half, the Latino leadership has adopted the slogan "Latino
Issues Are California Issues," showing its determination to better straddle the
hyphen between its ethnicity and its Americanness.

At the same time, civil rights-era issues that once would have garnered
unanimous support have been declining in importance. According to a survey
conducted last year by Fernando Guerra, a political scientist at Loyola
Marymount University, Latino officials don't consider bilingual education among
their top five cutting-edge issues. So, while the Latino political elite will
fight "English for the Children," they will not gamble large amounts of money or
political capital to do so.

The coordinator of the campaign to fight the initiative has vowed not to inject
"challenges of racism" into the debate. Arturo Vargas, executive director of the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, thinks this
non-racialized strategy is a lesson learned from the ill-fated campaigns to
defeat the anti-illegal immigration and affirmative action initiatives. "The
leadership was using race in 1994 and 1996. That rhetoric may have driven up the
yes vote," he says. "If you get up to say it's racist, you tend to lose
credibility."

The political no-man's land into which this initiative has descended is
strangely reflective of its sponsor, Ron Unz, the software entrepeneur who
challenged Gov. Pete Wilson in the 1994 Republican primary. Unz does not include
immigrant bashing in his portfolio. Indeed, while Wilson was riding the
anti-immigrant wave of Proposition 187 to an electoral landslide, Unz was a
featured speaker at a 70,000-strong pro-immigrant rally in October 1994.

Unz is acutely aware that his victory will be morally hollow if a substantial
portion of the Latino electorate does not support it. He has framed the measure
as a civil-rights cause undertaken on the behalf of Latino immigrants and their
children, and chosen a Latina bilingual teacher for his co-chair.

Even if some opponents of the initiative racialize the campaign in the next few
months, their attempts may backfire. "It takes two to tango," says Allan
Hoffenblum, a Republican strategist who has lamented the party's treatment of
Latinos. "If the Unz campaign has no tinge of racism, then the other side won't
be able to use it either." Unz has worked hard to keep race out. After all, it
wouldn't take much for wary Latino voters -- no matter how they feel about
bilingual education -- to feel browbeaten if the debate takes on the slightest
racial tone.

Shifting demographics and recent bruising political battles have created an
environment in which nobody wants to fire a racial shot. And while there's no
guarantee that the newfound civility will survive this or future campaigns,
there is no doubt that the past few years have made California's political
establishment more aware of the need to better negotiate the state's racial and
ethnic diversity. "It almost makes one think that we're turning in the right
direction," says Pacheco. Of course, none of this actually means that
Californians have suddenly learned how to love one another -- just that playing
the race card no longer ensures a winning hand.

Gregory Rodriguez, an associate editor at Pacific News Service, is a research
fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy.


LOAD-DATE: February 08, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, gayle hegland for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              190 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 09, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

INS Proposing Citizenship Test Overhaul; New Screening Process To Cut Fraud,
Delays

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1123 words


The administration will announce a plan today to revamp the naturalization
process, using Information Age technology to reduce the chances of granting U.S.
citizenship to criminals and other ineligible applicants.

Release of the plan, developed in a nearly year-long study by the Coopers &
Lybrand consulting firm, coincides with a separate report on an audit to
identify criminals who were naturalized in a controversial program that was
investigated last year by Congress. About 6,000 immigrants naturalized in a
13-month period before the 1996 general election are subject to having their
citizenship revoked, most of them for failing to reveal arrests on their
applications, that audit found.

The modernization plan builds on a long-overdue automation drive the Immigration
and Naturalization Service has initiated, according to agency officials familiar
with the proposal. It would require electronic fingerprint checks at several
points in the naturalization process, tighten INS control over key data to
prevent fraud, use bar codes and the Internet to speed up the system and
eventually allow an applicant to be sworn in as a U.S. citizen immediately after
an INS interview.

The aim is to close loopholes in the system while improving "customer service"
and reducing waiting times to six months or less, INS officials said. At
present, about 1.7 million immigrants are in line to become U.S. citizens, and
waiting times exceed two years in some cities.

The Coopers & Lybrand plan, called "A Blueprint for the New Naturalization
Process," would replace a system that relies on millions of paper files and
time-consuming, often repetitive clerical work. The system was overwhelmed when
citizenship applications began to surge a few years ago, driven largely by a
1986 amnesty for illegal aliens. From their previous levels of around 300,000 a
year in the early 1990s, applications jumped to 1.3 million in 1996 and about
1.6 million last year.

A 1995 program to speed up the process and reduce growing backlogs became
embroiled in partisan political wrangling, with Republicans charging that
thousands of criminals were being naturalized in a "rush" to create new citizens
in time for the 1996 elections. When it later emerged that 180,000 immigrants
had slipped through the system without proper criminal background checks, the
INS faced a stinging accusation: that it had cheapened American citizenship.

Because of that fiasco, the Justice Department hired the KPMG Peat Marwick
accounting firm to help determine how many people were improperly naturalized
and engaged Coopers & Lybrand to produce a plan for thoroughly revising the
system. The plan is to be presented today to Congress, which must approve
funding for parts of it not covered by appropriations intended to modernize the
INS.

The INS expects to implement the plan gradually and to have the complete new
system in place within two years. Because some parts of it are covered by INS
fees and $ 211 million in extra expenditures for automation in the current
budget, officials said it is difficult to put a total price tag on the overhaul.

Under the proposal, an information packet would be offered to applicants in at
least five languages, and possibly as many as 14, to help them understand the
process from the start and screen themselves to determine their eligibility for
citizenship. Currently, the INS does not initially screen applicants for
eligibility and finds out only at the end of the lengthy process that some
applicants do not meet such basic conditions as having been legal U.S. residents
for five years.

An application normally would begin with a call to a new telephone center, which
would create an electronic file and send the applicant a form containing key
biographical data and a bar code. The form would authorize the applicant to take
the required tests on U.S. civics, history and English proficiency.

The tests, which would be standardized nationally, would come at the beginning
of the process instead of toward the end, as is currently the case. This would
further screen out ineligible applicants, INS officials said. Of 1.27 million
applicants in 1996, about 10 percent were rejected because they failed the
tests.

At the testing center, applicants would be required to submit two forms of
identification, including their "green cards" denoting legal immigrant status,
and have fingerprints taken electronically. After they passed the test, their
fingerprints would be taken again, along with digital photographs, when they
paid their application fee at an INS facility. The fingerprints would then be
transmitted electronically to the FBI for criminal background checks. Only then
would the immigrant complete an application form and submit it with supporting
documents to an INS service center.

To ensure that the INS is dealing with the same person throughout the process,
fingerprints would be scanned again when the applicant returned for an interview
with an INS adjudicator and once more at the oath-taking for new citizens.

INS officials said the new system probably would eliminate citizenship testing
by private groups, which the INS began allowing in 1991 to reduce its workload.
Several major cases of testing fraud involving thousands of applicants have been
discovered in recent years. Coopers & Lybrand criticized the privatized system
as susceptible to abuse.

In the separate KPMG Peat Marwick audit of naturalizations from August 1995 to
September 1996, the firm found that 92 percent of the 1.05 million people who
were granted citizenship during that period had no criminal histories. Of the
remaining 8 percent, or nearly 81,000 people, more than three-quarters had
records on file with the FBI because of "INS administrative actions" or
misdemeanors that did not disqualify them from citizenship.

In 17,270 cases, a detailed review was required because of a conviction for a
felony or "crime of moral turpitude," or because of failure to reveal an arrest
for such an offense, the audit found.

In the end, 368 new Americans were found "presumptively ineligible" for
citizenship because of a criminal conviction, and another 5,951 apparently had
lied on their applications. So far, the INS said, it has notified more than
1,200 people that it intends to revoke their citizenship.

Congressional critics have charged, however, that the full extent of the debacle
may never be known. For the 180,000 who were naturalized without proper
background checks, the auditors were able to check for matches in the FBI's
database only by name, not by fingerprints. Of the total, about 9,000 had some
sort of "rap sheet" and were included in the detailed review, INS officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: February 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              191 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 10, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Study Indicates INS Naturalized Thousands of Ineligible Applicants

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 688 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday released the results of a
new study showing that the agency apparently granted U.S. citizenship to more
than 38,000 immigrants over a 13-month period despite evidence they failed to
meet one or more basic requirements.

The study, conducted last fall by the INS and the KPMG Peat Marwick accounting
firm, also showed that INS offices made at least one processing error in more
than 90 percent of the naturalization cases reviewed.

The INS said the problems, associated with naturalizations from August 1995
through September 1996, have since been corrected. Critics of the agency said
the survey suggests that a breakdown in the citizenship process during that
period was worse than previously indicated.

The study, a randomly selected sample of the naturalization cases, was presented
to Congress yesterday along with two separate KPMG Peat Marwick reviews of the
citizenship program and a plan by the Coopers & Lybrand consulting firm for
revamping the entire naturalization system.

In the sample of 5,438 naturalizations drawn from the period under review, the
INS-KPMG Peat Marwick study found the INS had made at least one of 25 possible
processing errors in 90.8 percent of the cases. The average was two errors per
case. The mistakes ranged from omitting a notation in the file to failing to
document the required criminal background check.

Three INS offices -- Miami, New York and Newark -- had error rates of 99 percent
or higher. In 71 percent of the surveyed cases, the files failed to show that
the applicant met the "good moral character" requirement, usually because there
was no indication that a fingerprint card had been sent to the FBI.

The review also found that 87.7 percent of the 1.05 million naturalization cases
during the review period lacked sufficient documentation to support a proper
decision. However, INS officials said, this did not mean all those applicants
were unqualified. The study found that 3.7 percent of the new citizens -- or
38,850 of the total naturalized -- were "presumptively ineligible" because they
failed to meet a basic requirement, such as five years of legal residency, good
moral character or passage of civics and English tests.

In about two-thirds of those cases, the problem was that the application was
filed before the immigrant had completed the residency requirement. Of those who
filed before they were eligible, however, 96 percent had met that requirement by
the time they took the oath of citizenship, the study found.

It said the second largest group of improper naturalization decisions involved
failures to establish good moral character. The study projected that about
11,550 new citizens may have been ineligible because they had disqualifying
criminal convictions or failed to reveal arrests for crimes, including
misdemeanors.

This figure is higher than the 6,319 cases identified for possible revocation of
citizenship in a separate KPMG Peat Marwick "criminal history review," because
that study weeded out misdemeanor cases.

Since the studies were undertaken, "we believe the problems have been by and
large corrected," said Stephen R. Colgate, assistant attorney general for
administration. "We are addressing the errors of the past and are improving the
process considerably," he told a news conference at the INS to announce the
studies and the new naturalization plan.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's
immigration subcommittee, was less forgiving. Each new study presents "a more
frightening snapshot of how far wrong the politicized program went," he said in
a written statement. He repeated charges that the White House manipulated the
INS's 1995 "Citizenship USA" program for political advantage in the 1996
elections.

Smith vowed to push a bill to codify safeguards in the citizenship process.

Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), chairman of the Senate immigration subcommittee,
called the errors "appalling" and said any redesign of the naturalization system
must ensure total compliance with eligibility requirements.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              192 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  February 18, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

For Responsible Immigration

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 181 words


Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) grossly misrepresented the National Immigration
Forum when he described our agenda as "an open-borders movement that is resisted
by the great majority of American people" ["Immigration Advocates to Seek
Softening of Laws," news story, Jan. 30].

Rep. Smith knows better. The National Immigration Forum works to uphold
America's tradition as a nation of immigrants and as a nation of laws by
supporting generous legal immigration levels with numerical limits and
responsible and effective efforts to curb illegal immigration.

In fact, it is Rep Smith's hard line that is being resisted by growing numbers
of Americans. As a result, a bipartisan majority has emerged in both the House
and the Senate that is revisiting and repealing the excesses authored by Rep.
Smith in the 1996 immigration legislation.

We do not expect Rep. Smith to join us in these efforts, but is it too much to
ask that he refrain from falsely characterizing those with whom he disagrees?

FRANK SHARRY

Executive Director

National Immigration Forum

Washington

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              193 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 22, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

One Nation, Indivisible: Is It History?; Soon, No Single Group Will Comprise
Majority

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3278 words


At the beginning of this century, as steamers poured into American ports, their
steerages filled with European immigrants, a Jew from England named Israel
Zangwill penned a play whose story line has long been forgotten, but whose
central theme has not. His production was entitled "The Melting Pot" and its
message still holds a tremendous power on the national imagination -- the
promise that all immigrants can be transformed into Americans, a new alloy
forged in a crucible of democracy, freedom and civic responsibility.

In 1908, when the play opened in Washington, the United States was in the middle
of absorbing the largest influx of immigrants in its history -- Irish and
Germans, followed by Italians and East Europeans, Catholics and Jews -- some 18
million new citizens between 1890 and 1920.

Today, the United States is experiencing its second great wave of immigration, a
movement of people that has profound implications for a society that by
tradition pays homage to its immigrant roots at the same time it confronts
complex and deeply ingrained ethnic and racial divisions.

The immigrants of today come not from Europe but overwhelmingly from the still
developing world of Asia and Latin America. The are driving a demographic shift
so rapid that within the lifetimes of today's teenagers, no one ethnic group --
including whites of European descent -- will comprise a majority of the nation's
population.

This shift, according to social historians, demographers and others studying the
trends, will severely test the premise of the fabled melting pot, the idea, so
central to national identity, that this country can transform people of every
color and background into "one America."

Just as possible, they say, is that the nation will continue to fracture into
many separate, disconnected communities with no shared sense of commonality or
purpose. Or perhaps it will evolve into something in between, a pluralistic
society that will hold on to some core ideas about citizenship and capitalism,
but with little meaningful interaction among groups.

The demographic changes raise other questions about political and economic
power. Will that power, now held disproportionately by whites, be shared in the
new America? What will happen when Hispanics overtake blacks as the nation's
single largest minority?

"I do not think that most Americans really understand the historic changes
happening before their very eyes," said Peter Salins, an immigration scholar who
is provost of the State Universities of New York. "What are we going to become?
Who are we? How do the newcomers fit in -- and how do the natives handle it --
this is the great unknown."

This is the first of a series of articles examining the effects of the new
demographics on American life. Over the next few months, other reports will
focus on the impact on politics, jobs, and social institutions.

Bygone Consensus

Fear of strangers, of course, is nothing new in American history. The last great
immigration wave produced a bitter backlash, epitomized by the Chinese Exclusion
Act of 1882 and the return, in the 1920s, of the Ku Klux Klan, which not only
targeted blacks but Catholics, Jews and immigrants as well.

But despite this strife, many historians argue that there was a greater
consensus in the past on what it meant to be an American, a yearning for a
common language and culture, and a desire -- encouraged, if not coerced by
members of the dominant white Protestant culture -- to assimilate. Today, they
say, there is more emphasis on preserving one's ethnic identity, of finding ways
to highlight and defend one's cultural roots.

More often than not, the neighborhoods where Americans live, the politicians and
propositions they vote for, the cultures they immerse themselves in, the friends
and spouses they have, the churches and schools they attend, and the way they
view themselves are defined by ethnicity. The question is whether, in the midst
of such change, there is also enough glue to hold Americans together.

"As we become more and more diverse, there is all this potential to make that
reality work for us," said Angela Oh, a Korean American activist who emerged as
a powerful voice for Asian immigrants after the Los Angeles riots in 1992. "But
yet, you witness this persistence of segregation, the fragmentation, all these
fights over resources, this finger-pointing. You would have to be blind not to
see it."

It is a phenomenon sometimes difficult to measure, but not observe. Houses of
worship remain, as the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. described it three decades
ago, among the most segregated institutions in America, not just by race but
also ethnicity. At high school cafeterias, the second and third generation
children of immigrants clump together in cliques defined by where their parents
or grandparents were born. There are television sitcoms, talk shows and movies
that are considered black or white, Latino or Asian. At a place like the law
school of the University of California at Los Angeles, which has about 1,000
students, there are separate student associations for blacks, Latinos and Asians
with their own law review journals.

It almost goes without saying that today's new arrivals are a source of vitality
and energy, especially in the big cities to which many are attracted. Diversity,
almost everyone agrees, is good; choice is good; exposure to different cultures
and ideas is good.

But many scholars worry about the loss of community and shared sense of reality
among Americans, what Todd Gitlin, a professor of culture and communications at
New York University, calls "the twilight of common dreams." The concern is
echoed by many on both the left and right, and of all ethnicities, but no one
seems to know exactly what to do about it.

Academics who examine the census data and probe for meaning in the numbers
already speak of a new "demographic balkanization," not only of residential
segregation, forced or chosen but also a powerful preference to see ourselves
through a racial prism, wary of others, and, in many instances, hostile.

At a recent school board meeting in East Palo Alto, Calif., police had to break
up a fight between Latinos and blacks, who were arguing over the merits and
expense of bilingual education in a school district that has shifted over the
last few years from majority African American to majority Hispanic. One parent
told reporters that if the Hispanics wanted to learn Spanish they should stay in
Mexico.

The demographic shifts are smudging the old lines demarcating two historical,
often distinct societies, one black and one white. Reshaped by three decades of
rapidly rising immigration, the national story is now far more complicated.

Whites currently account for 74 percent of the population, blacks 12 percent,
Hispanics 10 percent and Asians 3 percent. Yet according to data and predictions
generated by the U.S. Census Bureau and social scientists poring over the
numbers, Hispanics will likely surpass blacks early in the next century. And by
the year 2050, demographers predict, Hispanics will account for 25 percent of
the population, blacks 14 percent, Asians 8 percent, with whites hovering
somewhere around 53 percent.

As early as next year, whites no longer will be the majority in California; in
Hawaii and New Mexico this is already the case. Soon after, Nevada, Texas,
Maryland and New Jersey are also predicted to become "majority minority" states,
entities where no one ethnic group remains the majority.

Effects of 1965 Law

The overwhelming majority of immigrants come from Asia and Latin America --
Mexico, the Central American countries, the Philippines, Korea, and Southeast
Asia.

What triggered this great transformation was a change to immigration law in
1965, when Congress made family reunification the primary criteria for
admittance. That new policy, a response to charges that the law favored white
Europeans, allowed immigrants already in the United States to bring over their
relatives, who in turn could bring over more relatives. As a result, America has
been absorbing as many as 1 million newcomers a year, to the point that now
almost 1 in every 10 residents is foreign born.

These numbers, relative to the overall population, were slightly higher at the
beginning of this century, but the current immigration wave is in many ways very
different, and its context inexorably altered, from the last great wave.

This time around tensions are sharpened by the changing profile of those who are
entering America's borders. Not only are their racial and ethnic backgrounds
more varied than in decades past, their place in a modern postindustrial economy
has also been recast.

The newly arrived today can be roughly divided into two camps: those with
college degrees and highly specialized skills, and those with almost no
education or job training. Some 12 percent of immigrants have graduate degrees,
compared to 8 percent of native Americans. But more than one-third of the
immigrants have no high school diploma, double the rate for those born in the
United States.

Before 1970, immigrants were actually doing better than natives overall, as
measured by education, rate of homeownership and average incomes. But those
arriving after 1970 are younger, more likely to be underemployed and live below
the poverty level. As a group, they are doing worse than natives.

About 6 percent of new arrivals receive some form of welfare, double the rate
for U.S.-born citizens. Among some newcomers -- Cambodians and Salvadorans, for
example -- the numbers are even higher.

With large numbers of immigrants arriving from Latin America, and segregating in
barrios, there is also evidence of lingering language problems. Consider that in
Miami, three-quarters of residents speak a language other than English at home
and 67 percent of those say they are not fluent in English. In New York City, 4
of every 10 residents speak a language other than English at home, and of these,
half said they do not speak English well.

It is clear that not all of America is experiencing the impact of immigration
equally. Although even small midwestern cities have seen sharp changes in their
racial and ethnic mix in the past two decades, most immigrants continue to
cluster into a handful of large, mostly coastal metropolitan areas: Los Angeles,
New York, San Francisco, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., and Houston. They are
home to more than a quarter of the total U.S. population and more than 60
percent of all foreign-born residents.

But as the immigrants arrive, many American-born citizens pour out of these
cities in search of new homes in more homogeneous locales. New York and Los
Angeles each lost more than 1 million native-born residents between 1990 and
1995, even as their populations increased by roughly the same numbers with
immigrants. To oversimplify, said University of Michigan demographer William
Frey, "For every Mexican who comes to Los Angeles, a white native-born leaves."

Most of the people leaving the big cities are white and they tend to working
class. This is an entirely new kind of "white flight," whereby whites are not
just fleeing the city centers for the suburbs but also are leaving the region,
and often the state.

"The Ozzies and Harriets of the 1990s are skipping the suburbs of the big cities
and moving to more homogeneous, mostly white smaller towns and smaller cities
and rural areas," Frey said.

They're headed to Atlanta, Las Vegas, Phoenix, Portland, Denver, Austin and
Orlando, as well as smaller cities in Nevada, Idaho, Colorado and Washington.
Frey and other demographers believe the domestic migrants -- black and white --
are being "pushed" out, at least in part, by competition with immigrants for
jobs and neighborhoods, political clout and lifestyle.

Frey sees in this pattern "the emergence of separate Americas, one white and
middle-aged, less urban and another intensely urban, young, multicultural and
multiethnic. One America will care deeply about English as the official language
and about preserving Social Security. The other will care about things like
retaining affirmative action and bilingual education."

Ethnic Segregation

Even within gateway cities that give the outward appearance of being
multicultural, there are sharp lines of ethnic segregation. When describing the
ethnic diversity of a bellwether megacity such as Los Angeles, many residents
speak soaringly of the great mosaic of many peoples. But the social scientists
who look at the hard census data see something more complex.

James P. Allen, a cultural geographer at California State University-Northridge,
suggests that while Los Angeles, as seen from an airplane, is a tremendously
mixed society, on the ground, racial homogeneity and segregation are common.

This is not a new phenomenon; there have always been immigrant neighborhoods.
Ben Franklin, an early proponent of making English the "official language,"
worried about close-knit German communities. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan
(D-N.Y) described the lingering clannishness of Irish and other immigrant
populations in New York in "Beyond the Melting Pot," a benchmark work from the
1960s that he wrote with Nathan Glazer.

But the persistence of ethnic enclaves and identification does not appear to be
going away, and may not in a country that is now home to not a few distinct
ethnic groups, but to dozens. Hispanics in Los Angeles, to take the dominant
group in the nation's second largest city, were more segregated residentially in
1990 than they were 10 or 20 years ago, the census tracts show. Moreover, it is
possible that what mixing of groups that does occur is only a temporary
phenomenon as one ethnic group supplants another in the neighborhood.

If there is deep-seated ethnic segregation, it clearly extends to the American
workplace. In many cities, researchers find sustained "ethnic niches" in the
labor market. Because jobs are often a matter of whom one knows, the niches were
enduring and remarkably resistant to outsiders.

In California, for example, Mexican immigrants are employed overwhelmingly as
gardeners and domestics, in apparel and furniture manufacturing, and as cooks
and food preparers. Koreans open small businesses. Filipinos become nurses and
medical technicians. African Americans work in government jobs, an important
niche that is increasingly being challenged by Hispanics who want in.

UCLA's Roger Waldinger and others have pointed to the creation, in cities of
high immigration, of "dual economies."

For the affluent, which includes a disproportionate number of whites, the large
labor pool provides them with a ready supply of gardeners, maids and nannies.
For businesses in need of cheap manpower, the same is true. Yet there are fewer
"transitional" jobs -- the blue-collar work that helped Italian and Irish
immigrants move up the economic ladder -- to help newcomers or their children on
their way to the jobs requiring advanced technical or professional skills that
now dominate the upper tier of the economy.

A Rung at a Time

Traditionally, immigration scholars have seen the phenomenon of assimilation as
a relentless economic progression. The hard-working new arrivals struggle along
with a new language and at low-paying jobs in order for their sons and daughters
to climb the economic ladder, each generation advancing a rung. There are many
cases where this is true.

More recently, there is evidence to suggest that economic movement is erratic
and that some groups -- particularly in high immigration cities -- can get
"stuck."

Among African Americans, for instance, there emerge two distinct patterns. The
black middle class is doing demonstrably better -- in income, home ownership
rates, education -- than it was when the demographic transformation (and the
civil rights movement) began three decades ago.

But for African Americans at the bottom, research indicates that immigration,
particularly of Latinos with limited education, has increased joblessness, and
frustration.

In Miami, where Cuban immigrants dominate the political landscape, tensions are
high between Hispanics and blacks, said Nathaniel J. Wilcox, a community
activist there. "The perception in the black community, the reality, is that
Hispanics don't want some of the power, they want all the power," Wilcox said.
"At least when we were going through this with the whites during the Jim Crow
era, at least they'd hire us. But Hispanics won't allow African Americans to
even compete. They have this feeling that their community is the only community
that counts."

Yet many Hispanics too find themselves in an economic "mobility trap." While the
new immigrants are willing to work in low-end jobs, their sons and daughters,
growing up in the barrios but exposed to the relentless consumerism of popular
culture, have greater expectations, but are disadvantaged because of their
impoverished settings, particularly the overwhelmed inner-city schools most
immigrant children attend.

"One doubts that a truck-driving future will satisfy today's servants and
assemblers. And this scenario gets a good deal more pessimistic if the region's
economy fails to deliver or simply throws up more bad jobs," writes Waldinger, a
professor of sociology and director of center for regional policy studies at the
University of California-Los Angeles.

Though there are calls to revive efforts to encourage "Americanization" of the
newcomers, many researchers now express doubt that the old assimilation model
works. For one thing, there is less of a dominant mainstream to enter. Instead,
there are a dozen streams, despite the best efforts by the dominant white
society to lump groups together by ethnicity.

It is a particularly American phenomenon, many say, to label citizens by their
ethnicity. When a person lived in El Salvador, for example, he or she saw
themselves as a nationality. When they arrive in the United States, they become
Hispanic or Latino. So too with Asians. Koreans and Cambodians find little in
common, but when they arrive here they become "Asian," and are counted and
courted, encouraged or discriminated against as such.

"My family has had trouble understanding that we are now Asians, and not
Koreans, or people from Korea or Korean Americans, or just plain Americans,"
said Arthur Lee, who owns a dry cleaning store in Los Angeles. "Sometimes, we
laugh about it. Oh, the Asian students are so smart! The Asians have no interest
in politics! Whatever. But we don't know what people are talking about. Who are
the Asians?"

'Too American'

Many immigrant parents say that while they want their children to advance
economically in their new country, they do not want them to become "too
American." A common concern among Haitians in South Florida is that their
children will adopt the attitudes of the inner city's underclass. Vietnamese
parents in New Orleans often try to keep their children immersed in their ethnic
enclave and try not to let them assimilate too fast.

One study of the children of immigrants, conducted six years ago among young
Haitians, Cubans, West Indians, Mexican and Vietnamese in South Florida and
Southern California, suggests the parents are not alone in their concerns.

Asked by researchers Alejandro Portes and Ruben Rumbauthow how they identified
themselves, most chose categories of hyphenated Americans. Few choose "American"
as their identity.

Then there was this -- asked if they believe the United States in the best
country in the world, most of the youngsters answered: no.


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart; Photo, andrew itkoff for The Washington Post; Photo, todd
bigelow for The Washington Post, A POPULATION OF CHANGING DIMENSIONS In 25
years, non-Hispanic whites will not be a majority in four states, including the
two most populous ones, and in 50 years, they will make up barely half the U.S.
population.  Non-Hispanic whites as percentage of state population (This chart
was not available) U.S. POPULATION (PROJECTION) 1997: Hispanic: 11% Black: 12%
Asian: 4% White: 73% 2050: Asian 8% Black 14% White 53% Hispanic 25% NOTE:
"Asian" category includes Pacific Islanders. Other races, including American
Indians, make up less than 1 percent.  SOURCE: U.S. Census Bureau ONE IN 10 U.S.
RESIDENTS WAS BORN ABROAD In 1960, foreign-born Americans were mostly from
Europe. Now most come from Asia and Latin America.  Foreign-born, by country of
origin: 1960 Germany 990,000 Canada 963,000 Poland 748,000 Soviet Union 691,000
Mexico 576,000 England 528,000 Ireland 339,000 Austria 305,000 Hungary 245,000
Czechoslovakia 228,000 1996 Mexico 6,679,000 Philippines 1,164,000 China 801,000
Cuba 772,000 India 757,000 Vietnam 740,000 El Salvador 701,000 Canada 660,000
Korea 550,000 Germany 523,000 Nearly 1 in 10 Americans was born outside the
country, a high rate among industrialized nations: Americans born abroad (This
chart was not available) Percentage born abroad Switzerland 18.6% U.S.  9.6
Belgium 9.1 Austria 8.9 Germany 8.6 Sweden 6.1 Netherlands 5.0 Norway 3.8
Denmark 3.8 U.K.  3.4 Italy 1.6 Spain 1.2 Japan 1.1 Foreign-born Americans have
less education and are more li

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              194 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 22, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration Errors

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C06; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 336 words


I continue to be baffled by the Republican charge that the Clinton
administration manipulated the Immigration and Naturalization Service's 1995
"Citizenship USA" program for political advantage in the 1996 elections ["Study
Indicates INS Naturalized Thousands of Ineligible Applicants," news story, Feb.
10 and "INS Proposing Citizenship Test Overhaul," front page, Feb. 9].
Admittedly, there were errors made in naturalizing record numbers of residents,
but such charges ignore the following:

It was the Republican Congress that prompted a stampede for naturalization by
suggesting and then legislating changes in eligibility for certain benefits
affecting longtime resident aliens who had not obtained citizenship.

It was the Republican Congress as much as the INS that, given such legislation,
failed to ensure that INS deployed sufficient financial and human resources to
process this anticipated surge in applications for citizenship.

There have been no reports that the Clinton administration or the Democratic
Party conducted voter-registration drives directed toward newly naturalized
citizens. Indeed, I attended a naturalization ceremony in Fairfax during the
time in question, and no INS employee mentioned the privilege and obligation of
a citizen to vote, much less provided information on how the new citizens could
register.

Republicans and Democrats alike should work with the INS to encourage every
legal resident to apply for citizenship at the earliest opportunity. They also
should work to streamline naturalization procedures so that naturalization
occurs within weeks, rather than after the current two-year wait. Furthermore,
the INS should work with the states to provide for expeditious voter
registration of new citizens. At minimum, the states should provide
voter-registration information to INS offices in their states. States also could
place registrars at every naturalization ceremony or deputize INS officials to
act as registrars.

JAMES M. THUNDER

McLean

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              195 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 03, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

First Line Against Criminals

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 371 words


The article on ex-Foreign Service Officer Bob Olsen's battle with the Foreign
Service Grievance Board over his dismissal and allegations of U.S. visa-officer
racism in Brazil [news story, Feb. 10] provided a good look at what immigration
lawyers in our country object to as "consular absolutism."

This is the name given to the practical result of a longstanding federal
doctrine barring U.S. court review of visa denials by American consular officers
overseas.

I'm an immigration lawyer too, but I think that we should think at least twice
before changing this doctrine. Before I was an immigration lawyer, I was in the
U.S. Foreign Service with visa assignments overseas. As I read the article on
Mr. Olsen, I made a mental note of some of my more interesting visa denials: the
convicted child molester (a U.S. conviction, by the way); the killer; the
narcotics trafficker; the border gunrunner; the Libyan "student" sent to spy on
compatriots studying in the United States; a former SS man; and sundry
terrorists from Europe.

The point, of course, is that the U.S. visa officer, in a concrete though
imperfect way, serves as a barrier for our country against some very bad people.
This officer also is expected to withhold visas from some very good people, too,
who claim tourist status during the visa interview but intend to remain here
permanently to work and reside. Either way, in my own experience, "consular
absolutism" was a necessary but sometimes arbitrary tool that clearly served our
country's interests.

That a U.S. visa denial may be made rudely or incorrectly in a high-fraud,
high-volume visa section overseas is unfortunate. Managers must step in, train
their visa officers in the law and set an example. Likewise, lawyers must
prepare their applicants/clients adequately. Problems in delivery or hurried
notes on visa forms, however, do not mean that a visa officer's decision was
wrong or that the system should be scrapped. And it makes even less sense -- as
Mr. Olsen apparently desires -- for the courts to interfere with our consular
officers' ability to make judgments based upon many factors about who is
qualified to obtain an entry visa.

RICHARD J. DOUGLAS

Washington


LOAD-DATE: March 03, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, margaret scott

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              196 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 04, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Trouble-Shooter Transferred Out of INS

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 241 words


Attorney General Janet Reno has removed a Justice Department trouble-shooter
from his post as head of the immigration service's troubled naturalization
program because of an investigation related to his previous office at Justice,
U.S. officials said yesterday.

Robert K. Bratt was replaced Monday night as director of naturalization
operations at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a post he has held
since last April. He was pulled back to the Justice Department, where he will
work in the management division, officials said. Carole Florman, a department
spokeswoman, said the move "is not a demotion" and is "not based on any adverse
findings against him" by investigators. She declined to elaborate.

Knowledgeable officials said the sudden transfer is related to an investigation
by the Justice Department inspector general into allegations of improper
disclosure of classified information, questionable contracts and sexual
harassment by managers of the International Criminal Investigative Training
Assistance Program, which Bratt oversaw before he was assigned temporarily to
the INS. The program provides training to police in Latin America, the former
Soviet bloc and other countries.

Bratt was replaced at the INS by his deputy, James Angus. Officials said the
agency will press ahead with efforts to improve the citizenship program, which
has been accused of improperly naturalizing thousands of immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 04, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              197 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 05, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

INS to End Private Testing for Citizenship

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE; IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 155 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced yesterday it will end the
private testing of citizenship applicants and take over the work itself as part
of a plan to reform the naturalization process.

Five private testing organizations have been told they may administer the
required English and civics tests until Aug. 30, the INS said. Test certificates
awarded through that date will be accepted by the agency for up to one year.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said the change is intended "to reduce fraud
and to improve customer service and efficiency." The private groups and about
1,000 subcontractors account for about 15 percent of citizenship testing. The
program has been subject to fraud, allowing thousands of immigrants to pass the
tests by paying hundreds of dollars each to private administrators.

Compiled from reports by staff writers Eric Pianin, Terry M. Neal and William
Branigin.

LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              198 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 05, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Citizenship of 100-Plus in Jeopardy; Indictment Accuses Four Test-Givers of
Falsifying Results

Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 530 words


The U.S. government is considering whether to revoke the citizenship of more
than 100 area residents who allegedly participated in a nationwide scheme to
falsify the results of the naturalization test, officials said yesterday.

Those being scrutinized took the written portion of their citizenship tests from
four people who were indicted yesterday on immigration fraud charges by a
federal grand jury in Alexandria. In all, 288 people took the test under the
administration of the defendants, but the rest have not become citizens, said
William J. Carroll, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The indictment charges that the defendants, who were subcontractors of companies
that had been authorized to administer the citizenship test by the INS, promised
immigrants a passing grade in exchange for payments of $ 180 to $ 300 in cash --
instead of the normal price of less than $ 35. The administrators of the test
allegedly filled in blank answers and fixed the wrong answers on tests during
six sessions in 1995 and early 1996.

The alleged scheme may be related to a similar case in California in which 20
people were indicted on conspiracy charges in January, officials said. INS
officials have said that as many as 13,000 immigrants in 22 states may have
participated in this kind of fraud.

The INS began investigating test results when examiners noticed during the oral
part of the exam that some applicants could not speak English and knew little
about the United States even though they allegedly had passed the written tests
in English, officials said. Suspicion soon focused on small private
subcontractors that administered the test for six large organizations that are
responsible for testing under a privatization program.

According to the eight-count indictment, Traveena Maharaj, 39, of Sacramento,
became a subcontractor of the Educational Testing Service in 1995 and began
running advertisements in the Washington area and elsewhere on foreign-language
cable television shows. The shows were in Dari, one of two official languages of
Afghanistan. The ads urged people who wanted to "pass" their naturalization
tests to call an 800 number.

The indictment charges that Maharaj and Faruk Ramisch, 46, administered the
tests at the Doubletree Hotel in Arlington and the Afghan Restaurant on Route 1
in Alexandria. The owner of the restaurant, Qasim M. Abbasi, 33, also has been
charged. According to the indictment, he recruited local immigrants to pay for
the falsified tests.

ETS eventually terminated Maharaj's subcontract, but then the fourth alleged
conspirator, Springfield businessman Mohammad Ashraf Kandahari, 44, set up
another testing site as a subcontractor of Naturalization Assistance Services,
the indictment said. NAS was later kicked out of the program for failing to
monitor its subcontractors, said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

The four indicted people are scheduled to be arraigned March 16. Three of them
could not be reached for comment, but Abbasi denied that he had falsified tests.
"They just rented the banquet hall from me. My name is mixed up in it because I
am an Afghan," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              199 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 07, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Policy Dispute Rocks Sierra Club

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 974 words


In an issue of growing controversy in its ranks, one of the nation's leading
environmental organizations is considering whether to throw its weight behind an
effort to reduce immigration as part of a policy to stabilize U.S. population
growth.

The Sierra Club last week launched a referendum on the subject, mailing ballots
to its 550,000 members nationwide. It asked them to choose between reversing or
maintaining a two-year-old decision by the club's board to "take no position" on
U.S. immigration levels or policies.

The debate, which some have called a battle for the soul of the environmental
movement, has become an increasingly nasty one, with activists on opposite sides
of the question trading charges of racism and demagoguery. Other environmental
organizations, as well as groups alarmed by U.S. population growth and those
favoring immigration, are watching the referendum closely.

The dispute reflects a dilemma for environmentalists. Most view rapid population
growth as a problem and want to see the U.S. growth rate level off. But for
many, tackling immigration, a major component of current U.S. population
increases, means getting embroiled in a highly charged issue with implications
far beyond the environmental movement.

"Make no mistake: overpopulation is, without question, a fundamental cause of
the world's ills," Carl Pope, the Sierra Club's executive director, said in a
statement defending the board's "no-position" stand. "But these are
fundamentally global problems; immigration is merely a local symptom."

Moreover, he said in a telephone interview, if the Sierra Club comes out in
favor of reducing immigration levels, "we would be perceived as assisting people
whose motivations are racist."

Such arguments are "a form of denial," countered Alan Kuper, a longtime Sierra
Club member in Cleveland. "We can't remain silent in the face of endless rapid
growth" in the U.S. population, which he said is degrading the environment and
wiping out modest gains being made in other environmental areas.

"It's a question of being environmentally correct versus being politically
correct," said Leon Kolankiewicz, a club member and population activist in the
District.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau, immigration is the main impetus behind
growth of the U.S. population, which now stands at 269 million. Combined, legal
and illegal immigration amounts to about 1.2 million people a year, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates. When the U.S.-born children of
recent immigrants are included in the equation, immigration accounts for more
than half of today's population growth, the Census Bureau says.

Largely because of the high fertility rates of immigrant women, the bureau in
1992 sharply revised its projections of the population by the middle of the next
century. Instead of leveling off at about 300 million, it said, the population
is likely to reach nearly 400 million by 2050 and keep growing. Population
activists contend that those estimates are conservative because they are based
on immigration levels significantly lower than the current numbers. The U.S.
population is more likely to top 500 million by the middle of the next century,
they say. They insist that this growth is what worries them, not the national
origin or ethnicity of immigrants.

Backers of the Sierra Club board's position argue that since most immigrants
these days are "people of color," mainly Hispanics and Asians, the issues of
immigration numbers and ethnicity cannot be separated.

The ballots are due back by April 18.

The controversy surfaced in February 1996 when, in the midst of a contentious
debate in Congress over a major immigration bill, the Sierra Club's board
resolved to "take no position on immigration levels or on policies governing
immigration into the United States." Ultimately, provisions to reduce legal
immigration, which accounts for the bulk of the immigrant influx, were stripped
from the legislation.

To population activists, the board's resolution did constitute a position, one
that reversed long-standing Sierra Club policy of promoting the "stabilization"
of the U.S. population.

The activists gathered 2,000 signatures on petitions to put the resolution to a
clubwide vote and call for "a comprehensive population policy" that advocates
ending U.S. population growth through birth control and "reduction in net
immigration." However, the board refused to allow a yes or no vote on the
measure alone. Instead, it added an "alternative B" proposal that affirms the
1996 stand and calls for addressing "the root causes of global population
problems."

What is now called "alternative A" does not specify any immigration level. It
has been endorsed by a variety of conservationists, including Lester Brown,
co-founder of the Worldwatch Institute; E.O. Wilson, a Harvard biologist; and
Gaylord Nelson, a former Wisconsin senator and founder of Earth Day. Alternative
B has the backing of the Sierra Club board, nine former club presidents and a
number of chapters across the country.

In arguing against alternative A, club leaders charged in a statement mailed to
members that the proposal's supporters include "extremists acting from racial
prejudice." It named California's Republican governor, Pete Wilson, and former
Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, whose World Wide Web page it said links
environmental protection with "stopping illegal immigration and almost all legal
immigration into America."

Richard A. Koris, a backer of alternative A in the District, called such
arguments "demagoguery." During a recent appearance at the Great Falls chapter
of the club, he and Kolankiewicz were shouted down as KKK members. "Whenever you
mention the topic of immigration restriction," he complained, "[opponents]
basically call you a racist."

LOAD-DATE: March 07, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              200 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 17, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Targets Woman Tried In Son's Death

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 126 words


Federal officials began deportation proceedings yesterday against Elvia Garcia,
the 20-year-old Fairfax County woman acquitted last week of murdering her infant
son.

Garcia, a Mexican immigrant, was released by county authorities yesterday to the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, and she was freed on $ 3,000 bond,
officials said.

Garcia was arrested in November and charged with killing her son by feeding him
a prescription drug. She was found not guilty Thursday in Fairfax County Circuit
Court.

Garcia came to Virginia five years ago with her father, who is a permanent legal
U.S. resident living in Annandale and who had petitioned the INS to claim her as
a dependent minor. That petition has not received final approval.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              201 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 20, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

One in America

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 325 words


"One Nation, Indivisible: Is It History?" [front page, Feb. 22] purported to
answer that question darkly with an array of truths, half-truths and non-truths
that warn of the dangers of diversity spawned by mass immigration.

True, our present era rivals the peak years of European migration at the turn of
the century in magnitude and surpasses them in the diversity of socioeconomic
and national origins. But it is at best only half true that the 1965 changes in
immigration law ushered in these new flows. The act did open the gates to
previously excluded Asian (and African) immigration but had little to do with
the large flows from the Americas and the Caribbean (which have accounted for
more than half of all immigration to the United States since 1965), or with the
huge refugee resettlement programs that were a legacy of the Indochina war.

And it is not at all true, as the reporter asserts, that the Children of
Immigrants Longitudinal Study (CILS), of which I am principal investigator,
found that most of these youths harbored negative feelings about the United
States. In 1992, 60 percent considered the United States to be the best country
in the world to live in, and by 1996 that proportion had jumped to 72 percent.

Of the 77 nationalities represented in the CILS -- the largest study to date --
the ones who mostly disagreed with that rosy assessment were those who had most
felt the sting of racial discrimination: the Haitians, Jamaicans and other West
Indians. By contrast, those most strongly agreeing were the children of Cold War
refugees who had been favorably received here: the Cubans and the Vietnamese.

Ironically, there is today more unum in the pluribus than perhaps at any other
(peace) time in American history. Immigration, now as ever the sincerest form of
flattery, remains a perennial source of motivated energies and a key to the
nation's global fortunes.

RUBEN G. RUMBAUT

New York

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              202 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 21, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Chinese Dissident Detained in Hong Kong

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16; WORLD IN BRIEF: ASIA

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


A Chinese activist who was deported to the United States last month for secretly
entering China and meeting with other dissidents has been detained in Hong Kong,
his supporters said.

Wang Bingzhang was stopped by immigration officials when he arrived by ferry
from the neighboring Portuguese enclave of Macao, according to the Hong
Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China.
The Hong Kong government refused to comment on Wang's whereabouts.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              203 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 21, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Embracing Diversity With Wide-Open Arms; For 2 Churches, Ministering to
Immigrants Is the Mission

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 1331 words


The Rev. Stephen Rhodes, pastor of Culmore United Methodist Church in Falls
Church, takes his calling straight from Leviticus 19.

"When an alien resides with you in your land, you shall not oppress the alien,"
reads a verse Rhodes often cites. "The alien who resides with you shall be to
you as the citizen among you; you shall love the alien as yourself, for you were
aliens in the land of Egypt."

The Rev. Eugenio Hoyos, associate pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church
two blocks away, takes that message even further. God's command to help needy
newcomers, he says, should carry far more weight than U.S. government statutes
barring illegal immigrants.

"Our immigration laws are inhuman. They are hurting families and homes and
people," said Hoyos, who often helps undocumented Latinos in his parish with
legal and medical emergencies. "The law of God is more powerful."

In the Washington area, dozens of churches minister to immigrants. In Fairfax
County, where the immigrant population has jumped to more than 140,000 since
1980, churches of many denominations have added foreign-language services or
rent space to international mini-congregations with their own religious leaders.

But a few, such as Culmore and St. Anthony's, have made such ministries a
full-blown mission, offering foreign-born residents a variety of services,
including legal support for those with immigration problems. In the process,
they have alienated a few older, U.S.-born members -- although others say they
feel enriched and rejuvenated by the growing diversity of their congregations.

In helping illegal immigrants, these churches do not break the law, as some did
in the 1980s by harboring Central American refugees who entered the United
States illegally. But they extend a hand no matter what a person's legal status
is, and they assist those affected by sweeping new federal laws that make it
harder for illegal immigrants to remain in the country or win legal status.

In some ways, the two pastors and their churches, near Baileys Crossroads on
opposite sides of Leesburg Pike, are quite different. Rhodes, 37, is a low-key
Tennessean who leads a small but ethnically and politically diverse flock of
about 250. Hoyos, 40 and Colombian-born, is an outspoken social activist who
heads a Spanish-language ministry for about 1,000 Latinos in a church that
separately serves another 1,000 English-speaking members. But both men describe
their work in very similar terms.

"We see ourselves as a mission outpost," said Rhodes, whose congregation
includes people from 31 countries and who has just written a book about
multicultural ministries. "We are not a cutting-edge activist church, or even a
theologically liberal one, but we have to be very flexible and diverse in our
approach to ministry. True hospitality, in the biblical sense, means opening
doors . . . so you are changed by it, too."

In addition to traditional duties such as performing weddings in Tagalog or
"Sweet 15" ceremonies in Spanish, Rhodes said his job can be very
unconventional. Once a couple asked him to marry them, but because neither was a
legal resident, they did not have the photo-identification cards required for a
marriage license, and he had to find them another form of identification.

Culmore also reaches out to immigrants in trouble, even if they don't belong to
the church. Each day, 35 children attend a gang-prevention program that combines
exercise and singing with discussion of values. A legal aid clinic offers free
immigration services for the poor. One Latino teenager at Culmore was arrested
for several crimes and was at risk of being deported, until an elderly U.S.
parishioner at Culmore agreed to adopt him.

The Rev. Ileana Rosas, an associate pastor at Culmore, often visits struggling
Central American families who live in apartments near the church, delivering
food, clothes and advice. Those who are here illegally, she says, are barred
from receiving public assistance and can feel desperate and isolated.

"I never push them to join the church, but we want them to see us as a safe
haven," Rosas said during a discussion group with Latino women at Culmore one
recent evening. Down the hall, the mostly Filipino choir was rehearsing Handel's
"Hallelujah" chorus, and five classrooms were filled with adults learning
English. "I bring people hugs and smiles, I listen to their problems, and I pray
with them," she said.

At St. Anthony's, Hoyos has played a more aggressive and public role in
promoting the interests and concerns of immigrants, whether legal or illegal.
The church offers several Masses in Spanish and frequent workshops on
immigrants' rights. A private foundation headed by Hoyos raises money to help
immigrants with medical emergencies.

At the moment, Hoyos is spearheading efforts to help Eduardo Bermudez, a
24-year-old parishioner and janitorial supervisor from Ecuador whom the U.S.
government is trying to deport for using a false green card several years ago to
get a job. The priest noted that as a member of the band Nueva Esperanza (New
Hope), a youth group that plays lively Latino pop music at Masses, Bermudez has
done a lot to help St. Anthony's.

"Why are we defending Eddie? Because he is a victim of an unjust system. He is
not a burden or a threat to this society; he is a blessing and an example to
others," Hoyos said. Nueva Esperanza, he added, has attracted many young Latinos
to the church. "When they play, the pews jump. This is the phenomenon of the new
immigrant church. God doesn't have to be boring. Eddie uses his talents for God,
and we don't want to lose him."

One recent weekend, Nueva Esperanza performed at a jampacked medical fund-raiser
at St. Anthony's, offering salsa and merengue tunes between folkloric dance
displays from Latin America. Before going onstage, Bermudez and the other
members joined hands in the parking lot and prayed that their music would be a
success.

"We are all immigrants in this country, and a lot of us came by land," said
Pedro Rivera, 35, a guitarist in the group who was born in El Salvador. "We are
very worried about Eddie, and we hope God will solve his problem, but it's
important that the church do what it can, too."

For some U.S.-born members at both churches, the growing dominance of immigrant
culture and needs has not been easy to swallow. Hoyos said a few old-timers have
complained about the loud music at Spanish Masses, and Rhodes said a few
Americans abandoned his flock as its immigrant numbers grew. Today, 60 percent
of the congregation is foreign-born, and lay leaders include people from Sierra
Leone, Jamaica, the Philippines and the Dominican Republic.

But other longtime parishioners said they attend to enjoy the lively,
international atmosphere and believe it is important to welcome newcomers.
Ginnie Mayo, a wife of a retired Foreign Service officer, joined Culmore in 1954
when it was an affluent white church. Today, she said, she always looks forward
to the time during worship when everyone is asked to stand and greet their
neighbors.

"One lady won't even come into the sanctuary until that business is over, but I
love it," she said. "We stand and greet, and pretty soon you get to know these
African or Spanish or Filipino people you've been sitting next to. It's
wonderful."

Richard Spagna, a Falls Church dentist, has been active in parish affairs at St.
Anthony's for 20 years. Having grown up in a Brooklyn neighborhood that evolved
from Irish to Italian to Polish, he said, he is comfortable with the diversity
of the Virginia parish and committed to making sure the mix is harmonious.

"I'm really excited about this," he said. "No transition can take place without
some element of upheaval, but if we are a nation of immigrants, I believe it is
the Christian perspective, and the American perspective, to reach out. If you
only cater to one group, you have lost your identity as a Christian community."


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, gerald martineau; Photo, Mark Finkenstaedt for TWP, Culmore
United Methodist Church in Falls Church reaches out to immigrants in trouble,
even if they don't belong to the church.  The Rev. Stephen Rhodes, pastor of
Culmore, pats Elvis Hernandez, 10, on the head, to the delight of Marvin
Jimenez, 7, at a music session at the church.  Bermudez, left foreground, and
the Spanish singing group Nueva Esperanza play at St. Anthony of Padua Catholic
Church. The church is trying to help Bermudez, who could be deported.  Rev.
Eugenio Hoyos and Bermudez. "He is a blessing and an example to others," Hoyos
said of Bermudez.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              204 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 23, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Foreigners Struggle to Meet Asylum Deadline

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 979 words


Carmina Major Bailey is a composed woman of 24, a college student and
receptionist from Falls Church with green-painted nails and fashionable orange
curls. But when the Liberian native talks about what she lived through during
her country's gruesome civil war, her composure crumbles.

"There were skulls lined up in a row, dogs feasting on bodies," she says,
shaking her head as fat tears roll down her face. "My uncle was beaten. My
cousin was executed in front of me. They asked for his ID, and his old army dog
tag fell out of his jeans. They took him to the side of the road and just shot
him."

Like hundreds of other foreigners, Bailey is scrambling to apply for political
asylum in the United States before April 1. Under a new law, all immigrants who
have lived in this country for one year or more and want to request asylum must
do so within the next next eight days. If they don't, they may lose the chance
to apply forever, sealing off one of the few paths to permanent sanctuary for
victims of persecution who are living here illegally or on temporary visas.

Until now there was no deadline, but Congress imposed the one-year rule as part
of its immigration reform legislation in 1996. The reason, supporters say, was
that many immigrants with no real fear of persecution in their home countries
were filing frivolous claims in an effort to stay in the United States
indefinitely.

To win asylum, a foreigner must prove a "well-founded fear of persecution" in
his or her native country. Relatively few people are granted asylum -- an
average of 11,000 a year since 1994. But the number of applicants has been much
larger -- reaching nearly 150,000 a year in the early 1990s. Some experts say a
large percentage found ways to remain even if their claim was denied.

"People were really abusing the system," said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), a
principal backer of the new law. "They would live here illegally for a few
years, and as soon as they got a deportation order they would suddenly claim
asylum. Then when their hearing came, only about 6 percent would show up." He
said the one-year deadline was "very generous."

Refugee advocates, however, argue that there are many legitimate reasons why
people who flee persecution abroad may not be able to prepare an asylum claim
within a year. They may be unable to obtain documents that would prove they had
been persecuted. They might have been traumatized by torture or simply afraid to
come forward.

"Many of us know Holocaust survivors who still haven't been able to tell their
stories," said Beth Lyon, an official of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
in Washington. At a workshop for asylum seekers at Catholic University two weeks
ago, she said, more than 60 people came seeking help. "To force people fleeing
persecution to do that as soon as they arrive in this country is definitely not
fair."

Immigration officials pointed out that the new law allows for certain exceptions
to the deadline. One is when "extraordinary circumstances," such as ill health
or poor legal representation, prevent someone from filing on time. The other is
when new conditions arise in the person's home country, such as an outbreak of
civil war or political persecution.

"The administration was not in favor of the one-year time limit, but we will be
able to implement it in a fair manner," said Phyllis Coven, director of asylum
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. She said that in the last
several years, the number of asylum applications from people living in the
United States has fallen steadily, from more than 150,000 in 1993 to only 53,000
last year.

But refugee advocates said that because there has been little publicity about
the April 1 deadline, many foreigners do not know about it, and thus may lose
the opportunity to apply forever. Several asylum applicants interviewed in the
Washington area last week said they had found out only by chance.

Bailey, who has been living in the United States since 1992 under a temporary
legal amnesty for Liberian war refugees, learned of the deadline only last
month, when she reported to the Arlington INS office to renew her annual work
permit. But compared with some applicants, she is lucky. She speaks good
English, has relatives who have been granted asylum and is not an illegal
immigrant.

Some potential applicants, however, do not speak English, have little proof of
what they have suffered and may not know they have the right to seek permanent
asylum. If they are here illegally, they may fear exposing their whereabouts to
immigration authorities.

Elsa, 24, a Guatemalan woman who asked that her last name not be used, flew to
the United States on a temporary visa in 1996 and remained here illegally after
it expired. She said she is afraid to return home, where her abusive husband
refused to grant her a divorce, and afraid to leave the apartment where she is
living with a relative in the District.

Two weeks ago, the woman sought help at Ayuda, a legal aid clinic in
Adams-Morgan, where lawyers initially said she had no chance of winning asylum.
Finally, she told them her husband had threatened to kill her if she returned.
Now, Ayuda is scrambling to gather police and doctors' reports so she can file
for asylum this week, under a new provision that includes domestic abuse as
possible grounds.

"My husband beat me and broke my arm. He told me if I divorced him he would make
me disappear, and he had friends in the military," the woman said. "I had to get
away from him. I was so confused and scared when I came here. I had no idea I
could get asylum. But after being trapped in an apartment for 15 months, I have
to do something."

(Asylum applications must be received by April 1. Applicants in the Washington
area must mail them to US INS TSC, PO Box 851892, Mesquite, Tex., 75185-1892.)


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dayna smith, Carmina Major Bailey is a Liberian seeking
political asylum in the United States after fleeing civil war. Applicants must
meet an April 1 deadline.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              205 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 24, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Haitian Refugees Rally for Equality; At Capitol, Protesters Say Laws Favor
Cubans, Nicaraguans

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 595 words


Nearly 2,000 Haitian immigrants and refugees from Miami, New York and Boston
rallied yesterday on the U.S. Capitol steps demanding "equal treatment" with
Cuban and Nicaraguan refugees, who were granted permanent residency in the
United States under a law passed in November.

"The message is simple . . . we can't have green cards for Cubans, Nicaraguans
and other Central Americans without amnesty for Haitians," Rep. Carrie P. Meek
(D-Fla.) told the crowd. Meek has introduced legislation to grant residency to
all Haitians who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1996.

The protesters, who boisterously chanted in Haitian Creole, included refugees
who fled Haiti in flimsy boats after a 1991 military coup and were detained by
the U.S. Coast Guard at Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba. Many have been living in
the United States under a temporary amnesty, but have little chance of obtaining
permanent residency.

"It seems that Congress has been treating Haitians differently than others. I do
not understand why," said Abel Pierre, 47, a restaurant worker in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., who said he fled Haiti in 1992 after the army burned down his
sister's house and threatened other relatives who had worked for democratic
elections.

Haitians are not the only refugee group that has complained of unequal
treatment.

The Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, which became law in
November, granted permanent residency to Nicaraguan and Cuban refugees who
arrived by December 1, 1995, even if they entered the United States illegally.
But the legislation gave only partial relief to 250,000 illegal immigrants from
El Salvador and Guatemala by allowing them to appeal deportation orders under
more lenient rules than current law allows. Those groups are still pressing for
permanent legal amnesty.

In December, President Clinton used his executive authority to spare as many as
20,000 Haitian refugees from deportation for one year.

But Haitian advocacy groups said that the gesture did not go far enough and that
lack of congressional support for full amnesty was a sign of racial
discrimination against Haitians.

"The United States is a democracy where there is supposed to be equal treatment
for all, not just for one group," said Haitian native Michel Nestor, a retired
hospital worker and legal resident from New York. "Haitians are hard workers and
taxpayers, and they deserve something in return."

Meek's bill has little support and powerful adversaries, including Rep. Lamar S.
Smith (R-Tex.), who heads a House immigration subcommittee. But a less
far-reaching bill to help a smaller number of Haitians, sponsored by Sen. Bob
Graham (D-Fla.), has more backers and is scheduled for discussion in a Senate
immigration subcommittee next week.

In addition, some refugees from Honduras are seeking relief from deportation,
through legislative proposals and lawsuits.

The Hondurans complain that although they, too, suffered during Central American
wars in the 1980s, they have been "left out" of recent efforts by Congress and
Clinton to help refugees.

Yesterday, some refugee advocates noted that groups with anti-communist
credentials, such as those who fled the leftist Sandinista revolution in
Nicaragua, have been able to win more political support here than those who
suffered under right-wing military regimes, including Haitians and Salvadorans.

"It is a question of fairness and parity," said Jocelyn McCalla, director of the
National Coalition for Haitian Rights in New York, who spoke at the rally.


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig, The protesters included refugees who fled after a
1991 military coup and Rep. Carrie P. Meek, who has offered a bill to grant
residency to Haitians.  A Haitian refugee joins almost 2,000 others from New
York, Miami and Boston at the Capitol to urge Congress to amend the immigration
laws.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              206 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 25, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Hard-Working Hispanic Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 348 words


The front-page article "One Nation, Indivisible: Is it History?" [Feb. 22]
blamed immigrants for dividing America and portrayed Latinos as the most
threatening group among them.

Reporter William Booth said that immigration of Latinos has increased
joblessness and frustration for African Americans at the bottom of the economic
ladder. But the success of Latinos is taking place at expense of no one. Our
success is a product of hard work, savings, austere habits and a strong support
system of our extended family.

Hispanics live and work with African Americans. They are breaking the patterns
of segregation in American neighborhoods. Recent research has shown that African
Americans are doing better in cities that have more immigrants than in the rest
of the country.

Mr. Booth's assertion that Salvadorans are among the highest welfare recipients
also lacks substantiation and defies common sense. Salvadorans came to this
country in the '80s not only fleeing a U.S.-financed war but were not granted
refugee status until much later. The American Baptist Church had to sue the
Justice Department in order to stop the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from discriminating against Salvadoran and Guatemalan political-asylum
applicants.

Salvadorans are known for being hard-working people. They have improved their
lives without government handouts. Many don't even apply for bank loans, because
it is not part of their value system.

I also think that it is unfair to use the relations between Hispanics and blacks
in Miami to establish a pattern of attitude nationwide. The comment by a
"community activist" that "Hispanics don't want some of the power, they want all
the power" is a fallacy. Ask the leaders of the NAACP, the Nation of the Islam,
the Rainbow Coalition and the Urban League if Latinos pose a threat to
power-sharing with African Americans.

It is the diversity of our country that makes it the best nation in the world.
No other country has the possibility to connect with the whole world the way we
do.

MAURICIO ALARCON

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              207 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 26, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Cuban Ballplayers Await Word on Visas

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26; WORLD IN BRIEF: THE AMERICAS

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, Bahamas


Four Cuban baseball players held at an immigrant center in the Bahamas awaited a
formal invitation from Costa Rica offering refuge.

The players hoped to receive word soon that Costa Rica had granted humanitarian
visas, said associates of a Miami-based Cuban-American sports agent working to
free the players. The four fled Communist-ruled Cuba on a small boat last week.

Officials at the detention center said Tuesday that more than 150 Cubans held
there had gone on a hunger strike to protest alleged preferential treatment
given to the baseball players.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              208 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 02, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Complaints of Bias Draw INS Response; Most Detainees Are Latino, Records Show

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff

SECTION: WEEKLY - MD; Pg. M01

LENGTH: 1063 words


When Hispanic advocacy groups complain that federal agents are unfairly
targeting Latinos for arrest and deportation in Maryland, Benedict Ferro, the
head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the state, nods in
agreement -- to a point.

"I can't argue that it looks like we're focusing on Hispanics. The stats show
it," he said. But there is a big asterisk in his voice.

Yes, most of the 188 suspected illegal immigrants arrested this year have been
Latinos, the majority from Mexico and Central America, he said in a recent
interview. Just last week, INS agents swooped down on two Prince George's County
businesses -- a commercial laundry and a chicken processor -- and arrested 71
suspects, all from Mexico and other Latin American countries.

But there are practical reasons for the pattern, Ferro said, related to the ease
with which Latinos can cross the southern U.S. border and travel to the Atlantic
seaboard. They find Maryland an attractive destination, he said, with its
booming unskilled labor economy and a large Hispanic population.

"The language, similar heritage, relatives and friends to help them get jobs --
those are all draws for Hispanics more than for other groups here," Ferro said.
There is also a thriving cottage industry in fraudulent documents -- Social
Security cards, work authorization papers, he said.

The bottom line, Ferro said, is that Latinos, both legal and undocumented,
generally outnumber other immigrant groups, and their arrest rates thus are
correspondingly higher. According to U.S. Census Bureau estimates, there were
259,000 legal noncitizens in Maryland in 1997, 75,000 of them from Central and
South America. Another 63,000 were from Europe and Great Britain, 22,000 came
from Korea and 20,000 were from other Asian countries.

In addition, according to INS estimates, there are 45,000 illegal, or
undocumented, workers in Maryland, mostly from Latin America. Only 468, or about
1 percent, were arrested last year, INS spokesman John Shallman said.

Another crucial factor in the disproportionate number of Latino arrests, Ferro
said, is that Hispanics generally enter the United States from Mexico, a
relatively easy task, while most other immigrants come from overseas. Those
immigrants generally must have visas and airline tickets that are screened
before entry, a process that tends to minimize illegal entries.

But Hispanics "can just walk across the border, and in 72 hours they're in
Maryland," Ferro said.

Advocacy groups such as the Latino Civil Rights Task Force of Montgomery County
say they do not object to the INS mission of detaining illegal immigrants. But,
the groups contend, agents frequently mistreat detainees, denying them emergency
telephone calls, failing to advise them of their rights and ignoring employees
in work site raids who do not "look Hispanic."

Most recently, a company representative at a commercial laundry raided last week
told a Washington Post reporter that several agents trained handguns on
terrified workers and that one agent wore no badge or other identifying INS
insignia.

Ferro said an internal investigation showed that only one agent drew his handgun
briefly "in response to a potentially threatening situation," and that the
action was justified. In a statement, Ferro said the agent "was assigned to
watch a rear door and cargo loading bay of the facility. He reported that when
he heard some noises coming from an area filled with industrial-sized laundry
bins and boxes, he drew his weapon, yelled for nearby agents to assist, then
replaced his weapon into its holster seconds later when the agents arrived and
apprehended the four males hiding there."

Ferro said agents generally wear windbreakers with INS insignia when conducting
raids at work sites where only employees and their supervisors are present. At
restaurants, where there are customers and other members of the general public
present, agents wear formal "street clothes" with badges visible and question
employees in private areas of the restaurant to minimize disrupting business,
Ferro said.

Also, he said, agents are expected to examine identification papers of all
employees at raids, not just those who appear to be Hispanic.

In the wake of several raids in the Washington area in January and February,
Ferro met with Montgomery County Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D), U.S. Rep.
Albert R. Wynn (D-Md.), whose district includes Prince George's County, and
several other officials to discuss allegations of what Wynn called "overly
aggressive and ethnically discriminatory INS raids."

Ferro said that Wynn and others raised "good, probing questions," and that since
then, INS supervisors have met regularly with Hispanic community leaders to keep
the "channels of communication open." Ferro added, however, that many complaints
are difficult to investigate because they lack sufficient detail.

In response to complaints that agents are often insensitive to Hispanic
immigrants, Ferro said 11 of his 60 enforcement officers are native Spanish
speakers, and all the others are required to undergo a 14-week basic Spanish
language course. He said the head of the enforcement division is Asian American
and the second-in-command is Hispanic.

Every year, Maryland's robust economy is drawing more immigrants, both legal and
illegal, Ferro said. Illegal workers typically go into restaurant, landscaping,
tree nursery, poultry processing and low-skill construction fields where they
work largely among themselves and do not have to deal with an English-speaking
public, he said.

The increase in illegal immigrants, Ferro said, is reflected in a glut of
anonymous tips called in by disgruntled employees, business owners snitching on
competitors and rejected job applicants.

"We've got 50 times more tips than we can possibly work," Ferro said. "We screen
them and work with the most aggravated cases."

Lost in the spotlight on illegal workers is the other side of the equation: the
employers. With each raid, businesses face sanctions for knowingly hiring
undocumented workers -- up to $ 2,000 in fines for each employee. Last year
alone, the INS levied more than $ 500,000 in fines on Maryland businesses.

"We're not going after the employees so much as we want to stop the employers,"
Ferro said. "We want employers to turn off the magnet."


LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post, Arrests of Immigrants Number of
suspected illegal immigrants arrested in Maryland in major work site raids*
Prince George's 93 Anne Arundel 36 Carroll 29 Montgomery 16 Baltimore City and
County 14 Howard 10 Harford 4 *Raids in which four or more individuals were
arrested SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              209 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 04, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Reality Check

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 289 words


Lois Romano's March 24 news story on the Hispanic influx into the small Ozark
town of Rogers, Ark., treated a complex issue in a superficial manner. I regret
that I participated in her effort by supplying her with copies of local news
stories and third-party data, which she disregarded. For example, I faxed her a
story that quoted the Border Patrol agent in charge of the Little Rock office as
saying that between 40 percent and 80 percent of the workers in local poultry
plants are illegal aliens (Springdale, Ark., Morning News, April 1, 1996). But
Romano blindly accepted the statement of Rogers officials that the newcomers are
for the most part legal workers.

According to 25 years of national polling data, the majority of Americans
(black, white, Hispanic, Republican or Democrat) believe we have too many
immigrants. This isn't a controversial issue. I also supplied your reporter with
the polling results of your sister publication, Newsweek (August, 1993), showing
60 percent think immigration is a bad thing for this country; 62 percent agree
that immigrants take the jobs of U.S. workers; 59 percent agree that many
immigrants wind up on welfare and raise taxes as a result. Romano disregarded
these data and substituted her own anecdotal poll of "more than 15 customers"
taken on a rainy afternoon at Wal-Mart. Not surprisingly, her poll supported her
perspective that the 794 percent increase in Hispanic immigrants had not created
problems.

Since when does a reporter show up at the largest employer in Benton County and
a prime supporter of the the influx and expect to get anything but approval of
the status quo?

-- Dan Morris

The writer is founder of Americans for an Immigration Moratorium.

LOAD-DATE: April 04, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              210 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 05, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

North Of the Border

Edward Countryman

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X05

LENGTH: 901 words


STRANGERS AMONG US

How Latino Immigration Is

Transforming America

By Roberto Suro

Knopf. 352 pp. $ 26.95

Reviewed by Edward Countryman, professor of history at Southern Methodist
University and author of "Americans: A Collision of Histories."

Roughly every half-century, America undergoes a spasm of fear about immigrants.
In the late 1790s the result was the Alien and Sedition laws. Fifty years later
boarding houses and employers were announcing that "No Irish Need Apply." The
late 19th century saw the barring of Asians and profound anxiety about new
immigrants from Eastern and Southern Europe. One eventual result was Madison
Grant's book The Passing of the Great Race, which Hitler admired. Another was
the Immigration Act of 1924, which closed America's doors.

Since Congress revised the law in 1965, immigration has been open again. Now,
once more, newcomers have become a subject for intense debate. Nobody seems
worried about Europeans, but Asians and especially Latinos have proven quite
another matter. English-only movements and California Gov. Pete Wilson's
successful use of Latino immigration to secure his re-election attest that fear
is rampant. California's Proposition 187 opened the way in 1994 for the more
general denial of social services to legal and illegal immigrants alike that
Congress enacted two years later. In the most heated commentaries, immigrants
threaten the very Republic.

Roberto Suro is uniquely well placed to consider both this newest immigration
and the debate it has produced. His background is Puerto Rican and Ecuadorian.
As a journalist with The Washington Post and other newspapers, he has covered
immigration for years. Twice, the Twentieth Century Fund has invited him to
ponder immigration policy. Strangers Among Us brings all these qualifications
together in graceful, thoughtful prose. It may be the book that transcends
previous debate and sets the terms for intelligent future discussion.

Suro takes apart the blanket category: The Mexicans, Dominicans, Cubans, Puerto
Ricans and Guatemalans he presents have little in common. Past migrations are of
almost no use for understanding them, first because the migrants come from close
by, second because many come illegally, and third because the "ladder of
opportunity" that agrarian and industrial America once offered is now broken.
For Suro the "civil rights" model of public action does not suit them. They
cannot claim what he calls the "moral authority" that African Americans have
accrued during their long oppression. Many blacks and many Latinos endure
soul-grinding poverty, but it stems from different sources.

Suro presents two potent images. One is a "channel" of migration that people
travel both ways, settling at many possible points. The other is the barrio:
Puerto Rican East Harlem, Dominican Washington Heights, Cuban Miami, East L.A.,
the Guatemalan enclave in Houston's Magnolia. He presents these with strong
portraits of individuals and accounts of social situations. In some ways these
are simply Alexis de Tocqueville's quintessentially American voluntary
communities, and Suro devotes considerable attention to the problem of how well
his different groups have organized themselves. True to his quarrel with
romantic notions of all-Latinos-together, he also shows why Cuban first-arrivals
from the early Castro years do not open their doors to recent boat-lift people,
and how Chicano East Los Angeles and Mexican migrant South Central are very
different places.

That point of difference underpins Suro's policy suggestions. He sees the
wide-open border as a three-way disaster: for government, because law cannot be
enforced; for immigrants, because the United States cannot absorb them
endlessly; and for American society, both because of the mean spirit of
anti-immigrant feeling and because current enforcement policies grossly violate
the liberties of people with a right to be here, driving them to make common
cause with people who do not.

Suro finds his policy template in the campaign of (now Congressman) Silvestre
Reyes at El Paso, Tex., when Reyes headed the Border Patrol there. Abandoning
sweeps through poor Latino neighborhoods, Reyes placed his agents right along
the Rio Grande levees, in sight of one another and facing the would-be border
crossers. It worked for a while, without provoking outrage from people already
"inside." The actual tactic cannot possibly be extended to the whole border or
to the airports where "tourists" arrive intending to overstay. But to Suro the
idea behind it, of separating people here from people who are not and raising
the price if an illegal border-crosser is caught, has possibilities. He develops
those with intelligent, specific suggestions and with a call for the political
will to enact them.

Perhaps what he suggests can work. But Suro opens his discussion of policy by
describing a 6,000-year-old canyon painting near El Paso, calling it a marker on
a north-south highway that people have been traveling ever since. The east-west
boundary between the United States and Mexico that this ancient highway
intersects is only 150 years old. Closing that boundary may be politically
necessary now. But the disparity between the highway's six millennia and the
boundary's brief existence suggests that it will not be easy and that in the
long run it probably cannot be done.


LOAD-DATE: April 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, Alejandrina Alvarez from Peru is hugged by her
brother-in-law Honorio Peralto at a naturalization ceremony in Washington on
July 8, 1995

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              211 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 09, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Haitian Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 186 words


The March 24 news story "Haitian Refugees Rally for Equality" did a wonderful
job of giving one side of the story. Here's the other side.

Many Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans were treated unfairly by the
federal government because they were not given a real opportunity to make their
case for asylum. Those from El Salvador and Guatemala filed suit and won the
right to special consideration of their asylum claims in the future.

Haitians have no similar claims. In fact, Haitians have been treated better by
the United States than refugees from almost any other nation.

The "Guantanamo Haitians" were paroled into the United States, where they
received work permits while pursuing asylum claims. No other nationality group
has received similar treatment.

During the past 11 years, more than 200,000 legal immigrants from Haiti have
been admitted to the United States, a higher percentage of that country's
population than almost any other country.

LAMAR SMITH

Washington

The writer (R-Tex.) is chairman of of the House Judiciary Committee's
subcommittee on immigration and claims.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              212 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 10, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Survey: U.S. Population About 10% Foreign-Born

Barbara Vobejda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 406 words


The proportion of the nation's population born in foreign countries continues to
climb, with immigrants accounting for nearly one-tenth of Americans last year,
the federal government reported yesterday.

Releasing results of a survey conducted in March 1997, the Census Bureau
announced that 25.8 million residents of the United States were born outside its
borders, making up 9.7 percent of the population, a larger segment than at any
point in the past five decades.

Nearly one in three foreign-born residents had become naturalized citizens, the
bureau said.

Immigration levels have been a point of controversy in this country in recent
years, centered on the question of how tightly the federal government should
limit the number of foreign migrants allowed to move here. While immigration has
climbed steadily over the past two decades, it remains below the level early
this century, when a massive wave of Eastern Europeans arrived and immigrants
made up nearly 15 percent of the population.

The new figures are based on a survey by the Census Bureau taken among all
segments of the population, including legal and illegal immigrants, naturalized
citizens, students and temporary workers. The survey showed a slight increase
over the 1996 figure, when foreign-born residents made up 9.3 percent of the
total population.

The agency figures underscored a continuing trend of greater immigration from
Central and South America and the Caribbean, with the largest portion by far
coming from Mexico. More than 7 million residents, for example, or 27 percent of
the foreign-born population, were from Mexico.

The second-largest number came from the Philippines, accounting for 4.4 percent
of the foreign-born population, followed by China and Hong Kong, with 4.3
percent.

The immigrant population has gradually spread to many regions of the country but
remains concentrated in certain states, including California, where nearly one
in four residents is foreign born. In New York, the figure is nearly one in
five, followed by Florida, New Jersey and Texas.

The fraction of the immigrant population that has completed at least four years
of college is the same as native-born Americans -- about one in four. But more
of the adult foreign-born population, nearly 35 percent, has not finished high
school, compared with Americans born in this country, for whom the figure is 16
percent among adults over age 25.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              213 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 12, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Indonesians Find Refuge at U.S. Embassy

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20; WORLD IN BRIEF: ASIA

LENGTH: 72 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia


Pursued by police and fearing imminent deportation, eight illegal immigrants
from Indonesia who scaled the walls of the U.S. Embassy here have found food and
refuge within. But U.S. officials said they still don't know what to do with
their unexpected guests, who entered the compound Friday.

Seeking to protect jobs and its own weak economy, Malaysia is trying to deport
200,000 illegal Indonesian immigrants by Aug. 15.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              214 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 14, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Mexico Expels Foreign Rights Activists; Deportations Stem From Chiapas Troubles

John Ward Anderson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1196 words

DATELINE: SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS CASAS, Mexico


Tom Hansen, a human rights activist and social worker from Chicago, was buying
supplies in a small town near here two months ago when he was detained by
Mexican immigration officials and handed over to four heavily armed men in
street clothes.

They ushered Hansen, who had been in the conflict-ridden state of Chiapas for
two days working with indigenous people, into an old yellow sedan.

"When I asked them for identification, they laughed and told me they could beat
me up and put me in a crate," Hansen recounted in a recent interview. "I was
pretty well convinced I was going to be killed."

Instead, he spent the next 24 hours being ferried from Chiapas to Mexico City,
to what he described as an immigration prison, and being interrogated by various
Mexican officials who refused to allow him to see an attorney, make a telephone
call or contact the U.S. Embassy. They finally put him on a plane and expelled
him from the country for committing a cardinal offense -- meddling in Mexico's
internal affairs.

Hansen was one of the first in a wave of foreigners -- including a French priest
who served here for 32 years and an American student on spring break -- who
recently have been thrown out of Mexico for allegedly participating in the
long-simmering conflict in Chiapas. Masked rebels launched an armed rebellion
four years ago in this southern state to demand greater rights for Indians.

Mexico escalated the crackdown on foreigners on Sunday, deporting 12 --
including three Americans -- who were arrested when about 500 state and federal
policemen stormed a small community that had recently declared itself autonomous
from the local elected government and sympathetic to the rebels, known as the
Zapatista National Liberation Army. News services identified the Americans as
Jeffrey Conant, Michael Zap and Travis Loller, all of San Francisco.

Police also beat two news photographers who were taking pictures of the
foreigners at the airport in Tuxtla Gutierrez, the capital of Chiapas,
continuing a recent government campaign to hinder press coverage -- particularly
by foreign reporters -- in the state.

Mexican officials said the approximately two dozen foreign visitors deported so
far this year were expelled for violating their tourist visas by working, which
requires a special visa. But the officials acknowledged that the underlying
reason for the expulsions was the belief that the foreigners were intervening in
Mexican politics, a violation of the country's constitution.

Many analysts said they believe the true motive was to intimidate human rights
workers and stymie international criticism of Mexico's human rights record
following the December massacre of 45 unarmed Chiapas peasants by a group
aligned with the ruling political party. The matter is particularly sensitive
now because Mexico is negotiating a new trade agreement with the European Union,
which weighs a country's human rights record when considering trade accords.

"This xenophobia campaign is an attempt to discredit international observation
and to lump us with the enemy -- to make it appear that we are engaged in
political activity," said a European human rights worker based here who asked
not to be identified because he is in Mexico on a tourist visa. He added that
many human rights workers are coming to Mexico on tourist visas because the
government refused to give them working visas.

"We don't want our people demonstrating in the [town square] or marching or
making statements to the Mexican press. Our role is to distribute information
outside of Mexico, to put international pressure on the government."

Fernando Solis Camara, a top immigration official in Mexico City, said the
government welcomes humanitarian workers and human rights observers with the
proper visas, which he said are easy to get. But foreigners engaging in
political activities "are simply a factor that complicates [finding] a solution
to the Chiapas problem," he said, because they help polarize the politics,
spread propaganda and discourage communities from accepting government aid.

The issue has been complicated by many factors: Mexico's long-standing tradition
of allowing visitors to participate in a variety of activities on a tourist
visa; the isolated communities in rural Chiapas that have always viewed
foreigners with suspicion; the Roman Catholic Church, which has encouraged
international observation and which the government accuses of siding with the
rebels; Mexico's equating any foreign meddling with a threat to its sovereignty;
the outpouring of international support enjoyed by the Zapatistas; and the
influx of foreigners wanting to visit Chiapas following the December massacre.
Many visitors are trained observers, academics and relief workers, but others
are more akin to adventure tourists who want to be more deeply involved.

"Some are earnest and good-willed people who do not know what they are getting
into and want to be in solidarity with poor people," said Eric Olsen of the
Washington Office on Latin America, a private think tank. "Sometimes they don't
have the political savvy to know when they've crossed the line."

That was apparently the case during a reporter's recent visit to Oventik, the
small community sympathetic to the Zapatistas that has roped itself off and
declared itself autonomous from the elected local government. When a military
troop transport drove by, a half-dozen Italians raced to the main gate and took
pictures as community officials implored them not to bother the army.

A foreign anthropologist who has worked in Chiapas for more than 10 years said
that at some point the conflict here became a sort of "phenomenon" that
attracted all types, in addition to the academics and social workers who have
been visiting for decades. "Those kids coming down to make revolution on spring
break are probably particularly irksome" to the government, he said.

Sometimes it is a fine line that separates tourism from observation from
activism, as illustrated by Global Exchange, a San Francisco human rights and
education group that since 1994 has sent more than 500 Americans on "reality
tours" to observe the situation here. Participants meet with community leaders
and are encouraged to write up and share their impressions of Chiapas -- with
friends, with family, with congressmen -- when they return.

"The fact that they are observing reality in Chiapas is our intention, but they
are not working in any sense," said Ted Lewis, head of the organization's Mexico
project.

Others, like Hansen, 44, acknowledge working while on a tourist visa but say it
was with the obvious knowledge of the government. In fact, Hansen said, his
project -- a $ 35,000 program to provide video cameras to Indian communities "so
they can tell their own story in their own words" -- was partially funded by the
Mexican government.

"I think they're trying to scare the foreigners out of Chiapas," he said, "and
the people who suffer the most are the indigenous communities, because they are
left with less access to technical and humanitarian aid, and they're more
vulnerable to human rights abuses."


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, mariana mora for The Washington Post; Map, The Washington Post,
Mexican police remove Travis Loller from the immigration office in San Cristobal
de las Casas. Loller was one of three Americans arrested when police stormed a
small community sympathetic to Chiapas rebels; the three were deported Sunday.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              215 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 24, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Honduran Immigrants Wage Hunger Strike

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 588 words


Five immigrants from Honduras, lying under a huge Honduran flag and sipping only
water and Gatorade, have been holding a hunger strike in front of the White
House since Monday -- and say they won't eat until the government stops
deporting illegal immigrants back to Honduras.

The protesters, who began their hunger strike in Miami and then flew to
Washington to draw greater attention, have been fasting in Lafayette Square to
dramatize the plight of 80,000 Hondurans who fled to the United States in the
1980s because of conflicts in neighboring countries.

The demonstrators, one of whom was admitted to Washington Hospital Center
yesterday after suffering convulsions on his 30th day of fasting, are demanding
that Honduran refugees be given permission to stay in this country even if they
illegally immigrated.

The U.S. government has granted a series of amnesties to illegal Salvadoran
immigrants, and last year Congress offered them lenient conditions for becoming
permanent residents. Lawmakers did even more for Nicaraguan refugees, offering
them automatic residency if they came here before 1995. In contrast, the
protesters said, more than 6,000 Hondurans have been deported in the last 15
months.

"We are not demanding special privileges. We are humbly asking for equality,"
said Nestor Mejia, 35, a Honduran welder from Miami, who was among 15 protesters
supporting the fasters. "The wars destabilized our country economically. If I
had to go back there, and earn $ 60 a month, how could I keep supporting my
children and my parents?"

Trinidad Guifarro, 61, who has been fasting for 17 days, said Hondurans were
America's allies, who "gave our territory to fight communism, and we suffered
the consequences of the Cold War."

During the 1980s, Honduras was used by the U.S. military as a staging ground for
guerrillas fighting a leftist regime in Nicaragua. Honduras also received
thousands of refugees from El Salvador when Washington backed a military
campaign there against leftist rebels.

But President Clinton has said his administration will give no special
consideration to the Hondurans, telling their supporters in Congress in a recent
letter that "there was no civil war or widespread violence" to justify their
decision to leave their homeland.

Proposed legislation to help the Hondurans become permanent U.S. residents faces
an uphill battle in Congress, where most members supported a 1996 law aimed at
curbing illegal immigration.

"Even the Clinton administration has refused to allow illegal aliens from
Honduras to remain in the United States," Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chief
architect of the 1996 law, said yesterday. "Clearly they should be returned
home."

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who has introduced a bill to assist the
Hondurans, visited the hunger strikers yesterday while other protesters played
an accordion and sang in Spanish, lamenting Washington's treatment of refugees.

"We cannot complete the solution for Central Americans without including
Hondurans," Gutierrez said, adding that he hoped to negotiate an agreement with
Republicans, including Smith, who agreed to support residency for Nicaraguan
refugees.

Unlike the Nicaraguans, who have presented a united front on this issue for
years, the Hondurans began pressing their case only several months ago.
Moreover, the different Honduran advocacy groups have feuded over personal and
political differences, and no local Honduran groups have turned out to support
the Miami protesters.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Protester Cristobal Avila, left, is comforted by
Luis A. Cortes after Heriberto Galea, collapsed in Lafayette Square after 30
days of a hunger strike. Galea was admitted to Washington Hospital Center and
was in stable condition last night.  Collapsing From Hunger Protester Heriberto
Galea is aided by police and others after he collapsed in Lafayette Square
during the 30th day of a hunger strike. Five protesters say they will not eat
until the U.S. government quits deporting illegal Honduran immigrants. During
the 1980s, 80,000 Hondurans fled to the United States. (Photo ran on page A01)

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              216 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 26, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

An Unstoppable Russian Deluge; Skilled Emigres A Boon to Economy

Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foeign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3215 words

DATELINE: HAIFA, Israel


Like a massive earthquake followed by endless aftershocks, Mikhail Gorbachev's
decision to allow Jews to leave the Soviet Union en masse nearly a decade ago
has reshaped the political, cultural and economic landscape of Israel and
continues to redefine the Jewish state.

Both in its massive scale -- nearly a million former Soviet immigrants will have
arrived by 2000 -- and its astonishingly high educational and professional
quality, the Russian influx is unlike any previous surge of immigration to
Israel, which this week celebrates the 50th anniversary of its founding. It is
as if the United States had suddenly absorbed the entire population of England,
with Scotland's added for good measure.

Even now, immigrants from the Soviet successor states continue to land at
Ben-Gurion Airport at a clip of more than 150 a day, dwarfing all other current
immigrant groups to Israel and altering neighborhoods, offices and the country's
political calculus.

The "Russians," a generic term encompassing immigrants from all 15 former Soviet
republics, have confounded expectations in Israel. Having once been seen as a
threat to jobs, wages and prosperity, they have in fact helped reinvigorate the
Israeli economy.

For immigrants who arrived in the early 1990s, the unemployment rate, about 7
percent, is below that of other Israelis. Most own their own apartments. Half
own cars. The once-gaping disparity in earnings is closing as Russians steadily
move up the corporate ladder.

"If you look at the U.S., France, Germany or Canada, their immigrants are always
less skilled than the native population," said Rachel Friedberg, an economist at
Brown University in Rhode Island.

"But the Russians are actually more skilled than native Israelis -- more
engineers, more musicians, more physicians," Friedberg said. "Over time they've
done incredibly well."

From its founding in 1948, Israel has been a country of immigrants, and it
remains emphatically so today. Half the exceptionally young population of 5.9
million was born elsewhere. Nearly all the cabinet ministers in Prime Minister
Binyamin Netanyahu's coalition government are immigrants or the sons of
immigrants from a broad spectrum of the Jewish diaspora -- Russians, Ukrainians,
Moroccans, Yemenites, Spaniards, Tunisians, Austrians, Hungarians, Iranians,
Romanians and Kurds.

As in the United States, immigration is central to Israel's self-image and to
its drive and ambition. It is also a wellspring of personal heartache, social
upheaval and political tension.

The gauzy myth of an Israeli melting pot, nurtured for decades by Jews who
flocked to the new country seeking social harmony in a land of their own, has
yielded to a harsh new reality: a culture at once richer and more diverse, but
also far more balkanized than its founders ever imagined.

Just look south of Tel Aviv, to the town of Bnei Ayish, where a construction
manager from Moscow who barely knew what a bar mitzvah was a decade ago is now
on the verge of becoming mayor.

Grigory Lifshits arrived in Israel in 1992 and moved to Bnei Ayish, which
consisted of a few hundred families, most of them immigrants from Yemen who
settled there in the late 1950s. The families lived in bungalows, worked in the
groves and fields outside town, kept kosher kitchens, sent their kids to a
religious school and attended synagogue regularly.

Lifshits, now in his late forties, represented a new breed of immigrant for Bnei
Ayish -- urban, professional, college-educated and secular.

"Few of us knew the first thing about Judaism in Russia," said Lifshits, who is
one of just a handful of Russians in Bnei Ayish who wears a religious skullcap.

The Russian settlers in Bnei Ayish soon became a flood, and the Yemenites who
had been there for years began talking about a "Russian takeover."

What had been a settlement of 1,500 people swelled to a town of 7,000.
Three-story apartment blocs -- referred to by the Yemenites as "high-rises" --
sprouted to house the newcomers. The apartment blocs were in the southwest of
town; the Yemenites' bungalows were in the northeast.

In their part of town, the Russians opened delicatessens -- one called Arbat,
after Moscow's famous pedestrian street -- selling ham and bacon. Few attended
synagogue; almost none kept kosher. They built secular schools for their
children. They opened a new community center where the lingua franca was Russian
and the sport of choice volleyball.

Swamped by the newcomers, the Yemenites despaired. Nearly two-thirds of the town
is now Russian. In local elections this November, the Russians will easily
capture a majority of the town council seats. Lifshits, once a loyal Communist
Party member in Moscow, is the odds-on favorite to become the new mayor.

"There are even rumors that they want to build an Orthodox church," said Yishiye
Yidye, the Yemenite deputy mayor who has watched the town's transformation with
dismay. "This would be the worst thing that could possibly happen."

Lifshits scoffed at the idea of an Orthodox church but acknowledged that
cohabitation has been strained. "The tension hasn't reached the point of
violence," he said. "But there is tension."

Redefining Israel The bitter divisions within the Jewish state, once glossed
over when Arab enemies loomed larger, have been brought home to Israelis by the
Russians with all the subtlety of a poke in the eye. The Russians now comprise
nearly a fifth of the nation's population. Many are ignorant of Judaism, and at
least a quarter of them are not even regarded as Jewish, including the husbands,
wives and children of those who are.

Yet the Russians in Israel are so numerous, and their sense of culture so
strong, that few feel ostracized.

"Why should we be integrated?" said Eduard Kuznetsov, a former Soviet dissident
and political prisoner who is now chief editor of Vesti, Israel's largest
Russian-language newspaper. "Why shouldn't we fight and protest to advance our
rights? If you're big enough you can fight to keep your own culture.

"Is there tension [in Israeli society]? So what? Tension is part of life."

Said Sergei Michael, a Russian immigrant and activist in Israel's Labor Party:
"The reality in Israel is many nations, societies and ethnic groups actually
opposed to each other. There's no mosaic because the pieces don't fit."

It is dawning on Israelis that Russians not only are making good much more
quickly than was forecast, they also are redefining Israel and what it means to
be an Israeli.

Take the case of Michael Kagan, who went to work in Israel for a small high-tech
company called Intel Corp. in 1983. A young engineer from Leningrad, Kagan had
arrived in Israel during a briefer exodus of Soviet Jews in the 1970s. He hadn't
the slightest expectation of the wave that followed.

Intel's development center in Haifa had just 40 employees, and Kagan was the
only one from the Soviet Union. The company's second Russian immigrant wasn't
hired until five years later.

Then came the deluge -- a shock wave of Jewish emigres from the disintegrating
Soviet empire starting in late 1989 that nearly tripled the number of engineers
in Israel and helped fuel a high-tech boom that persists today.

These days, Intel's ultramodern office complex in Haifa -- the firm's only
development center outside the United States -- has 800 workers. Of those, about
150 are Russians. Kagan, now chief of the microprocessor design department,
makes recruiting trips to Moscow to help meet a soaring demand for engineers
that Israel's universities cannot satisfy.

"There's a huge need right now in Israel for high-tech engineers," said Kagan.
"Immigration from Russia has been one of the key factors enabling this growth."

One Israeli commentator, writing last week in the daily newspaper Ha'aretz,
likened the immigrants' arrival to a $ 10 billion aid program from the former
Soviet states. Economists regard the Russian immigration as an infusion of
highly trained human capital that Israel itself could never have generated so
quickly.

The Russian impact has been felt everywhere, from the northern town of Metulla,
where Moroccan kids play ice hockey under the tutelage of Russian coaches, to
the southern desert city of Beersheba, which says it is home to more chess
grandmasters than any place on earth, all but one of them Russian-born.

In the coastal town of Ashdod, Russians have started an international summer
jazz festival, now entering its fifth season. Nearby, in the Barzilai regional
hospital in Ashqelon, a majority of the staff physicians are Russian, including
the chiefs of the surgery and oncology departments. In practically every corner
of Israel, native-born Israeli music teachers have been squeezed out of business
by a deluge of job-hungry Russian violinists and pianists willing to work for
less.

"I have a notebook full of Russians -- 60 names -- who are qualified music
teachers in search of work," said Hanita Zvevner, director of the music
conservatory in Ashdod. "There aren't enough students for them all."

A Political Force As the Russian immigration made itself felt, the expectations
that attended their arrival ran full force into very different realities. Some
Israeli women's groups had hoped the new immigrants would swell their ranks and
add muscle to the abortion-rights movement in Israel. But Russian women have
mostly stayed away.

The Israeli liberal establishment, descendants of Europeans, saw the Russians as
natural allies who would help neutralize the growing influence of the Sephardim,
immigrants from North Africa and the Middle East. But in the 1996 elections the
Russians, in the form of a newly formed party called Yisrael B'aliyah (Movement
for Israel and Immigration), joined forces with the Sephardim and helped elect
Netanyahu, a conservative prime minister.

Peace activists assumed the Russian Jews, once an oppressed minority themselves
in the Soviet Union, would identify with the Palestinians and press for a
negotiated settlement. Few of the new arrivals appear to feel sympathy for their
Arab neighbors, or for the idea of trading West Bank land for peace with the
Palestinians.

"There is a Soviet mentality that is still alive -- paternalism . . . and
territorial chauvinism," said Roman Bronfman, a political scientist who arrived
from Ukraine in 1980. A member of Yisrael B'aliyah, he is a moderate member of
the Israeli parliament. "Although the Soviet structure broke down, the mentality
is much slower to die."

Even the best-known Russian immigrant, former Soviet dissident Natan Sharansky,
has surprised many Israelis. Many see him as a hero for his courage in defying
his Soviet jailers and persecutors. For the 1996 elections he helped found
Yisrael B'aliyah, which stunned analysts by winning seven seats in parliament.

Sharansky's prize was a cabinet seat as minister of trade and industry. Perhaps
inevitably, his transition to government has come at a price. Beleaguered by the
rough-and-tumble of Israeli politics and by deep splits in his own party,
Sharansky is losing some of his moral aura and starting to be seen as another in
the country's clamorous ranks of right-wing politicians.

Sharansky is disturbed no more by the suggestion that he has become a politician
than by the notion that Israel is changing.

"There is a new type of integration, a new type of Zionism -- not a melting pot
where all these cultures have to disappear," he said. "There is no such thing as
a new type of Jew. There are Russian Jews and American Jews and Moroccan Jews,
and we want their tradition and their mentality and their knowledge and their
experiences. . . . The big challenge for the state of Israel is how to become
the state of all the Jews, where all the Jews feel that they are part of it,
when people who are coming after thousands years of life in diaspora have
different concepts of everything including, what it means to be a Jew."

Clash of Cultures That challenge is felt first in the main immigrant reception
hall at Ben-Gurion Airport -- Israel's Ellis Island. A day in January brought a
typical melange: 30 immigrants from Kiev, 25 from Simferopol and 25 from Odessa,
all in Ukraine; 20 from Moldova; 40 from Minsk, Belarus; 30 from Moscow; and 30
from Tblisi, Georgia. Only two flights arrived with immigrants from outside the
former Soviet Union -- Poland and Ethiopia.

The immigrants wandered blinking into a spotlessly bright room of blond wood
furniture and potted plants. A little girl from Moldova in a green felt hat
clutched her doll and gazed at the photographs on the wall: camels in the Judean
desert, a fisherman on a kibbutz, a hot-air balloon festival.

Russian-speaking officials attended briskly to the arrivals, entering their
names into computers, handing them identity cards, six months' free medical
insurance and, for retirees, social security checks. Israel has become a
relatively rich country, and it treats its immigrants accordingly.

There are immediate cash distributions: about $ 540 for a family of four. The
same family can also expect benefits amounting to $ 10,000 in the first year.

The airport immigration center is run by Boris Hellman, a Soviet emigre. When he
arrived with an earlier wave of Soviet immigrants in 1973, he received about $
40. "Now is a much better time to come," he said.

Israelis, particularly North Africans who arrived in much more difficult
circumstances in the 1950s, tend to resent the recent Russian emigres. They are
regarded as unappreciative, arrogant and only vaguely committed to Judaism and
their adoptive country.

Often enough, the Russians agree. They see Israeli society as having done them
precious few favors.

Many complain of discrimination on the job, of receiving lower wages than native
Israelis for the same work. Among intellectual emigres from Moscow and St.
Petersburg, it is common to sneer at the idea of Israeli culture.

Russian teenagers are volunteering for elite fighting units in the army at the
same rate as other Israelis. But older emigres, jaded by a lifetime of Soviet
patriotic songs and slogans, wince at the idea that they owe Israel their
affections.

"It's a part of Russian culture not to be very patriotic; to be ironic,
sarcastic," said Kuznetsov, the editor. "I'm not sure we need patriotism here."

On Thursday, Israel will celebrate the 50th anniversary of its founding. This is
the first of several articles that will survey the Jewish state, its views of
its first half century and its relationship with American Jews.

Russians' Growing Success Annoys Earlier Immigrants

ASHDOD, Israel--According to local legend, the founders of this sweltering city
along the Mediterranean were 22 Moroccan families who were loaded into a truck,
dumped near some sand dunes and told: Welcome to your new home.

That unceremonious event was in 1956. In the next few years, so many
French-speaking North African Jews had been settled in Ashdod that some Israelis
called it "Little Paris."

The city grew fast and in spurts, including after 1979 when Shah Mohammed Reza
Pahlavi was overthrown and thousands of Iranian Jews emigrated. Yet Ashdod
maintained its basic complexion -- Sephardic Jews of modest means from North
Africa and the Middle East.

Comprising nearly half of Israel's population, the Sephardim were (and remain,
along with Israeli Arabs) the have-nots of Israeli society -- poorer, less
educated, less entrepreneurial, less mobile. As such they felt patronized,
insulted and ignored. Their resentment grew, focusing on Israel's long-standing
establishment -- left-leaning Ashkenazi Jews of European descent.

Today, Ashdod is booming. Cranes and new apartment blocks define the skyline.
But these days the newcomers, and the emerging signs of prosperity, are nearly
all Russian. They now comprise more than a quarter of Ashdod's 160,000
residents.

"I see the Russians' impact, and this is what we are crying over," said Avner
Shem-tov, an activist for Shas, a political party whose core constituents are
religious Jews from Morocco, such as those who settled Ashdod. "With God's help,
I hope my daughter will not marry one of them."

To many Sephardim the Russians represent the latest in a long string of
humiliations. They see the newcomers as pampered complainers who were handed
every advantage while whining that it wasn't enough. Their own circumstances
upon arrival, and the state's munificence then, were far more limited.

Both Shas and the Russians' own political party, Israel B'aliyah, belong to the
governing coalition. But they are odd bedfellows, united more by their distaste
for Israel's Old Guard liberals than by their respective party platforms.

In fact, the Russians, whose Soviet-bred capacity for prejudice is formidable,
have become the latest Israelis of European descent to scorn the Sephardim.

-- Lee Hockstader

Acclaimed Theater Company Bridges a Cultural Divide

KIBBUTZ YAGAR, Israel -- The play had been sold out for weeks, and on the night
of the performance extra rows were installed in the back of the 1,250-seat
auditorium. The audience settled in and got its first look at an unusual set: a
revolving stage, shaped like a bagel, nestled in a wheat field. There was a buzz
of excitement before the first actor uttered a line; everyone sensed this would
be a night of special theater.

As Israel's most acclaimed troupe, the Gesher theater company has been playing
to packed houses -- not only at home but on its increasingly frequent tours of
Europe and the United States.

Gesher, a mostly Russian-speaking company, performs more than 80 percent of its
productions in Hebrew, a language few of the actors could speak just a few years
ago -- and which the artistic director, Evgeny Arye, still can barely manage.

Gesher is the Hebrew word for bridge. Nearly from the start, the company
realized it would have to span the cultural chasm separating Russian and Israeli
theater in order not to be trapped in an exclusively Russian milieu. That meant
performing in Hebrew.

"I remember all the other theaters in Israel after World War II of immigrants
from Hungary, Romania, you name it, and after one or two or three years they
just disappeared," said Ori Levy, 66, Gesher's director general. "Gesher
understood that if they didn't want to stay in a [Russian] ghetto, they had to
play in Hebrew."

On this night, Gesher was performing "The Village," by Joshua Sobol, a play set
during and immediately after World War II in what was then British-administered
Palestine. The play, which received rave reviews a year ago when Gesher
performed it in London, was charming, funny and beautifully acted.

Gesher, which performed at the Kennedy Center last month, plans to return to the
United States this summer to perform "The Village" at Lincoln Center in New
York.

Arye -- immodest, iconoclastic and engaging -- is hailed as a wizard by Israeli
critics. Arye is determined that Gesher should continue performing at least a
portion of its repertoire in Russian, but he knows its future is in Hebrew.

"It has to be the Chekhov of Gesher theater, the Babel of Gesher theater," he
said. "I hope this combination will mean something."

-- Lee Hockstader


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: ISRAEL'S 50TH ANNIVERSARY: A NATION OF IMMIGRANTS; Pg. occ.

GRAPHIC: Photo, avichai nudel for The Washington Post; Map, The Washington Post;
Photo ; Photo, afp/jacqueline artz, Yevgeny Terletsky, left, and Borris Achanov
are part of the acclaimed Gesher theater company.  Michael Kagan, center, at
Intel's building in Israel with fellow Russian employees, recruits engineers in
Moscow for the high-tech company.  Soviet Jews arrived at Israel's Ben-Gurion
Airport in 1990. More than 150 immigrants from the Soviet successor states
continue to land at the airport daily.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              217 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 02, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Inspector Charged in Drug Scheme; Indictment Says Smuggling Ring Headed by
Haitian Fugitive Exploited Ethnic Ties

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 810 words


As a special operations inspector for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, Joel G. Audain had the run of Miami International Airport. And as one
of the few INS officers of Haitian origin, he played a key role in ferreting out
Haitian travelers suspected of alien smuggling, drug trafficking or organized
crime.

But at some point in his 12-year career with the INS, Audain allegedly turned to
helping Haitians beat the system. Through family connections, friendship with a
corrupt Haitian airport worker and overtures from drug traffickers, prosecutors
charge, he became part of a ring that smuggled 33 tons of Colombian cocaine into
the United States over a 10-year period.

Audain's alleged involvement in a conspiracy headed by a fugitive former Haitian
police chief, Lt. Col. Michel Francois, came to light in Miami with the April 22
arrest of the senior INS inspector on drug trafficking and money laundering
charges.

He is being held without bond pending his arraignment.

The case is the latest example of what investigators say are persistent attempts
by drug traffickers to exploit ethnic connections in suborning federal law
enforcement officers.

Audain, 38, was among 12 persons named in an indictment unsealed in Miami. Four
are fugitives, including Francois, the former police chief of the Haitian
capital, Port-au-Prince. He led the 1991 coup against President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, then turned over power to Haiti's army chief and served as the No. 3
man in the military government that ruled until 1994, when U.S. forces returned
Aristide to office. Francois then fled to Honduras.

During his years in power before and after the coup, Francois used his authority
to put Haiti's airports and seaports at the disposal of Colombian drug cartels,
turning the country into a major transshipment point, the indictment charges. It
says "vast quantities" of cocaine were shipped or flown into Haiti from
Colombia, Panama and Curacao, then smuggled into the United States by couriers
using commercial flights.

Francois ordered construction of an airstrip on the property of Haitian army
Col. Jean Claude Paul to facilitate drug flights and placed coconspirators in
key posts at Haitian ports, the indictment charges. Among those arrested in the
case was Marc Valme, whom Francois installed as chief of the Port-au-Prince
International Airport. Francois allegedly made millions of dollars from the
smuggling.

The Honduran Supreme Court rejected a U.S. extradition request for Francois last
year by a 5-4 vote, citing a provision of a 1908 treaty that U.S. officials say
has since been superseded by amendments and international conventions. Honduras
receives more than $ 21 million a year in U.S. aid.

Three other defendants in the case are also at large. Two alleged ringleaders,
Beaudouin Ketant and Frantz Cadet, are in Haiti, and a reputed cartel emissary,
Fernando Burgos Martinez, resides in Colombia, investigators said. Both
countries have refused to send the men to the United States on grounds that laws
bar extradition of their citizens.

According to investigators, the conspiracy began in June 1987 when Colombian
drug lords dispatched Burgos to open a new smuggling route by bribing Haitian
officials. Audain's involvement allegedly started in 1989 or 1990, when Haitian
traffickers approached him through family members and a Haitian airport worker
employed by Metro-Dade County.

Born in New York of Haitian immigrant parents, the Creole-speaking Audain was
considered a key asset in dealing with suspicious Haitian travelers passing
through the Miami airport. His job as a special operations inspector involved
"highly sensitive" inspections related to investigations of organized crime,
document fraud, alien smuggling and narcotics, said Al Hazen, a special agent
for the Justice Department inspector general's office in Miami.

Audain used his position to escort arriving drug couriers from the international
side of the airport to the domestic side, where their bags would not be
inspected by Customs officers, investigators said. They said the smuggling
scheme relied on the couriers, who would bring in 20 to 30 kilos of cocaine at a
time in carry-on luggage.

Although Audain was transferred from the airport in 1994, he continued to help
the ring by using his access to a confidential computer system to inform-
coconspirators whether they were under investigation, the indictment charges.

In addition to drug trafficking, Audain is accused of laundering his payoffs --
reportedly totaling more than $ 4 million -- through investments in real estate
and bank accounts in Jamaica and the Cayman Islands.

He and seven other defendants are scheduled to stand trial in September. Each
faces up to life imprisonment if convicted. Four other defendants previously
pleaded guilty in the case.

LOAD-DATE: May 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              218 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 07, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

A Legacy of Compassion, Disorder; After a Decade, Director of Beleaguered INS
Office Is Leaving

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 1101 words


William J. Carroll, who has presided over the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's famously shabby quarters in Arlington for the past decade, finally got
a new coat of beige paint and new blue carpeting in his office last month -- a
week before his May 1 retirement.

It was an ironic sendoff for the beleaguered bureaucrat. Though he is widely
viewed as compassionate and well-meaning, Carroll's INS operation -- which
includes the District and Virginia -- has been criticized by many lawyers and
immigrant advocates as slow, disorganized and unresponsive.

"The system does not run like a Swiss clock," Carroll, 50, acknowledged in a
lengthy interview, in which he blamed the office's problems on a chronic
shortage of funds and a surge in service needs by thousands of immigrants.

"There are frustrations on both sides of the desk," he said. "We've never had
enough resources. They keep filling the tank half full, and we keep running
out."

The INS district director said he was especially disappointed by the condition
of his building at 4420 North Fairfax Dr., where hundreds of immigrants are
crammed daily into scuffed halls and barren waiting rooms.

"This is Washington," he said, sighing. "We should be the flagship office of the
system."

When Carroll took over in 1988, his office had a staff of just under 100 and an
annual budget of $ 10 million to handle all immigration cases for Washington and
Virginia. Immigrants in Maryland report to a different INS office in Baltimore.

In those days, Carroll's office received fewer than 500 residency applications a
month, and it often completed cases in a few weeks.

But soon, all hell broke loose. In 1990, the federal government started granting
a series of temporary amnesties to illegal immigrants who had fled civil wars in
Central America. Carroll said he was told to expect 5,000 local applicants, but
32,000 showed up. Meanwhile, the foreign-born population in the District and
Virginia swelled to more than 250,000.

"It was an absolute nightmare. It almost brought me down emotionally," said
Carroll, who had to ask local churches and immigrant advocacy groups to help
handle the flood of cases. Sometimes, he added, the lines of immigrants "went
all the way to the Ballston Metro station" three blocks away.

About the same time, employees in his office were discovered taking bribes to
provide work permits and green cards. Eight people pleaded guilty. Carroll
called the offenses "nickel and dime stuff," but he said he was "really upset"
that it happened.

"If it had been allowed to continue, it would have been an integrity disaster,"
he said.

New problems have continued to swamp the Arlington office. In 1996, a tough
immigration law made it harder to obtain permanent residency, sending panic
through immigrant communities. And last year, congressional suspicion that
immigrants were receiving citizenship without sufficient criminal background
checks forced the INS to reinvestigate thousands of applicants.

To cope with the demand, Carroll's budget was gradually increased to $ 50
million a year, and his staff grew to more than 400. He extended some office
hours, started scheduling INS interviews on Saturdays, and he moved some
services to other buildings to make more room for the crush of immigrants.

But with more than 1,500 people applying for residency each month, and thousands
seeking help because of the new immigration rules, waiting rooms are crowded and
paperwork can take months. Among lawyers and immigrant advocates, these chronic
problems have led to widespread complaints about the Arlington office.

In interviews, a dozen immigration attorneys said files are often lost there,
information is difficult to obtain, and some staffers are rude or poorly
trained. One attorney described the local office as a "dysfunctional
bureaucracy." Another said she has often been driven to despair when trying to
get help for clients.

"The place is a joke" among immigration lawyers, said Michael Maggio, the only
such lawyer who was willing to be quoted by name. "The bureaucracy is
unresponsive, the building is Third Worldly, the computer equipment is a decade
old. It's a disgrace to have this office serving the nation's capital."

Yet Maggio and others said Carroll has shown enormous personal concern for
immigrants, especially those with special humanitarian needs. They said he often
intervened quickly when immigrants facing deportation sought reprieves because
they were severely ill or needed an operation. He also sometimes visited them at
home.

"There is a lot of compassion there," said Melia Kiblin, who chairs the local
chapter of American Immigration Lawyers Association. "I know there have been
frustrations and complaints, but that office is vastly under-resourced, and we
have had huge changes in immigration law. Every time the locals do something
that works, it gets changed."

Carroll, the son of Irish and Italian immigrants, said he has made continuous
efforts to reach out to the foreign-born, holding monthly meetings with
legal-aid groups and setting up booths at ethnic fairs. And he said he insists
that his staff treat immigrants with dignity.

But after years of probing immigration fraud -- he still displays newspaper
stories from his days as a young INS undercover agent exposing criminal gangs in
New York -- Carroll is a strong critic of illegal immigration. The problem has
preoccupied his office, and it will continue to dog Carroll's successor, who has
not been announced.

"Illegal immigrants are everywhere now. It's not that they're bad people, but so
many problems arise as a result, with housing, health, crime," he said. "This
country wasn't ready for the rapid influx of illegals. . . . Now, finally in the
'90s, the light bulb is going on."

But Carroll would much rather talk about the legal immigrants whose lives he has
brightened.

Once, at Fairfax Hospital, he swore in as citizens an elderly Filipino man and
his wife -- both of whom had cancer and died within weeks of the ceremony.
Another time he went to the bedside of two elderly Cuban sisters to administer
their citizenship oaths. And every year, he has arranged festive naturalization
programs at the zoo or the circus for groups of adopted foreign children.

"I still get goose bumps when I think about that Filipino couple," Carroll said.
"I take tremendous pride in the community outreach we've done. My goal has
always been to send a message that this is an organization of human beings, that
we are concerned, and that we try to do the best job we can."


LOAD-DATE: May 07, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, craig herndon, Immigration lawyers say William J. Carroll has
shown enormous personal concern for immigrants, especially those with special
humanitarian needs.  William J. Carroll shows news accounts of an
immigration-fraud probe he once took part in.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              219 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 12, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Herndon Man Accused Of Lying for Terrorist

Sylvia Moreno , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 378 words


A Herndon man was arrested yesterday on charges of providing a false immigration
affidavit on behalf of one of four men convicted in the 1993 bombing of the
World Trade Center.

Khalid Ibrahim, 43, of the 2200 block of Huston Place, is charged with
"willfully and knowingly" filing the affidavit on behalf of Mohammed Salameh.
Salameh and three other men were convicted in March 1994 of bombing the World
Trade Center in New York City, killing six people and wounding 1,000.

Ibrahim was arrested on a criminal warrant issued by the U.S. attorney's office
in Manhattan, said James Goldman, deputy director for investigations in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's Washington office.

An indictment unsealed yesterday in Manhattan alleges that Ibrahim submitted an
affidavit falsely claiming he had known Salameh to be living in the United
States since 1981. Prosecutors contend, however, that Ibrahim didn't meet
Salameh until 1989. Ibrahim's affidavit was filed in Salameh's 1990 application
for U.S. citizenship, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Pat Fitzgerald. Salameh did
not become a U.S. citizen.

Ibrahim's attorney, Dawn Lurie, declined to comment. Attempts to reach Ibrahim,
who lived in New Jersey before moving to Northern Virginia, were unsuccessful.

Ibrahim testified as a defense witness at the trial of Egyptian Sheik Omar Abdel
Rahman, Fitzgerald said. Rahman was convicted in 1995 along with nine others of
plotting bombings and other terrorist acts aimed at forcing the United States to
change its Middle East policies. During that trial, Fitzgerald said, Ibrahim
testified about the false affidavit filed on behalf of Salameh.

Salameh, a Palestinian immigrant, rented the storage locker where chemicals for
the trade center bombing were kept, authorities said during his trial. He also
rented the apartment where the chemicals were mixed and the van that carried the
explosives to the trade center, officials said. He was arrested when he returned
to the truck rental agency to get his deposit back.

Ibrahim appeared yesterday in U.S. District Court in Alexandria and was released
on his own recognizance after surrendering his passport, issued in Egypt. He was
ordered to report to federal court in Manhattan on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              220 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 15, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Indonesian Immigrants Face Deportation

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A30; WORLD IN BRIEF: ASIA

LENGTH: 61 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia


Twenty-seven of 35 illegal Indonesian immigrants who sought asylum in foreign
embassy compounds in Malaysia will be deported, a news report said. The
immigrants burst into the compounds of the United States, Switzerland, France
and Brunei on April 10, claiming they were from Aceh, a province on the tip of
Sumatra that is trying to break away from Indonesia.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              221 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 25, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Immigrants Question Idea of Assimilation

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2677 words

DATELINE: OMAHA


Night is falling on South Omaha, and Maria Jacinto is patting tortillas for the
evening meal in the kitchen of the small house she shares with her husband and
five children. Like many others in her neighborhood, where most of the residents
are Mexican immigrants, the Jacinto household mixes the old country with the
new.

As Jacinto, who speaks only Spanish, stresses a need to maintain the family's
Mexican heritage, her eldest son, a bilingual 11-year-old who wears a San
Francisco 49ers jacket and has a paper route, comes in and joins his brothers
and sisters in the living room to watch "The Simpsons."

Jacinto became a U.S. citizen last April, but she does not feel like an
American. In fact, she seems resistant to the idea of assimilating into U.S.
society.

"I think I'm still a Mexican," she says. "When my skin turns white and my hair
turns blond, then I'll be an American."

In many ways, the experiences of the Jacinto family are typical of the gradual
process of assimilation that has pulled generations of immigrants into the
American mainstream. That process is nothing new to Omaha, which drew waves of
Czech, German and Irish immigrants early this century.

But in the current immigration wave, something markedly different is happening
here in the middle of the great American "melting pot."

Not only are the demographics of the United States changing in profound and
unprecedented ways, but so too are the very notions of assimilation and the
melting pot that have been articles of faith in the American self-image for
generations.

E Pluribus Unum (From Many, One) remains the national motto, but there no longer
seems to be a consensus about what that should mean.

There is a sense that, especially as immigrant populations reach a critical mass
in many communities, it is no longer the melting pot that is transforming them,
but they who are transforming American society.

American culture remains a powerful force -- for better or worse -- that
influences people both here and around the world in countless ways. But several
factors have combined in recent years to allow immigrants to resist, if they
choose, the Americanization that had once been considered irresistible.

In fact, the very concept of assimilation is being called into question as never
before. Some sociologists argue that the melting pot often means little more
than "Anglo conformity" and that assimilation is not always a positive
experience -- for either society or the immigrants themselves. And with today's
emphasis on diversity and ethnicity, it has become easier than ever for
immigrants to avoid the melting pot entirely. Even the metaphor itself is
changing, having fallen out of fashion completely with many immigration advocacy
and ethnic groups. They prefer such terms as the "salad bowl" and the "mosaic,"
metaphors that convey more of a sense of separateness in describing this nation
of immigrants.

"It's difficult to adapt to the culture here," said Maria Jacinto, 32, who moved
to the United States 10 years ago with her husband, Aristeo Jacinto, 36. "In the
Hispanic tradition, the family comes first, not money. It's important for our
children not to be influenced too much by the gueros," she said, using a term
that means "blondies" but that she employs generally in reference to Americans.
"I don't want my children to be influenced by immoral things."

Over the blare of the television in the next room, she asked, "Not all families
here are like the Simpsons, are they?"

Among socially conservative families such as the Jacintos, who initially moved
to California from their village in Mexico's Guanajuato state, then migrated
here in 1988 to find jobs in the meatpacking industry, bad influences are a
constant concern. They see their children assimilating, but often to the worst
aspects of American culture.

Her concerns reflect some of the complexities and ambivalence that mark the
assimilation process these days. Immigrants such as the Jacintos are here to
stay but remain wary of their adoptive country. According to sociologists, they
are right to be concerned.

"If assimilation is a learning process, it involves learning good things and bad
things," said Ruben G. Rumbaut, a sociology professor at Michigan State
University. "It doesn't always lead to something better."

At work, not only in Omaha but in immigrant communities across the country, is a
process often referred to as "segmented" assimilation, in which immigrants
follow different paths to incorporation in U.S. society. These range from the
classic American ideal of blending into the vast middle class, to a "downward
assimilation" into an adversarial underclass, to a buffered integration into
"immigrant enclaves." Sometimes, members of the same family end up taking
sharply divergent paths, especially children and their parents.

The ambivalence of assimilation can cut both ways. Many native-born Americans
also seem to harbor mixed feelings about the process. As a nation, the United
States increasingly promotes diversity, but there are underlying concerns that
the more emphasis there is on the factors that set people apart, the more likely
that society will end up divided.

With Hispanics, especially Mexicans, accounting for an increasing proportion of
U.S. population growth, it is this group, more than any other, that is
redefining the melting pot.

Hispanics now have overtaken blacks as the largest minority group in Nebraska
and will become the biggest minority in the country within the next seven years,
according to Census Bureau projections. The nation's 29 million Hispanics, the
great majority of them from Mexico, have thus become the main focus for
questions about how the United States today is assimilating immigrants, or how
it is being transformed.

In many places, new Hispanic immigrants have tended to cluster in "niche"
occupations, live in segregated neighborhoods and worship in separate churches.
In this behavior they are much like previous groups of immigrants. But their
heavy concentrations in certain parts of the country, their relatively close
proximity to their native lands and their sheer numbers give this wave of
immigrants an unprecedented potential to change the way the melting pot
traditionally has worked.

Never before have so many immigrants come from a single country -- Mexico -- or
from a single linguistic source -- Spanish-speaking Latin America. Since 1970,
more than half of the estimated 20 million foreign-born people who have settled
in the United States, legally and illegally, have been Spanish speakers.

Besides sheer numbers, several factors combine to make this influx unprecedented
in the history of American immigration. This is the first time that such large
numbers of people are immigrating from a contiguous country. And since most have
flowed into relatively few states, congregating heavily in the American
Southwest, Mexican Americans have the capacity to develop much greater cohesion
than previous immigrant groups. Today Hispanics, mostly of Mexican origin, make
up 31 percent of the population of California and 28 percent of the population
of Texas.

In effect, that allows Mexican Americans to "perpetuate themselves as a separate
community and even strengthen their sense of separateness if they chose to, or
felt compelled to," said David M. Kennedy, a professor of American history at
Stanford University.

To be sure, assimilation today often follows the same pattern that it has for
generations. The children of immigrants, especially those who were born in the
United States or come here at a young age, tend to learn English quickly and
adopt American habits. Often they end up serving as translators for their
parents. Schools exert an important assimilating influence, as does America's
consumer society.

But there are important differences in the way immigrants adapt these days, and
the influences on them can be double-edged. Gaps in income, education and
poverty levels between new immigrants and the native-born are widening, and many
of the newcomers are becoming stuck in dead-end jobs with little upward
mobility.

Previous waves of immigrants also arrived unskilled and poorly educated. What
has changed, however, is the nature of the U.S. economy, which increasingly
requires education and skills to assure an upward path.

Although the children of these low-income, poorly educated immigrants may grow
up fluent in English, acquire more education than their parents and assimilate
in other ways, research shows that "they will lag well behind other students,
particularly in college attendance," said Georges Vernez, director of the Center
for Research on Immigration Policy at the RAND Corp.

"Today, for instance, native-born Hispanic youths are 30 percent less likely to
go on to college after high school and three times less likely to graduate from
college than non-Hispanic white students," he told a House hearing last month.

Nationally, Hispanic youths are the most likely to abandon the classroom. Their
dropout rate of 29.4 percent is more than double the rate for black Americans
and four times higher than the rate for non-Hispanic whites.

Yet the statistics also show that the dropout rate for second-generation
Hispanic students is higher than that for first-generation youths, suggesting
that assimilation does not always work as intended.

Sociologist Rumbaut said his research has shown that the most disciplined,
hardest-working and respectful students "tend to be the most recently arrived."
They are the ones "who have not been here long enough to be Americanized into
bad habits, into a Beavis and Butt-head perspective of the world."

Since the children of immigrants tend to adapt much faster than their parents,
the result is often tension and divisions within families. Immigrants who arrive
as adults to escape poverty tend to view their lives here as an improvement over
what they left behind, but their children often compare their circumstances to
those of other Americans and find themselves lacking. Some gravitate toward a
growing gang culture that offers them an identity and an outlet for their
alienation, according to researchers.

In Omaha, police, teachers and social workers attribute rising youth gang
activity in part to an influx of Hispanic families from California. Ironically,
many left California precisely to escape a violent gang subculture there but
ended up spreading the infection.

"A number of families who moved from L.A. brought children who were already
involved with gangs," said the Rev. Damian Zuerlein, the parish priest of the
nearby Roman Catholic church, Our Lady of Guadalupe, which caters to the
community's growing Mexican population.

Omaha now has an estimated 1,800 "hard-core" gang members, police say. Two main
competing Hispanic gangs are believed to have several hundred members each.

And, as it is across the nation, the high school dropout rate among Hispanics is
a growing concern here. In the 1995-96 school year, the most recent for which
statistics are available, 12 percent of Hispanic students dropped out of Omaha
public secondary schools, double the rate for non-Hispanic whites. According to
Mario Remijio, a teacher at South High School here, many Hispanic teenagers drop
out to get jobs under pressure from their parents.

In many cases, argues University of Nebraska sociologist Lourdes Gouveia, the
problem is not a lack of assimilation to American culture, but too much of it.

"An attachment to one's home country, culture and language can be very positive"
for immigrant children in U.S. schools, contends Gouveia. These attachments
"help maintain a sense of identity and self-respect when the family drops in
status," as often happens when foreigners immigrate. As a result, the
Venezuelan-born Gouveia said, citing studies by Rumbaut and others, students who
are the least "assimilated" often do better in school than other immigrants and
sometimes top even the native born.

On the other hand, some critics contend, the United States should not be
abandoning a concept -- the Melting Pot -- that has served the country well for
generations, helping to maintain unity through two world wars. They worry that
the traditional U.S. commitment to assimilation is breaking down from an
incessant advance of "multiculturalism."

"On the whole, there is an American national identity that immigrants ought to
be encouraged to assimilate into," said John J. Miller, author of a new book on
the issue.

For all the concerns, the recent wave of immigration has brought some notable
benefits to Omaha. The city is now home to about 20,000 Latinos, the vast
majority of them concentrated in South Omaha. By all accounts, the influx has
revived that part of the city. New businesses owned by Hispanics and other
immigrants have sprouted up, lending an air of vibrancy to South Omaha's main
street.

"Ten years ago, this area was dying," said the Rev. Zuerlein. "Stores were
closing, and people were moving out."

The wave of immigration also has stirred new ethnic consciousness among longtime
Latino residents, notably the assimilated descendants of Mexicans who came to
Nebraska in the early part of this century to work on the railroad and harvest
beets.

"When I was a kid, the Hispanics here all just about knew each other," said
Virgil Armendariz, a Mexican American businessman who grew up in Omaha. "Now
there are hundreds of families. . . . Until recently, we were pretty much
invisible."

The influx has helped revive long-forgotten Mexican customs, he said, such as
the special celebration of the quincean era, or 15th birthday. "People who were
born here are starting to learn more about their culture," Armendariz said.

Next door to the Jacintos, Matt and Sharon Swanson are one of the few
native-born families left in the neighborhood. They agree that the immigrant
influx has "revitalized" the nearby main drag but say that gang activities,
including drive-by shootings and occasional murders, have become a big problem.

"I see a lack of respect for other people's property," said Mickey Dalton, 50, a
friend of the Swansons who lives nearby. The neighborhood is destined to turn
even more Hispanic, with little prospect for assimilation, he said.

"They're sticking to their own," Dalton said. "When the Czechs moved here, the
big push was to learn English. You don't see that so much now. A lot of them
don't want to learn English."

At the Guadalupe church recreation hall, several of the young Mexican immigrants
who gather weekly say they want to learn the language but find it difficult
because they came here in their teens or early twenties and immediately entered
a Spanish-speaking milieu. Some say their biggest problems come from Mexican
Americans, known as Chicanos, who mock their attempts to speak English.

"I want to join the U.S. Army or Air Force, but because of the language, I
can't," said Jose Fernandez, a lean 22-year-old from Guadalajara who briefly
attended high school here before dropping out.

"When I'm around Chicanos, I feel ashamed to speak English," said Margaro Ponce,
23, who came to Omaha two years ago to join relatives. "Instead of helping you,
they make fun of you," he said in Spanish.

Guillermina Becerra, 22, arrived nearly seven years ago and spent three years at
South High, where she took courses in English as a second language. But she made
no American friends and never became fluent. "When I went to other classes, I
never spoke with anyone," she said. "When I spoke English, I think some people
were laughing."

Becerra has four brothers -- one of them a U.S. citizen -- and two sisters here
but is not a legal resident herself. She first entered the country with her
sister-in-law's green card. She plans to stay in the United States because of
greater "opportunities" here and hopes eventually to legalize her status and
become a citizen.

But even if she does, she says, "I think I will still feel like a Mexican."


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE MYTH OF THE MELTING POT: AMERICA'S RACIAL AND ETHNIC DIVIDE; Pg.
occ.

GRAPHIC: Illustration, linda perlstein and laura stanton; Photo, william
branigin for The Washington Post, America's Foreign-Born, Closer to Home 1920s
Earlier this century, people came to the United States mostly from one continent
-- Europe -- but they were by no means homogenous, ethnically or linguistically.
In a time before people could easily phone, fly or fax home, it was not easy to
retain ties to the motherland, and the need to assimilate into America was more
compelling.  Foreign-born Americans in 1920 by place of origin Europe 87% Canada
8% Asia 1% Latin America 4% Transplanted Europeans spoke at least 20 languages
and came from as many countries.  Germany 14% Italy 14 Russia 13 Great Britain
10 Poland 10 Ireland 9 Other 30 1990s Now, half of the country's foreign-born
are from Latin America, most of them from Mexico. With their home countries a
flight away and many speaking the same language, keeping a firm hold on one's
ethnicity -- and in turn, keeping from total "Americanization" -- is easier.
Foreign-born Americans in 1996 by place of origin Canada 3% Asia 27% Europe 17%
Latin America 50% More than half the transplanted Latin Americans come from
Mexico.  Most speak Spanish, with some Portugese, French and English.  Mexico
55% El Salvador 6 Other Central America 8 Cuba 6 Dominican Republic 4 Jamaica 4
Other Caribbean 6 South America 11 Americans born in Asia come from several
countries and speak several languages.  Philippines 18% China 12 India 12
Vietnam 11 Korea 8 Other 39 SOURCE: Census Bureau Above, a mural behind Omaha's
Our Lady of Guadalupe Church is marred by Hispanic gang graffiti. Maria and
Aristeo Jacinto, left, moved with their five children to Omaha from California
to escape such influences and find better jobs.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              222 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 25, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Caring for Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 367 words


I read with interest the article "A Legacy of Caring, Disorder" in the May 7
Virginia Weekly section of The Post. I have spent almost the past year and a
half as a client of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Arlington
office -- for myself, not as an immigration lawyer.

The article rings true to me: the three-hour waits in the information section,
uncertainties over files or what is going on, the sense of unreality caused by
the information staff's distance from where the action is. My case should have
been straightforward from when I filed for permanent residency in spring of last
year: In fact, it took close to a year. (There was some bad luck in there,
including that I was out of the country when called for an interview.)

To my perception, to call the office "vastly under-resourced" is an extreme
understatement. Could the office be better? I am sure it could. However, that is
not my abiding impression of these experiences. My abiding impression is that in
the face of such impossible odds, it is a wonder that the staff members go on
trying to cope the way they do. I know that if I were in their place, confronted
by an endless tide of humanity that often is distressed, anxious (or angry after
the wait), I might give up any effort to be understanding or to take the job
seriously -- particularly because the "clients" are so ill-placed to complain
most of the time.

I have been impressed by the extraordinary good nature with which I was treated
by everyone I encountered at the Arlington INS office -- the security man at the
metal detector, the person giving out forms, the information officer, the staff
members who dispense magic items such as work authorization or "advance parole"
(so you can see your parents abroad while in INS limbo).

As an economist, it occurred to me that more resources could save money by
lessening the need for crisis measures (even if this is partially recouped
through special extra fees). However, it is the sheer goodwill and caring that I
encountered that stays with me. If Mr. Carroll (whom I have never met) is even
partly responsible for this, I wish him well for his retirement.

MICHAEL SHARPSTON

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              223 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 01, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

22 Illegal Immigrants Run Aground

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A boat overloaded with illegal Chinese immigrants bound for New York ran aground
on the foggy beach of Bay Head, N.J., Saturday night, leaving 21 dazed men and a
boy to wander the streets when the boat's pilot disappeared, authorities said.

Federal and state authorities said they were seeking the boat's "owner and
operator," described as a 30-year-old New Yorker of Korean ethnicity.

The 28-foot Century powerboat Oops II, which was beset by heavy fog and choppy
seas, went aground in the exclusive hamlet of 1,300 residents about 65 miles
south of New York City.

Investigators said the 22 immigrants had paid $ 40,000 each for passage from the
People's Republic of China and may have transferred to the Oops II from a larger
vessel on the open sea.

The immigrants appeared to be in good health and were scheduled to be held in a
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., pending a hearing, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said.

LOAD-DATE: June 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              224 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 02, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Reading, Writing and Ruckus; City University of New York's Tougher Standards
Anger Many

Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1337 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Michelle de Goeas-Malone will graduate with honors this week from Queens
College. While working as a nanny and raising a child, the immigrant from
Trinidad had an A-minus average and won a fellowship for graduate studies in
linguistics.

What is curious about this immigrant-made-good story is that it could not be
repeated under admission rules championed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and
enacted last week by trustees at the City University of New York.

Under the new rules, de Goeas-Malone would not have been admitted into Queens
College or any of the 10 other four-year colleges in the CUNY system. She failed
two of three basic skills tests that everyone, under the new rules, must pass
for admission to a four-year college. She took remedial classes to bring her
math and writing skills up to college level. Under the new rules, that will not
be allowed at these schools.

"It is to keep minorities and immigrants out. It is stupid," said de
Goeas-Malone, angrily explaining why she thinks the remedial door is closing at
four-year public colleges in New York City. Her outrage echoed last week across
the nation's largest urban university system, where half of the 202,000 students
are foreign-born immigrants and nearly 70 percent are non-white.

Giuliani, who often celebrates the value of immigrants to New York, has another
explanation. The Republican mayor said the goal is to keep the university
focused on high-level academics and not on teaching people how to read. The
trustees' vote, he said, "sends a powerful message that CUNY is starting the
important and difficult process of restoring its reputation as one of the great
public institutions of higher learning in the country."

The end of remedial classes at four-year colleges here, according to CUNY's
projections, could mean that by 2001 about half of those applying to be freshmen
will be denied admission. Those denied admission will be disproportionately
Hispanic and Asian immigrants, according to CUNY. They will be able to go to
CUNY community colleges, which will continue to offer remedial classes, although
severe overcrowding is likely.

Giuliani is sending this message as he tests the waters for national political
office. His advisers believe the changes at CUNY will sell well with the
Republican Party as the second-term mayor seeks consideration as a presidential
or vice presidential nominee in 2000. Having won a national reputation as an
executive capable of restoring order in a city regarded as ungovernable, his
effort to remove remedial education from CUNY is of a piece with his moves to
slash welfare rolls and privatize public hospitals.

In explaining his stand, the mayor invokes a golden era that exists in the
memory of many New Yorkers. Before pressure from minorities compelled open
admissions in 1970, CUNY was called the "proletarian Harvard." Its eminent
graduates include Ira Gershwin, Jonas Salk and Gen. Colin L. Powell. In 1969,
more than nine out of 10 of its students were white.

One of the city's most forceful advocates of taking remedial classes out of the
four-year colleges is Herman Badillo, a Puerto Rican-born vice-chairman of the
CUNY board of trustees and a graduate of City College before open admissions.
Badillo argues it is "racist" not to demand that four-year colleges return to
the "highest standards" that were in place when students like himself and Powell
were making the grade.

Badillo said the trustees' decision will force New York City high schools to
improve their college preparatory classes, while pushing CUNY university
presidents to devise large-scale summer remedial programs that will help
deserving students before they start college. As for any disproportionate effect
of the new rules on minorities, Badillo says that is a non-issue.

"The city has changed so much that whatever we do, the students are going to be
blacks, Latinos and Asians. It is not that whites are going to come in and
compete for those slots. The only difference is that all the students who are
there are going to get a better education," Badillo said.

No one who is knowledgeable about CUNY argues that the sprawling system is
without serious problems. Graduation rates have fallen, many bright students try
to go elsewhere and a CUNY diploma has lost considerable prestige.

"Once a loose aggregate of elite colleges for the ambitious poor, it is now a
bloated bureaucracy that jettisoned academic standards in the face of a flood of
ill-prepared students," wrote Heather Mac Donald, a fellow at a conservative
think tank that often has Giuliani's ear, the Manhattan Institute. "CUNY all but
perfected the dismaying 1960s spectacle of educated adults cowering before
know-nothing adolescents and outside agitators."

But there seems to be a consensus among national education experts and senior
CUNY administrators that last week's decision to exclude students who need
remedial courses from four-year colleges was politically inspired and poorly
planned. There is also a consensus that the decision will unfairly penalize
thousands of students who need short-term remedial help but are capable of
first-rate college work.

"What happened here was an intervention of politics in academia. It is a blunt
sword to attack a complex problem. The chances of getting optimum education out
of this are not very encouraging," said Stanley O. Ikenberry, president of the
American Council on Education, the umbrella association for 1,800 American
colleges and universities.

Stripping remedial courses out of four-year colleges is a move that Ikenberry
says is happening only here. According to the Department of Education, such
courses are offered at three-quarters of America's four-year colleges and taken
by one-third of the nation's freshmen. Remedial classes continue in four-year
colleges within the State University of New York system.

"The notion of taking remedial education out of four-year schools is poppycock.
Yale, Harvard, Berkeley all have remedial education. Why? Because some people
arrive at college weak in some areas," said New York State Assemblyman Edward C.
Sullivan, a Manhattan Democrat who chairs the committee on higher education in
the state Assembly.

The need for remedial courses is particularly strong at CUNY, according to a
number of CUNY administrators, because the city has been flooded this decade by
one of the largest waves of immigrants in its history. More than half of
incoming freshmen at CUNY speak a language other than English at home. These
students, some of whom have high skills in mathematics, as well as adequate
reading skills in English, tend to fail the writing exam in disproportionately
high numbers.

"The writing test bears no relationship to our academic criteria," said Sheldon
Weinbaum, a professor at the School of Engineering at City College. "The
trustees thought they were raising standards, but what they failed to realize is
that one of the strongest units of the university is going to be decimated."

Weinbaum said his smartest students in recent years have been Hispanics and
Asians whose writing skills in English are weak and require remedial help.
Students who fail the writing test can, of course, go take remedial courses at a
community college and then enroll in a four-year college. But Weinbaum said the
detour would "tremendously disadvantage" engineering students who are required
as freshmen to work with older students.

Marc Sumritsirikul, 19, who last week finished his freshman year, says he feels
lucky that he got into Manhattan's Hunter College under the old rules. He failed
CUNY's writing skills test last summer, but was allowed to take a remedial
course. He finished the year with a 3.2 grade point average and says he wants to
be a doctor.

"I would have felt kind of discouraged about going to a community college," said
the student, whose father is an immigrant from Thailand and whose mother is an
immigrant from the Philippines. "But if had to go, I guess I would go."


LOAD-DATE: June 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, stan honda for The Washington Post; Chart, The Washington Post,
New Rules, Fewer Students CUNY's racial makeup has changed markedly since 1970,
when the system began admitting anyone who graduated in the top half of a high
school class.  1969 freshmen White 96% Non-white 4% 1997 freshmen White 32%
Non-white 68% Had the school barred students who failed to pass basic writing,
reading and math tests, 46 percent of this year's freshman enrollment would
likely not have been accepted. (This portion of the chart was not available)
SOURCE: City University of New York Marc Sumritsirikul, studying with Karen Lee,
took remedial writing but has 3.2 grade point average at Hunter College.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              225 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 06, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Assimilation Anyone?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 1245 words


I was disturbed by William Branigin's article "Immigrants Question Idea of
Assimilation" [front page, May 25]. While the melting pot is an appealing idea,
it was no more an accurate description of the last great wave of immigrants than
it is of the current wave. Of the masses of people leaving Europe earlier in
this century, many came to the United States, while others went to Argentina,
Chile and Brazil. Those who came here did not do so because they wanted to
"become American" vs. "becoming Chilean." People leave their countries because
of a combination of turmoil and lack of opportunity. The reasons always have
been more economic than cultural; and cultural assimilation is a long and
difficult process.

The danger of painting the earlier wave of immigrants as melting effortlessly
into American society and the new immigrants as resisting assimilation is
obvious: It breeds a hostile attitude toward the new immigrants on the part of
the descendants of European immigrants who have little connection to the
ambiguities and difficulties their ancestors faced in assimilating into a new
society. Such hostility leads to prejudice and discrimination. Is that the
American legacy we want to pass on?

-- Julia Lynn Coronado

The attitude of some Hispanic immigrants described in the May 25 immigration
story, notably that of Maria Jacinto, seems to be that they have little
obligation to adapt to their new society, let alone assimilate. Rather, they can
reestablish their own cultural environment here and shift to their new
surroundings the burden of adjustment traditionally assumed by immigrants to
America.

As the article notes, many believe this is a dangerous notion, that a country of
immigrants in particular needs to cultivate a strong national identity and a
dominant culture in order to ensure its long-term survival. We see the problems
tearing at other societies -- Belgium and Canada come to mind -- where powerful
ethnicities pursue their own narrow interests. Having avoided such problems up
until now, does the United States wish to shoot itself in the foot and put its
basic cohesiveness at risk?

As an immigrant and a refugee myself, I cannot imagine why Americans would
commit such folly. I was fortunate to have a choice of countries willing to
accept me as an adult refugee. But I chose the United States, which I thought
would provide me with the greatest range of opportunities. I fully accept that
living and working in America imposes fundamental obligations on me to adjust to
my adopted country. That does not mean I have abandoned my own culture or
language -- quite the contrary -- but I pursue them on my own time and with my
own resources. I have no expectation whatever that any governmental entity
should provide these things for me.

I often long for my native country, its sights and sounds and smells. Making my
way in America has not always been easy. But this country has given me
opportunities no other could match, and I owe it a lot. I came here freely, and
if I cannot accept what I find here, I know I am not forced to remain. If Maria
Jacinto is troubled by so many white faces with blond hair and "Anglo" ways,
perhaps she would be happier back in Mexico.

-- Q. D. Nguyen

I challenge reporter William Branigin's conclusion that today's immigrants are
much different from those in the past, and much less willing to assimilate into
U.S. culture. In fact, the flow of immigrants to this country in the 1980s and
'90s is remarkably similar to earlier immigrant waves.

In 1910, the Census found that about 15 percent of the U.S. population was
foreign-born, compared with slightly less than 10 percent today. It was also
concentrated geographically, as are today's immigrants. For example, in 1890,
fully 855,000 of the 1.1 million population of Chicago were immigrants or
children of immigrants, most of whom did not speak English and lived in their
own culturally isolated communities.

Proceedings of the Texas legislature were published in German for a time in the
19th century; many towns in the Midwest and Plains states conducted their
official business in German (or Bohemian, Swedish or Slovakian), and letters
from immigrants in that era often told of their indifference and even disdain
for the United States and its culture. All these non-assimilating immigrants
were, of course, our great-grandparents.

Throughout American history, it has taken awhile -- often two or three
generations -- for immigrants to become fully integrated (if not exactly
"melted") into U.S. society. But immigrants traditionally have been an
investment whose value to the country has been enormous.

-- Roy Petty

The writer is executive director of the American Immigration Law Foundation.

William Branigin's take on the melting pot was somewhat off the mark. He
presumes that the United States used to be one, but it certainly hasn't been in
my lifetime or my parents' lifetimes, or my grandparents' lifetimes, not in the
Pennsylvania cities to which three of my grandparents emigrated after stopping
at Ellis Island to have their names mutilated or changed by INS officials.

My immigrant grandparents didn't know each other before they left Lebanon,
though they wound up together, living in distinctly Lebanese communities,
attending Maronite churches, shopping in Arabic groceries, speaking Arabic among
their friends and family, cooking Arabic food and celebrating and mourning
events in a fashion quite unlike what my non-Lebanese friends experienced.

The small city of 20,000 in which I grew up wasn't overrun by Lebanese
immigrants. It had room for several Italian-immigrant-run bakeries and
restaurants, a Greek-immigrant-run grocery and any number of other small -- and
large -- businesses catering to various ethnicities and certainly to the
community at large, "ethnic" or not. It was not a melting pot; although the
peoples lived peaceably together, they retained their ethnic identities.

In my generation, some of us still think of ourselves as ethnically Lebanese.
Others prefer that friends and neighbors not know we have immigrant Lebanese
grandparents. I don't know how many generations it takes to "melt," but I'm
encouraged by the resistance some of us put up to the heat.

"Salad bowl" is too simple and "mosaic" is too static to describe what plays out
across the country family by family and individual by individual. "Melting pot"
has to be the worst, however, for it suggests that when we enter the United
States we shed our ethnic identity and heritage and become as dull and
unappetizing as sliced white bread. That doesn't describe my family or the
community I grew up in, and I'll bet it doesn't describe many other places that
have been invigorated and enriched by immigrants.

-- Deborah A. Oliver

William Branigin makes a mistake that appears to be common. He writes, "E
Pluribus Unum (From Many, One) remains the national motto, but there no longer
seems to be a consensus about what that should mean."

Contrary to what Branigin says, as well as to what many people believe, E
Pluribus Unum is not, and never has been, our national motto. While that motto's
usage has been traced back as far as the year 1776, and by tradition may have
been considered to be the motto of the United States, our country did not
officially have a national motto until 1956, when by law Congress designated the
phrase "In God We Trust" as such.

-- Peter A. Byrd


LOAD-DATE: June 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, john overmyer

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              226 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 09, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

In N.Y., Anger Is No Longer Defined in Black and White; '90s Immigrants Reshape
Urban Political Landscapes

Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1232 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, June 8


A respected Harlem minister, best-known for condemning rap lyrics and scolding
the tobacco industry, recently accused Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of being a
"racist."

Like a belch at high tea, the use of the R-word by the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III
startled political discourse in New York. No major black leader in the city has
since repeated it to describe the Republican mayor. This in spite of an always
tenuous relationship with minorities that has been rattled this spring by
confrontations with immigrant cab drivers and welfare mothers, with street
vendors selling hot dogs and college students taking remedial classes.

Hugh Price, president of the Urban League, says he understands the anti-Giuliani
anger that Butts was trying to express, but he believes the Baptist preacher
chose the wrong word. In this city where Hispanics recently eclipsed blacks as
the most populous minority group and where a continuing flood of immigrants from
Asia and Latin America is remaking political and cultural reality, the word
"racist" has an increasingly confusing resonance.

"The demographics require new adjectives," says Price.

The language of urban politics is racing to keep up with demographics not only
in New York but in other large, mostly coastal metropolitan areas such as Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Houston, Chicago, Miami and Washington that are home to
more than 60 percent of all foreign-born U.S. residents.

"What racism means in the context of gateway cities like New York is much more
complicated than if you lived in a place like Detroit," said William Frey, a
demographer at the University of Michigan.

Detroit is a majority black city with few immigrants, where the traditional
divide between black and white remains reality.

In Houston, however, Hispanics have swamped whites and blacks as the numerically
dominant group. And so competition for unskilled jobs has ratcheted up racial
tension between blacks and Hispanics more clearly than between blacks and
English-speaking whites.

"There is stronger anti-immigrant bias among blacks than any other racial
group," said Stephen Klineberg, a professor of sociology at Rice University in
Houston.

In Los Angeles, too, blacks are being squeezed by immigration, even in
traditionally African American neighborhoods such as Watts, which is now 60
percent Hispanic. Increased voter registration among Hispanics seems certain to
threaten blacks' hold on a third of L.A. County government jobs with just 10
percent of the population.

In Harlem, Butts now concedes that he misspoke.

"I don't want to soften the impact of what I said, but 'racist' doesn't really
capture the whole of it," he said. "I'm beginning to understand that as more and
more New Yorkers are calling me and saying, 'Reverend, you have to use a word
that captures more of us.'"

In New York, the trigger for this linguistic meditation on how best to
characterize the two-term mayor has been a cluster of city hall policies, rogue
police actions and economic inequities that have upset many minority groups.

City officials announced last weekend that physically and mentally disabled
mothers will be required to work for welfare checks. The mayor's crackdowns on
taxi drivers for unsafe driving and on street vendors for causing congestion
also have aroused the ire of the mostly poor immigrants who dominate those
businesses.

In addition, Giuliani has pressured the four-year colleges at the City
University of New York to deny admission to all students who need remedial
classes, a move that disproportionately affects non-white and Hispanic
applicants, who have significantly more trouble than native-born whites passing
a writing exam that is required to get into the senior colleges.

Anger, too, has been stoked on several occasions by police mistakenly bursting
into the homes of innocent people in poor neighborhoods in search of illegal
drugs and by the much-publicized brutalization last year of a Haitian immigrant
by white police in a Brooklyn station house. Giuliani created a commission to
study the incident but rejected most of its recommendations for police reform.

The economics of Giuliani's New York also have fueled resentment. As Wall Street
booms and the city enjoys the largest budget surplus in its history, the middle
class, especially the black middle class, is shrinking, and the gap between rich
and poor is widening. New York has become the most unequal state in the country
in terms of the household income gap, according to a study this spring by the
Conference Board, a global research group funded by major corporations.

"Somebody has got to tell Giuliani that he is creating a climate in this city
that is pitting black and brown residents against the city government," said
Butts, a moderate voice in Harlem who is politically allied with Republican Gov.
George E. Pataki and who four years ago invited Giuliani to preach at his
Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem.

"I am not saying he has not done some good as mayor, but we are saying he is
going too far now," said Butts. "From the black community's point of view, it is
clearly racist."

When Butts publicly charged the mayor with racism, though, the collective
response across New York was a deafening silence. That silence, at least in
part, seems to be a function of how immigrants are remaking the city's racial
landscape.

"Immigration has been very important in defusing traditional racial tensions. So
many new groups have come in that it is impossible to maintain the old racial
polarity," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of the Taub Urban Research Center at
New York University.

An analysis of U.S. census data by New York University demographers shows that
Hispanics edged out blacks as the largest minority in 1996. Equally important is
a projection showing that by 2000, about 38 percent of the city's population
will be foreign-born. That rivals the city's high point of immigration in 1910,
when 40 percent was foreign-born.

What is profoundly different in the '90s wave of immigration is that it is
mostly non-European. It has made the city a predominately non-white and Latino
metropolis. About 62 percent of the city is black, Hispanic or Asian.

"Racial cleavages in New York are less important than cleavages among the new
immigrants," said Moss. "Race isn't what it used to be here. That is why what
Butts had to say didn't really go anywhere."

As regards highly charged racial discussions, prominent urban preachers are not
the only ones who are chasing the curve of demographic change in cities such as
New York.

Several eminent scholars and journalists met Thursday night at The New School in
Greenwich Village to discuss what one of them described as "our race problem."
The discussion was framed entirely in terms of the relationships between whites
and African Americans. During two hours of brainy and, at times, angry
discussion, no one mentioned that about one-third of the black households in New
York City are headed by foreign-born immigrants who eagerly came to the United
States in the past two decades and whose concerns are markedly different from
those of native-born African Americans.

"I don't think the black community or the white community has absorbed the
implications of the changes that are going on in cities like New York," said
Price, the head of the Urban League.


LOAD-DATE: June 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/bebeto matthews, Calvin O. Butts III says "black and brown"
New Yorkers are being set at odds with city leaders.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              227 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 12, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

FARM DOGS: "Immigrant Sons"; Sire

Mike Joyce

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. N14

LENGTH: 274 words


If British songwriter Bernie Taupin had never hooked up with Elton John a
generation ago, he probably could have made a handsome living by collaborating
with, say, Don Henley. Like their debut album, the Farm Dogs' sophomore release,
"Immigrant Song," presents Taupin as an unabashed country-rocker, drawn to its
themes, imagery, textures and harmonies.

Taupin has too much on the line reputation-wise to treat a project like this
lightly, and he hasn't. While the songs aren't particularly original, most of
them are well-crafted and suit his grainy voice far better than the pop-rock
songs he's composed for John. The opening track, "Foreign Window," establishes
an intimate, narrative tone by exploring an immigrant's ambivalent feelings upon
arriving in America, while a related theme surfaces on the rough-hewn, slide
guitar piece, "Nothin' Gonna Kill the Kid."

Not everything clicks. "America on Trial," Taupin's attempt to write an
apocalyptic anthem, falls flat, sounding oversimplified. But more often than
not, Taupin sounds as if he's in his element and not merely indulging a pent-up
desire to make a sociopolitical statement.

Of course, given Taupin's track record, it's hard to imagine him having any
difficulty assembling a handpicked band. Throughout the album, guitarists Jim
Creegan and Robin LeMesurier, bassist Tony Wadhams and drummer Tony Brock create
a colorful country rock sound that flatters his limited but effective vocals.

Appearing Friday at the Birchmere. To hear a free Sound Bite from the Farm Dogs,
call Post-Haste at 202/334-9000 and press 8103. (Prince William residents, call
690-4110.)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              228 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 14, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Area's Ethiopian Community Torn by War With Eritrea

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 600 words


As his native Ethiopia erupts in a bloody border war with neighboring Eritrea,
Fasika Mariam has been torn by conflicting emotions.

Like many of the Washington area's 50,000 Ethiopian immigrants, he strongly
opposes the repressive practices of Ethiopia's current government, which has
imprisoned numerous political opponents, civic leaders and journalists.

Yet Mariam, 55, a longtime restaurant owner in Adams-Morgan, is also angry at
Eritrea, which last week bombed schools and hospitals inside northern Ethiopia,
heating up the border war. He feels compelled to support his native government
in this new conflict.

"For now we must defend [Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi], but as soon as
this war ends, he must release all political prisoners. He must do what is right
for the people," Mariam said. "I still believe Eritreans are our brothers, but
if they want a war, national pride must come first."

In sidewalk cafes, offices and ethnic grocery stores this week, Ethiopians here
have been urgently discussing the latest crisis in the Horn of Africa, where
sudden fighting has broken five years of calm since Eritrea helped the current
Ethiopian government come to power, then split off as an independent nation.

Today, more than 1,000 Ethiopian immigrants, many highly educated political
refugees, are expected to attend a hastily called meeting at the Capital Hilton
Hotel to discuss the crisis and propose possible solutions.

"This is an emergency, and everyone in the community is concerned. There are
innocent victims on both sides, and the killing must stop," said Melkamu Kassa,
an insurance company employee from Fort Washington and an active member of the
Coalition of Ethiopian Democratic Forces, an emigre group.

Coalition leaders said the dictatorial practices of Zenawi are partly to blame
for the current dispute. Eritrea's attacks have left them eager to defend
Ethiopia, they said, but only if the regime there agrees to political reforms.

"It was wrong of Mr. Meles to abuse human rights. It was wrong of him to
imprison political leaders. It was wrong of him to not establish a rule of law,"
said Mulugeta Seyum, a consultant in Alexandria who heads the coalition. "Now
there is an aggressor in the north, so there is a dilemma for us. But if Mr.
Meles wants the support of the people, he must do what is right."

Within their smaller community, the area's Eritrean immigrants also expressed
sadness, indignation and bewilderment over the border attacks. They said
Ethiopians and Eritreans come from common roots and have lived together for
centuries -- so the conflict can only bring harm to both populations.

"I am disappointed and dumbfounded. I thought the model of a new Africa was
emerging, with people settling down in a civilized way," said David Abraha, an
Eritrean shop owner in Arlington who fled a previous Ethiopian dictatorship in
1989. "These are our kin and our natural neighbors, and I can see no benefit to
either side in this dispute."

Gezahegne Bekele, an economist for the federal government, gave a long, detailed
account of relations between the two countries. Sitting in an Ethiopian cafe in
Adams-Morgan, he described the conflict as a despicable and senseless war
between "two elites, two illegitimate regimes, not two peoples."

But even after two decades in the United States, Bekele could not contain his
emotions when discussing the sovereignty of his native land.

"The sanctity of Ethiopia is at stake," he declared. "Nationalist fervor is the
engine of Ethiopian politics. See? My hands are shaking."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              229 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 14, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

President Denounces Policies That 'Exclude Immigrants'

John F. Harris, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1375 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ore., June 13


President Clinton today mounted an uncommonly blunt-spoken defense of
immigration, asserting that ethnic newcomers contribute far more to society than
they cost and castigating efforts at curbing their cultural and economic impact
as "un-American."

Extolling immigrants as "the most restless, the most adventurous, the most
innovative and the most industrious of people," Clinton said many native-born
citizens must confront their prejudices toward people with "new accents" and set
aside what he called "understandable" but wrongheaded fears that "the America
they know and love is becoming a foreign land."

In a graduation speech to Portland State University, Clinton plunged into what
are contentious political issues in some regions of the country. He condemned
"policies and ballot propositions that exclude immigrants from our civic life"
-- an apparent reference to recent initiatives in California -- by limiting
welfare benefits to legal immigrants or curbing bilingual education. He
criticized congressional opposition, most of it from Republicans, to the use of
new counting techniques in the 2000 census to correct what Democrats contend is
traditional undercounting of immigrants and minorities.

The anti-immigrant sentiment such measures reflect, Clinton said, "is not only
wrong, it's un-American."

Leading advocates of immigration curbs took offense at the president's
criticism, saying Clinton was himself part of the problem by doing little to
bring the rising number of immigrants down to historical levels.

Later in the day, Clinton traveled here to visit Thurston High School, where
15-year-old Kipland P. "Kip" Kinkel allegedly opened fire with a semiautomatic
rifle at school, killing two classmates and wounding 22 others after police said
he killed his parents at home. Wearing one of the blue ribbons this community
had sported in its grief, the president met privately with families of victims
and later addressed a crowd of several hundred in the gymnasium.

Responding to a spasm of bizarre youth shootings at schools recently in
Arkansas, Kentucky and elsewhere, Clinton announced in his weekly radio address
that he was directing the Education and Justice departments to develop
guidelines to help school officials spot early signs that a youth may be prone
to violence.

And he urged Americans to ask themselves what has gone awry in society when
children become killers. "School shootings don't occur in a vacuum. They are, in
part, symptoms of a culture that glorifies violence," he said. "When mindless
killing becomes a staple of family entertainment, when over and over children
see cinematic conflicts resolved not with words but with weapons, we shouldn't
be surprised when children, from impulse or design, follow suit."

Taken together, both the Portland and Springfield events showed Clinton
returning to a conception of the presidency as pulpit. Clinton's advisers
believe he thrives when he offers himself as a national healer, as he did after
the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing and various other disasters, or as a national
unifier, as he has aimed to do in an initiative to promote racial tolerance that
he began a year ago this week.

But some past and present Clinton aides have acknowledged that this moralizing
dimension of the presidency has been undermined since the explosion of Clinton's
legal and political difficulties when the Monica S. Lewinsky story broke at the
start of the year.

Clinton's appearances today prompted some dissenting voices. Some young people
in Springfield told reporters that Clinton's visit would aggravate their
emotional wounds. The president acknowledged he had that concern himself,
although he was warmly received by the audience in the gym. School and community
leaders initially warned the White House that they wanted no news media coverage
but later assented to admitting a small pool of reporters.

Immigration is an especially resonant issue in Oregon, where there are many
recent arrivals from Asia. While Clinton addressed the issue bluntly today, in
the past he has moved gingerly at times when advocates urged him to speak out
forcefully on issues concerning diversity.

In 1996, for example, Clinton was opposed to California's Proposition 209
limiting affirmative action, but made only mild comments against the proposal a
few days before it passed, a timidity that critics said was caused by a desire
not to hurt his own reelection campaign.

This spring, Clinton was similarly opposed to California's Proposition 227, a
measure approved this month putting new limits on bilingual education. Rather
than campaigning prominently against the ballot item, Clinton first addressed
the issue in early May in remarks made shortly before midnight at a fund-raising
dinner held in a private home where no cameras were allowed.

Clinton's implied criticism of the California actions brought a strong protest
from the office of the state's Republican governor, Pete Wilson. "President
Clinton, whose own immigration policies have failed, has a lot of nerve
lecturing to the millions of Californians who supported this issue," Wilson
spokesman Sean Walsh said in a phone interview.

Several outspoken Washington-based proponents of immigration limits also took
exception to the president's remarks.

"The problem is, he treats the level of immigration as if it is some cosmic
thing, outside of our control," said Roy Beck, former journalist turned author
who has written extensively on immigration policy.

"If the president is endorsing over 1 million a year in immigration," said Dan
Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
"then what he's endorsing is urban sprawl, overcrowding, congestion, the
destruction of our schools and a societal design that would be virtually
unlivable for our grandchildren."

Clinton made clear today that he regards immigration as a complex phenomenon,
encompassing both promise and danger. "Let me state my view unequivocally: I
believe new immigrants are good for America," he said.

He cited a study showing that, on average, immigrants pay $ 1,800 more in taxes
annually than they take in government benefits. He called federal delays in
letting immigrants attain citizenship "indefensible." And he saluted Mexican
immigrant Mago Gilson, who received her master's degree at Portland State today
along with her son, Eddi Gilson, who received a business degree at the same
ceremony.

Heralding legal immigration, Clinton said, does not mean he is tolerant of
illegal immigration, which "flouts our laws, strains our tolerance, taxes our
resources."

And he said immigrants have a need and responsibility to learn English, embrace
American civic values and reject "identity politics."

"The days when immigrants felt compelled to Anglicize their last name or deny
their heritage are, thankfully, gone," Clinton said. "But pride in one's ethnic
and racial heritage must never become an excuse to withdraw from the larger
community."

Clinton noted that tension over immigration runs though American history, but
with nearly a million legal immigrants arriving annually, he said the challenge
of assimilation may become more acute. Under current trends there will be no
majority race in the United States, Clinton said.

Clinton seemed to suggest that his words today put him in a Lincolnesque
tradition. He repeated, without citation, Lincoln's first inaugural line about
appealing to "the better angels of our nature." And he repeated, with citation,
an 1858 Lincoln quote about how the Founding Father's declaration that "all men
are created equal" is "an electric cord . . . that links the hearts of patriotic
and liberty-loving people together" no matter when they came to America.

From Oregon, Clinton traveled to Los Angeles for a Democratic National Committee
fund-raiser at the home of entertainment mogul Lew Wasserman. While Clinton's
radio address condemned those in the film and television industry "who create
and profit from the culture of violence," the party expects to raise $ 800,000
tonight at the event, which will be heavily attended by Hollywood Democrats.

Staff writer Bradley Graham in Washington contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/j. scott applewhite; Photo, ap/don ryan, Principal Larry
Bentz of Thurston High School, site of recent school shooting, greets President
Clinton. (Photo ran in an earlier edition) Jeffrey Todd, 11, in front of
Thurston High School, where students were shot last month. President Clinton met
victims' families there yesterday. (Photo ran in an earlier edition)

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              230 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 20, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Tracing Untold Trails; In History Contest, Students Find Others' Pasts, and
Their Own

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1191 words


As Juan and Guadalupe Medina delved into a history project at their high school
in Houston, they made a discovery that brought their subject close to home.
Among the participants in a World War II-era agricultural guest worker program
they were studying was their own grandfather.

Gerald Schattle, a rising senior at the same school, drove to neighboring
Louisiana to find descendants of what he described as "the largest forced
Caucasian migration in North American history." Sherika Chambliss, a 12-year-old
African American girl from Petersburg, Va., documented prejudice against Irish
immigrants in researching the potato famine that drove thousands to the United
States.

The students were among about 100 prize winners in the annual National History
Day competition this week at the University of Maryland at College Park. At this
year's four-day gathering, 2,000 students in grades six through 12 -- drawn from
about half a million who entered the contest nationwide -- presented museum-type
exhibits, video documentaries, original performances or traditional research
papers on the theme, "Migration in History: People, Culture and Ideas."

As they scoured through history, the students uncovered untold stories of
immigration, sometimes within their own families. Their presentations showed the
United States not only in its traditional role as a nation of immigrants, but as
a nation of great movements -- some inspiring and celebrated, others tragic and
largely forgotten. These movements range from the physical migration of
religious or ethnic groups to the spread of ideas both brilliant and vicious.

They found stories of immigrant flows from Iceland to Spanish Fork, Utah, from
Vietnam to Charleston, S.C., and from Ethiopia to Washington, D.C. Other
projects dealt with the diasporas of Africans, Gypsies and Jews. Some told of
obscure migrations, such as that of the Wendish, a Slavic people from what is
now Germany, to Texas in the mid-19th century. One described the Melungeons, a
small group of dark-skinned people of uncertain origin who live in the mountains
of eastern Tennessee.

Several students explored the Cherokee Indians' "Trail of Tears," as their
torturous trek from North Carolina to Oklahoma is known. Another popular topic
was the "orphan trains," in which about 150,000 destitute or abandoned children
from New York and other eastern cities were sent west from 1854 to 1929 to be
placed in "kind Christian homes in the country," as the program's founder put
it. The program involved the largest migration of children in U.S. history and
became the forerunner of today's foster care system. But while it saved many
children from lives of poverty and crime, it turned others over to families that
exploited them as farm or household labor.

In addition, students explored the spread of such commercial icons as Coca-Cola
and the migrations of the Ku Klux Klan and atomic scientists.

So many students did projects on the Irish potato famine that one organizer, Tim
Hoogland of Minnesota, presented them with gift certificates for McDonald's
french fries.

One of them was Sherika Chambliss, of Peabody Middle School in Petersburg, Va.,
who also won the Irish-American History Award from the Ancient Order of
Hibernians for her exhibit. It featured an old "Help Wanted" sign, with the
words "Irish need not apply" in smaller letters.

In a rare triumph for the District's troubled public school system, Cynthia
Mostoller, a teacher at Alice Deal Junior High, won top honors among about
40,000 candidates as the nation's history teacher of the year.

"Migration into this country has been a lot broader than people realize,"
especially in recent years, said Ted Prasse, a Cleveland lawyer who serves as
president of the board of trustees for National History Day. For example, he
said, entries from New Mexico, long dominated by Hispanic migration, included
exhibits by the children of Russian and Asian Pacific immigrants.

In their prize-winning project, the Medina brothers and three other students
from Houston's Nimitz High School -- Jennifer Thompson, 15; Katy
Poramapornpilas, 14; and Carlos Silva, 16 -- put together a poignant video
documentary on the "bracero" program, which brought in about 4.6 million
Mexicans over more than 20 years to work on U.S. farms. It began during World
War II, when labor was in short supply, and continued until 1964.

Juan Medina, 17, and his brother Guadalupe, 16, had not realized until starting
their research that their grandfather, Manuel Cruz, had first come to the United
States as a bracero in the 1950s. Cruz remained in the country illegally after
the program ended and eventually became a legal resident under a 1986 amnesty.
Now 78, he lives in Mexico, where the students interviewed him and several
contemporaries about the program.

After doing the project, Guadalupe Medina said, "I felt like I have a right to
be here as much as anybody, because I can see the struggle our ancestors went
through to help the United States."

A similar sense of ethnic pride emerged from the work of Anjali Oza, a daughter
of Indian immigrants, who found special meaning in the story of "Pershing's
Chinese." A 16-year-old from Houston, Oza researched a small group of Chinese
who went "from outcasts to Americans" as they migrated from Texas to Mexico and
back again. They had helped build the Southern Pacific Railroad and found
themselves in El Paso when the line was completed in 1881. When Congress passed
the Chinese Exclusion Act the following year, they were forced to leave, and
about 500 settled in the Mexican state of Chihuahua.

But when they arrived in Mexico, "they found racism as strong as in the U.S.,"
especially at the hands of revolutionary leader Pancho Villa, Oza said. So when
Gen. John J. Pershing and 10,000 U.S. troops were sent to hunt down Villa in
1916 after an attack on a New Mexico town, the Chinese came to Pershing's aid,
supplying food and services to the American force. Pershing brought 427 of them
with him to San Antonio when the expedition ended in 1917 and petitioned
Congress to let them stay.

"People in Texas saw these Chinese as heroes," she said. "They opened the door
for the Asians to come here, including my family. They laid the foundation for
future Asian migration to the Southwest."

A more tragic migration was documented by Schattle, a hulking 16-year-old who
plays football for his high school and serves on its student council.

He won the grand prize, a $ 60,000, four-year scholarship to Case Western
Reserve University, for his video documentary on the Acadians, a French-speaking
Roman Catholic group that was expelled from Nova Scotia starting in 1755 by the
territory's British governor.

About 18,000 were forced out over the years, many of whom died on crowded boats
infected with smallpox, Schattle said. Most of the survivors migrated to
Louisiana, where they melded with Spaniards, Indians and blacks to help create a
Cajun-Creole culture.

He said the project, inspired by a teacher descended from Acadians, taught him
to appreciate the tribulations of migrants.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Gerald Schattle won the grand prize at National
History Day in College Park.  Juan Medina, left, and brother Guadalupe won
prizes for their study of the "bracero" program.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              231 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 01, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 38 words


In an article Friday about groups that help legal immigrants become U.S.
citizens, an organization and its leader were incorrectly identified. Mark
Krikorian is the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: July 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              232 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 05, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Canada: A Mosaic, Not a Melting Pot; Fast-Growing, Multihued Immigrant
Population Raises Question of What Being 'Canadian' Means Now

Howard Schneider, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 1517 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


In contrast to the nation states of Europe, or the United States, Canada's
metaphor for how to incorporate immigrants is not the melting pot but the mosaic
-- brightly colored bits of ethnicity, culture, racial identity and language
embedded side by side. They may contrast with one another, but together they
form a portrait of the nation in the same way the dots on a pointillist painting
convey a coherent image.

Increasingly, though, this nation of immigrants -- once overwhelmingly white,
now multihued -- has begun to confront a troubling question: With all these
differences, does being Canadian still mean anything more than sharing a vast,
cold expanse of land? The mosaic approach is in evidence at the Dundas Public
School, in this city's working-class west end, where 550 students from
kindergarten through fifth grade are immersed daily in Asian songs, Caribbean
food and folk studies meant to sustain the languages and cultures of a student
body whose families came here from Vietnam, China, the West Indies and
elsewhere.

"Diversity," principal Kent Rickett said, "maintains a strength that can't be
maintained if everything is melted down."

But 30 miles west of Toronto, in brick tract houses rising by the hundreds in
suburban towns like Whitby, the attitude toward Canada's emerging multicultural
quilt is more ambivalent. Whitby resident Anne Eade, the daughter of a Hungarian
immigrant, said she worries that immigration may be overwhelming other notions
of what it means to be Canadian.

She said she was disturbed when, working as a manager in a Toronto area
restaurant, she could not understand the broken English of the Cantonese, Sri
Lankans and others who formed an increasing percentage of her staff and
clientele.

"If you look at the U.S., everybody there . . . they are Americans first. Here,
it seems like you are a Canadian second," Eade said as she played with her two
young children in a Whitby park. "In Toronto, people put their cultural
background first. . . . I found it very hard to communicate. I have no qualms
with them coming. I am not asking them to change their life, just communicate."

Between the concerns expressed by Eade, and the goals expressed by Dundas
principal Rickett, lies a continuum upon which Canada struggles to resolve the
ideals of the mosaic.

Immigrants and non-English or non-French speakers are the fastest-growing
portion of the Canadian population and they dominate some urban areas where they
concentrate. Currently, more than 17 percent of Canadian citizens were born
somewhere else -- nearly double the percentage of U.S. citizens born elsewhere
-- and a similar fraction speak a mother tongue other than English or French,
Canada's two official languages. A majority of children in Vancouver's central
school district has a mother tongue other than English. But although they are
officially welcomed, supported with a plethora of services from welfare to
language training, the newest pieces of the mosaic have not always rubbed easily
with the older ones.

It is rare, for example, to spot the mosaic in uniform: Only 2 percent of
Canada's military is nonwhite, compared with more than 10 percent of the
nation's population. And in the hockey rinks around Toronto, a city estimated to
be 40 percent nonwhite, "you don't see a lot of kids of those [immigrant]
ancestral backgrounds participating," said John Gardner, president of the
Greater Toronto Hockey League. "Look at Chinatown. . . . They still live in the
same cultural environment that their parents or grandparents did."

Immigration has added flavor to dynamic, diverse cities like Toronto and
Vancouver, where Asian characters glow in neon at suburban malls and a wealth of
ethnic festivals enliven the summer. But there are cultural tensions as concrete
as the anger felt when schools shift money from art and music to English
language training, and as abstract as the sense that Canada is building a mosaic
with no overarching design.

On talk radio shows, callers take broad swipes at specific communities,
complaining in a gentle, Canadian way that, for example, East Indians in one
Toronto neighborhood put the trash out on the wrong day and don't cut their
grass. High-profile hockey broadcaster Don Cherry says Canada has become the
"garbage can of the world" because of whom its immigration laws allow into the
country. Feuds over Sikh turbans, Chinese signs and rising crime have all
flared.

A recent blue-ribbon review of Canadian immigration policy shows how deep these
concerns can run. The review concluded that Canada should be choosier about whom
it accepts, refining its standards to identify those who will most quickly begin
contributing money, taxes, jobs and energy to the economy. Immigrants should
learn English or French before they are allowed to come, the review concluded,
and they should show, through volunteer work or other means, that they are
blending in.

"In Quebec and all over Canada, people say that to have a Canadian passport is a
joke," said Robert Trempe, a former deputy minister of immigration in Quebec and
chairman of the panel that reviewed immigration policy. "We have a lot of people
holding Canadian passports who have never been in Canada, or were in Canada just
to get the passport, and then, goodbye."

Trempe added: "The answer we tried to bring was a difficult one when we tried to
say: Examine the possibility of having people prove, show, that they are really
starting to be a part of this society. That they can place a chair in the church
basement for the choir, or keep [a neighbor's] children, that they can give to
organizations."

The competing vision, given voice through a number of recent books and analyses,
imagines Canada as a "postmodern" nation where openness to different cultures --
and its demands for little conformity in return -- are more suitable to a
globalized world. Its supporters contend that economic and social data show
multiculturalism is allowing people to retain what they want of their native
culture, while also blending effectively with Canadian society.

Will Kymlicka, a philosophy professor at the University of Ottawa, analyzed
patterns of political participation, the rates at which immigrants become
naturalized citizens and nationwide polling data on such issues as interracial
marriage. Far from becoming balkanized, he said, Canada's immigrants "quickly
absorb and accept Canada's basic liberal-democratic values," become citizens at
rates higher than immigrants to the United States, learn English or French
almost without exception, and appear to have contributed to a general leavening
of attitudes toward mixed marriages and other cultural issues.

Morton Beiser, head of a Toronto-based center for immigration research, went a
step further. He said research shows it is rare for immigrant families to retain
much of their native culture beyond the second generation. He said the extent of
social integration becomes clear through health data: Immigrants usually arrive
at a healthier weight, and with healthier eating and drinking habits, than the
rest of North America, but quickly achieve the continental norms.

"The more they stay in the country, the more they tend to look like the average
Canadian," Beiser said.

To Noo Shafarir, it is precisely Canada's loosely defined culture that makes the
country attractive to her. The 29-year-old immigrated from Iran last year mostly
because she did not like the restrictions placed on women by the Islamic
government.

Interviewed with other new immigrants at an adult English class, she said Canada
is a country with "nice nature," but she did not yet know much about its history
or what it is like outside Toronto. More significant to her, she said, is that
she can pursue a career in computer programming, and that she and a new group of
friends from around the world have had little trouble fitting in. She said most
everyone she meets is from somewhere else.

"In Europe, you feel like you're a foreigner," she said. "Here, all the people
are foreigners. I find friends from all societies."

In the classrooms of Dundas, teacher Thuy Nguyen said she has seen the value of
the mosaic in the attitudes of her students. It wasn't too long ago, she said,
that Vietnamese children felt the sting of ethnic taunts. Today, the kids rely
on one another to learn the words and phrases of a mix of languages.

Rather than forcing Canada's immigrants to fit one design, the current approach
"equalizes everyone, and they become friendly," said Nguyen. "They forget about
where you come from, and they begin to learn."

The Canadian Mosaic

Since the 1960s, the largest group of immigrants has come from Asia.

Distribution of origin of 1996 arrivals (Total 224,000)

Europe 17.1

Africa and Middle 16.1

East

South America, Central America, 8.3

Caribbean

United States 2.6

Asia and Pacific islands 55.2

SOURCE: 1991 Census of Canada, custom tabulation by Toronto Metropolitan
authorities


LOAD-DATE: July 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post; Photo, howard schneider, "I find friends
from all societies," says Noo Shafarir of Iran, above left, sharing a table with
Eunjung Ju of South Korea during an English language class at the Bickford
Center, an adult education facility in Toronto. William Tian of China, at left,
hopes for a position in the financial service industry.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              233 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 05, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Blending In, Or Wiping Out?; Immigration Tests A European Society

Eugene Robinson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3168 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM


In this city of winding canals and graceful old buildings, there is nothing
remotely picturesque about the neighborhood where Carel Murzius lives and works
-- a sprawling quadrant called Southeast, where modern apartment blocks march
glumly to the horizon. Parts of the zone are sterile but thriving; other
sectors, older and grittier, look and feel like a black American ghetto.

What distinguishes Southeast is its status as home to the Netherlands' heaviest
concentration of immigrants from the former Dutch colony Suriname, on the
Atlantic shoulder of South America -- men and women like Murzius, 54, who was a
government security agent back home and now works at a community center.

Nearly 300,000 strong by most estimates, the Surinamese in Southeast and similar
neighborhoods in the Netherlands' other big cities pose questions that the
nation -- like other rich countries throughout the world -- is urgently
struggling to answer: In a white European country, can these nonwhite newcomers
ever truly blend into the national identity? Can they ever become truly Dutch?

Or is it another process that takes place: Is the host society fundamentally
changed by their presence, like it or not?

For Murzius, the answers are complex. "I am still Surinamese," he said on first
reflection. But later, he added: "The Dutch don't see me as an outsider." Then
later: "Holland is a white country. . . . The Dutch are your friends, but they
still tell you, in effect, 'You can approach to this point, but no further.' "

And finally: "I think we are changing Holland."

These questions of assimilation are increasingly important, not only here in the
Netherlands but in the rest of Europe and much of the industrialized world. Rich
countries that once were overwhelmingly white have suddenly become much more
racially diverse, mostly due to a flood of immigrants from poorer countries --
former colonial subjects, refugees from war zones, economic migrants looking for
opportunity, "guest workers" who will do the jobs that natives find unsavory.

The transition has often been wrenching. Some native-born residents see the
complexion of their country changing before their eyes, feel the culture
shifting beneath their feet, and become resentful. Many immigrants feel
unappreciated and unwelcome, seeing the attempt to fit into their new societies
as a constant struggle.

The question of a nation's sense of itself is particularly important in the
Netherlands, Germany and other European countries, where nationality has long
been based on shared ethnicity, shared "blood" -- unlike the United States or
Canada, for example, which view themselves as nations of immigrants. The fact of
increasing diversity can be seen in the World Cup soccer tournament, where
European powers have fielded teams full of black and brown immigrant stars.

According to official figures, of the 15.5 million inhabitants of the
Netherlands, roughly 1.7 million are first- or second-generation immigrants. The
largest groups in addition to the Surinamese are Turks (at least 260,000) and
Moroccans (more than 220,000), mostly guest-worker families. All the major
immigrant groups are concentrated in urban areas -- one study estimates that in
the port city of Rotterdam, for example, ethnic minorities make up almost
one-fourth of the population -- giving big Dutch cities a much more cosmopolitan
air than just a couple of decades ago.

The major wave of Surinamese immigrants came here in the years just before and
just after Suriname -- which the Dutch had obtained from the British in 1667 in
a swap for Manhattan island -- was granted its independence in 1975. Virtually
all are Dutch citizens, and only a few have left the Netherlands to go home.

As former colonial subjects, the Surinamese grew up speaking Dutch and were
taught Dutch history in schools back home. These cultural factors should perhaps
be expected to ease their transition into Dutch society, and indeed
socioeconomic indicators bear this out: In income, employment and general
prospects, the Surinamese rank well ahead of the Turks and the Moroccans.

But they rank well behind the native-born Dutch. "Our situation is certainly not
hopeless, but it's certainly not as good as it could be," said John Khodabux, an
official with an advocacy group for Surinamese immigrants called SSA. "We have
Surinamese doctors, lawyers, judges, but at the same time we have a lot of
problems. . . . We have a kind of middle position."

Still, many Surinamese say they believe they have carved out a permanent place
in Dutch society. Along the way, they say, they have had to adapt -- but they
say they believe they have also altered the society permanently.

"When I came over here, Holland was a very gray country," Khodabux said. "I
think we've made it colorful in a lot of ways."

The Surinamese immigrants in the Netherlands are themselves a multiethnic mix,
as full of diverse ingredients as the gumbo-like soup served each Thursday
afternoon at the center where Murzius works. Many are descended from African
slaves, many others from immigrant merchants and workers who came to Suriname
from India, Pakistan, China or the former Dutch islands that now constitute
Indonesia.

They have in common that none looks like the stereotypical blond, big-boned,
apple-cheeked Dutch.

In an average middle-class neighborhood called Bos en Lommer, on Amsterdam's
west side, Muslim women in head scarves wheel baby carriages on the street while
men chat in Turkish and Arabic and children of Surinamese heritage nip into a
corner takeout after school. A lane between two huge apartment blocks is named
Akbarstraat -- Akbar Street. Travel agencies tout low-cost package deals to
Istanbul, Rabat and the Surinamese capital, Paramaribo.

Nationwide, about one-sixth of the children in Dutch schools are from immigrant
groups. In Bos en Lommer and similar neighborhoods with heavy concentrations of
newcomers, the percentage of immigrant children goes to one-third or even
higher.

The Netherlands prides itself on being an open, tolerant society, duty-bound to
offer generosity -- in the form of ample welfare benefits -- to those in need.
These traditions run deep, and most Dutch say they welcome the newcomers. Dutch
politicians who try to play the xenophobia card, as Jean-Marie Le Pen has done
so successfully in France, have had little success.

"Black people are a part of this society now," said Henk Schrijver, a community
worker who lives in Southeast. "You have to work with black people now. You see
them on television, meet them in shops, on the streets. This used to be a
society almost like Denmark or Sweden, full of blond people and nothing else.
But the society has changed."

Yet it is not at all hard to find Dutch who believe all this openness and all
this largess have gone much too far.

"This is not my country anymore," said Elisabeth Kuiper, a retiree who was out
buying flowers with her husband Hendrik one recent morning in Bos en Lommer.

"More and more and more of these people are coming. There are more black than
white now in the schools," she said, using "black" to mean virtually all who are
not ethnically Dutch. "I say they should stop it. It's already too much. But
they keep coming."

A talk with the Kuipers in their tidy, antique-filled apartment offers a glimpse
of how racial stereotypes begin to form and take hold. First, they volunteer
that the immigrants they know personally -- the Surinamese man who lives
upstairs, the refugee from the former Yugoslavia who lives next door -- are
"beautiful people," in Elisabeth Kuiper's words. But the others, the ones they
see on the streets, the ones they do not know, especially the Moroccans and the
Turks -- those immigrants, to the Kuipers, are baffling and more than a little
frightening.

"The crime is so bad, we don't go on the streets at night," Hendrik said. "In
the jails now, there are mostly black -- 90 percent black."

"I don't understand them. I have three children, but they have 10 or more,"
Elisabeth said. "My grandchildren go to bed at 7 o'clock, but I see their
children out on the street at 11 o'clock. How do they go to school in the
morning if they're up that late?"

"People come here and throw away their papers and say, 'My name is Mohammed, I
want asylum,' " Hendrik said. "And they let them stay. They just collect the
benefits."

"First one or two come and rent a place," Elisabeth said, "and that's okay, but
then come 10 or 12 more. And then what can you do? Nobody can do anything. He's
already paid for the house."

Notwithstanding such sentiments, Surinamese immigrants said overt discrimination
and racial slights are rare.

"If I'm in a bus or in a train or wherever, I feel very comfortable," said Henry
Winter, who came here from Suriname in 1973 to study sociology at the University
of Leiden. "That doesn't mean there isn't a certain image attached to ethnic
groups in Holland. But society here just isn't that uncomfortable."

Winter became active in an agency that worked on behalf of Surinamese newcomers,
and now is a senior staff member of FORUM, a new, publicly funded umbrella group
-- its formation mandated by the Dutch government -- that seeks to represent the
interests of all immigrant communities.

Like other Surinamese immigrants interviewed, he said he feels he is still
Surinamese -- even though he is a full-fledged Dutch citizen, a status he
enjoyed in Suriname prior to independence and that almost all Surinamese
immigrants easily have been able to attain.

One's comfort level in the Netherlands, he said, depends on one's situation. "If
you have a good job, a good education, and can express yourself well in Dutch,
then you're okay," he said. "If you're in a different social situation -- not
having a job, depending on social security -- then life will be different for
such a person."

Joan Buitendorp, a labor specialist for FORUM -- and a Surinamese immigrant, who
arrived in 1974 with different career ambitions but fell into what she called
"the ethnic mobility trap" -- said there is subtle but unmistakable
discrimination in the Dutch labor market. Unemployment among the Surinamese
immigrants is around 16 percent, as opposed to 5.4 percent for native-born
Dutch. Her description of the Dutch workplace echoes complaints
African-Americans, for example, have long voiced.

"The employers say it's very difficult to find black people. Black people say
it's very difficult to get in," Buitendorp said. "Black employees say there's an
atmosphere. People are always looking at you, asking, 'Can he do the job?' "

The situation of Amsterdam's Surinamese immigrants is evident in Southeast. Some
neighborhoods, like Reigersbos -- where Henry Winter lives -- are modern and
vibrant. Others are going through hard times.

To get to the Ganzenhoef neighborhood community center where Murzius works
involves wending through a down-at-the-heels shopping mall, kept in perpetual
shadow by an elevated roadway. Crack dealers openly ply their trade, in defiance
of the Dutch government's announced crackdown on hard drugs -- and in plain view
of a police substation across a concrete courtyard.

Murzius is unusual among Surinamese immigrants in that he came to the
Netherlands for political reasons -- he was an active opponent of Surinamese
strongman Desi Bouterse and left the country after being arrested, interrogated
for a week and released. "I was born free, I grew up free, I was used to saying
things freely, and I wanted to live free," he said, explaining his decision to
seek asylum in the Netherlands 10 years ago.

Living here, he said, has changed him. Suriname's tropical ease and slow pace
called for one set of responses, and the chilly formality and urban vibrancy of
the Netherlands call for another.

"You have to change. The situation brings change," he said. "Here, you don't
have time for friends and they don't have time for you. When you want to visit
friends, you have to phone first and make an appointment. . . . After 6 o'clock,
you cannot visit people in Holland. Everyone is inside. People live inside."

The Netherlands' long tradition of tolerance is built on the concept of society
being organized in "pillars," which together support the overarching structure.
Catholics, nonbelievers and several varieties of Protestants coexisted by
organizing their own schools, neighborhoods, even businesses; they cooperated on
matters affecting the common good, but seldom mixed until recent decades.

"I'm a Protestant, and my first girlfriend was Catholic," recalled Philip Muus,
a professor at Utrecht University who produces an annual report on immigration
in the Netherlands. "I recall her mother asking me if I wouldn't have problems
because of dating her daughter."

The pillars have largely broken down, but much of their spirit remains,
according to Muus and others. Native-born Dutch understand almost instinctively
how the remnants of the system come into play in a given situation. Immigrants,
even the Surinamese, do not. But if they want to feel at home, they have to try
to learn.

"Everything here in Holland is built in structures," Murzius said. "It's very
difficult to find your way as a foreigner without knowing where the structures
are. . . . But that's their way of living. I'm in their country. I have to go
along with that."

In his 1997 study of immigration to the Netherlands, Muus cites conservative
estimates that by 2015, the number of first- and second-generation immigrants in
the Netherlands will top 2.5 million. This is a small country, the most densely
populated in Europe, and so it is perhaps inevitable that the different cultures
will cross-pollinate.

If it isn't already, soon it will be Carel Murzius's country too.

The Reigersbos neighborhood of Southeast Amsterdam, like many other
neighborhoods in Dutch cities, already is full of new sights, sounds, flavors
and rhythms.

At a weekly open-air market in the neighborhood shopping district, a Dutch
tradition, one stall is occupied by a woman selling dried herbs used in
traditional Surinamese remedies. Vendors still sell fresh produce -- but these
days, the selection includes okra, collard greens and a collection of
unpronounceable Surinamese fruits and vegetables. The buyers include not only
immigrants, but also native-born Dutch.

Food is only one of the ways in which the immigrants have begun to change the
fabric of Dutch life. In sports, some of this soccer-mad country's biggest stars
are black players, like the up-and-coming Clarence Seedorf and many others on
the Netherlands' World Cup team. Music videos with production values worthy of
MTV feature stylish black singers crooning and rapping in Dutch.

Others see more wide-ranging changes, cultural changes. These are hard to
quantify, since the period of rapid immigration coincides with the advent of
free-flowing cultural exchange throughout the world -- movies from America and
Hong Kong, reggae music from Jamaica, fashion from Italy. Nonetheless, even if
precise measurement is difficult, many see changes that they trace at least in
part to immigration.

"You see it more in a cultural way," Murzius said. "It used to be that if you
saw a Dutch man walking down the street, he had on black pants and a white
shirt. That was the way they dressed, But now they're changing their way of
dressing, their way of cooking, their way of approaching other people."

Schrijver, the community worker, likes living amid Southeast Amsterdam's new
diversity so much that he plans to buy one of the new housing units being built
as part of the redevelopment of the Ganzenhoef area. But he said he believes
many native-born Dutch -- particularly those who do not live in the cities --
are largely unaffected by all the immigration.

"My parents live in the back lands," he said. "In their daily lives, they just
don't have much contact with black people. They have some anxiety -- they don't
know what kind of culture black people would have, and in truth they're probably
not really interested."

In the cities, though, the immigrant presence is inescapable, as are its
effects. Khodabux said he believed the knee-jerk Dutch reaction, when confronted
with one of these effects, was to see it as a problem, but then later to
gradually accept it or even embrace it. For example, he said, teenagers have
incorporated Surinamese, Arabic and Turkish words in their slang. At first,
adults reacted with concern, he said, then later they stopped grumbling.

Khodabux told a story to illustrate the change he sees:

"A few years ago, I was at Leidseplein [an Amsterdam square] waiting for the
tram, going home at night. I looked around and it hit me: When I came over here,
when I would be going out at 12 at night with my Surinamese friends, the Dutch
were all going home. But here I was, on my way home, and all around me were
these Dutch people going out.

"They were wearing beautiful clothes, beautiful shoes. They were using their
hands when they talked, gesturing, the way we might. They were dressed so
elegantly. And there I was, just in a sweater and jeans.

"I thought, hey, Holland has changed."

About the Series

Like the United States, many wealthy countries around the world have suddenly
become more racially diverse in recent years through immigration. This
three-part series of articles examines ways in which several nations have coped
with aspects of this process -- and been changed by it.

Today's installment looks at the question of national identity in the
Netherlands. Tomorrow's will chart the rise of an anti-immigration political
movement in Australia. And Tuesday's will examine interracial marriage in
Britain.

Dutch Diversity

The Netherlands, like the rest of the industrial world, has become a racially
diverse nation with about 10 percent of the population made up of immigrants or
their descendants. Most live in the large cities, particularly Amsterdam.

Foreign population in selected industrialized countries, as percentage of total
population

Luxembourg* 33.4 %

Switzerland 18.9

Austria 9.0

Belgium 9.0

Germany 8.8

France 6.0

Sweden 5.2

Netherlands 5.0

Norway 4.2

Denmark 3.7

* Mostly European Union nationals

Foreign population and their descendants in the Netherlands totaled 1.7 million.

Minorities, by country of origin in percent, in 1996*

OECD (richest countries) 19.8

Turkey 15.4

Suriname 14.6

Indonesia, former Dutch East Indies 12.8

Morocco 12.7

Netherlands Antilles, Aruba 4

Other countries 20.7 %

* Includes those who have acquired Dutch nationality by naturalization or birth.

SOURCE: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), European
Research Center on Migration and Ethnic Relations


LOAD-DATE: July 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: LIVING IN COLOR: How Nations Manage Diversity; Pg. 1/3

GRAPHIC: Chart; Photo, eugene robinson, At the open-air market in the Reigersbos
neighborhood of Southeast Amsterdam, okra, collard greens and Surinamese fruits
and vegetables are now sold along with traditional European produce.  Carel
Murzius, who left Suriname 10 years ago, says he finds a more formal and
faster-paced life in the Netherlands.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              234 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 05, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Nation Receives 18,500 Citizens For Its Birthday; Record INS Backlog Holds 2
Million

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1419 words


For Mohannad Khatib, the oath-taking as one of America's newest citizens
represented both the end of a long journey and a moment of special poignancy. As
he swore allegiance to the United States, the television news reporter from
Jordan faced a glass monument to journalists killed in the line of duty, many of
them in the Middle East.

Like many of the 43 other immigrants from 19 countries who were sworn in
yesterday at Arlington's Freedom Park as part of nationwide ceremonies marking
Independence Day, Khatib had to wait more than a year for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to process his citizenship application -- a wait that
both the administration and Congress agree is too long.

Yet, these new citizens are among the lucky ones. Roughly 2 million other
immigrants are stuck in a citizenship pipeline, waiting for the INS to work
through the largest backlog of naturalization applications in U.S. history. Many
immigrants face a wait of two to three years from the time they apply for
citizenship to the day they swear to renounce "any foreign prince, potentate,
state or sovereignty."

To help mark the Independence Day holiday, the INS scheduled oath-takings for
more than 18,500 immigrants in at least 27 ceremonies across the country. The
largest was held Thursday in Los Angeles, where about 10,000 people were sworn
in at the city's convention center. In Charlottesville, 71 immigrants from 29
countries took their oaths yesterday at the Monticello home of President Thomas
Jefferson.

The new Americans range from orphans adopted by U.S. parents to
great-grandmothers who have lived in the United States for decades.

For many, the occasion serves to celebrate the freedom and opportunity they have
found in the United States. But it also offers relief from what is often a
protracted and frustrating process. And it underscores the long way that the INS
has to go to turn around a system that has become bogged down in record
applications, scandals surrounding the process and a continued stretching of
resources to handle the work.

Two years after the INS succeeded in reducing the citizenship backlog to fewer
than 500,000 and paring waiting times to six months under a special program, the
pile of pending applications and the periods the immigrants must wait have
approximately quadrupled.

Not only have record numbers of applications continued to pour in -- at least
1.6 million a year in both fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1998 -- but the INS has been
hit by a backlash against its earlier efforts to speed up the process. In that
initiative, the agency granted citizenship to thousands of ineligible
applicants, including people who had committed felonies or had failed to
disclose arrests.

After charging that the program was coopted by the White House to naturalize as
many people as possible before the 1996 elections, and thus turn out new voters
beholden to the Democrats, congressional Republicans put the brakes on the
process, forcing the INS to its decisions in granting citizenship to more than 1
million people over a 13-month period.

Subsequent INS moves to "restore integrity" to naturalization procedures slowed
the system down even more, as the agency stopped allowing outside groups to take
fingerprints and administer citizenship tests under a program originally aimed
at privatizing some of its more time-consuming tasks. The INS also took steps to
ensure that people with disqualifying criminal records did not slip through the
system because their fingerprints had not been checked against an FBI database.

"I was wondering why it was taking such a long time," Khatib, 38, said of the
citizenship application he filed in April of last year. The delay has affected
his ability to travel, he said, since "it takes a long time to get visas on a
Jordanian passport."

He decided to become an American, he said, because he has lived in the United
States for 20 years since first coming here as a student, and because his wife
and two small children are U.S. citizens. Khatib's wife, Saba'a Atteyih, a
Palestinian immigrant, obtained her U.S. citizenship 15 years ago in Wisconsin,
where the couple met while attending college. The whole process took only about
a month, she recalled.

Despite his long wait, "I feel pretty good," Khatib said. "I wasn't expecting to
have the ceremony on the Fourth of July, and for me as a journalist, to have it
here is special." He gestured toward the metal and glass monument erected by the
Freedom Forum in 1996 and inscribed with the names of journalists who have been
killed while covering events around the world. Among those memorialized are
reporters from several Arab countries, notably Algeria and Lebanon, said Khatib,
the Washington correspondent for the Al Jazeera television station in Qatar.

Manford Chinkhota, a 24-year-old graduate student from Malawi, said he applied
for citizenship two years ago, but was unable to attend first scheduled
swearing-in ceremony in March 1997 because he was away at school. He was told it
would take 90 days to reschedule his oath-taking, but he ended up having to wait
more than a year.

"As I got close to graduation, that's when I really began to worry," said
Chinkhota, who is scheduled to receive his master's degree in physics from
Southern University in Louisiana at the end of the month. Some of the
fellowships for doctoral programs he is interested in require applicants to be
U.S. citizens, he said, and he believes that becoming an American will make it
easier for him to "get a job in the sciences," especially if the employer is the
U.S. government.

For Farideh Hadi, a 43-year-old accountant from Iran, it has taken 15 months to
obtain U.S. citizenship, her goal since she left her homeland 13 years ago. But
the process is dragging on even longer for her husband, who applied last August.
He was told he would have to wait another six to eight months just to find out
when he could be scheduled for an interview with an INS officer, the final step
before his application can be approved.

"It's not fair," Hadi said. "Before, it was just six months of waiting, but now
it takes at least two years."

Applicants for citizenship are not the only ones languishing in INS backlogs. So
are millions of people seeking green cards, denoting permanent immigrant status,
and other immigration benefits.

According to an internal INS memo cited last month by the San Diego Union
Tribune, the INS projected it would have 5.1 million unprocessed applications
for immigration benefits by the end of September -- including 2.6 million
citizenship applications -- compared to 1.1 million pending files five years
ago.

In congressional testimony in March, James S. Angus, the acting INS director of
naturalization operations, said people who applied for citizenship in January
this year could expect to wait 33 months for their cases to be processed.

Robert Bach, an INS executive associate commissioner, insisted that those
estimates for the backlogs and waiting times have been overtaken by the agency's
measures to reform the system and that the numbers are dropping. He said the
memo, written in March, contains "straight-line projections" that do not reflect
recent automation initiatives and improvements in processing.

At "somewhere between 1.6 million and 2 million," the citizenship backlog
nevertheless remains too large, he said, and "needs to be brought down" by
hiring more people to do the work.

While Republicans in Congress have continually sniped at the INS over its
citizenship backlog, administration officials point out that some requests for
additional resources to handle the caseload are bottled up in congressional
committees. One such request, to "reprogram" $ 12 million in an INS fee account
to fund the centralization of records, has been stuck in the House
Appropriations Committee since November, officials said. They said the measure
would enable the INS to gather paper files from 80 sites around the country and
computerize them at one location, thereby avoiding delays that arise from losing
or misplacing records -- a chronic problem in the agency.

"This is an example of where the blame for the backlog needs to be shared by
both the INS and Congress," said Judy Mark, a spokeswoman for the National
Immigration Forum, a leading advocacy group. "We do not believe the backlog can
be reduced without an increase in appropriations for the naturalization program
for staff and technical resources."


LOAD-DATE: July 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, nancy andrews, Farideh Hadi, center, an Iranian from Fairfax,
waits as Sierra Leonean Mary Kamara of Springfield receives her U.S. flag as
they both become Americans.  Nam Van Duong signs his naturalization papers after
citizenship ceremonies in Freedom Park, Arlington, that were part of
Independence Day celebration.  Omar Khatib, 2, already a citizen, snatches his
father's flag as Mohannad Khatib, from Jordan, becomes an American like his wife
and children.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              235 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 05, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Celebrating The Freedom To Worship; Buddhists Flock to Catlett

Seema Mehta, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. V03

LENGTH: 787 words


While most Americans celebrated the country's independence with picnics, parades
and pyrotechnics Saturday, thousands of Southeast Asian immigrants and refugees
were converging on a Buddhist temple in Fauquier County to revel in their
independence from religious persecution in their countries.

The Wat Lao Buddhavong, a Buddhist temple on 58 acres in Catlett in
predominantly Baptist Fauquier, is one of the largest in the country. The temple
festival, which continues today, began in 1991 to celebrate Southeast Asians'
culture and their freedom in the United States at the same time Americans
celebrate their freedom.

"Most Southeast Asians are immigrants or political refugees. Many of the
countries they came from were communist countries -- Laos, Vietnam," said Elesia
Nguyen, a temple volunteer who lives in Fairfax County. "Under communism, even
though they say that you are allowed to have freedom of religion, you are
constantly being watched by the government. They think religion is brainwashing
people to overthrow the government."

Many of the immigrants, especially Buddhist monks, left their countries so they
could freely practice religion. "Once a year, they're trying to celebrate their
freedoms," she said.

Independence Day holds special meaning for Phim Phone, of Lakeland, Fla., who
was planning to attend the weekend's festivities.

Phone, whose daughter interpreted for her, said she was 15 when she and her
parents left Laos secretly by boat in 1980. Phone's father had been in the
military, and after the communist regime took power in 1975, the family was in
danger.

Phone spent three years in a refugee camp in Thailand working as a seamstress
before her family entered the United States in 1983. Here, she said, she can
express her opinions and practice her religion -- Buddhism -- without fear.

The Fauquier celebration has grown since it began in 1991, when as many as 3,000
people attended. Last year, nearly 10,000 participated. This year, organizers
expected the number to double, said Achan Chandaphone Mingsisouphanh, the monk
who came up with the idea of the festival.

As it has in the past, this weekend's celebration was expected to attract Thai,
Cambodians, Burmese, Vietnamese, Chinese and other nationalities from the
Washington area and across the country, Nguyen said.

Events and displays include Laotian and Thai folk dance and music, arts and
crafts exhibitions, exotic foods, fireworks and a religious ceremony, which
included meditation, prayer and offerings.

The temple's abbot -- a position similar to a cardinal in Catholicism -- is Phra
Achan Bounmy Kittihammavanno, who also is vice president of all Laotian
Buddhists in the United States. According to Nguyen, Kittihammavanno is one of
the most respected abbots in the world and one of the reasons the festival is so
popular.

Kittihammavanno, 62, became a monk in Laos when he was 12. He left his country
in 1980 and spent five years in a refugee camp in Thailand before gaining
entrance to the United States.

Perched atop cushions in the middle of the temple, Kittihammavanno rarely
speaks. Visitors, upon entering the temple, rush to kneel in front of him and
touch their foreheads to the ground in respect.

When it was built in 1987, the temple caused some controversy in Catlett, a town
of 328 residents in southeastern Fauquier near the Prince William County border.
Fauquier's minority population is tiny, and residents expressed fears about a
religion that was unknown to them.

But in the 11 years that have passed, residents say they have become accustomed
to their peaceful Buddhist neighbors, who tend to keep to themselves. Ten monks
live on the grounds, and worshipers visit for religious rites and festivals
throughout the year.

The original temple was destroyed by fire in 1993, when the group already was
building a larger temple. The July 4 celebration that year also marked the new
temple's opening.

Nguyen said the group originally was attracted to the area by the open, peaceful
setting.

"It was built in Fauquier County because it was the only area where you could
get that much land that was big enough to have that many people come," said
Linda Sayas, a temple volunteer who lives in Annandale.

The grounds boast a colorful red and gold temple, a large, fragrant garden, a
man-made pond filled with multicolored fish, and several statues of Buddhist
deities.

Visiting Thai monk Phramaha Kittichot traveled halfway around the world two
weeks ago to come to the temple to study with Kittihammavanno and help prepare
for the festival.

"People live different ways. This brings people close together," he said. "It
keeps the traditions alive."


LOAD-DATE: July 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, COURTESY of WAT LAO BUDDHAVONG TEMPLE , A festival celebrating
Southeast Asians' culture and their freedoms here continues today at the Wat Lao
Buddhavong Buddhist temple in Catlett. Above, a performer in last year's
festival.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              236 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 06, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Israel Balks at Admitting Family of Black U.S. Jew

Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 1143 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


He was reared as a Christian and as a black in America. But in his domestic life
and personal convictions, Elazar Yaisrael, a truck driver from Chicago, is as
serious about Judaism as many Israeli Jews. He keeps a kosher kitchen, has
studied the Torah and gave all four of his children Old Testament names.

Yaisrael, now in his early fifties, changed his name and underwent a formal
conversion to Judaism 10 years ago in Los Angeles. He applied for Israeli
citizenship in 1996 and, after months of red tape, received his documents.

But when he tried to immigrate to Israel in May with his wife Sahrah, also a
convert, four children and two grandchildren, alarm bells went off in the
Israeli government. He was stopped at the airport, detained for hours and told
that while he could immigrate his family was not welcome for more than a short
stay.

"I've come here to live a Jewish way of life," said Yaisrael, a soft-spoken man
with long gray dreadlocks and a ready smile. "I'm trying to save my children
from the black situations in the [American] neighborhoods, the gangs and all
that."

The Yaisraels, now living in administrative limbo under threat of deportation,
are a testament to Israel's deepening confusion about who qualifies as a Jew and
who, therefore, is entitled to live in the Jewish state.

The question is not only religious, legal or racial, although it is tinged with
all three. At its core, perhaps, is an economic issue. As Israel's wealth and
living standards begin to draw even with Western Europe's, the country has
become more wary about who is immigrating and why.

"If any person on the basis of declaring themselves Jewish would be allowed to
immigrate under the Law of Return, then anybody in a country with a GDP per
capita of less than [Israel's] $ 17,000 would immediately be interested in
coming to Israel," said Bobby Brown, an adviser to Prime Minister Binyamin
Netanyahu.

In the last few years, non-Jewish immigration to Israel, legal and illegal, has
soared with the arrival of more than 200,000 foreign workers and at least that
many Russian immigrants with little or no connection to Judaism. For the first
time in Israel's 50-year history, a significant portion of its population of
nearly 6 million -- perhaps 10 percent or more -- is neither Jewish nor Arab.

The influx of non-Jewish immigrants has coincided with a deepening and bitter
split in Israeli society between secular and religious Jews. That in turn has
fed a debate that touches the core of Israel's image of itself. Should it be a
religious state dedicated to Orthodox Judaism? A "normal" state with a
preponderance of Jews, some devoutly Orthodox, some simply traditional and some
completely secular? Should it have qualms about admitting non-Jews?

"It's a question of identity," said Yaron Ezrahi, a prominent Israeli political
philosopher. "In the past, the state has committed itself to being a Zionist
state where all Jews can experiment with all forms of Judaism. But at the same
time the right-wing government is giving the Orthodox more and more control."

Among the areas of government in which Orthodox political parties have the most
control is the Interior Ministry, which oversees immigration and citizenship.
When Yaisrael and his family arrived at Ben-Gurion airport on May 11, it was the
Interior Ministry that raised the alarm.

Although Yaisrael and his family could have presented U.S. passports and been
admitted as tourists, he also submitted his Israeli identity card at the airport
and declared his intention to immigrate. In fact, he had spent $ 10,000 -- much
of his savings -- to buy one-way air tickets for the whole family and to ship
their furniture and household goods from Chicago.

Interior Ministry officials were suspicious. Part of their concern had to do
with the Black Hebrews -- a sect of American blacks living in Dimona in southern
Israel -- who immigrated illegally, are not considered Jews and have long been a
thorn in the side of the government.

Ministry officials also doubted the Yaisraels' commitment to Judaism. When they
interviewed the couple's son Emanuel, 18, one official said, the youth had
trouble defining Shabbat -- the weekly Jewish Sabbath.

In an interview, Yaisrael said his interest in Judaism was piqued when he saw
the movie "The Ten Commandments" on television. While he mentioned that the
family had visited Jerusalem's Old City, he said they did not stop at the
Western Wall, the only intact portion of the Jewish Temple dating from the Roman
era and one of Judaism's holiest sites.

Yaisrael said he has no connection to the Black Hebrews and no intention to join
them, and he insisted his commitment to Judaism is genuine. By his account, he
and his wife began their conversion with a six-month course offered by the
University of Judaism while living in Los Angeles. At its conclusion, on June
20, 1988 -- Yaisrael's 43rd birthday -- the couple was converted to Conservative
Judaism by a rabbinical court.

"This was like a double birthday," he said with a laugh.

Although Conservative Judaism -- a less stringent version of the religion than
Orthodoxy -- is barely known in Israel, Israeli law recognizes the Jewishness of
Jews converted by non-Orthodox rabbis in America. That would give them the
nearly automatic right to immigrate to Israel. But Conservative Jews allege the
Interior Ministry lately has been taking practical steps to impede their
immigration.

Said Dan Evron, the Yaisraels' lawyer in Israel: "A horrific mistake was made
here. There's absolutely no reason for refusing these people's application to
immigrate."

Interior Ministry officials refused to be interviewed on the case. Tova
Ellinson, a spokeswoman for the ministry, said in a brief statement that "at the
moment, no one is giving them any problem because they are tourists here."
However, the Yaisraels' tourist visas expired June 10.

The ministry has insisted that all the Yaisraels except Elazar, who already has
Israeli citizenship, return to the United States to apply for permission to
immigrate. The family is fighting. "I moved everything here," Sahrah Yaisrael
said. "What would I go back to?"

The family has not accused the government of racism, and they say they have been
deeply impressed by Israel's aggressive program to bring in tens of thousands of
Ethiopian Jews.

For now, the Yaisraels are living in Beit Shemesh, a lower-middle-class town a
half-hour's drive west of Jerusalem. Save for a few mattresses and rugs donated
by neighbors, their $ 470-a-month apartment is mostly bare. Elazar, whose last
job was as a courier in Chicago, is seeking work. He would like to enroll
himself and the family in intensive Hebrew lessons. But for that, and for
everything else in Israel, he must wait for the family's citizenship to be
approved.

LOAD-DATE: July 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              237 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 06, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Adopting the American Dream; Immigrant Entrepreneurs Embrace Self-Employment and
the Chance to Succeed

Beth Berselli, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F12

LENGTH: 2863 words


Ah, America. The land of the free, the home of the brave -- and the place where
any smart, hard-working person, native-born or foreign-born, can bring home big
bucks by going into business.

It's a vision of American enterprise embraced by millions of immigrants,
becoming a part of national folklore that has played out generation after
generation. But it's more than legend, it's fact: Immigrants own 1.5 million
U.S. businesses, or 1 of every 12 companies, according to the Census Bureau's
most recent estimates in 1992.

There are 28,000 immigrant entrepreneur households, or almost 17 percent of a
total of 165,000 self-employed households in the Washington area, said George
Grier, a Bethesda researcher who analyzed recent Census Bureau surveys. This 17
percent figure mirrors the metro area population as a whole, where about 716,000
immigrants are part of a total population of 4.4 million, he said.

Included among these local immigrant entrepreneurs are such stars as Jeong Kim,
a Korean-born engineer who recently sold his Landover company, Yurie Systems
Inc., for $ 1 billion, and Rajendra and Neera Singh, Indian
immigrants-turned-cell phone magnates who built a $ 1 billion fortune in the
last decade. They're joined by thousands of smaller merchants -- the Korean
grocer, the Chinese dry cleaner, the Mexican restaurant owner.

So why have immigrants hopped on the entrepreneurial bandwagon?

Experts point to positive forces that encourage prospective entrepreneurs to
take the plunge into self-employment. For example, an immigrant might be more
likely to start his own business if he knows another ethnic entrepreneur who
could serve as a mentor.

But there also are factors that force immigrants into the entrepreneur fold,
experts said. Problems with language skills or lack of advanced education keep
some immigrants out of high-paying jobs.

"It's not so much that immigrants come over with a burning desire to be
entrepreneurs," said Robert Barbato, a professor of entrepreneurship at
Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Business in upstate New York.
"It's that they don't have good alternatives."

He said immigrants in ages past had more wage opportunities in such areas as
manual labor. "We don't have people digging Erie Canals by hand anymore," he
said. Today's jobs are in such industries as technology, where an education is a
requirement.

The entrepreneurs profiled on the next

two pages represent the full spectrum of immigrant businesses in the Washington
area, from the big high-technology company to the tiny restaurant. Each offers a
different lesson to those wanting to strike out on their own -- including the
importance of ethnic support networks and the value of capitalizing on a unique
background. But they all agree that America offers unparalleled opportunities
for financial self-improvement.

"Everything was so restricted in Vietnam. The opportunity was not there," said
Hong Hou, 48, the owner of a Vietnamese restaurant in Falls Church and one of
our featured immigrant entrepreneurs. "This is just a dream come true."

Going Mainstream America by Way of the SBA

Lesson: Some of the most successful immigrant entrepreneurs are
American-educated and run businesses that belie their immigrant status.

When he arrived in this country in 1970, Satyendra "Shri" Shrivastava didn't
intend to stay. He was here for nine months, period. Just enough time to
complete a master's degree in computer science and then head home to India, back
to his well-paying job -- not to mention his pregnant wife.

Nearly 30 years later Shrivastava is still here. His degree led to jobs at such
big corporations as GTE Corp. and Potomac Electric Power Co. And then he caught
the entrepreneurial bug and America seemed a more hospitable environment for
pursuing that goal. Plus, his wife and children liked living in the United
States. Somewhere along the line, he discovered that he liked it, too.

Today the 59-year-old immigrant is the chief executive of Anstec Inc., a McLean
information-technology company that has annual revenue of about $ 53 million.

From a sterile corporate office park near Tysons Corner, the company's 425
employees work on high-tech projects for federal agencies including the Defense
Department and the Transportation Department. Most of their work is
incomprehensible to non-techies, having to do with networking, software
conversion and database planning and design.

Anstec is one of thousands of virtually indistinguishable systems integrators
that dot the Capital Beltway, firms that make their living by selling their
services to the federal government.

There's little about Anstec that marks it as an "immigrant" firm. The
15-year-old company doesn't specifically seek out immigrant employees; its
products aren't aimed at any particular ethnic group, but instead are sold to
the most mainstream of American institutions, the federal government.

And unlike other immigrants, Shrivastava didn't have someone from his own
community to show him the ropes. Rather, his mentor was the U.S. Small Business
Administration. In 1987 Shrivastava joined the SBA's 8(a) program, which is
aimed at helping minority businesses start off on the right foot. His company
grew by leaps and bounds during its nine-year tenure in the program, with
revenue topping out at $ 66 million in 1996, up from $ 600,000 in 1987.

"It's a good program," Shrivastava said. "Initially we needed that help, but now
we compete on our own strength."

Experts say immigrants like Shrivastava aren't alone in taking an "Americanized"
route to developing their businesses. Indian entrepreneurs are especially likely
to eschew the traditional ethnic support networks, according to Timothy Bates, a
professor of labor and urban affairs at Wayne State University.

Indian business owners are the least oriented to serving an ethnic clientele --
a fact that makes them among the most profitable, large-scale and least
failure-prone enterprises, he said.

Also adding to their success is that the fact that they are the most highly
educated of all ethnic groups, with 73 percent of Indian men having college
degrees, Bates said. And nearly 80 percent of Indian male immigrants already are
fluent in English when they arrive in this country, compared with just 21
percent of Vietnamese immigrants.

For Hispanics, Memories of Home Echo Here

Lesson: Define as your niche an underserved need of your ethnic community, and
then go about filling that need.

When Ronald Gordon arrived in Washington almost 30 years ago from Lima, Peru,
the outgoing, athletic teenager dreadfully missed one thing about life in his
old hometown: soccer.

"When I came to America, nobody played it," the now-43-year-old Arlington
entrepreneur recalled. "Nobody wrote about it; nobody watched it on TV."

When he was all grown up and ready to make his mark on the world, Gordon
recalled his earlier remorse over the loss of his favorite sport. And he saw a
business opportunity: Why shouldn't he launch a weekly newspaper to cover the
local soccer leagues? He'd probably make a bundle.

Time and again in his two decades of entrepreneurship, Gordon has zeroed in on
an underserved need in his community and then gone about filling it. He has
built a thriving business offering Hispanics in the Washington area the goods
and services that he wished he had when he first arrived in this country.

The soccer newspaper didn't take off, but Gordon's other ventures have proven
very successful. Today Gordon owns ZGS Communications Inc. and ZGS Broadcasting
Inc., companies that employ 60 people and have combined annual revenue of about
$ 8.5 million.

ZGS Communications develops marketing campaigns for companies and organizations
that want to target members of the Hispanic community. For example, the American
Association of Retired Persons depends on ZGS to host its "Golden Afternoon"
promotion, a family festival aimed at attracting Hispanic retirees as AARP
members.

The communications company also produces Hispanic-themed programming for
English-language television. Its syndicated specials include such titles as
"Latino Music Greats," a one-hour program featuring Gloria Estefan, Julio
Iglesias and other Hispanic artists. The programs reach an average of 80 percent
of Hispanic households, a fact not lost on advertisers who also are trying to
reach this fast-growing, big-spending population.

The other arm of Gordon's empire, ZGS Broadcasting, has three Spanish TV
stations -- Telemundo (Channel 64) in Washington and stations in Orlando and
Tampa -- and two Spanish radio stations in Tampa. Together, they serve more than
1 million Hispanic people.

Experts say many foreign-born entrepreneurs settle on businesses that capitalize
on their unique background. "It just makes sense," said Robert Barbato, a
professor of entrepreneurship at Rochester Institute of Technology's College of
Business in upstate New York. "You've got to marry opportunity to what it is you
know."

For Gordon that means creating TV programs, radio shows and marketing programs
that are helpful to other immigrants. Of course it doesn't hurt that advertisers
are willing to pay big bucks to reach that population -- he is, after all,
trying to run a business. "I'm a big hawk on the bottom line," he admitted.

A nice benefit of his success, he said, is that he's able to offer jobs to
fellow Hispanics. About two-thirds of his employees are Hispanic.

Gordon realizes that it's not just about dollars and cents. He proudly points to
a viewer's letter about a recent ZGS TV special. "Your show made me proud to be
Latino," the viewer wrote. "Organizations like yours remind us that we can still
achieve the American dream after all, even when all seems so hard."

Breaking Bread With Family At the Restaurant Pho 888

Lesson: The traditional family unit and the larger ethnic community play a big
role in the survival of an immigrant's business, providing loyal, low-cost
employees, mentors, customers and financing.

Life at Pho 888, a new Vietnamese restaurant in Falls Church, is truly a family
affair.

Hong Hou, the dad, is in charge of ordering all the food. Nga, the mom, cooks
it. The 20-year-old twins, son Phi and daughter Thu, serve as waiters and
busboys. And the oldest daughter, Anne, 24, takes care of the books.

The family works at the restaurant 12 hours a day, seven days a week, dishing up
bowl after bowl of a Vietnamese soup called "pho" (pronounced "fah").

During slow times, the kids grab their books, head to a corner table and study
for their various college classes. Hong smiles at them from his perch behind the
counter, glad that after eight years of working two jobs to support his children
he is finally able to spend time with them.

"He's happy because he's working for himself and the whole family is here," Anne
says of her 48-year-old father, who left South Vietnam for the United States in
1989. His command of English is still limited.

This family-centered set-up is found at thousands of immigrant-owned businesses
across the country, experts said. But it's not just the immediate family that
these entrepreneurs rely on for help.

Immigrant entrepreneurs like Hong are part of a larger ethnic network that
supports their activities by providing loyal employees, mentors, customers and
financing, said Roger Waldinger, a UCLA sociology professor who has studied the
group.

Within the local Vietnamese community, it's taken for granted that members help
each other out. "Whoever knows something, they'll help you out," Hong said.

As many as half of Hong's customers are Vietnamese; Vietnamese markets supply a
lot of the restaurant's foods; and family members and friends contributed a
chunk of the $ 40,000 that was needed to open the restaurant last summer.

Hong's employees -- all family members -- are Vietnamese. He has two Vietnamese
mentors: local businessman Ly Ngo and Henry Hoang, who owns the Queen Bee
restaurant in Arlington and was Hong's first boss when he arrived in this
country. These mentors, entrepreneurs themselves, helped make clear to Hong the
path to starting his own business by helping him figure out such things as
licenses and taxes and how to get a loan from the bank. They continue to offer
advice.

Experts say this network can play a big role in the success -- or failure -- of
a business.

On the one hand, it makes sense to use family members as employees. They're
cheap and just as important, reliable. They aren't likely to shirk on the job
since they presumably have the same incentive -- maximizing family income,
Waldinger said.

But there's a danger in depending too much on this ethnic support, said Timothy
Bates, a professor of labor and urban affairs at Wayne State University in
Detroit who has written a book on Asian immigrant businesses. He said Census
Bureau data show that immigrant firms that rely almost exclusively on minority
clientele are more likely to fail.

But Hong isn't too worried about the future. He notes that the restaurant
already draws a large number of non-Asian customers -- people like Gloria
Steinberg Briskin, a Falls Church businesswoman who eats there several times a
week. "I just love it," she said. "It's just a nice, welcoming place to go. They
make you feel like you're part of the family."

For Those Less Fortunate, A Grateful Employer

Lesson: Being an immigrant can give you a unique appreciation of the plight of
the disadvantaged when making hiring decisions.

To many employers, the job applicant would have seemed an unlikely candidate.
She wasn't wearing a business suit. Her resume was thin, with her most recent
entry being "welfare recipient."

But Sarian Bouma had a different reaction six months ago when she met Tamika
Hill, a single mom looking for work.

"She just looked tired," remembered Bouma, a 42-year-old immigrant from Sierra
Leone who owns Capitol Hill Building Maintenance Inc., a commercial cleaning
company in St. Mary's County. "You could really tell she'd struggled to make her
way down here for the interview. She had to leave her children; she had to take
public transportation from D.C."

"I just saw something -- a sincerity, a desire to work," Bouma said. That
cinched the deal; Hill was hired as the company's administrative assistant.

Bouma, a former welfare mother, said her ability to recognize this "something"
in people has contributed to her entrepreneurial success.

"I look for people that nobody else wants to hire," she said. "I've found
they're the most talented people on earth."

Today Bouma employs about 200 people, half of whom were formerly on welfare or
homeless and a good number of whom are also immigrants. Of course, today's low
unemployment rate means that many people looking for work at companies like
Bouma's are unskilled or otherwise disadvantaged.

With her employees' help, Bouma's 11-year-old cleaning business has grown to $
1.8 million in annual revenue. The company has won contracts to clean such
federal facilities as the White House's New Executive Office Building and the
Patuxent River Naval Air Station.

Experts say it's common for immigrants such as Bouma, who have struggled
themselves, to want to help others in need.

"Those that are fortunate enough to be successful acknowledge their good luck
and remain loyal to their community," said Robert Barbato, a professor of
entrepreneurship at the Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Business
in upstate New York. That loyalty, he said, often means giving someone a job.

Bouma encountered her share of bumps on the road to success. She came to
Washington in 1974 to attend college. Two years and a failed marriage later she
was on her own, trying to raise an infant son. With no college degree, her work
options were limited; she went on welfare.

It was not an easy time. "When I went to apply for food stamps, I looked so
pathetic that the guy who took my application gave me $ 5," she said. Her
wake-up call came one night when she couldn't buy milk for her son because she
didn't have enough money.

She worked as a live-in housekeeper, a cleaning lady and various other
low-paying jobs. Finally, after taking some classes, she managed to get a job as
a bank teller. She eventually worked her way up to management jobs at another
bank.

In 1987 she bought a cleaning franchise; she had one contract and one employee
-- herself. Revenue that first year was $ 900. Five years later, after her
contract with the franchiser ended, Bouma decided to go out on her own.
Assistance from the U.S. Small Business Administration's 8(a) program for
minority entrepreneurs helped Bouma get her first big contract in 1992.

Things have gotten a lot better since those rocky early years. But her past
always remains in her thoughts, influencing her every decision. "I'm in business
to help people, that's the truth," said Bouma, who remarried and had three more
children.

Her employees certainly think so. "She just really have faith in me," Hill said.
"She gave me the opportunity to improve myself, and I'm grateful for that."


LOAD-DATE: July 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration; Photo, MARK FINKENSTAEDT FOR The Washington Post; Photo,
GERALD MARTINEAU; Photo, SUSAN BIDDLE; Photo, TOM ALLEN, Satyendra Shrivastava
of McLean-based Anstec Inc. had intended to stay in the United States for only
several months. Nearly 30 years later, he heads a $53 million company here.
Ronald Gordon says an added benefit of his business is that he is able to offer
jobs to other Hispanics. About two-thirds of his employees at ZGS Communications
and ZGS Broadcasting are Hispanic.  Hong Hou, left, heads the Falls Church
Vietnamese restaurant Pho 888, which employs his wife, Nga, daughter Anne and
twins Phi and Thu. Their specialty is the soup "pho," from which the business
takes its name.  Sarian Bouma, owner of a commercial cleaning firm, said her
ability to recognize a certain "something" in people has contributed to her
achievements.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              238 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 10, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

8 in Russian Gang Accused Of Terrorizing Immigrants

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, July 9


Eight members of an alleged Russian organized crime group were charged today
with terrorizing fellow Russian immigrants through extortion, robbery and
hostage-taking, officials said.

If convicted of hostage-taking, seven of the defendants face life in prison. The
eighth suspect, Dennis Teshabayev, faces 20 years in prison counts of extortion.

The criminal complaint capped a 14-month investigation by the FBI, the New York
Police Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Officials said
the ring preyed on immigrants in Brighton Beach.

Georgiy Gleyzer, Igor Yukha, Sam Bozaunts and Gariat Iousoupbekov were arrested
in New York, and Ilya Skvirskiy and Lamont McLaurin in Philadelphia. Teshabayev
and Alexander Spitchenko were still being sought.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              239 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 11, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Lutheran Groups Break Ground on Baltimore Facility

Bill Broadway, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C08; RELIGION

LENGTH: 549 words


Five Lutheran organizations broke ground this week on an $ 8 million facility
near Baltimore's Inner Harbor that will bring together two international
agencies and three regional offices.

The agencies, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services and Lutheran World
Relief, will move to Baltimore next year from New York City, where they have
operated for more than half a century.

The six-story, 49,000-square-foot building was designed by Gwathmey Siegel &
Associates, the New York architectural firm best known for its addition to the
Guggenheim Museum. It will be across from the Baltimore Science Center on Light
Street and Key Highway and is scheduled for occupancy by fall 1999.

The immigration service, founded in 1939, assists refugees with resettlement in
U.S. communities, foster care, asylum projects and immigration counseling. The
53-year-old relief agency helps impoverished people in 50 countries with health,
education, marketing and agricultural assistance.

The organizations have a combined annual operating budget of $ 33 million and
are supported by the two largest Lutheran denominations: the 5.2 million-member
Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and the 2.6 million-member Lutheran
Church-Missouri Synod.

In relocating to Baltimore, the two groups join three other worldwide,
religion-based assistance organizations with which they often work.

Catholic Relief Services, the international relief and development arm of the
U.S. Catholic Conference, moved nine years ago from New York, where it had
operated for 56 years. International Orthodox Christian Charities has been in
Baltimore since shortly after its creation in 1992. And the global education
office of the National Council of Churches' Church World Service moved there
from Indiana 16 years ago.

Immigration service spokeswoman Timi Pierce said the boards of the two agencies
decided two years ago not to renew their lease on Park Avenue South, which
expires in 2000.

"The major concerns were [increased] costs of living and doing business and the
desire to have our own space," she said.

The agencies studied several metropolitan areas, including Philadelphia and
Minneapolis-St. Paul, considering such factors as work force availability,
cultural diversity, living and business costs, access to major transportation
and proximity to Washington.

Baltimore "met and exceeded the criteria," officials said in a statement. In
addition, the Abell Foundation, created by the former owners of the Baltimore
Sun, offers a grant of $ 5,000 per employee as a financial incentive for
nonprofits to move to the city.

The two agencies will have about 70 employees. About half of them are expected
to move from New York, and the rest will be hired locally.

The new Lutheran Center also will include offices for three groups already in
Baltimore: the Delaware-Maryland Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in
America, representing 195 congregations and about 98,000 members; Tressler
Lutheran Services, a 130-year-old agency that helps needy families and
individuals in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Delaware; and the regional office of
the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod Foundation, which helps Christians increase
their giving to ministries through financial and estate planning.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,COURTESY GWATHMEY SIEGEL & ASSOCIATES, The building at center is an
artist's rendering of the $8 million Lutheran facility near Baltimore's Inner
Harbor.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              240 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 16, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

A Prism for Immigrants' Experiences

Jay Mathews, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 862 words


For Cecilia Araujo, 14, a ninth-grader at Arlington's Yorktown High School, the
memory is as sharp as the meaty aroma of her favorite Portuguese recipe, cozido.
At age 12, she cooked the dish for a Christmas Eve dinner and everyone thought
her mother had made it.

"But it wasn't hers, it was mine!!! All mine!!" wrote Araujo as part of a vivid
memoir in an unusual new student publication, Spectrum. "Everybody was in shock
that I cooked it for 11 people."

Recollections of old country customs are common in ethnically diverse Arlington.
Students in the county schools come from dozens of countries. But until
Spectrum, a colorful 56-page journal turned out during the spring by the
school's International Club, there has been little effort to showcase the
literary talents of the newcomers who, although still learning the language,
already have much to say.

Consider:

"My heart was alone, because the night was beginning,

Making me cry and thinking about my country.

Like dropping my soccer shoes and never playing again;

Giving a shot to myself, because my heart is sick and about to die;

Very hard. I'm going to miss every single thing."

Those lines are from a poem in Spectrum written by members of Christina
Smith-Gajadhar's High Intensity Language Training (HILT) class at Yorktown. The
publication is full of evocations of loss, as well as hope for new lives. It
offers a literary buffet of recipes, jokes, factoids, political analysis and
even essays on changing names.

"The last part of my name sounded inappropriate. It meant something gross in
English," wrote Jam Rustambekov, who had been using his Russian name Jamshid. "I
got many suggestions and solutions from good people, but I also got some bad
comments on my name from bad people."

When the purple-covered copies of Spectrum arrived at Yorktown's HILT classes,
the authors were thrilled. Numan Sikandar, 16, reread his account of riding down
a snowy road in the middle of the night shortly after arriving from Pakistan.
"It made me feel good," he said.

One hundred copies have been sold at $ 3 each, adding to a scholarship fund for
52 HILT students taking special summer courses. The HILT program, similar to the
English as a Second Language (ESL) classes found at many schools, provides a
heavy dose of English instruction -- -when students arrive in the United States.
As the students improve, they are sent to mainstream classes. After two to five
years, they leave HILT behind.

Tushar Halgali noticed, however, that in those first years the American-born
students at Yorktown did not know much about their newly arrived classmates. He
came from India in April 1996, but spoke excellent English and spent only two
months in HILT. Last fall, as he began his senior year, he suggested that the
International Club, a group of students interested in international affairs,
travel, language and other areas, organize a publication "that gives recognition
to the international community of Yorktown."

Two other club members, Irena Hollowell, 18, and Rebecca Kallem, 17, joined him
in doing most of the editing, sometimes staying at school until 7 p.m. "I
learned a lot about the other students in my school," Kallem said.

Halgali contributed painstakingly detailed Indian recipes. Hollowell illustrated
and wrote, in both English and Spanish, an ode to wildlife along a river. Kallem
provided most of the illustrations and an opening section of international
miscellany called Tchotchkes, Yiddish for trinkets. "If any of this information
is incorrect, I'm sorry!" she wrote. "Call Interpol and have me arrested!"

The contributions of HILT students included warm slices of family life. Elisa
Bernal, from Ecuador, wrote of her father teasing her grandmother about the
woman's severe approach to making soup: "She got really, really mad, and she was
saying that nobody loved her, and that it would be better if she just sat there
and did nothing. All my cousins and me agreed: If you pass near grandma, give
her a big kiss!"

XiaoMing Yin wrote of her first day at school: "I wanted to use the bathroom,
but I didn't know how to say that word in English. . . . I knew I was in big
trouble." For lunch that day she had pizza: "I thought it wasn't as bad as what
I had heard about in China."

Most of the students in HILT are from Spanish-speaking countries, but the next
largest group is Ethiopian or Eritrean and speaks Amharic. Amanuel Ghebresilase
wrote of the war fought by his fellow Eritreans for freedom from Ethiopia. He
described an old woman being beaten after saying to Ethiopian soldiers, "You
donkey. We don't need Ethiopia. We need our freedom."

Dozens of students and teachers, both in and out of HILT, participated, said
Spanish teacher and International Club sponsor Joan Horwitt. For student
Francisca Alvarado, the extracurricular activity saved her grade in a course.
Her short story about an imaginary crossing of the Mexican border persuaded her
teachers that she was ready for the next level of HILT.

"It was very much an affirmation of their culture," said Smith-Gajadhar, the
HILT teacher. "They do have a contribution to make."


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, JAMES A. PARCELL, Cecilia Araujo, left, Carlos Martinez, Rebecca
Kallem, Tushar Halgali, Irena Hollowell, Maria Arif and Fatima Benchaouch sell
Spectrum, a collection of essays and poems on coming to the United States.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              241 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 18, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Old Records From Germany

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 261 words


Hans Friedrich Von Ploetz, state secretary of the German Foreign Office, in his
letter of July 3, plays the old records, but nobody believes him.

He says European Union leaders made a courageous move by declaring Turkey's
eligibility for membership in the recent Luxembourg summit and entering into
Customs Union with Turkey two years ago.

How courageous is it to say: "You are eligible for membership, but you cannot
become an EU member for decades"? And how courageous is it to enter into Customs
Union and ignore the transfer of $ 24.5 million pledged to Turkey while enjoying
exclusive privileges to dominate the Turkish market?

Mr. Von Ploetz complains about problems concerning integrating Turkish guest
workers into German society. However, Germany urges Turkish immigrants to turn
back to their homeland through various policies. He says millions of "Turks have
been living in Germany" and other EU countries for "decades." However, as a
result of ancient regulations, they have been deprived of citizenship, although
many were born in Germany.

It is wrong to compare Germany to the United States, which accepts more than a
million immigrants every year regardless of their race, ethnic origin or
religion. I am one of them, and I am proud to be a Turkish American. If Germans
are genuine in their efforts to integrate immigrants into their society, then
they should take the United States as an example and stop trying to claim that
the U.S. government is against legal immigrants just to justify German policies.

KADIR DENK

Herndon

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              242 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 19, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Iraqis Detained on Flawed Data, Lawyers Say

Vernon Loeb, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 898 words


Declassified U.S. government evidence used to charge and detain six Iraqi
opposition members is so flawed and inconsistent that national security charges
lodged against them by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) should
be dismissed, attorneys representing the Iraqis said last week.

The six men were ordered deported in March by the INS on the basis of what other
Iraqi opposition members who were part of a 1996 U.S. airlift from northern Iraq
told the FBI in secret interviews -- interviews that should have remained
largely unclassified, the Justice Department conceded 10 days ago.

"It's a bunch of raw data, unanalyzed, that was used to condemn our clients to
death, if this [deportation] order is carried out," said Niels W. Frenzen, the
Iraqis' lead attorney in Los Angeles. "Someone in the Justice Department needs
to recognize that a terrible wrong has been done, a lot of money has been wasted
and these guys have been deprived of their liberty and separated from their
families on the basis of some silly accusations."

Frenzen and other members of the Iraqis' defense team, including former CIA
director R. James Woolsey, began publicly releasing hundreds of pages of
formerly classified material this week to bolster their contention that their
clients have been unjustly charged and detained for the past year and a half.

The six Iraqis were among hundreds of opposition members and their families
spirited from the country after their participation in two failed CIA plans to
topple Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.

Their case has attracted media coverage and interest from Senate Republicans
since Woolsey agreed to join their defense team, pro bono, earlier this year,
calling their prosecution on the basis of secret government evidence a "stain"
on America's honor.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an INS spokesman, said the case remains in the
immigration courts, "and that's where the matter will be decided. We stand firm
in our position that we've brought before the court, which has been upheld by
the court, after [weighing] the exact same evidence that these attorneys now say
is useless."

Frenzen does not dispute that accusations leveled against his clients during the
FBI interviews, taken at face value, are serious. Four of the six, he said, are
alleged to have ties to Iraqi, Iranian, Syrian or Turkish intelligence agencies.

But the FBI agents who interviewed Iraqi opposition members arriving via airlift
in Guam, Frenzen said, have testified in court that they were not conducting any
type of investigation. And no one in the government, he said, has ever reviewed
the validity of what those agents wrote in their interview notes.

"There is no evidence," said Warren Marik, a retired CIA case officer who
oversaw covert aid to the Iraqi National Congress (INC) in Northern Iraq.

The FBI interview notes, for example, say that one of the six Iraqis, Safa
Al-Batat, a member of the Iraqi National Congress who claims to have been
poisoned with thallium by Saddam Hussein's agents, either may have faked the
episode or used thallium for "recreational" purposes.

But Al-Batat is known to have been treated for a severe case of thallium
poisoning in Britain, Frenzen said. And the FBI's assertion that Al-Batat would
use thallium, a deadly heavy metal, for recreational purposes is ludicrous,
Frenzen said.

"They may have confused thallium with Valium," said Ahmed Chalabi, leader of the
Iraqi National Congress. "Thallium is a poison that doesn't show any effect for
several days. Why would anybody take it for recreational purposes -- unless you
want to die painfully, with no joy."

Chalabi, speaking in a telephone interview from London, also noted that the FBI
report faults Al-Batat for associating with an individual supposedly linked to
Syrian intelligence -- but never mentions that the individual has already been
granted asylum in the United States.

Frenzen said another one of the Iraqis, Ali Jahjoh Saleh, an INC member and
former Iraqi military officer who helped guard a Scud missile site during the
Persian Gulf War, was flagged by the FBI as a potential national security threat
simply for denying that he'd ever seen an actual Scud launch.

And two other Iraqis, Frenzen said, were singled out as possible security
threats partly on grounds that they and their wives -- both of whom have already
been granted asylum in the U.S. -- gave conflicting stories about their passage
to northern Iraq for the airlift.

"The allegations that are contained in the reports fall into one of two
categories," said Bruce C. Swartz, a Washington lawyer and former Justice
Department counsel also representing the six. "Either they're internally
inconsistent -- the Iraqis being named [simultaneously] as agents of different
countries with different interests. Or they fall into the category of trivial,
if not almost nonsensical, allegations -- the failure to have seen a launch of a
Scud missile."

Both Swartz and Frenzen said they would soon decide whether they would seek a
new hearing before an immigration judge in Los Angeles, or simply use the newly
released information as part of the Iraqis' pending appeal.

The case remains complicated by the fact that some evidence against the Iraqis
remains classified and off-limits even to Woolsey, whose top secret security
clearance remains in effect.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              243 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 19, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

The Next Wave; How Immigration Blurs The Race Discussion

Roberto Suro

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 2246 words


In a 1970 essay entitled "What America Would Be Like Without Blacks," Ralph
Ellison evoked the image of European immigrants learning the epithet "nigger" as
soon as they got off the boat because "it made them feel instantly American."
Blacks, Ellison argued, served as "a marker, a symbol of limits, a metaphor for
the outsider," and so whites, even the most recently arrived and poorest
immigrants, "could look at the social position of blacks and feel that color
formed an easy and reliable gauge of determining to what extent one was or was
not an American."

Today, we are again living through a new era of immigration and must ask once
more what role the color line plays in the process of becoming American.
European immigrants suffered ugly, sometimes violent, bias but their offspring
have acquired all the status and privilege that goes along with being
white-skinned. Indeed, during some of the desegregation battles of the 1960s and
1970s, white "ethnics" rejected blacks just as bitterly as the old stock
Anglo-Saxons of the South.

Now the question is whether Latino and Asian newcomers and their offspring will
end up on the "white" side of the color line, thus disastrously hardening the
exclusion of blacks, or on the "black" side, meaning that they could be excluded
too. I hold hope for another possibility: This wave of immigration might spark a
process of social change that blurs, perhaps even erases, the sharp division
between black and white that has scarred the nation's soul since its founding.

The question of whether the new immigrants will be treated as white, black or
something else is transforming the way Americans are talking about race. The
change became evident to me when I joined seven other panelists and moderator
Jim Lehrer of the "NewsHour" for a conversation on race with President Clinton
that was broadcast on PBS July 9--the third and final such event in the
president's year-long race initiative.

Thirty years ago, the issues would have been sharply defined. For example,
everyone would have known exactly what "desegregation" meant and probably would
have espoused strong views. But during this discussion, whether the topic was
the nature of discrimination or the appropriate limits to affirmative action, we
all had problems finding the right terms for the questions, let alone the
answers. Clinton seized on this dilemma when he said that "we need a vocabulary
that embraces America's future, and we need a vocabulary that embraces America's
present and past on this race issue."

Our current vocabulary of race is inadequate because it describes a world seen
only in black and white. The problem is not simply that we have added new groups
to the mix. The language of black/white differences is losing its meaning
because Latinos and Asians do not fit into a world in which people are
permanently and definitively marked either as insiders or outsiders.

Elaine Chao of the Heritage Foundation made that point near the start of the
"NewsHour" special when she spoke of Chinese Americans in San Francisco who have
suffered explicit prejudice as a minority group, but who now sometimes are
counted as white. She gave the example of a boy denied admission to a desirable
public school because Chinese Americans were already "over-represented" among
the high achievers. Chao said this was a case of "unfair treatment based on
race." It might be a case of reverse discrimination, but that term was coined
for whites who claimed victimization by programs designed to benefit minorities
and I'm not sure if it makes sense in this context.

What do you call people who were once the victims of racism but have crossed
over into the realm of relative privilege, as measured by academic and economic
achievement? You can't call them "white," even in symbolic terms if you are
talking about Asian Americans. Despite their successes, they still suffer real
discrimination on many fronts and are still viewed as outsiders by many of their
fellow Americans--black, white and Latino.

This role of crossing back and forth across the seemingly insuperable color line
in American society is not new to Latinos or Asians. In South Texas, for
example, Jim Crow segregation applied to blacks in the 1940s while Mexican
Americans suffered a less institutionalized but equally vicious form of
discrimination. When Latinos emulated blacks and brought civil rights cases
under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the Texas courts
ruled that Latinos were technically white. Since the Fourteenth Amendment was a
post-Civil War remedy, the courts ruled that it only recognized two groups
needing to be treated equally--blacks and whites. So Latinos could not claim any
relief.

In 1954, Mexican-American civil rights lawyers got to the U.S. Supreme Court
with a case, Hernandez v. Texas, in which they showed that no person of Mexican
descent had sat on a jury in Jackson County for 25 years. According to Texas
practice, it was okay to bring Pete Hernandez and all other Latino defendants
before all-white juries because it was just whites judging whites. Writing for a
unanimous court, Chief Justice Earl Warren noted that in the Jackson County
courthouse, Latinos were obliged to use the restrooms marked "colored," that
their children attended segregated schools and that at least one restaurant in
town prominently displayed a sign announcing "No Mexicans Served."

All of this, the court decided, was ample proof that Mexican Americans
constituted "a separate class in Jackson County, distinct from 'whites.' "

The civil rights struggle that sprang from that decision and other similar
rulings is now mature. Just in the past few years, federal courts in California,
Texas and Florida have found in major voting rights cases that Latinos were
denied fair political representation. Given the freshness of this history, it
seems unlikely that Latinos can simply be regarded as white as a matter of legal
status anytime soon. But their place on the color line is fuzzier when it comes
to social and economic status.

Shortly before the 1996 death of former Texas congresswoman and black civil
rights leader Barbara Jordan, she proposed drastic cuts in the number of
low-skilled legal immigrants allowed into the country in order to remedy the
plight of poor Americans who might otherwise find work in urban labor markets.
Implicit in the proposal put forth by the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform,
which Jordan then headed, was the notion that employers, overwhelmingly white,
preferred to hire low-skilled immigrants, overwhelmingly Latino, over the native
poor, especially blacks.

"The fact of the matter is that white people feel more comfortable around
Hispanics than they do around blacks," said Danny Bakewell, president of the
Brotherhood Crusade Black United Front, a Los Angeles economic development
group. He was explaining the failure of a program to get young blacks hired in
hotel catering jobs in the aftermath of the 1992 Rodney King riots. Similar
views are shared by many African Americans who complain that Latino immigrants
are often favorered in the workplace. Social scientists have not been able to
determine conclusively whether such displacement exists, but on such matters
perceptions can be as important as facts. There is little doubt blacks
increasingly see Latinos as competitors for jobs, neighborhood control and
political influence.

The ambiguous position of Latinos and Asians who straddle the racial divide
today almost seems to have been forecast in the Hernandez decision more than
half a century ago. "Throughout our history differences in race and color have
defined easily identifiable groups which have at times required the aid of the
courts in securing equal treatment under the laws," Warren wrote. "But community
prejudices are not static, and from time to time other differences from the
community norm may define other groups which need the same protection."

This extraordinary but nearly forgotten ruling can still instruct us. The black
experience in American history has a unique and permanent importance that must
always inform civil rights policies, but guaranteeing equality requires a
recognition of the dynamism in American society, including the dynamism of
prejudice. Warren's understanding of bias is all the more important today
because of the demographic and economic changes that the nation is undergoing.

The groups that do not fit the old racial paradigms--Asians and Latinos--are
growing rapidly due to immigration and high birth rates, while blacks and whites
are not. Moreover, all racial and ethnic groups are now segmented according to
economic status, if not in the same proportions. In other words, being white is
no longer a clear sign of being in the majority and enjoying privileged status.
Whites are on the way to becoming a numerical minority in several cities.
Meanwhile, several nationalities of Asian immigrants, Indians and Filipinos for
example, have higher levels of education and higher earnings than whites, on
average. And there is a surging Latino middle class across the nation. Moreover,
being black is no longer a certain marker of outsider status given the economic
and political gains achieved by African Americans over the past 30 years. And
some Asian nationalities, Cambodians and Laotians, along with the largest Latino
immigrant nationalities, Mexicans, Salvadorans and Dominicans, suffer higher
overall poverty rates than blacks.

Bias, too, has become more complex than when skin color was enough to determine
admission to a public institution. Racism persists, and it may even be
widespread, but it persists primarily as a privately held belief, rather than as
public behavior that is socially acceptable, let alone legally sanctioned.

However, group differences in educational and economic status persist with
whites enjoying overall advantages despite the fact that overt institutional
prejudice has largely been dismantled. This fact points to structural barriers
buried deep in our schools and labor market that restrict opportunity and foment
intergenerational poverty.

Not surprisingly then, almost every conversation about race these days verges on
a discussion of class. It happened repeatedly during the "NewsHour" special and
Clinton even suggested that economic status can serve as a proxy for race. "I
think the point I wanted to make," the president said, "is to whatever extent
you can have an economic approach that embraces people of all races, if it
elevates disproportionately racial groups that have been disproportionately
depressed, you'll help to deal with the race problem."

Latino and Asian immigration drives home the realization that there are still
harsh dividing lines in American society today but that these lines are not
solely based on color. A person's race cannot be changed, but the quality of
their education and their economic prospects can be. That means society can
attempt both to dismantle barriers and to help the disadvantaged cross them if
it so chooses. The sheer demographic weight of immigration will oblige Americans
to address these challenges in the future. History teaches that such challenges
are resolved through a process that includes conflict and competition, but that
in the end, the nation emerges stronger for it.

That is why I believe we will develop a new vocabulary of race to describe a
future that is now taking shape. As Clinton suggested, this new vocabulary must
embrace history, especially the black experience in America. And if it does, we
may yet build a more perfect union and redeem our painful past.

Roberto Suro, a staff writer for The Washington Post, is author of "Strangers
Among Us: How Latino Immigration Is Transforming America" (Knopf).

On Different Levels

Race alone does not define privilege in American society today. Asians, for
example, have levels of educational achievement higher than whites and incomes
that are almost the same. Meanwhile, Hispanics lag behind blacks.

Per-capita income levels*, in current dollars, native and foreign-born

Whites $ 19,181

Blacks $ 11,899

Hispanics $ 10,048

Asian $ 17,921

Education levels of those 25 years and older (1997)

White Black Hispanic Asian

High school 33.9% 35.8% 25.9% 23.2%

College (four years) 16.5 9.5 7.5 27.3

Post-graduate degrees 6.6 3.3 2.3 11.8

As of March 1997, there were 25,779,000 foreign-born people in the United
States, some 9 million of whom had become U.S. citizens and 16.7 million whom
were not. The largest group of Hispanics were Mexicans, at 7 million or 27.2
percent (1996) of the foreign-born population in the United States. Filipinos
were the largest group in the Asian category, accounting for 1.1 million or 4.4
percent (1996) of the foreign-born population.

Per-capital income levels, in current dollars

Mexican Filipino

under $ 20,000 80% 47%

$ 20,000-$ 50,000 13 31

over $ 50,000 1.5 11

Education levels of those 25 years or older

Mexican Filipino

High school or some college 27% 44%

College (four years) 3 36

Post-graduate/professional degrees** less than 1 7

* 1996 figures

**Includes master's and doctoral degrees

Source: Current Population Survey, U.S. Census Bureau


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration; Illustration, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              244 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 30, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Mercenaries at Work for Mexico's Drug Families; Traffickers Hire Foreigners to
Train Private Militias in Face of Reform Efforts, Officials Say

Douglas Farah, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 634 words


Mexican drug-trafficking organizations are hiring foreign mercenaries to
strengthen their paramilitary forces, heightening the threat that traffickers
pose to U.S. security interests, senior law enforcement officials said
yesterday.

At a joint hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Senate
Caucus on International Narcotics Control, senior officials also said anti-drug
cooperation between Mexico and the United States is at an all-time high. While
acknowledging that corruption in Mexican law enforcement agencies remains a
serious problem, the officials praised President Ernesto Zedillo for his efforts
to build a new anti-drug police force with U.S. help. Members of the new force
are polygraphed, vetted and undergo extensive background checks before being
admitted to the force.

But not all the testimony was positive. Donald Ferrarone, who recently retired
as special agent in charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration's Houston
office, told the senators that "every indicator now and over the last 20 years
reveals the government of Mexico consistently works together with the major
drug-trafficking families, seeing to it that the drugs . . . are offloaded
securely, protected, shipped cross-country under convoy, stored and safely
transported to our border."

The testimony regarding hiring of mercenaries came from James Milford, deputy
administrator of the DEA, who acknowledged publicly for the first time that the
Mexican organizations use foreigners to train their private militias.

Milford identified the Arellano Felix organization as "one of the most powerful,
violent and aggressive trafficking organizations in the world." The
organization, based in Tijuana, is led by seven brothers and four sisters. The
Arellano Felix organization "maintains well-armed and well-trained security
forces, described by Mexican enforcement authorities as paramilitary in nature,
which include international mercenaries as advisers, trainers and members,"
Milford said.

"DEA considers the traffickers from Mexico, because of their involvement in
poly-drug smuggling, their proclivity for extreme violence and their geographic
proximity to the United States, to be a more distinct and imminent danger to the
United States than Colombian organizations," Milford said.

Knowledgeable sources said the mercenaries are largely from Colombia, Britain
and Israel and are employed to train the militias in the use of more
sophisticated explosives and combat techniques.

In the late 1980s, the Medellin cocaine cartel in Colombia hired Israeli
mercenaries to train its private army in the use of explosives. The rival Cali
cartel then hired about a dozen British and South African mercenaries to kill
leaders of the Medellin organization.

Barry McCaffrey, the Clinton administration's anti-drug policy chief, told the
committees that success in combating drug trafficking from Mexico is contingent
on cooperation with Mexican law enforcement officials.

McCaffrey argued that Mexico has taken "significant strides" in making legal and
institutional reforms that would pave the way for increasing cooperation.

In recent years, U.S. law enforcement officials have been reluctant to cooperate
with their Mexican counterparts because of the widespread corruption among
Mexican police and military officials. Earlier this year, the head of Mexico's
special anti-drug police was found to be on the payroll of one of the
drug-trafficking organizations. Following his arrest, the entire force was
disbanded.

"Much remains to be done," McCaffrey acknowledged. "President Zedillo has
recognized that corruption continues to be a significant threat to Mexico's
national security. . . . Reform has been and will continue to be painful,
dangerous and time-consuming."


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/joe marquette, White House anti-drug policy chief Barry
McCaffrey, in a Senate hearing, says drug reform in Mexico remains "painful,
dangerous and time-consuming."

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              245 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 26, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Hiring More Foreign Workers Gets a Push; Technology Firms Cite Labor Shortage,
Want Ceiling of 65,000 Raised

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 709 words


The U.S. high-tech industry and congressional backers opened a campaign
yesterday to increase admissions of foreign workers under a controversial visa
program to help fill what they said is an acute labor shortage in
computer-related occupations.

At a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.)
said he plans to propose legislation to raise the annual cap, currently set at
65,000, on admissions of skilled workers under the H-1B visa program. The
program, which allows employment in the United States for up to six years, has
been used to hire foreigners ranging from computer programmers and university
researchers to physical therapists and fashion models.

"Companies across America are faced with severe high-skill labor shortages that
threaten their competitiveness in this new Information Age economy," Abraham
said. He said employers reached the 65,000 cap last year for the first time
since the category was created in 1990 and are expected to bump up against it
again by May if it is not raised.

Abraham indicated he did not have a specific figure in mind for a higher cap,
but the White House reportedly is considering an increase of 50 percent or more.
Representatives of high-tech companies, including Microsoft and Texas
Instruments, said they favored eliminating the cap, allowing them to hire
unlimited numbers of skilled foreign workers.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said she would "support an increase in the cap"
but wants it tied to commitments from industry to help improve public education
in the United States "so that one day, these companies won't have to rely on
foreign nationals."

The issue has provoked intense debate within the administration, Congress, the
academic community and the high-tech sector itself. Critics of the H-1B program,
including the Labor Department, say it often has been abused by employers who
use foreign workers to help hold down wages.

Although high-tech firms insist that the program is vital to bring in the
world's "best and brightest" and keep U.S. industry competitive in a global
economy, the critics charge that H-1B visas are used mostly to employ the
"quickest and cheapest." The program, they say, allows employers to hire foreign
graduates of U.S. universities on a "probationary" basis and dangle the prospect
of sponsoring them for permanent immigrant status as part of their compensation.

Harris N. Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of
America, which lobbies on behalf of high-tech employers, said the cap "should be
eliminated or increased substantially." He cited a study issued by the
association last month that shows 346,000 unfilled information-technology jobs
nationwide, amounting to about 10 percent of total jobs in the industry.
"Unfilled openings become a major constraint on a company's growth," he said.

On the other hand, Raymond Uhalde, an acting assistant secretary of labor, said
bringing in foreign temporary workers could prove counterproductive in the long
run by discouraging U.S. workers from acquiring needed new skills. "Increased
immigration should be the last -- not the first -- public policy response to
skills shortages," he said.

Uhalde said the H-1B program "is broken in several respects" because it does not
require employers to test for the availability of qualified American workers
before hiring foreigners and even allows employers to lay off Americans in order
to replace them with H-1B workers. He said the administration has proposed
addressing these issues and limiting the period of stay to three years.

Robert Lerman of the Urban Institute disputed the industry's claims on job
vacancies, adding that such openings in any case do not necessarily mean a
shortage of workers. He said there is no evidence of sharp rises in wages in the
industry as a whole, which could be expected if there were a real shortage.

Increasing admissions of H-1B workers could actually create "an oversupply of
information technology workers," said Rep. Ron Klink (D-Pa.), a member of the
Commerce Committee. "This may be good for employers looking for cheap workers,
but it will be disastrous for young people looking forward with anticipation to
good jobs and wages."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              246 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 11, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Republicans Back Measure to Import More Farm Workers; Visa Expansion Proposed
Despite Critical Hill Reports on Use of Foreign Workers

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 726 words


Prodded by powerful agricultural interests, congressional Republicans are
pushing legislation aimed at creating a new program to bring into the United
States temporary farm help despite congressionally sponsored reports that say it
is not needed and would be a "grievous mistake."

The House subcommittee on immigration is scheduled on Thursday to take up a bill
that would allow agricultural producers to bring in up to 40,000 temporary farm
workers under a two-year "pilot program." The bill, sponsored by Rep. Robert F.
"Bob" Smith (R-Ore.), chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, would
establish a new visa category in addition to an existing one, called H-2A, that
has been supplying foreign farm guestworkers to agricultural employers for more
than a decade.

Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate by another Oregon
Republican, Sen. Gordon Smith.

Labor advocates and administration officials charge that the program would
further depress wages and working conditions for the nation's farm workers,
especially the estimated 1.6 million migrant laborers who pick fruits and
vegetables on a seasonal basis.

While the Clinton administration has not taken a position on the latest bills
specifically, in general it "opposes new agricultural guestworker legislation,"
a Labor Department official said.

"We don't see that a need for it has been demonstrated," he said, adding that
such a program would likely exacerbate "a 20-year trend of stagnant or declining
real wages" for farm workers.

The House bill would allow employers to bring in as many as 20,000 foreign farm
workers a year for stays of up to 10 months with no accompanying family members.
The employers would have to pay at least the "prevailing wage," the bill says.

Rep. Smith said the program is needed because "enormous increases in resources"
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the U.S. Border Patrol are
"creating chaos in rural America as agents targeting agriculture chase groups of
migrant workers from job site to job site." Such "pressures" threaten "the
viability of the entire agricultural industry in this country," he told a
hearing in September.

Opponents say the bill would undermine existing requirements to try to recruit
farm workers inside the United States, remove obligations to provide housing,
weaken other worker protections and allow lower wage levels than does the
existing program.

The bill "allows employers to bring in foreign workers without showing that
there is a labor shortage and without having to compete for workers inside the
United States," said Bruce Goldstein, a director of the Farmworker Justice Fund.
Producers "are trying to keep wages down" and head off "a resurgence in union
organizing" among farm workers, he said.

A report to Congress in December by the General Accounting Office said, "A
widespread farm labor shortage does not appear to exist now and is unlikely in
the near future." In fact, it found double-digit unemployment rates in a
majority of the nation's 20 largest agricultural counties.

Although an estimated 600,000 farm workers -- 40 percent of the migrant labor
force -- are illegal aliens, INS enforcement capabilities are limited and are
not expected to significantly reduce these workers' numbers, the report said.

In a separate report, the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform warned
Congress in September that agricultural guestworker programs "exert particularly
harmful effects." Historically, such programs "have depressed the wages and
working conditions of U.S. workers" and saddled communities with "substantial
costs" for housing, health care, schooling and other services, it said.

Far from reducing illegal immigration, the programs tend to encourage it because
guestworkers often stay permanently and are joined illegally by family members,
the commission said. It warned that "a new guestworker program would be a
grievous mistake."

Nevertheless, the bill has won the backing of Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), the
chairman of the immigration subcommittee and a strong advocate of reduced
immigration levels.

He insisted on reducing the new program's annual cap to 20,000 from 25,000 and
partially "offsetting" the influx by deducting a total of 10,000 visas a year
from two permanent immigration categories, a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              247 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 30, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Rising Abuse of Workers Reported on U.S. Island Territory

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1429 words


An Interior Department-sponsored team working undercover has documented
worsening labor and human rights abuses against foreign workers on a U.S. island
territory, including coercion of garment factory employees to undergo abortions
and the trafficking of Russian and Chinese women for prostitution in a
burgeoning sex-tourism industry.

According to a draft report on the probe and interviews with workers,
investigators and U.S. officials, the exploitation of foreign guest workers on
the islands has escalated in recent years as the territory has continued to
import thousands of them with promises of well-paying jobs on U.S. soil. Unlike
other U.S. possessions, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or
CNMI, as the island chain between Hawaii and the Philippines is known, controls
immigration and sets its own minimum wage under a "covenant" with the United
States.

The report is the result of more than 400 interviews in the CNMI in January and
February by a seven-member team whose activities were funded by a $ 100,000
contract with the Interior Department. The team included three American human
rights activists, two former CNMI guest workers from China and the Philippines,
a Chinese-speaking Labor Department investigator and a Labor Department
attorney. A separate inquiry into illegal garment transshipments from the
islands to the United States was conducted by two former U.S. Customs
investigators. The probes were aimed at gathering information in advance of a
Senate committee hearing Tuesday on proposals to impose federal immigration
controls and minimum-wage levels there.

A copy of the seven-member team's report was shown to The Washington Post by a
government official. The department was to release the report at Tuesday's
hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, but last week
decided to withhold it pending a review of findings that point to possible
federal criminal violations.

The CNMI government opposes the bill, saying it would scuttle the islands'
"economic miracle" and lead to greater dependency on the U.S. Treasury.

U.S. officials and human rights advocates say the system benefits mainly foreign
garment manufacturers and other employers, including brothel owners, in the
territory. They charge that the territory has become a national disgrace.

"The United States is vulnerable to justified criticism by the international
community," including such countries as Russia, China, Bangladesh and the
Philippines, the draft report said. "Our country is in a poor position to
criticize other countries for violating their citizens' human rights when we
deny their citizens basic rights in the CNMI, and cheat and physically abuse
them as well."

Among its other conclusions, the investigation found:

- Increasing tensions between the CNMI's 27,000 native islanders and the 37,000
registered foreign guest workers, including a rising incidence of "hate crimes"
against the workers.

- Rampant "recruitment scams" in which workers pay thousands of dollars to
obtain jobs that do not exist or that pay much less than they were promised.

- Increasing poverty and health problems among the contract workers, including
high levels of tuberculosis.

- The trafficking of minors from the Philippines and China for sexual purposes,
including forced prostitution, and the importation of more than 100 Russian
women, mostly from Sakhalin Island, for work in brothels.

In a separate report issued last week, Rep. George Miller (D-Calif.) said a trip
he made to the CNMI in January produced similar findings of abuses. He described
meeting several young Chinese men, victims of a recruitment scam, who asked him
if he could help them arrange the sale of their kidneys so they could repay
money they had borrowed from loan sharks and finance their return to China.

Miller called on Attorney General Janet Reno to take action against the CNMI's
foreign guest worker system on grounds that it "violates federal law by holding
deeply indebted workers in various forms of indenture."

Miller and Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt are to testify at Tuesday's hearing
along with four workers. They include a girl from the Philippines who says she
was forced to dance nude and perform live sex acts in a nightclub on the
territory's largest island, Saipan, when she was only 14. In interviews, she and
three male workers -- from China, Bangladesh and Pakistan -- described
themselves as victims of recruitment fraud by employers.

A fifth worker, a pregnant Chinese woman named Tu Xiao Mei, flew to Washington
with the group but has changed her mind about testifying because she fears
retaliation, U.S. officials said.

The 21-year-old seamstress filed a complaint with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission in January. She charged that her employer, a garment
factory owned by the Chinese government, ordered her to have an abortion and
eventually fired her, after she refused.

Although abortion is banned by the CNMI's constitution, clandestine abortion
clinics have sprung up to cater to the guest workers, the Interior Department's
investigators found.

One member of the team, a Chinese woman, posed as a pregnant garment worker and
secretly tape-recorded conversations with two Chinese "doctors" at underground
abortion clinics. When she told one of them she was four months pregnant, he
recommended carrying the fetus to five months and having a partial-birth
abortion, which he said would cost $ 500, according to a transcript.

The draft report said abortion "appears to be a common practice" among garment
workers on Saipan, in part because employers are liable for the medical care of
their workers and do not want to bear the costs and lost productivity stemming
from pregnancy and childbirth.

Documentation of an illegal abortion network associated with Saipan's nearly $ 1
billion-a-year garment industry poses a potential problem for the industry's
backers, who include congressional Republican leaders strongly opposed to
abortion. Among them is House Majority Whip Tom DeLay (R-Tex.), who visited
Saipan on a CNMI-paid trip over New Year's with his wife, daughter and four
aides.

DeLay lauded the commonwealth's governor and garment industry during the trip as
leading lights of "free market success" and said he favors creating a similar
"guest worker program" for Mexicans in the United States, with no minimum wages.

DeLay's spokesman, John Feehery, said that "if there is forced abortion on the
islands, it's against the law there." DeLay "had discussions with several
Chinese workers over there, and that was never brought up," Feehery said. He
said DeLay believes that its garment industry is "exporting democracy and the
free market to China."

In one of the most bizarre cases documented in Interior's report, two female
doctors from Harbin, China, said they paid a Chinese recruiter $ 3,700 each to
obtain jobs on Saipan, where they were told they would be performing abortions
for fees of $ 500 per procedure. Instead, they found on arrival that their
employment permits listed their jobs as "masseuse," and they were put to work as
prostitutes, according to a labor complaint they filed in December.

After they refused to be prostitutes, the recruiter gave the two women jobs
refurbishing broken air conditioners but rarely paid them, the complaint said.
Now they wash cars.

One of the workers here for Tuesday's hearing, Azizul Haque, said he and fellow
Bangladeshis paid as much as $ 5,000 each to obtain jobs as security guards,
only to be cheated by employers who kept filing for bankruptcy and setting up
new companies.

Perhaps the saddest story came from a Philippine girl who can be identified only
as "Katrina," because she is a minor. She was turned over to recruiters by her
family at the age of 14 and sent to Saipan with a false passport that said she
was 21. There, she said, she was forced to dance nude in a nightclub and appear
in sex shows.

She ran away 11 months later after learning she was to be sold into prostitution
in Hong Kong, she said. Now 16, she lives with an American foster mother in
Hawaii.

On Saipan, she said, she was treated "like an animal." As she recalled her
experiences, she buried her face in her hands and began to weep. "I was supposed
to be in school," she said.

Now, Katrina said, she wants to tell her story to Congress: "I don't want to
happen to anybody what happened to me." But many of the girls she knew at the
nightclub are still on Saipan, she said. "Nobody wants to help them."


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, robert a. reeder, Mohammed Zulfiqar, left, and Azizul Haque will
attend the Interior Department hearing Tuesday concerning human rights abuses on
the U.S. island territory where they worked.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              248 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 01, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Governor of U.S. Territory Acknowledges Problems

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08; WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 144 words


The new governor of the Northern Mariana Islands, under fire for alleged abuses
of foreign workers in the U.S. territory, yesterday acknowledged "problems" with
its guest worker program but urged Congress not to try to solve them by taking
control of immigration and the minimum wage.

"We are getting our house in order," pledged Gov. Pedro P. Tenorio. Marianas
Senate President Paul A. Manglona said he was "shocked by revelations of alleged
forced abortions" of garment workers and other abuses, but he blamed the
previous governor, who he charged had "pandered to well-heeled private
interests."

At a hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Chairman
Frank H. Murkowski (R-Alaska) said he was "appalled" by the situation. But he
also criticized the federal government for not doing enough to enforce federal
laws there.


LOAD-DATE: April 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt and Interior
official Allen P. Stayman testify at a Senate committee hearing on reported
abuses of guest workers in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              249 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 19, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Senate Backs Increase In Some Employee Visas

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08; WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 175 words


The Senate overwhelmingly brushed aside Clinton administration objections and
approved legislation to increase the number of visas available for highly
skilled foreign workers, many of them sought by this country's booming
technology industries.

Current law provides for 65,000 such six-year "H-1B" visas each year, a limit
already reached for this year. The Senate-passed bill, sponsored by Sen. Spencer
Abraham (R-Mich.), would add 30,000 for the rest of this year and set a limit of
115,000 for each of the next four years. Included is a new category of 10,000
health care worker visas each year.

Before approving the bill 78 to 20, the Senate rejected Democratic amendments to
bar replacement of U.S. workers and require recruitment of them before visa
holders are hired. The administration has said the increase is too high, lasts
too long and benefits foreign visa-holders at the expense of U.S. workers. It
has raised the possibility of a veto. A bill that includes more protections for
U.S. workers is pending in the House.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              250 of 250 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 12, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

House GOP Backs Visa Expansion; Plan Would Target High-Tech Workers

Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 980 words


House Republican leaders eager to develop ties with high-tech executives have
committed themselves to expanding the number of visas that high-tech foreign
workers can receive from the United States.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) made the commitment for action before
Congress adjourns in a June 30 meeting with executives in Silicon Valley. Though
President Clinton and Vice President Gore have actively wooed computer magnates
since the 1992 campaign, GOP lawmakers have begun championing industry
initiatives that have received a less enthusiastic reception at the White House.

In this case, the issue is H-1B visas, which grant skilled workers six-year
stays in this country and are limited to 65,000 a year. The Senate in May passed
a bill offered by Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) that would increase the program to
95,000 visas this year and to 85,000 in the next four years.

But the bill has been stymied in the House, where Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.),
chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and claims, has
proposed an alternative that would require U.S. companies to show they made a
good-faith effort to recruit and train qualified workers and did not lay off
U.S. citizens and replace them with employees under the H-1B visa program.

The current supply of H-1B visas has already been exhausted this year, and
high-tech companies have made it clear to lawmakers that they feel the program
is critical to their success. Administration officials have voiced opposition to
the bill, arguing that it aids foreign workers at the expense of Americans.

TechNet, which serves as both a political advocate for the industry and a
conduit for campaign donations to members, has identified the issue as one of
its top two legislative priorities this year.

"This has the potential to be a breakthrough issue for Republicans in Silicon
Valley," said Dan Schnur, TechNet's Republican political director. "They've been
carrying water for the high-tech community and for business in general, but
they've been taken for granted. Because of organized labor's opposition to this
bill, there's a real opportunity to show Silicon Valley the real difference
between the parties."

Jenifer Eisen, who serves as Intel's manager of human resources policy and has
helped spearhead the industry's lobbying effort on the bill, said the GOP has
demonstrated its natural affinity to the high-tech business during the recent
negotiations.

"The House leaders have really woken up to our calls of desperation and they
have worked tirelessly to build a bridge between these two bills," she said.

Eisen added that "there is also an effort by the GOP to leverage a relationship
through this and other critical issues this year, like securities legislation."

At Gingrich's request, House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.) has been
brokering meetings between Sens. Abraham and Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) and Reps. Smith
and Henry J. Hyde (R-Ill.), who chairs the House Judiciary Committee. The five
lawmakers, who have already met twice, plan to reconvene their sessions once the
House returns this week. Smith said that while it was unusual for House and
Senate members to negotiate before a bill has passed both chambers, the fact
that Gingrich and Armey were focused on reaching a consensus at this point in
the process illustrated their eagerness to resolve the issue this year.

"They're both interested in seeing a bill," Smith said in an interview Friday.
"I think it's pretty clear that a compromise has to happen, or there's no bill."

The role is not new for Gingrich, a steadfast believer in the information age,
or Armey, who has consistently championed legal immigration. But the speaker and
his allies have reached out to technology companies recently, and the industry
has begun to respond. During the last electoral cycle, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, Gingrich's Monday Morning leadership political action
committee received no donations from the high-tech industry. In the last year
and a half, by contrast, it got $ 7,000 in high-tech PAC donations and $ 25,000
in individual contributions from computer executives.

In his meeting last month with industry officials at the Santa Clara
headquarters of 3COM, Gingrich said he hoped to send the H-1B visa bill to the
president before the August recess. The speaker, accompanied by Republican Reps.
David Dreier (Calif.), Robert W. Goodlatte (Va.) and John Linder (Ga.), also
noted that he had appointed Goodlatte to head a technology task force that would
link lawmakers and executives.

"You couldn't help but come away from the meeting without seeing he recognized
the high-tech community was the worthy originator of what's going on in the
information age," said Floyd Kvamme, a partner in the venture capital firm of
Kleiner, Perkins, Caulfield & Byers.

But despite Gingrich's determination to reach an agreement on the visa program,
Smith and Abraham still offer different visions of what that would look like.
Abraham, who argued that the extra visas are necessary to avert both an
employment crunch in the technology sector and to respond adequately to the year
2000 computer problem, said imposing new requirements "could completely
undermine the whole H-1B program." Smith predicted, "I don't think a bill will
pass the House floor unless it had some safeguards for workers."

Though Smith met with business groups just before the July 4th recess to address
some of their concerns, most of the lobbyists said it is now up to politicians
to strike a deal. Sandy Boyd, director of employment policy for the National
Association of Manufacturers, said she believes both sides are now trying to be
flexible.

"It doesn't really matter what we could sign off to; it's important for them to
reach an agreement and send it to the president's desk," she said.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, RAY LUSTIG , Rep. S. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) says bill needs
"safeguards for workers."

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post
