
                               1 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 26, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

AD WATCH

Howard Kurtz -- Howard Kurtz Howard Kurtz

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16; AD WATCH; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 264 words


This is another in a series of examinations of the accuracy of political
advertising.

Candidate: Robert J. Dole

Producer: Alex Castellanos

Market: California

Time: 30 seconds

Audio: Two million illegal aliens in California. Twenty thousand in our prisons.
Four hundred thousand crowd our schools. Every year they cost us 3 billion tax
dollars. Bill Clinton has fought California in court, forcing us to support
them. Clinton fought Prop 187, cut border agents, gave citizenship to aliens
with criminal records. We pay the taxes. We are the victims. Our children get
short-changed. If Clinton wins, we lose.

Analysis: This is the first Dole ad to slam Clinton on a "wedge" issue with
particular resonance in Calfornia. Clinton has resisted a California lawsuit to
force the federal government to pay some costs involving illegal aliens. Clinton
did oppose California's Proposition 187, cutting off most benefits to illegal
immigrants, saying he did not want to "kick children out of the health clinics"
and public schools. Clinton's first budget proposal cut 93 border agents out of
3,991, but Congress pushed him to hire 350 instead, so there were no actual
cuts. The number of naturalized citizens with "criminal records" is unclear.
While officials say a search of new citizens' files has found 38,246 on whom the
FBI has records, they say that doesn't necessarily mean those immigrants have
criminal convictions. Despite its eerie sound effects and black and white
footage of prisoners and crime victims, the ad never says what Dole would do
differently.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               2 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 18, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants: The Education Distraction

Robert Charles Hill; Bruce A. Morrison

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 751 words


For many weeks debate about a proposal to bar the children of illegal workers
from public schools has stymied Congress from moving ahead with a comprehensive
strategy to deter illegal immigration.

Disagreements about this provision, known as the Gallegly amendment, have
spilled out into open, even acrimonious dispute. The Republican senators from
Texas disagree with the Republican speaker of the House and the Republican
governor of California. The Democratic president threatens a veto.

All sides need to step back. Educating, or not educating, the children of
illegal workers is not central to a comprehensive strategy to deter illegal
immigration. Under the leadership of the late Barbara Jordan, a bipartisan
congressional commission made unanimous recommendations about the need for a
comprehensive strategy to deter illegal immigration.

Both the House and the Senate have now passed legislation that incorporates all
the main features of the comprehensive approach: work-site enforcement, better
border management (including the necessary resources), making eligibility
benefits consistent with the goals of immigration policy, and short-term impact
aid for the hardest-hit states.

The most important single reform offered by the pending legislation is more
effective work-site enforcement. This commission concluded that the principal
reason illegal aliens live in America can be summed up in just three words: They
get jobs.

Since 1986, employers who knowingly hire illegal workers have been subject to
fines. This begs the question -- how do employers know who is illegal? For 10
years, this critical flaw in our approach to enforcing the law against illegal
immigration has lingered, while a blizzard of paperwork imposed on business has
failed to control illegal immigration.

This federal failure has grown worse, producing the overwhelming voter sentiment
we saw in California's lopsided vote for Proposition 187. At last, the bills now
pending reconciliation in conference commit the Congress to testing for a way to
verify that workers are legal, based on electronic checking of the Social
Security number, which the commission agreed unanimously is the most promising
option to effectively enforce employer sanctions, easing the paperwork burden on
employers while fighting discrimination and protecting privacy.

We believe that the time has come to set the Gallegly amendment aside and
proceed with the comprehensive approach embodied in both the House and Senate
bills. The curious thing about the dispute over educating the children of
illegal workers is that both sides agree: States should not have to bear the
burden imposed on them by the failure of the federal government to enforce the
law against illegal immigration. So the question is: How should Congress meet
its responsibilities?

In recommending a comprehensive approach to deterring illegal immigration, the
commission made it plain that the federal government must alleviate the impacts
of unlawful immigration, which fall disproportionately on just seven states:
California, New York, Florida, Illinois, Texas, New Jersey and Arizona. We
believe that Congress should dedicate some of the savings from this bill --
scored by the CBO at between $ 4 billion and $ 5 billion over seven years -- to
impact aid to these states, including the cost of educating the children of
illegal workers.

Such impact aid must be temporary, and not simply a blank check to governors, of
course. Appropriations for impact aid must be linked to the steps necessary to
deter illegal immigration, so that the total cost to the taxpayer declines as we
secure our borders. We also believe that the lion's share of the fines imposed
on employers who knowingly hire illegal workers should be used to defray the
costs of impact aid for education. The sum will not be large, but the symbolism
will be clear.

The House and Senate leadership should act now to clear away the obstacle that
the Gallegly amendment has become to enacting desperately needed measures to
deter illegal immigration. A congressional commitment to ease the burden on
California's taxpayers must include not only dollars for impact assistance for
education and other costs of illegal immigration -- for which the advocates of
this provision could justly claim credit -- but also the comprehensive approach
necessary to reduce unlawful migration in the first place.

The writers are members of the bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               3 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 27, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

27 Businesses In Montgomery Fined by INS; Feb. Immigrant Roundup Draws $154,000
in Levies

Brian Mooar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. E05

LENGTH: 476 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service imposed fines totaling more than
$ 154,000 yesterday on 27 food service businesses in Montgomery County for
hiring illegal workers and other violations.

The fines, announced at a news conference in Baltimore, were the result of a
February roundup in which the INS arrested 75 illegal workers at 30 restaurants,
bakeries and delis in Bethesda, Rockville and other Montgomery locations.
Officials said a follow-up investigation revealed that employers at 27 of those
businesses knew they had hired employees not authorized to work in the United
States.

"We are aggressively pursuing employers who do not comply with the law,
especially those who knowingly hire illegal workers," said Benedict Ferro,
director of the agency's Baltimore District. "Employers who intentionally hire
illegal workers take job opportunities away from legal workers, including the
large legal immigrant community in Montgomery County. We are committed to
restoring those job opportunities for legal workers and punishing employers who
knowingly violate the law."

In addition to illegal hiring, the businesses were cited for failing to meet
federal documentation and verification standards required of all employers.

Topping the list with the most violations, officials said, were: American City
Diner, of Bethesda, with fines of $ 17,350 for 82 employment verification
violations, one knowing illegal hire and two arrests; La Parisienne Bakery Inc.,
of Rockville, with fines of $ 13,650 for 55 verification violations, three
knowing illegal hires and five arrests of illegal immigrants; and East End Cafe,
of Bethesda, with $ 6,800 in fines for 22 verification violations, one knowing
illegal hire and two arrests.

Three of the businesses were fined for second violations: Parioli Ristorante, of
Bethesda, was fined $ 27,800; Moby Dick House of Kabob, of Bethesda, was fined $
12,500; and Ichiban restaurant, of Gaithersburg, was fined $ 8,600.

Several owners and managers of the raided restaurants were reached by telephone
last night, but none was willing to comment on the fines or arrests.

Penalties for knowingly hiring an unauthorized worker can range from $ 250 to $
10,000 per employee. Fines for failing to meet documentation and verification
standards can run from $ 100 to $ 1,000 per employee.

The day-long series of raids, dubbed the Big Chill by immigration officials,
extended from Bethesda to Gaithersburg. Its targets included delicatessens,
bagel shops, sit-down restaurants and McDonald's franchises. Agents inspected 47
food establishments and detained 83 immigrants, eight of whom were released; INS
officials said about half of the illegal immigrants arrested in the raids have
left the country voluntarily or have been deported, while the rest are
undergoing deportation proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               4 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 29, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

124 Arrested As INS Raids Poultry Firm; Immigrants Were Working At 2 Plants in
Maryland

Amy Argetsinger; Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1031 words


Federal agents arrested 124 suspected illegal immigrant workers yesterday at two
poultry processing plants on Maryland's Eastern Shore, immigration officials
said.

The raid at the Allen Family Foods Inc. factories renewed suspicions that the
state's biggest agricultural industry has become a haven for illegal labor,
mostly from Latin America.

In recent years, federal investigators have turned up violations at several
Maryland poultry plants, including Allen Family facilities. Allen Family plants
paid fines of $ 43,000 in a case involving illegal immigrant workers in 1994.

In February, 40 Guatemalans and Mexicans were found crammed into a rental truck
that crashed near the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. The people being transported in the
truck apparently were hoping to find work on the Eastern Shore.

In yesterday's 7 a.m. raid, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
spent four hours in Allen Family Foods' Hurlock and Cordova plants,
investigating and taking affidavits from employees.

Among the workers they arrested were 66 Mexicans, 42 Guatemalans, 14 Haitians, a
Colombian and a Honduran, according to Benedict Ferro, district director of the
INS's Baltimore office.

Ferro said that INS agents released 17 people and that 107 others would be
jailed overnight at the Wicomico County Detention Center in Salisbury, where the
INS has a contract for housing prisoners awaiting deportation or prosecution.
Officials released a pregnant woman, a woman with a petition for legal status, a
woman who had bought airline tickets to fly home to Mexico and three juveniles.
Eleven Haitians were released because they were in the process of trying to
prove their legal status, Ferro said.

Immigration officials hope many of those arrested will agree to leave the
country immediately, Ferro said. Others probably will appeal their arrest and be
released on bond posted by friends or relatives.

Charles Allen III, president of Allen Family Foods, defended his company's
employment practices at the two plants, where 1,200 workers process chickens and
package meat.

"I think the INS is trying the case before they get the evidence," he said.

Allen said immigration agents entered the plants yesterday with a warrant for
four suspected illegal immigrants in Cordova and three in Hurlock. He said he
believes immigration agents relied on an undercover illegal worker, a tactic
that he said the INS had acknowledged using at an Allen Family plant two years
ago.

"They'll put an informant in a facility," Allen said. "The informant is usually
an illegal person to start with, but they'll give them papers and tell them to
go find what they can. What they report isn't always accurate."

Some workers who had their papers in lockers were not allowed to show them,
Allen said. Thirty-three admitted to being illegal, but they had provided the
company with "authentic-looking documents" showing that they were authorized to
work, Allen said.

"If they're illegal, that's against the law," Allen said, "and I don't have a
problem with" their being detained by the INS.

The company issued a statement declaring that Allen Family Foods has a "strict
policy" of thoroughly checking and recording employees' documents when they are
hired.

"As long as an individual's documents appear to be valid," the statement said,
"federal law prohibits any employer from denying employment. This is the other
side of the law."

Chicken is big business on the tri-state Delmarva Peninsula, where eight
companies employ almost 14,000 people in 38 poultry processing plants, feed
mills and hatcheries. Maryland and Delaware rank seventh and eighth for broiler
production among the states. In 1994, Maryland produced 285 million broilers,
racking up sales of more than $ 432 million.

Allen Family's three plants employ 2,000 people, making it one of the biggest
employers in the tiny, rural towns of Cordova and Hurlock, in Maryland, and
Harbeson, in Delaware. The company started as a hatchery in 1919 and opened its
meat processing plants in 1974. It now has annual sales of $ 250 million.

Company spokeswoman Tracy Morris said that plant employees make about $ 6 an
hour as a starting wage, then get raises to about $ 7 an hour at the union plant
in Hurlock and about $ 7.10 an hour at the nonunion plant in Cordova. Employee
turnover of 80 percent to 100 percent a year is typical at the processing
plants.

Morris said about 30 percent of Allen Family's work force is Hispanic.

Last summer, the INS conducted a similar high-profile raid at a Showell Poultry
Inc. processing plant near Ocean City, Md., detaining 42 suspected illegal
immigrants.

Ferro said immigration officials are focusing on "employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens." He said investigators have been "working" the case against
Allen Family Foods "for some time."

In 1994, the INS assessed a civil fine of $ 93,000 against Allen Family Foods
after agents arrested several suspected illegal immigrants in company plants,
Ferro said. The company was accused of knowingly hiring illegal immigrants in
some cases and of failing to maintain required verification records on the legal
status of its employees in others. The company contested the fine and, after
negotiating with the INS, ended up paying $ 43,000. Ferro said companies are
assessed fines of $ 250 to $ 2,000 for each instance of knowingly hiring an
illegal immigrant and $ 100 to $ 1,000 for each case of failing to maintain
records of employees. Allen said the violations amounted to paperwork errors.

Henry Quintero, director of the Latino Civil Rights Task Force of Maryland,
criticized yesterday's Eastern Shore raid. He said immigrant employees of
poultry plants and other low-wage industries pay taxes and use few public
services.

"Immigrants are easy targets," Quintero said. "I can't help but think the
political atmosphere is dictating this. This is an election year."

On Monday, INS officials announced fines totaling $ 154,000 on 27 Montgomery
County food service businesses accused of hiring illegal immigrants and other
violations.

Staff writer Paul W. Valentine contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               5 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 02, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Labor, the Law and Chickens

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 424 words


PLUCKING, PROCESSING and packaging chicken is big business on the Eastern Shore,
where 14,000 people are employed in 38 plants, feed mills and hatcheries. Many
of them are immigrants, and unfortunately, a substantial number are in this
country illegally and subject to deportation. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service, charged with finding and establishing the status of these workers,
can't cover every job site. But investigators have been able to locate a large
number by concentrating on certain industries -- poultry processing and
restaurants, for example -- known to rely on illegal labor.

Last week, INS agents raided two plants in Maryland owned by Allen Family Foods
Inc. and arrested 124 workers. This is a company that paid a $ 43,000 fine two
years ago for knowingly hiring illegal aliens and for failing to keep required
records on the immigration status of its workers, so there is a history here.
And there may be an even more serious violation of the law in this case, for the
company president has said -- and the INS has not denied -- that the federal
government is investigating allegations that plant supervisors participated in a
smuggling ring bringing illegal workers into the state.

The immigration law making it unlawful to hire illegal workers is no secret to
American industry. It has been on the books for 10 years. Why, then, do some
companies choose to break that law time after time? They cannot be saving much
money, since even the chicken plant workers are paid more than $ 7 an hour to
perform labor requiring no special skills or training. One of the plants raided
this week is even unionized, so presumably benefits are paid as well. Company
officials claim they have been fooled by fraudulent documents presented by job
applicants. If that is true, pending immigration legislation providing for a
modern, computerized verification system to check a worker's status should be an
improvement.

What harm is done? Illegal hiring undermines the vast and expensive government
effort to control the borders. Billions have been spent hiring guards, erecting
fences and thwarting smugglers. A continuing supply of jobs on the illegal
market will keep the undocumented coming. And the competition certainly hurts
American workers and those legally in this country not only by closing off entry
level jobs but by holding down wage increases that legal workers might bargain
for. Continued defiance of the law merits prosecution. Legal immigration will
suffer if the lawbreaking goes unchecked.

LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               6 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 01, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Va. to Turn INS Raids Into Welfare Job Leads

Jon Jeter, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 902 words


Virginia Gov. George Allen (R) will announce today plans to place welfare
recipients in jobs left vacant after federal immigration officials raid
businesses employing illegal workers.

The collaboration between the state and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service is the first of its kind nationally, joining efforts to curb both
illegal immigration and welfare dependency. It combines traditional federal law
enforcement with Virginia's welfare-to-work program, which began more than a
year ago.

Under the formal agreement -- titled "Virginia's Jobs for Virginia's Workers" --
INS agents would continue to identify workers who are in the country unlawfully
and, as a result, illegally employed. After the agents remove suspected illegal
immigrants from a work site, officials would notify state social service
administrators who would provide the employer with a pool of welfare recipients.

Employers are not obligated to hire job applicants referred by the state, but in
a similar, experimental effort in Dallas, almost all agreed to do so at the
urging of immigration agents, said Neil Jacobs, assistant director of the
agency's Dallas office.

Officials said the effort could provide 600 jobs a year for welfare recipients.

"What we're trying to do is to keep pushing the envelope," said Scott Oostdyk,
deputy director for Virginia's Department of Social Services. "Rather than the
INS working in a vacuum, they have realized that they can create an opportunity
for someone else, and we figure the more job opportunities, the better."

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the INS office in the District, said, "An
individual on welfare finds work, the employer can quickly fill an opening, and
we win because once those vacancies are filled, we no longer have to worry about
that job being a magnet for a worker who is in this country illegally."

Officials in Maryland and the District said they had no plans to duplicate
Virginia's initiative, expressing concern that it could pit one low-income
ethnic group against another.

African Americans account for about 37 percent of families on welfare
nationally, second only to whites, who represent about 38 percent. And the
Washington area -- particularly Northern Virginia and Montgomery County -- are
increasingly popular destinations for Latino immigrants. Replacing Latino and
Asian immigrant workers with African American welfare recipients could fan
racial competition for too few jobs for the unskilled and the poor.

"You're pitting lots of people at the lower end of the wage scale against each
other," said Del. Samuel I. Rosenberg (D-Baltimore), chairman of a Maryland
House subcommittee on welfare reform. "You've got to be concerned about that."

When INS officials approached Maryland's social service administrators, state
officials declined, said a state official with firsthand knowledge of the
discussions.

And in the District, officials said such a project could fuel tensions between
Latinos and African Americans in neighborhoods such as Mount Pleasant.

But state and INS officials and the Clinton administration contend that the
initiative is anything but polarizing. Instead, they said, it helps eliminate
the promise of jobs as a magnet for illegal immigration while it helps the state
reduce its public relief rolls.

"We hope this program in Virginia will be copied in other states that see it as
a way to achieve these two goals," said Rahm Emanuel, President Clinton's
adviser on immigration matters. "There are jobs being occupied by illegal
immigrants that would be great jobs for people moving from welfare to work."

Last year, INS officials removed 333 illegal immigrants from work sites in
Virginia, and that number could double with the hiring of new investigators and
staff and the infusion of additional resources, Bergeron said.

Most of those jobs were in the food service, hotel and construction industries,
paying an average hourly wage of $ 7.35, according to an INS analysis. Moreover,
Virginia and federal officials said, the state also could work to fill those
jobs with legal immigrants, who are denied most forms of public assistance under
the federal welfare bill signed into law in August. That provision has angered
many advocates for the poor and immigrants, and Clinton and Maryland Gov. Parris
N. Glendening (D) both have said they would work to repeal it.

Federal immigration officials have tried similar partnerships with employment
centers and nonprofit agencies in Texas, Oklahoma and Omaha, said Jacobs, of the
INS district office in Dallas. But those efforts were on a much smaller scale,
he said, and typically the alliance was between federal officials and
grass-roots organizers who could more quickly identify and assemble a pool of
workers to fill vacancies.

Jacobs said INS officials typically would notify employers that illegal
immigrants were in their work force but would not identify the workers. They
then would give the employers a one-week grace period before detentions were
made, giving the employers enough time to make arrangements to have workers on
hand to complete shift work.

Jacobs said that agents would encourage company executives to cooperate with the
INS investigation and the job placements.

"The incentive for the company is never to see us again," Jacobs said.

Staff writer William Branigin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               7 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 14, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Smuggled Immigrants Found in Vienna; Two Alleged Drivers of Van Also Arrested
Outside Grocery Store

Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 558 words


Seven illegal immigrants were arrested early yesterday in Vienna along with two
men who were charged with transporting them in a type of professional smuggling
operation that officials say is becoming more common as enforcement is tightened
along U.S. borders.

The illegal immigrants were arrested about 3 a.m. as some of them stole fruit
from a stand in front of a closed Magruder's store at 180 W. Maple Ave.,
officials said. Most of them had recently crossed the Mexican border into Texas
and were being brought to this area in a van from Houston, officials said.

Two men accused of driving the van were ordered held by a federal magistrate
judge in Alexandria on smuggling charges. They were identified as Axel Zecena,
24, a native of Guatemala, and Juventino Lopez- Aguilar, 22, a Mexican national.

The seven passengers -- six from Mexico and one from Honduras -- were being
processed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for possible
deportation. Federal agents also seized the van, registered to a Houston tour
company, for possible confiscation.

"These people are engaging in the exploitation of human beings," said William J.
Carroll, director of the INS Washington district. "We will not tolerate the
ruthless trafficking of human cargo and the disregard of our immigration laws."

It was the second time this year that illegal immigrants were arrested as they
were being transported to the Washington area. In February, 40 Hispanic people
were arrested when a truck carrying them crashed near the Chesapeake Bay Bridge.

Carroll said illegal immigrants increasingly are using professional smugglers to
get them into the country because immigration officials have made it more
difficult for them to cross the border in the Southwest.

Such smuggling rings not only bring the illegal immigrants into the country but
also often transport them to Washington or other urban areas for an additional
fee.

The 1995 Ford reached Vienna after traveling for two days, according to federal
court documents. The van began the trip with a dozen illegal immigrants in
Houston but had dropped off several in North Carolina, officials said.

According to a court affidavit by INS agent Angela Malacari, one passenger said
that "when the trip began in Houston, the passengers were instructed by the
drivers that the van would not stop and they could not get off until they
reached their destination."

In the back of the van, the affidavit said, agents found "many food wrappers,
bags that appeared to contain belongings, and two large soda jugs that appeared
to contain urine."

Officials said that the passengers paid about $ 120 for the trip from Houston
but that it still was not known how much they paid to cross the border. They
said an investigation is continuing into the role, if any, played by the van's
owner.

A preliminary hearing is scheduled this afternoon for the two smuggling
defendants. Each could face a maximum of five years in prison.

Vienna officials said the arrests were made after an unidentified resident
called police, reporting suspicious activity outside the store, which leaves
some of its produce outside during the night.

"Some of our residents can be pretty nosy, but it comes in handy sometimes,"
said Marie Kisner, the town's spokeswoman. "If anything happens, we hear about
it."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                               8 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 05, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Top INS Official in Hong Kong Relieved of His Duties; Wife Arrested; Agent Is
2nd to Be Implicated as Immigrant-Smuggling Probe Expands

William Branigin; Keith B. Richburg, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 858 words


The top U.S. immigration officer in Hong Kong has been relieved of his duties
and his wife has been arrested on visa fraud charges in a growing investigation
into the highly lucrative smuggling of Chinese immigrants to the United States.

James DeBates, a 21-year veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and the agency's acting officer-in-charge in Hong Kong, was detained for
questioning last month by the British colony's special anti-corruption police,
but was quickly released because of his diplomatic status, U.S. officials said.
They added that his wife, Heddy DeBates, a U.S. citizen of Chinese origin, is
being held by Hong Kong authorities, who have not officially announced her
arrest.

The INS and the U.S. consulate in Hong Kong confirmed that DeBates, 45, was
placed on administrative leave with pay about two weeks ago and is under
investigation. But they declined to comment on other aspects of the case.

The episode marked the second time in less than nine months that a senior INS
agent has been implicated in corruption related to immigrant-smuggling, a
multibillion-dollar business in which Chinese illegal migrants typically pay $
30,000 to $ 40,000 apiece to be brought into the United States by land, sea or
air.

Jerry Wolf Stuchiner, 45, INS chief in Honduras and one of the agency's leading
authorities on Chinese smuggling, was arrested last July by agents of Hong
Kong's Independent Commission Against Corruption upon his arrival there.
Stuchiner had five blank Honduran passports that he allegedly planned to deliver
to an immigrant-smuggling syndicate. He pleaded guilty to possession of false
documents and was sentenced to 40 months in prison. Now he is desperately
seeking a transfer to a U.S. prison, claiming that his life will be in danger if
he remains in a Hong Kong prison after China takes over the colony July 1.

Since DeBates was suspended and his wife arrested, the Justice Department, the
INS and the Hong Kong consulate have maintained extraordinary secrecy on the
matter, and details remain scarce.

According to a knowledgeable official, however, U.S. investigators found $
20,000 in cash in DeBates's office that he could not adequately explain. The
money was hidden in two boxes that are used for shipping weapons, the source
said. He said DeBates claimed that the cash represented money he had saved by
being "frugal" in administering his office's budget.

DeBates subsequently left Hong Kong for the United States. The Justice
Department said he remains in contact with authorities but refused to disclose
his whereabouts. He could not be reached for comment.

An INS official cautioned that although DeBates has been suspended and is under
investigation by the INS internal audit division and the Justice Department's
inspector general, that does not mean he is guilty of wrongdoing. Such
procedures follow "automatically" from the arrest of his wife on visa fraud
charges, he said. A Justice Department official said Debates generally "has been
considered an excellent employee."

According to INS records, DeBates went to Hong Kong as assistant INS
officer-in-charge in January 1991, accepting a "voluntary downgrade" from his
previous post in Washington. He served for three years under Stuchiner, who
headed the Hong Kong office from 1989 to 1994, then became acting
officer-in-charge when his boss was transferred to Honduras.

The arrest of Stuchiner, a 19-year INS veteran, triggered an extended
international investigation of official corruption related to Chinese
immigrant-smuggling, which a government study found is bringing as many as
50,000 Chinese into the United States each year. The Honduran consul general in
Hong Kong, Herby Weizenblut, was briefly detained at the time, then vanished.
The Honduran government subsequently suspended its immigration chief, a close
friend of Stuchiner's, along with her deputy and five other officials on
suspicion of selling forged Honduran passports to Asians seeking to enter the
United States illegally.

At about the same time that Stuchiner was arrested, Hong Kong's immigration
chief, Laurence Leung, resigned abruptly for what were described as "personal
reasons." In January, however, the Hong Kong government revealed that Leung had
been dismissed after the anti-corruption commission found evidence of
undisclosed business activities that made him "unsuitable" for continued
service.

Stuchiner, a short, stocky man with Coke-bottle glasses and a Walter Mitty-like
penchant for embroidering his exploits, recently was moved from the colony's Lai
Chi Kok prison into the commission's custody. Sources in Washington and Hong
Kong suggested that he is now cooperating with investigators in a bid to strike
a deal for transfer to a U.S. prison.

It was after Stuchiner's move that DeBates was questioned and his wife arrested.
A dapper man who began his career as an immigration inspector in Detroit and
subsequently served in the Caribbean and California, DeBates was in line to
become the INS chief in Beijing, a major promotion, when he was suspended.

Richburg reported from Hong Kong.

LOAD-DATE: April 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                               9 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 05, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Cites Immigration Offense In Quickly Deporting Palestinian; Herndon Arrest
Followed FBI Probe of Think Tank

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 855 words


Basheer Nafi had just left a farewell party at his Northern Virginia office to
smoke a cigarette outside when federal agents seized him and hustled him to a
waiting car.

Within four days of his arrest in Herndon last week, the 43-year-old Palestinian
was deported to London on a charge that he had violated a provision of his
immigration status.

Was Nafi a shadowy leader of the Islamic Jihad terrorist organization who had
burrowed into suburban anonymity here while working for a network of academic
front groups? Or was he the target of a federal witch hunt, the latest victim in
a campaign of guilt by association that has tarred Palestinian scholars and
Islamic think tanks in the Washington area and South Florida?

Much remains murky about the case of Nafi, who had been working as a researcher
and editor at the International Institute of Islamic Thought in Herndon, an
organization affiliated with a think tank in Tampa that has come under federal
investigation.

What is clear is that U.S. authorities lacked sufficient evidence to prosecute
Nafi for any terrorist-related activities and used a relatively obscure
provision of immigration law to bundle him out of the country with unusual
dispatch.

Ironically, according to his Irish wife, Imelda Ryan, and a Palestinian
associate, Nafi was about to leave the United States permanently anyway when
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) agents and the FBI swooped in. He
had resigned from the institute, sold his car and booked a flight to London this
week, they said.

Ryan said her husband was arrested as a farewell party at the institute was
ending. He was jailed in Manassas and expelled Monday after agreeing not to
contest a deportation order. Ryan quoted him as saying in a phone call from
London that the FBI had offered to help "work something out" so he could remain
in the United States if he agreed to "cooperate" with the agency.

"He told them there was nothing to work out," since he already planned to leave,
and he denied involvement with any terrorist organization, Ryan said.

She said Nafi acknowledged to the FBI that he knew Fathi Shiqaqi, the Islamic
Jihad leader who was assassinated in Malta in October 1995, allegedly by Israeli
agents. She said the two were born 100 yards from each other in Gaza and
attended university together in Cairo in the 1970s. However, Ryan said, Nafi
"has never been a figure of any kind in Islamic Jihad," an Iranian-backed group
accused of killing dozens of Israelis in suicide bombings in recent years.

Asked whether her husband is a sympathizer of the radical group, she replied,
"no comment." She and the couple's four children plan to join Nafi in London at
the end of the month, she said.

So far, immigration officials have been tight-lipped about the case, insisting
officially that Nafi was deported because he violated his immigration status by
working for an employer other than the one specified in the temporary work visa
he held when he last entered the United States in August 1994. The officials
acknowledge that in February Nafi was given a three-year visa extension that
properly listed his new employer, but they say the violation had already
occurred.

The original employer, the World and Islam Studies Enterprise think tank in
Tampa, came under FBI scrutiny last year after one of its former administrators,
Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, 37, succeeded the assassinated Shiqaqi as leader of
Islamic Jihad. The FBI froze the accounts of the think tank, known as WISE, and
began investigating one of its founders, Sami Arian, a Kuwaiti-born Palestinian
professor of engineering at the University of South Florida.

Arian, who had helped bring Nafi and Shallah to the United States under WISE's
auspices, has maintained that he did not know of Shallah's involvement with
Islamic Jihad and that his institute had no connection with the group.

In an extensive inquiry initiated by the University of South Florida, William
Reece Smith, a Tampa lawyer and former president of the university, found no
evidence that Arian or WISE supported terrorism and called the think tank an
"entirely legitimate" research center.

However, an INS investigator's affidavit unsealed in April in a case against
Arian described WISE as a front organization used to raise money and provide
support for terrorism against Israel. The affidavit also linked Nafi to Islamic
Jihad. It said an unidentified "confidential informant" had identified him as a
"significant leading member" of the group and quoted a Jordanian newspaper as
listing him among those considered to succeed Shiqaqi.

In July last year, federal agents at New York's John F. Kennedy Airport arrested
Mousa Abu Marzook, 45, a former resident of Falls Church. He was accused by
Israel of using a Springfield think tank as a front to raise money for the
militant Islamic group Hamas, which has carried out suicide bombings in an
effort to derail the Arab-Israeli peace process. Marzook has admitted being a
leader of the group's political wing, but denied involvement in the bombings.
Israel is seeking his extradition.

LOAD-DATE: July 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              10 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 05, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Poison Provisions in the Immigration Bill

Cecilia Munoz; John Swenson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 610 words


The most prominent example of extremism in the immigration bill before Congress
is the provision that could lead to denial of education to undocumented
schoolchildren. Reportedly, some in Congress hardly can contain their glee at
the prospect that the president will sign either this dangerous bit of
policymaking or open himself to attacks that he "killed" the immigration reform
bill. But education is hardly the only issue where this bill goes too far;
several other provisions present grave dangers to Americans' health and safety,
not to mention our basic sense of decency.

For example, the bill purports to deal only with the question of illegal
immigration. Howev er, a provision in the House version would bar U.S. citizens
from sponsoring their own spouses or children under the legal immigration system
unless they earn more than 200 percent of the poverty level. U.S.-citizen
sponsors of immigrants already must prove that they are above the poverty level
in order to bring in their loved ones, but doubling the height of the hurdle
would prevent nearly half of all Americans who wished ever to be reunited with a
spouse or child from doing so -- hardly a rational policy for a "pro-family"
Congress.

Further attacks on legal immigrants can be found in both House and Senate
provisions that would result in the deportation of legal immigrants who
participate in programs they are eligible for, such as student aid and loan
programs, prenatal care and even certain English classes. Where is the wisdom in
a law that would deport immigrants for doing things we want them to do -- such
as learning English, nurturing their children and furthering their educations?

In our own neighborhoods, directors of programs affiliated with institutions
like the Latin American Youth Center, which sponsors gang-prevention programs,
or the Mary Center, which provides prenatal and pediatric health care, are
stunned to discover that the immigration bill would require them to turn away
some of their current clients who are legally in the United States. Under
mistaken notions of how to make immigrants' sponsors more technically re
sponsible -- a concept we support when done properly -- the House and Senate
have approved new restrictions on a vast range of services for immigrants who
are here legally, including vaccinations, prenatal care, student loans and even
emergency medical care.

This policy would do grievous harm to the hospitals and colleges that would no
longer receive funds for providing these services. While we are concerned for
the well-being of the immigrants who will be turned away, they will not be the
only ones to suffer. When the county and Catholic hospitals close in places such
as Los Angeles, Chicago and New York, everyone in those communities will feel
the effects. When community colleges are forced to shut their doors because
eager legal immigrant students lack the resources to pursue their studies, all
of us will pay a serious price.

Much is at stake in this legislative debate beyond the difficult question of
immigration control. When we fail to provide education to children and young
adults, we impoverish ourselves socially and economically. When we embark on
policies that threaten the well-being of hospitals and schools, we threaten the
health and safety of all Americans. We urge Congress to delete extremist
measures from the immigration bill. If it does not, the bill ought to be vetoed.

Cecilia Munoz is a deputy vice president at the National Council of La Raza.
John Swenson is executive director of the Office of Migration and Refugee
Services/United States Catholic Conference.


LOAD-DATE: July 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, paul kolsti

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              11 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 11, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Stowaways Found On Cargo Ships At Baltimore

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 202 words


Seven Eastern European men were being held by immigration authorities yesterday
after ship hands on two cargo vessels docked at Baltimore found them hiding
inside boxcar-sized containers holding bottled water.

U.S. immigration officials said the stowaways had enough supplies stocked inside
the steel containers for the transatlantic journey. The men had hidden
themselves in a shipment of Evian bottled water.

"They seem to be in reasonably good health," said Steve Fickett, a deputy
director with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Baltimore. He
declined to identify the men other than to say they are from Romania, Russia,
Ukraine and the former Yugoslavia.

The men were being held at the Howard County Detention Center, and INS agents
were questioning them, officials said.

Agents also are trying to determine whether other immigrants may have
disembarked in Boston and New York, where at least one of the ships stopped
before coming to Baltimore.

Three of the men were found aboard the Panama-registered vessel Mscinsa on June
30. The four others were found Monday on the Panama-registered vessel Pol
America.

Both ships were bound to Baltimore from Le Havre, France.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              12 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 09, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Immigrant Job Checks to Expand; Computerized Pilot Project to Include 1,000
Firms, INS's Meissner Says

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 784 words


The Clinton administration is pushing ahead with a computerized pilot program to
verify employment eligibility of immigrant job-seekers.

In expanding its "Employment Verification Pilot" project, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) announced yesterday that 31 poultry companies
employing more than 43,000 workers in seven states, including Maryland and
Delaware, have agreed to participate in the voluntary program.

The project, which began last year, has 350 participating firms, which employ
about 200,000 people, INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner told a news conference.
She said the agency plans to enlist 1,000 firms in the program by the end of
September.

The program is aimed at reducing the "job magnet" that traditionally has drawn
illegal immigrants to the United States. INS officials say the need for it stems
from the failure of a 1986 law designed to prevent illegal aliens from obtaining
jobs by penalizing employers who knowingly hired them. The law spawned a huge
black market for fraudulent documents, which illegal immigrants purchased to
present to employers. Even if the firm suspected a job-seeker was an illegal
alien, the employer could claim to have been fooled by good counterfeit paper
and to have refrained from asking for additional documentation for fear of
violating anti-discrimination provisions.

Under the pilot program, INS officials say, the employer uses a personal
computer and a modem to check an immigrant's identity against an INS database.
In most cases, a response is received within 90 seconds on whether a job-seeker
is legally eligible for employment or needs to be checked further. If the
initial check is unable to verify the person's eligibility, the employer is
directed to provide further information for a secondary computer check, which is
designed to generate a response within two days. If authorization still is not
given, the new employee is asked to straighten out the problem with an INS
office within 30 days.

The employer must hire the person before initiating the verification process --
using the system to "pre-screen" an applicant is prohibited as discriminatory --
and the firm must not fire an employee because of questionable eligibility
during the verification procedure, the INS stipulates.

A major loophole in the pilot program, INS officials concede, is that it now
applies only to employees who state they are not U.S. citizens. An illegal
immigrant can evade the verification process by submitting a false document and
claiming to be an American citizen, the officials said. A second pilot the
administration plans to launch later this year is intended to check all new
hires by bringing a Social Security Administration database into the
verification process.

Opponents of the program range from the American Civil Liberties Union on the
left to the conservative Americans for Tax Reform. They also include immigrants'
rights groups such as the National Council of La Raza.

"The likelihood that employers will use the system improperly is very high,"
said Cecilia Munoz, a deputy vice president of the council. "We're troubled that
the pilot project is proceeding, but that monitoring for civil rights abuse is
not."

The ACLU regards the project as a test run for a "national ID system" that would
"put at risk the personal privacy of every person in the country, not just
aliens," said Gregory Nojeim, the group's legislative counsel.

INS officials counter that safeguards are being introduced to prevent misuse and
protect the rights of legitimate workers. "We've been very attentive to the
potential for unfair labor practices and discrimination," said Robert L. Bach,
INS executive associate commissioner for policy and planning.

"Employers have been very enthusiastic," Meissner said. "They love the program
because it takes the guesswork out of hiring legal workers."

The pilot started last September with 239 employers around Santa Ana in southern
California, an area with high rates of job-related document fraud. The
employers, which include Disneyland and Knott's Berry Farm, have transmitted
more than 18,600 verification queries since and received INS authorizations for
78 percent of them, the INS said.

Of the more than 4,000 employees told to sort out their records with the INS,
only about 60 showed up at an INS office within the 30-day period, Bach said.
About half the remainder were found to have given the INS false information when
they were hired, and the status of the rest was uncertain, he said. Although
they may have been illegal aliens, it was also possible that they were legal
residents who became discouraged and sought another job, he said.


LOAD-DATE: August 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, james m. thresher, Chickens are processed at Perdue plant in
Salisbury, one of poultry firms in project.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              13 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 10, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Children Without a Country

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 399 words


IMMIGRANT BASHING is due to hit a new low next week when Republicans take up
platform language that would deny birthright citizenship to the children of
illegal aliens. The proposal seeks either "a constitutional amendment or
constitutionally valid legislation declaring that children born in the United
States of parents illegally present are not automatically citizens." This
startling and truly mean proposition would dramatically change not only the
constitutional promise of the 14th Amendment but a bedrock principle of this
democracy: No matter where you come from or who your parents are, if you are
born on this soil, you are forever an American.

There are all sorts of practical reasons for rejecting this change. Would
hospitals have to assume new responsibilities for investigating the citizenship
status of new mothers before registering births? Would obtaining a passport
require not just a birth certificate but a long-deceased parent's green card?
Would the disqualification apply to generation after generation of children
because the first immigrant didn't have his papers in order? Would they be
eligible for naturalization even though their parents remained in illegal
status? And if discovered, stateless by constitutional amendment, should they be
deported -- to where? -- or perhaps imprisoned for the rest of their lives?

We are sure there are Republicans who have answers for these questions, who
could construct a set of rules to their liking and enforce them with enthusiasm.
So uncertainty is not a reason for rejecting this platform plank. History is.
Once before, this country denied citizenship to an entire class of native-born
Americans whose ancestors had come from Africa not with visas but listed on
bills of sale. A great war was fought over their status in this society, and it
was resolved in favor of citizenship and full freedom.

For 128 years, every individual born within these borders has started life as
the political equal of every other child born here that day. It would be
destructive and incredibly vindictive to take that gift from some on the pretext
of saving money or discouraging a few desperate pregnant women from sneaking
across the border so that their children can be guaranteed a better life.
Thoughtful Republicans should be mortified by this language and make every
effort to have it removed from the platform.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              14 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 12, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

GOP Immigration Policies Concern Hispanics

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18; 1996 REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 11


Hard-line positions on immigration that will be presented at the Republican
convention here have put many Hispanics on edge, underscoring the sensitivity of
the issue in this city close by the porous Mexican border.

They also have caught the attention of Anglos in conservative, heavily
Republican San Diego, who have been encouraged by House Republican efforts to
curtail social service benefits to non-citizens. Some of them view the GOP
platform positions on immigration as an indication of how Robert J. Dole will
address their concerns, if he is elected.

The GOP immigration plank drafted last week declares the Republican Party
"supports a constitutional amendment or constitutionally valid legislation
declaring that children born in the United States of parents who are not legally
present in the United States or who are not long-term residents are not
automatically citizens."

The proposal, in effect, advocates abolition of the 130-year-old 14th Amendment
to the Constitution, which automatically confers citizenship to all persons born
in the United States. The draft plank will be presented to the full convention
for ratification this week.

Critics of U.S. immigration policy say the birthright citizenship guarantee not
only adds millions of children of illegal aliens to already overburdened social
service rolls, but makes it easier for their parents to obtain immigrant visas
and citizenship, encouraging undocumented immigrants to have children here.

Immigrant rights advocates say there is no evidence illegal aliens decide to
have children here because of birthright citizenship.

The GOP's "sensible immigration policy" plank also says illegal aliens should
not receive benefits other than emergency aid and those who become parents while
residing illegally here should not get benefits for their offspring.

It states that legal immigrants should depend on their sponsors for assistance,
a concept central to the immigration provisions in the welfare reform bill that
awaits President Clinton's promised signature.

Latino activists say the GOP immigration plank will feed anti-immigrant
sentiment in a city where illegal immigration already is a volatile issue
because of its proximity to the Mexican border -- just 15 miles south -- and its
nearly one-quarter Hispanic population.

"It seems to me they are just making other people upset. They are exporting
hatred, and making Anglos think, 'Yeah, those Mexicans. They're just coming here
to have babies and get on welfare,' " said Luis Natividad, chairman of the
Latino Unity Coalition of San Diego.

"Most people don't differentiate between someone like me, whose grandmother was
born in this country, and the guy who jumps the fence."

Ray Uzeta, executive director of the Chicano Federation of San Diego, said it
was difficult to gauge the effect of the platform committee's action on
attitudes in the Anglo community here generally, because the community tends not
to display anti-immigrant sentiments until it is time to vote on such measures
as Proposition 187, which was approved in 1994 and, until temporarily blocked by
court appeals, curtailed social services for illegal immigrants.

But Uzeta said the GOP platform will fuel emotional reactions among
anti-immigrant activists who maintain a high profile on the issue anyway.

"With all these anti-immigrant proposals, nothing surprises us anymore. But I do
know that it enhances and perpetuates the myth that people who come here -- and
let's be frank, we're talking about Mexicans -- give birth to children in order
to rip off the American public."

However, some Anglos interviewed randomly in the middle-class suburb of La Mesa,
just east of San Diego, appeared not to have been as affected by the platform
position as Uzeta feared.

At the Grossmont Shopping Center, David Morgan, a middle-aged employee of a
health maintenance firm, said, "Frankly, it doesn't bother me. Nor is it
something that affects me in a direct way. The fact is, for a long time illegal
immigrants have been coming here to have kids. Who pays the hospital bills? Who
pays for the schools?"

But Morgan, who described himself as a political independent, added, "At the
same time, I think we're being a little too tough on people who come here to
work in the low-paying jobs that no one else wants. I think we may have gone far
enough already without taking citizenship from children."

Joe Robinson, 72, a retired schoolteacher, said, "San Diego is basically a very
conservative town. This platform is for the extremists who'll say, 'Oh, boy.
This will keep the immigrants out.' But when the delegates go to the fancy
restaurants, why don't they look in the kitchen and see who's working."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              15 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 24, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Hispanics Don't Support A Second-Class System

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 269 words


Claims about GOP immigration policy made by U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.)
[letters, Aug. 19] demand rebuttal.

Mr. Smith claims that Hispanics overwhelmingly support efforts to reduce illegal
immigration and, therefore, that the Hispanic community supports GOP policies
that would deny citizenship entitlements to those Latinos born in the United
States to undocumented parents.

Mr. Smith is right on one point only: U.S. Latinos do support humane,
non-martial border policies and interventions that maintain our nation's
sovereignty. However, U.S. immigration policies that strengthen our country's
borders are distinct from domestic policies that discriminate against Hispanics
in our public schools and public health clinics in an "after the fact" attempt
to discourage illegal immigration.

U.S. civil rights ensure that every American taxpayer is granted equal civil
entitlements and equal protection under the law. If Mr. Smith and the GOP break
this covenant for Hispanic Americans, they break this national trust for all
Americans.

This nation must come to grips with the economic facts that underpin our
immigration dilemma. Much of American "big business," especially agri-business,
wants "leaky borders" to cut labor costs -- and to drive up corporate profits.
We cannot allow these same special business interests through their control of
the GOP to create a new, domestic environment of second-class-citizenship
through enactment of policies that Mr. Smith endorses -- policies that clearly
violate the civil rights of Hispanic Americans.

HENRY STEVENSON-PEREZ

Kensington

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              16 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 30, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Poultry Firm Chief Says INS Is Probing Plant Supervisors

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: HURLOCK, Md., Aug 29


The president of an Eastern Shore poultry company said today that he believes
immigration officials are investigating whether line supervisors at his plant
participated in a smuggling ring that brings illegal immigrants to Maryland.

"I have unofficial sources that are telling me the INS may believe there is an
illegal smuggling ring operating out of Marydel," said Charles Allen III,
president of Allen Family Foods Inc. Marydel is a run-down trailer park that is
home to many Guatemalan and Mexican immigrants, the majority of whom work at
Allen's Cordova plant.

"Unfortunately, we may have one or more line supervisors who may have been
involved," Allen said.

Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, armed with search
warrants, raided two of Allen's poultry plants on Maryland's Eastern Shore this
week and arrested 124 people suspected of being illegal immigrants. At least 18
have since been released.

Allen said the U.S. attorney's office in Baltimore subpoenaed his company's
employment records.

Benedict Ferro, district director of the INS in Baltimore, and U.S. Attorney
Lynne Battaglia both refused to comment on Allen's statement or to confirm that
they are conducting a criminal investigation.

Thomas Perryman, acting INS district director of investigations, was more
direct. "Obviously, there is an investigation," he said. "You don't take 36
agents out into the field without there being a reason for it."

But Perryman declined to comment on Allen's statement that INS agents believed
his supervisors may be involved in a smuggling operation: "I can't talk about
that. That's a work in progress."

Immigration agents, assisted by Maryland State Police and U.S. Secret Service
agents, surrounded the Allen plants in Cordova and Hurlock on Wednesday morning.
They interviewed workers, made arrests and seized all of the company's personnel
records, said Tracy Morris, the company's director of human resources.

The raid raised questions about whether a connection exists between Allen Foods
and a Ryder rental truck carrying 37 illegal immigrants that crashed into the
Chesapeake Bay Bridge in February. One of the truck's destinations was Marydel.

Jim Lewis, an Episcopal priest who works with migrant laborers in Sussex County,
Del., called illegal labor the "dirty secret in the poultry industry" and said
he wasn't surprised by the raid. Lewis said that he believes the public wants to
see aggressive action against illegal immigrants but that they also want to keep
eating chicken.

Many Marydel residents, as well as Latinos from other small towns throughout the
Eastern Shore, gathered outside the Wicomico Detention Center today hoping for
word from their friends and relatives. They told stories of wives and brothers
and cousins who never arrived home from work, as well as children waiting for
their parents with neighbors or friends. The arrests broke up several families
in which parents may have been in this country illegally while their children
are U.S. citizens.

About 20 people interviewed said they had not been allowed to communicate with
their loved ones. A distraught Guatemalan man said he simply wanted to give his
girlfriend some clothes.

About 4 p.m. today, jail officials told many of those waiting that they had to
leave the jail grounds or face arrest. The warden also threatened to seize a
roll of film from a Baltimore Sun photographer who had taken pictures of Latinos
waiting outside the jail.

Maytee Ponce, a U.S. citizen whose Mexican husband was arrested, said she had
provided a copy of her marriage certificate and a letter that his application
for legal status was in process. She also pointed to her rounded stomach, asking
whether her pregnancy could help in getting her husband out of jail.

By late today, she was still waiting.

Orlando Fuentes, a Marydel resident, was hoping to send his two children home to
Mexico with their mother if she was deported. He said there are smugglers and
providers of false documents anywhere you find Latinos. "I don't think it's just
in Marydel," he said.

Some were told that their loved ones would be bused to Baltimore tonight and
deported Friday morning.

Perryman refused to comment on what would happen to those being held but said
that all have a right to an immigration hearing if they do not want to depart
the country voluntarily.

Work continued at the Allen plant in Hurlock on Wednesday.

Workers, many of them still shaken from the raid, went on with the business of
killing, plucking, deboning, processing and packaging chickens.

The assembly line continued to run, chickens moving monotonously overhead.

"Short term, it will make scheduling a little bit more difficult. Long term, we
will recover," said Steve Jarrett, director of processing. "We do rely on
immigrant labor. We do our best to make sure they're legal."

If most of the arrested employees do not return, Jarrett said, Allen will be
putting up a "Help Wanted" sign.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              17 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 04, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Move the Immigration Bill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 441 words


ONE OF THE most important, substantive bills left for Congress to consider in
the short session before the elections is a long-sought revision of the
immigration law governing illegal aliens. But the legislation, which has passed
both houses, is hung up because the House refuses to appoint conferees. The
stall is due to an effort to make an unacceptable House provision palatable by
compromise. Instead, it should be abandoned.

We refer to the Gallegly amendment, which would allow states to bar the children
of illegal aliens from the public schools. The proposal addresses a real
problem. Only a handful of states are home to 85 percent of these aliens, and
they -- California in particular -- have incurred enormous expenses in educating
children whose parents have entered this country without proper documents.

But the solution is not to bar these children from the classroom. Most of them
will probably spend their whole lives here, and it is shortsighted to deny them
an education. Proposed compromises, including grandfathering children already in
school or allowing the children to attend classes if they pay tuition, don't
solve the problem. Instead, the federal government must provide more help to
those states that bear this special burden, since the failure to control the
borders is Washington's responsibility.

Some of the immigration bill's provisions have been superseded by the passage of
welfare reform legislation that sets new limits on the federal benefits that can
be received even by legal immigrants. But there may be an opportunity here to
soften those changes, using the immigration bill as a vehicle. In addition, a
provision in the Senate-passed bill sponsored by Sen. Patrick Leahy is designed
to correct a terrible flaw in the terrorism bill passed last April. That bill
created a presumption that anyone seeking asylum in this country who enters with
false documents or has traveled through other countries to get here does not
have a valid claim. Such a person would have to make his case to an immigration
officer on the scene without the guarantee of a lawyer or interpreter and could
be summarily deported without any hearing or judicial review.

In fact, many persecuted people have to leave home without documents, using
false identity papers. And it is not unusual to pass through other countries en
route to America. These people ought to have a better chance to prove their case
than the law now allows. Sen. Leahy's amendment would provide that opportunity.
It is important that the immigration legislation move to conference and that the
Senate language on this matter be accepted.

LOAD-DATE: September 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              18 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 23, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Fixing Up an Immigration Bill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 466 words


PROSPECTS for major immigration reform legislation this year were still
uncertain when Congress recessed on Friday. A bill primarily concentrating on
illegal aliens has been passed by each House, but a conference has yet to be
scheduled. Meanwhile, Republicans are trying to draft a compromise that will be
presented to the Democrats and, they hope, will win the support of the
president. If this is to happen, the majority has got to be more realistic than
its preliminary draft now indicates.

The president evidently does not intent to sign a bill containing the Gallegly
amendment, and he should not. This provision, in its current form, would allow
states to restrict greatly the rights of illegal alien children to attend public
schools, or charge them tuition fees that few of their parents could afford.
California and a few other states have a real problem meeting the costs of
educating these children, but the federal government should provide the funding,
not the authority to put them out of school. If the Republicans want a bill at
all, this provision has to go.

The draft conference report accepts a number of House-passed items that impose
new burdens on legal immigrants. It is one thing to deny benefits to those who
are here illegally, or to make it more difficult for those who want to come in
the future. But suddenly to change the ground rules, imposing very harsh
penalties, including deportation, for those already here legally is wrong. When
President Clinton signed the welfare bill recently, he said he was doing so
despite its harsh provisions regarding legal immigrants, to which he claimed to
object. He promised to send up legislation easing these provisions. An
immigration bill that makes things worse for this group instead should surely
invite a veto.

Finally, any compromise bill should include the Leahy amendment that was passed
by the Senate. It would repeal a little-noticed provision in the new terrorism
law that allows immigration officials at the point of entry to deny admission to
any person seeking asylum here who has come with false papers or traveled
through other countries of possible asylum en route. Most people fleeing for
their lives do not apply for passports in the country that is oppressing them.
False papers are frequently used in these cases, and any decision to reject an
applicant on these grounds ought to be subject to review, which the Leahy
language would allow.

The reform bill has had strong bipartisan support, because it contains
provisions for better border control, more help to states that have significant
numbers of illegals and more effective approaches to the problems of fraudulent
documents and the hiring of illegal workers. There is still time for cooperation
on a bill both sides could accept.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              19 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 25, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Conferees Agree on Immigration Bill; Hill Negotiators Delete Schooling Ban;
Clinton Undecided on Veto

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 997 words


After months of division over the issue in their own ranks, congressional
Republicans yesterday pushed a major immigration reform bill through a panel of
House and Senate negotiators without a controversial amendment that would have
allowed states to end free public education to illegal immigrants' children.

The action cleared the way for the bill to be sent to the floors of both houses
as early as today, greatly improving chances for the measure's final passage
before the end of the current congressional session.

The move presented President Clinton with a new political dilemma in his running
duel with Republican presidential nominee Robert J. Dole over immigration,
especially in California, where the number of illegal immigrants is a
contentious issue.

Clinton had previously threatened to veto the bill if it contained the education
amendment sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.). With that amendment
removed, the White House appeared to back off the veto threat, but a spokesman
said Clinton was not yet ready to endorse the measure without further
modification.

If Clinton decides to sign the bill against the advice of many congressional
Democrats, he risks further alienating a base of support that he has angered by
his recent signing of the welfare bill. If he vetoes the bill, he would give the
Republicans a potentially powerful tool to use against him in his reelection
campaign, especially in California, where illegal immigration is estimated to
cost state taxpayers $ 3 billion a year.

"Removing Gallegly is a big step in the right direction," said Rahm Emanuel, a
presidential adviser on immigration matters. "They've removed the key objection
the president had in the legislation." But he added that the White House wants
to include in the bill measures to toughen enforcement against employing illegal
aliens and wants to restore a provision for 350 additional Labor Department
investigators that was deleted by the Republicans.

Emanuel said the president also wants the bill to concentrate on controlling
illegal immigration and drop provisions relating to legal immigrants.

"Now we've put the ball back in his court," Gallegly said in trying to put the
best face on the removal of his amendment. "There's no good reason to veto this
bill now that the [education] provision is not there."

Dole, who had strongly supported keeping the Gallegly amendment in the bill,
moved to exploit the issue in California and paper over Republican differences
by releasing a Monday letter in which he urged Congress to separate the measure
and send it to Clinton. Although the letter addressed to Republican leaders of
the House and Senate suggested that Dole was leading the way on this solution,
it was the congressional Republicans who decided that course of action at a
meeting Friday and demanded that Dole acquiesce, sources said.

Dole charged that illegal immigrants cost California's treasury more than $ 370
million a year in health care services, $ 500 million a year in prison costs and
$ 2 billion annually in educational services.

"If the liberal Democrats in Congress block consideration of the [Gallegly]
measure, then the citizens of California will know whom to blame -- a liberal
president who feels no compunction about inflicting a multibillion dollar burden
on California's taxpayers," Dole said in the letter.

The Republicans agreed to delete the public education amendment from the bill,
which is aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration, and to move the
provision to the floors of both houses as a separate piece of legislation.
Sources consider House passage of the education provision likely, but it faces
strong opposition in the Senate, where a number of Republicans have come out
against it.

The amendment had become a lightning rod for opposition from Democrats,
immigrant rights advocates and a number of prominent Republicans. Its deletion
left some of the more vociferous critics trying to rally opposition to other
aspects of the proposed legislation that they said would punish legal immigrants
for using welfare, lead to "backdoor cuts" in legal immigration, make it more
difficult for refugees to get into the country and ease restrictions on
employers who hire illegal aliens.

But unless the bill is folded into an omnibus spending bill or continuing
resolution, the Democrats would have no further opportunity to modify it.

According to its backers, the immigration bill would help to secure U.S. borders
by adding 5,000 Border Patrol agents over the next five years, expedite the
deportation of illegal aliens, strengthen penalties against alien smuggling and
document fraud, restrict federal benefits to illegal aliens, allow employers to
electronically verify the eligibility of job-seekers and ensure that sponsors of
legal immigrants meet their financial responsibilities.

Opponents charge that, among other deficiencies, the bill would roll back civil
rights protections for job-seekers who encounter discrimination because they
look or sound foreign, deny low-income Americans the opportunity to bring in
relatives as immigrants and waive environmental protection regulations for the
construction of roads and fences along the border.

All 17 Republicans on the House-Senate committee signed the conference report.
They were joined by only one of 13 Democrats: Sen. Dianne Feinstein of
California. The other Democrats urged a veto.

Several Democrats blasted the Republican leadership's handling of the
conference, complaining that they were not permitted to offer amendments or
debate provisions that the Republicans had unilaterally modified in crafting the
conference report on the House and Senate versions. Instead, the conferees were
allowed only to make statements about the report, which Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.) described as "a take-it-or-leave-it Republican proposal."

Staff writers Helen Dewar and Peter Baker contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig, Reps. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), left, and Elton
Gallegly (R-Calif.), who agreed to drop an immigration bill provision aimed at
limiting access to education.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              20 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 01, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Congress Finishes Major Legislation; IMMIGRATION; Focus Is Borders, Not Benefits

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1206 words


After protracted infighting among Republicans and intensive last-minute
wrangling between congressional Republicans and the White House, Congress
yesterday sent to the president an immigration bill that attempts to clamp off
the influx of illegal aliens but stops short of significant changes on legal
immigration and access to federal benefits.

The legislation, which President Clinton signed last night, was hailed by
backers as the toughest bill to control illegal immigration in a generation. It
is intended to respond to a public backlash against America's growing population
of illegal residents. With more than 4 million illegal immigrants in the United
States and an estimated 300,000 unauthorized newcomers joining them annually, a
political consensus has emerged on the need to restrict that flow, although
bitter divisions remain on the costs and benefits of legal immigration.

The bill is aimed at beefing up the Border Patrol along the 2,000-mile frontier
with Mexico, toughening penalties for alien-smuggling and document fraud,
expediting the removal of criminal aliens and phony asylum seekers, holding the
sponsors of legal immigrants accountable for people they bring in, and
initiating pilot programs to weed out illegal aliens from workplaces.

Clinton, having threatened to veto an earlier version of the bill, instead
signed the measure as part of a major appropriations package.

Republicans and Democrats generally lauded the immigration legislation, seeking
to put the best face on the concessions that each side was obliged to make to
get a bill through by the end of the Senate's session. But the result left
Democrats complaining that some provisions still treat newcomers, especially
refugees, too harshly, while coddling employers who hire illegal workers. And
Republicans charged that the bill fails to curb what they say is continuing
misuse of federal and state programs. Both sides vowed to try again next year.

The bill had cleared the House last week, 305 to 123, following an agreement by
Republicans to delete its most controversial provision, an amendment allowing
states to end free public education for illegal immigrant children. But the bill
bogged down in the Senate when the White House, prodded by Senate Democrats and
various interest groups, objected to other key provisions that had been
overshadowed by the education amendment. That amendment passed the House as a
separate bill, but was effectively shelved in the Senate without coming to a
vote on the floor.

The compromise left the bill's provisions on illegal immigration largely intact,
while eliminating or substantially softening measures regarding benefits for
aliens.

"Although the worst provisions in this bill on legal immigrants are now gone, it
is still not the hard-hitting crackdown on illegal immigration it ought to be,"
said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) in a statement on the compromise. He said
Republicans rejected measures to punish "unscrupulous employers" who exploit
illegal workers.

"This bill winks at that shameful sweatshop practice," Kennedy said. "Clearly,
stronger legislation is needed if we are serious about dealing effectively with
illegal immigration. I intend to renew this battle next year."

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), who sponsored the House bill, hailed it as
"landmark immigration reform legislation" that would help secure U.S. borders.
But he complained that the Clinton administration had "insisted on making it
easier for noncitizens to receive welfare" and harder to deport them when they
do.

Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), author of the education amendment, said he was
"happy" with the overall bill, describing it as "a very tough piece of
legislation." However, he accused the White House of preserving welfare benefits
for immigrants by threatening a government shutdown.

The immigration bill nearly doubles the strength of the Border Patrol, adding
5,000 new agents and 1,500 support personnel at the border over the next five
years. It also gives the Immigration and Naturalization Service 600 new
investigators to crack down on criminal aliens, employers who hire illegal
immigrants and visitors who overstay their visas.

The bill authorizes $ 12 million for new border control equipment and
technology, including a 14-mile border fence south of San Diego, although the
fence alone is projected to cost far more than that. It permits the attorney
general to waive environmental protection laws for border control construction,
a measure that drew angry protests from ecologists.

The legislation also establishes voluntary pilot programs in five states to
allow employers to check a government database by computer to verify the work
eligibility of job seekers. But it weakens the ability of employees to sue for
discrimination in the hiring process.

Foreigners who arrive with false or no documents, including people seeking
political asylum, are subject to streamlined exclusion procedures under the
bill, which also sets a one-year time limit after entry for applying for asylum.
The bill's backers charged that the U.S. asylum system is heavily abused by
people seeking to settle in the United States for economic reasons or to avoid
deportation.  A potentially important change in legal immigration is that most
family-sponsored immigrants under the new law will need legally binding
affidavits of support from their sponsors, whose incomes must exceed the federal
poverty level by at least 25 percent. The affidavits are enforceable until the
immigrant has worked and paid taxes for 10 years or become a citizen.

Current law requires a sponsor to earn at least as much as the poverty level,
and the affidavit is not legally binding. The result, Republicans argued, is
that many immigrants have gone on welfare with no liability to their sponsors,
despite a century-old law intended to bar newcomers from becoming "public
charges."

KEY PROVISIONS

*Nearly doubles the size of the Border Patrol by adding 1,000 new agents a year
for next five years.

*Adds 600 new INS investigators to crack down on criminal aliens, employers who
hire illegal immigrants and visitors who overstay their visas.

*Authorizes $ 12 million for new border fence and other control measures. Allows
the attorney general to waive environmental protection and endangered species
laws in building the fence and other border control infrastructure.

*Increases penalties for alien smuggling, establishing a mandatory minimum of
three years of imprisonment, and raises the maximum penalty for document fraud
from five years in prison to 15 years.

*Requires sponsors of immigrant relatives to earn at least 125 percent of the
federal poverty level, or find a co-sponsor who does to accept joint liability
for the immigrant.

*Streamlines procedures for expelling foreigners who arrive with false or no
documents, including those who apply for political asylum. Sets a one-year time
limit for applying for political asylum after entering the United States, with
some exceptions.

*Provides for 100 percent reimbursement by the federal government to hospitals
that provide emergency medical services to illegal aliens, subject to annual
appropriations.

LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              21 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 02, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Is Told to Hire Hundreds, But No Funds Are Earmarked

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 628 words


What Congress giveth, does Congress taketh away?

Or, perhaps more precisely, what harried lawmakers eager to get out of town
authorizeth with one hand, do they sometimes faileth to appropriate with the
other?

Such is a conundrum bequeathed by the 104th Congress, which sent major
immigration legislation to President Clinton on Monday as part of an omnibus
spending bill. The passage of the package, which Clinton signed, has left the
Immigration and Naturalization Service wondering what Congress really has in
mind when it comes to cracking down on employers who hire illegal aliens.

The immigration law authorizes the INS to hire 300 additional investigators a
year in fiscal 1997, 1998 and 1999, at least half of whom are to be assigned to
what the agency calls "worksite enforcement." It also calls for the hiring of
another 300 investigators in fiscal 1997, which began yesterday, to ferret out
people who overstay their visas, thus adding substantially to the country's
illegal immigrant population.

The trouble is, the spending bill did not earmark any money to pay for these new
investigators. As sometimes happens on the Hill, there was a disconnect between
what Congress authorized and what it actually appropriated.

"That's amazing," said a Senate staffer who works on immigration matters and who
was unaware of the omission. "A case of the left hand not knowing what the right
hand is doing?"

Overall, the INS has little to complain about. Congress has doubled its budget
over the last four years and has appropriated money for one of the main features
of the immigration bill: an authorization to beef up the Border Patrol by hiring
1,000 new agents a year for the next five years.

In fiscal 1996, Congress funded the administration's request for 384 new INS
investigators most of them dedicated to worksite enforcement. They were among
nearly 5,000 new employees the INS hired last fiscal year, an increase of almost
25 percent in the agency's work force.

"The presumption is that Congress will appropriate the money [for the 600 new
investigators] when it comes back in January," said INS spokesman Paul Risley.
"That's certainly our desire here."

But the omission may not have been an inadvertent lapse after all.

"The INS has consistently failed to follow through on the will of Congress,"
complained Allen Kay, a spokesman for Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), the
immigration bill's chief House sponsor. Although the INS was given funds for a
total of 1,937 investigators through fiscal 1996, it had only 1,693 on the
payroll at the end of August, Kay said.

"That is obviously unacceptable and will be the subject of oversight hearings
when the new Congress convenes," he said. He said the failure to include funding
for the authorized investigators was deliberate and that Smith expected them to
be paid for out of previously appropriated funds.

That was news to Jeffrey Weber, the INS budget chief. "I never heard any
complaints that any funding we didn't receive was because of a lack of hiring,"
he said. He was told, he said, that there was simply not enough money to go
around, and that the appropriators' priorities were putting agents on the border
and increasing detention space for illegal aliens.

While hailed by its sponsors as landmark legislation, the immigration bill in
some ways merely ratifies what the INS is already doing. One key provision
authorizes $ 12 million for new border control equipment and technology,
including a 14-mile triple fence south of San Diego.

There is already a 14-mile fence there, with double or triple tiers in some
places. The $ 12 million will fund some additional triple sections, but is not
nearly enough to backstop the whole 14 miles, INS officials say.


LOAD-DATE: October 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, INS, which patrols borders against illegal immigration, is to
hire "worksite enforcement" investigators to probe businesses' use of illegal
workers.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              22 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 16, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Groups Sue California To Save Prenatal Care; State Plans Move Against Illegal
Immigrants

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 15


The American Civil Liberties Union and a coalition of immigrant rights groups
today sought a federal court order to prevent California from withholding
prenatal care from illegal immigrant women under the recently enacted federal
welfare reform act.

It is the first legal action aimed at blocking the cutoff of medical or social
services to immigrants by a state under either the welfare reform law signed by
President Clinton in August or the immigration law he signed on Sept. 30. Last
Friday, New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani (R) filed a lawsuit challenging
sections of the two new laws allowing police and other city employees to turn in
illegal immigrants who seek services or protection.

Across the nation, public interest lawyers are combing social service agencies
for test-case plaintiffs in what officials expect to be a deluge of litigation
arising from the welfare and immigration laws.

The ACLU argued that cutting off prenatal care would jeopardize the health of
pregnant women who are illegal immigrants and that of their children, who under
the U.S. Constitution become citizens if born in the United States. It would
also dramatically increase public costs when the women and children are forced
to seek emergency medical care, the Southern California branch of the ACLU said.

ACLU legal director Mark Rosenbaum called the planned cutoff a "macabre attempt"
by Gov. Pete Wilson (R) that "guarantees infant mortality and birth defects for
citizen children in the service of blatantly political objectives."

Rosenbaum said the ACLU, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund
and other immigrant rights groups filed the action because Douglas Porter, chief
of the Medi-Cal program -- California's version of Medicaid -- for the state
Department of Health Services, said last Thursday that his department would act
"imminently" to stop providing prenatal care to undocumented women.

The ACLU's request for a temporary restraining order against the state
challenges the proposed cutoff as a violation of a 1994 federal court injunction
against California's Proposition 187, which was intended to deny most social,
medical and educational benefits to illegal immigrants, and a follow-up summary
judgment last year that has indefinitely blocked the ballot initiative.

Today's request was submitted to U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, who
issued both the 1994 injunction against Prop 187 and the later summary judgment.
Pfaelzer did not immediately schedule a hearing on the request by the ACLU,
which also contends that the threatened cutoff would violate state law requiring
"medically necessary pregnancy-related services" regardless of immigrant status.

Sean Walsh, Wilson's press secretary, called the ACLU action "madness, lawyers
run wild even before any services have been eliminated." However, he said, "We
have said from the start we will eliminate these services to illegal immigrants
because they take away or diminish services to the vast majority of Californians
who are in this country legally."

"Sixty percent of the people of California voted for Proposition 187. The U.S.
Congress passed the welfare reform bill. The president of the United States
signed the bill. The question is, are they all part of some macabre group
working for blatantly political objectives?" Walsh asked.

Susan Drake, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center here,
said that about 70,000 women living illegally in the country are receiving
prenatal care in California, down from a high of more than 90,000 in the late
1980s after an amnesty for illegal immigrants resulted in an increase of women
coming here under family reunion provisions and a subsequent baby "boomlet."

Robert A. deLemos, chairman of newborn medicine at the University of Southern
California and medical director of the newborn intensive care nurseries at Los
Angeles Children's Hospital, said, "The dollars saved by excluding these women
from programs that provide prenatal care will be offset thousands of times over
by the medical costs of caring for their infants and the loss of tax revenues to
the state."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              23 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 20, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Missing the Boat; Immigration Law Demonizes Foreigners But Solves Little

Peter Skerry

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 1227 words


The immigration bill signed into law by President Clinton late last month is a
perfect example of what's wrong with American politics these days. Having
aroused ethnic, racial and partisan rancor, the legislation will do surprisingly
little to relieve public anxiety about the largest wave of immigration to reach
these shores in a century. Instead, it will only fuel cynicism about the
government's capacity to address critical problems -- even though most people
agree that immigration is a policy area in which government has a vital role.

Seemingly the most promising aspect of the new bill is its authorization of more
Border Patrol personnel -- 1,000 new agents each year for five years, leading to
a doubling of the agency's size by the year 2001 (from 5,000 to 10,000).
Obviously, more manpower is needed to help stop illegal immigration. But how
effective will this provision be? The Border Patrol is already adding new agents
about as fast as it can. There is concern that if the ratio of inexperienced to
experienced agents gets much higher, it could jeopardize the safety of the
officers and the public, including illegal immigrants.

The target of 10,000 agents will almost certainly prove illusory because the
Border Patrol is rapidly losing experienced agents. Attrition has always been
high in this neglected branch of federal law enforcement. Agents already coping
with relatively low pay and a lack of public respect now face the Clinton
administration's controversial new policy of "deterrence." Deterrence means that
instead of pursuing illegal immigrants once they have entered the United States,
agents now maintain fixed and highly visible positions along the border. Where
this method of deployment has been tried, notably in El Paso and San Diego, it
has been effective. But it also alienates the agents, who are not only bored
with their "dumbed down" jobs but also concerned (not unreasonably) that their
pay and status may decline. This will only increase the rate of attrition.

Congress understands that our immigration problem cannot be entirely solved at
our borders, but in last month's legislative battle, neither side got it quite
right.

The restrictionists, led by the Republicans, sought to curb immigration by
limiting reliance on social welfare programs. But they overreached when they
unsuccessfully tried to define such programs as Head Start and college loans as
"welfare." They also exaggerated the extent to which such benefits attract
immigrants. As immigrant advocates have pointed out, there is little or no
evidence for such claims.

The Democrats were right to argue that social programs are not the chief cause
of immigration, but wrong to assume such programs are irrelevant. Immigrants may
not be coming here for social welfare benefits, but they may be staying here
because of them. For instance, the availability of benefits may help to explain
why the emigration rates of migrants back to their own countries are much lower
than 90 years ago. (In the first decade of this century about four emigrants
left the country for every 10 people who arrived; in the 1980s there were fewer
than two emigrants for every 10 immigrants.)

This war of half-truths reached its climax in the debate over the provision to
exclude illegal immigrant children from public schools. Ultimately dropped from
the bill, this proposal brought out the worst on both sides.

The restrictionist-Republican argument strained credulity: that illegal
immigrants come here just so that their children can attend our schools (which
in urban areas are too often overcrowded, drug-infested and crime-ridden).

Equally audacious was the immigrant advocates' insistence that keeping these
children out of the schools would boost juvenile crime and gang activity. Could
it be that immigrants are not all the gentle gardeners and brilliant
astrophysicists found in pro-immigration rhetoric?

High dropout and low achievement rates in immigrant communities indicate that
the ties between schools and immigrant families are already tenuous. In fact,
the immigrant advocates were tacitly acknowledging what they reject as
xenophobic paranoia when voiced by others: that the massive movements of human
beings we've been experiencing raise justifiable concerns about the maintenance
of social order.

All this shadow-boxing allowed both sides to avoid the one immigration control
measure that is clearly indicated by the evidence: stiffer sanctions on those
Americans who employ illegal immigrants. If the research tells us anything, it
is that jobs are the number one magnet.

This is no secret, even in Washington. But nobody wanted to confront it. The
Republicans found it easier to crack down on voteless illegal immigrants than to
penalize the small and medium-sized businesses at the heart of their
constituency. And while the Democrats made brave noises about going after
abusive employers and sweatshops, they avoided addressing the need for a secure
system of employee identification to make sanctions work. To do so would have
antagonized civil libertarians concerned about privacy and minority group
advocates worried about discrimination.

Underlying all these problems is a more fundamental flaw. As originally
envisioned by Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) and Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.),
the new legislation was to be an overhaul of legal as well as illegal
immigration. For once, lawmakers were basing their proposed legislation on solid
research evidence. Illegal and legal immigration are inextricably intertwined.
Both legal and illegal immigrants come here primarily to find work; both come
via well-established networks of family and friends; and both live in the same
neighborhoods and households.

Despite its sound conceptual basis, this would-be comprehensive legislation got
derailed last winter. When Simpson proposed an excessively drastic reduction in
legal immigration, an ad hoc Third World-Nerd World alliance emerged, uniting
immigrant advocates and high-tech employers such as Microsoft Corp.'s Bill
Gates. The result was a postponement of consideration of legal immigration
levels until the next Congress.

Ironically, a further result of last winter's confrontation was the capitulation
of immigrant advocates to an anti-illegal stance. Remember, these are the same
groups that used to denounce the term "illegal alien" in favor of "undocumented
worker." Feeling the brunt of the anti-immigration backlash, they now echo the
simple-minded formula: "legal immigrants good, illegal immigrants bad."

This formula is potentially dangerous. By legitimizing hostility against illegal
immigrants, it may foster more violent episodes such as the one in Riverside,
Calif., earlier this year, when two sheriff's deputies were videotaped brutally
attacking two suspected illegal aliens.

Worse, this preoccupation with illegal immigration may persuade Americans that
the whole problem has been addressed. It hasn't. The history of immigration
policy in the postwar era has been one of inaccurate predictions, unintended
consequences and inflated expectations -- along with constantly rising levels of
immigration, both legal and illegal. This bill does nothing to change that
pattern.

Peter Skerry is a visiting fellow in the governmental studies program at the
Brookings Institution.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              24 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 24, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Is Lax in Finding, Deporting Illegal Aliens Who Defraud U.S., Report Says

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 696 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has failed to go after thousands of
illegal aliens who fraudulently obtained immigration documents from corrupt
officials and used them to acquire a variety of federal benefits, an internal
Justice Department investigation has found.

In a report completed in September and released yesterday by a congressional
committee, the Justice Department's inspector general said the INS has "made
little effort to locate or deport aliens" who obtained documents fraudulently
and has not acted to prevent them from receiving benefits.

Among these benefits, the report said, were permanent resident status, welfare
payments, employment authorization, the ability to bring in relatives as legal
immigrants and even naturalization as U.S. citizens.

The INS responded that it "concurs in part" and is developing a system to
correct fraudulent entries in INS databases. INS officials said the system would
be implemented within months.

Neither the inspector general nor the INS offered any estimate of how many
illegal aliens obtained "genuine" immigration documents through bribery or
fraud, but several INS corruption cases have been uncovered in recent years.

At the INS office in Arlington three years ago, several INS employees were
convicted of bribery and conspiracy for issuing about 4,100 work permits to
ineligible aliens.

Just yesterday, in Newark, N.J., a former INS criminal investigator was
sentenced to 16 months in prison for taking a $ 4,000 bribe in exchange for a
metal INS template used to produce permanent residency cards.

The inspector general's report was released by the Republican-controlled House
Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, which currently is investigating a
record increase in naturalizations by the INS in fiscal 1996. Congressional
Republicans have accused the Clinton administration of rushing through the
naturalization of more than 1 million immigrants in the past year, often without
adequate checks on their criminal backgrounds, to swell the ranks of Democratic
voters in next month's elections. Administration officials say glitches
responsible for a small number of improper naturalizations have been resolved.

The inspector general's report also noted that the presence in the United States
of more than 4 million illegal aliens has spawned a "cottage industry" in fake
documentation, to which the INS has responded by developing "a new generation of
highly counterfeit-resistant" permanent resident, employment authorization and
border crossing cards. But the agency has failed to deal adequately with the
consequences of corruption within its own ranks, the study found. Less common
than the counterfeiting rings, this fraud involves the bribery of INS employees
to act favorably on applications, provide blank INS documents or stamps or alter
electronic records, the report said. As a result, the beneficiaries receive
genuine documents through fraudulent means.

When corruption is discovered, the Justice Department typically prosecutes the
employees who accepted bribes, those who paid them and the vendors who sold the
documents to the illegal aliens. But in most cases, the recipients of the
documents go scot-free, the report said.

Among the reasons INS officials cited for this inaction, according to the
report, were a shortage of detention space, an overloaded and under-funded
deportation system and more pressing investigative priorities.

In carrying out its investigation, the inspector general's office audited 36
case files involving more than 2,400 aliens who benefited from document fraud.
It said it found widespread "pessimism" among INS officials about the
government's ability to deport illegal aliens still at large and a reluctance to
add to a backlog of more than 460,000 illegal aliens already in deportation
proceedings.

In two cases in New York involving nearly 600 aliens, it said, "we found no
evidence that INS had attempted to pursue any of the aliens who benefited from
the document fraud."

While prosecutions are not the responsibility of the INS, it said, the agency
should at least try to deport these beneficiaries.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              25 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 24, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Cubans Reaching U.S. Illegally Will Now Be Sent Back to Island

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 23


Cuban refugees reaching the United States illegally will be sent back to Cuba
from now on, U.S. immigration officials said today.

The controversial move, discussed for several months, marks the end of a policy
of virtually automatic asylum for Cubans and has angered Cuban exiles in the
United States.

"This is this closing of the 'underground railway,' " Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart
(R-Fla.) told Reuter. "It will be seen by history as an infamous step."

Lemar Wooley, an Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) spokesman, said
the Miami immigration office received the new instructions Friday. They went
into effect immediately, retroactive to Dec. 6.

The Cubans could be returned only if the Havana government accepted them, he
added. If Cuba rejected their return, they would remain in detention in the
United States until their cases were resolved.

"Cuban migrants who illegally entered the United States after Dec. 6, 1996, are
being treated as illegal entrants and are being placed into proceedings as are
all illegal entrants from other countries," the INS said in a brief statement
Saturday.

Immigration officials declined to describe the move as a change in policy, but
it caps a gradual shift in treatment of Cuban refugees. In May, Washington
announced that "rafters" picked up at sea would be returned.

Thousands of people have risked their lives to flee Cuba over the years,
crossing the Straits of Florida in flimsy boats, rafts and inflated inner tubes
for tires.

Unlike illegal migrants from other countries, they were allowed to stay in the
United States because of Washington's hostility to President Fidel Castro's
government.

In September 1994, after a crisis in which 30,000 Cubans tried to cross the
straits, Washington and Havana reached a pact under which the United States
would issue 20,000 visas a year.

The new directive on illegal arrivals, reached after talks between U.S. and
Cuban officials, was aimed in part at bolstering the legal migration accord, INS
officials said.

The closing of the back door has infuriated the large Cuban community in Miami.
Cuban exile groups earlier this month issued a joint statement calling it an
"infamy" and demanding President Clinton reverse the policy.

Diaz-Balart, who is of Cuban origin, said today: "It needs to be condemned and
the protests have to continue. This is totally unacceptable."

He said the Clinton administration wanted to normalize relations with Cuba. But
this goal was frustrated by Cuba's shooting down in February of two planes of an
exile group, Brothers to the Rescue, which prompted the tightening of a U.S.
embargo on the island.

"The refugees are bearing the brunt of that," the congressman declared.

Cubans now held in detention in Miami or elsewhere in the United States will be
paroled if they arrived before Dec. 6 and provided they are not criminals, the
INS said.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              26 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 31, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Legal Foreign Students Paying A Price Under Immigration Law

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 811 words


Iris Siefert had not paid much attention to the new immigration law until she
tried to register the son of a Lithuanian friend in a California high school
earlier this month. That was when an obscure provision of the law caught up with
her -- and with the family finances.

"I was suddenly informed that he would have to pay $ 2,000 for the semester due
to the new bill's passage," Siefert wrote in a Dec. 11 letter to President
Clinton. The Escondido, Calif., resident, who had been one of the questioners at
a presidential debate in San Diego, then asked the local high school whether
children who are illegal immigrants would have to pay as well.

The short answer was no. By federal mandate, illegal immigrant students are
entitled to a public education at taxpayer expense, and the school is not even
allowed to ask their immigration status.

Siefert's experience raised one of the ironies of the new immigration law, which
was signed by President Clinton Sept. 30 after intensive wrangling, much of it
over the issue of educating illegal immigrant children.

Essentially, the law says, foreign students who come to the United States
unaccompanied by their parents under visas known as F-1s will have to start
paying the cost of their middle and high school education. The law, which took
effect Nov. 30, limits their study to one year. In addition, foreign children in
grade six or below can no longer obtain F-1 visas to attend U.S. public
elementary schools. But no such rules apply to those who enter the country
illegally.

The provision does not affect foreign exchange students, who are in a different
visa category, those who attend private schools or those who come with their
parents under other immigrant or nonimmigrant visas. In fiscal 1995, the last
year for which figures are available, the State Department issued 228,000 F-1
visas. No statistics are kept on how many visas went to secondary- or
elementary-school students, but most are believed to have been issued to
tuition-paying college students.

According to one of the provision's sponsors, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.),
the law is aimed at discouraging what critics have dubbed "parachute kids":
children who come to the United States unaccompanied by their parents, often
wealthy Asians, to attend U.S. public schools free. Many live with relatives and
do well in school but some stay with paid guardians or even other students and
have become a law-enforcement problem, in addition to a drain on state coffers,
Feinstein's office said.

Unsupervised parachute kids have become a "prime target for gang recruitment" in
some areas, said Susan Kennedy, a spokeswoman for Feinstein. She said that a
1990 UCLA study estimated that 40,000 parachute kids age 8 to 18 were in the
United States on F-1 visas from Taiwan alone, and that smaller numbers had come
from South Korea and Hong Kong.

The provision has generally baffled schools that have had to deal with it, many
of which were not previously aware of the law and were hard pressed to figure
out the full cost of educating a student.

Unlike this provision, which sailed through without fanfare, an amendment to end
free public education for illegal immigrant children became the focus of bitter
debate and drew a threat from President Clinton to veto any immigration bill
containing it. Sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), the amendment in its
final version would have allowed illegal immigrant children who were already
enrolled in public school to complete high school. It would also have given
states the option of denying free public education to those who enrolled after
July 1, 1997.

Gallegly said the intention was to end an "unfunded federal mandate" that costs
states around $ 4 billion a year nationwide, half of it in California alone. The
amendment passed the House, but encountered stiff opposition in the Senate and
was deleted from the final bill.

Immigration advocates argue that requiring legally admitted foreign students to
pay tuition and ending free public education for illegal immigrants are separate
issues. But the distinction is lost on Siefert, who has complained about the
situation vociferously in her community near San Diego. Of Lithuanian origin,
she said she wanted to help the son of Arvydas Jouzaitis, a former Olympic
medal-winning swimmer and Lithuanian independence activist.

"Here you have a ridiculous situation in which people who abide by the law and
enter the country legally are severely punished by having to pay thousands of
dollars, while people who enter illegally are rewarded with a free
taxpayer-funded education," she said in a telephone interview.

"I'm not objecting to the fact we have to pay," she added later. "I'm objecting
to the fact that millions of illegals don't. They're the ones who are putting
the burden on the system."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              27 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 28, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

INS Aides May Face Charges In Scheme to Fool Congress

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 469 words


The Justice Department is considering whether to file criminal charges against
senior immigration officials who received administrative penalties last week for
their part in an elaborate scheme to hoodwink a congressional task force
examining illegal immigration, a department official said yesterday.

One immigration official was fired and 11 others were demoted or suspended
following a lengthy investigation and disciplinary process. The punishments came
20 months after senior field managers in the Immigration and Naturalization
Service released dozens of illegal aliens from a Miami detention facility to
make conditions look better to visiting members of Congress.

The scheme backfired when outraged INS employees complained about it afterward.

Assistant Attorney General Stephen Colgate told a hearing of the House Judiciary
immigration subcommittee yesterday that the Justice Department is reviewing an
inspector general's report to determine whether any criminal charges are
warranted.

Of the 12 officials involved, five were demoted and six were suspended without
pay for periods ranging from two to 15 days, said Carole Florman, a Justice
Department spokeswoman.

Two other employees, for whom the department earlier had recommended punishment,
were not included in the final disciplinary action, although one will be
reassigned, she said.

Reacting to the sanctions, the leader of the congressional delegation, Rep.
Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), said those involved deserved harsher punishment.
"These officials broke the law and endangered the general public," he said. Yet
they received "nothing more than a slap on the wrist."

At yesterday's hearing, Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) accused the INS of a "lack
of management accountability" and said the case showed "either negligence or
mismanagement" by the agency.

The INS said the dismissed official was Valerie Blake, who had been deputy
district director in Miami.

Other officials who received some type of punishment included Carol D. Chasse,
the eastern regional director based in Vermont; Michael Devine, the deputy
eastern regional director; Walter D. Cadman, the Miami district director; and
Constance Weiss, the administrator of the Krome detention center near Miami.

Concerned that chronic overcrowding and understaffing at Krome would reflect
badly on the INS, officials released or transferred 101 of the 407 illegal
aliens detained there shortly before the congressional delegation's visit on
June 10, 1995. Of 58 who were released into the community, four were criminals,
17 had unknown criminal histories and 35 had not been medically cleared, the
inspector general reported.

At Miami International Airport, detainees were moved to a nonsecure area as part
of a similar ruse, the inspector general said.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig, Rep. Lamar S. Smith said the case showed "either
negligence or mismanagement" by the INS.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              28 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 27, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Pall Over Immigrants' American Dream; Many Are Alarmed by New Law's Tougher
Requirements for Remaining in U.S.

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2368 words


Eldar Brizuela, a Peruvian housekeeper and former nanny, works 60 hours a week
dusting furniture and vacuuming rugs for three Washington area families. Between
jobs, she rushes to ballet classes and soccer matches with her 8-year-old
daughter, Roussy. Her employers say she is terrific; her lifestyle is modest;
and she pays her income taxes faithfully.

But legally, Brizuela, 38, should not be in the United States. When her
temporary work visa expired a decade ago, she stayed anyway, keeping a low
profile and never coming to the attention of immigration authorities. Now, the
single mother from Silver Spring could be deported because her adopted country
is launching a new crackdown on illegal immigrants.

On Tuesday, April 1, when key provisions of the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act take effect, Brizuela and an estimated 5 million
other undocumented immigrants will have six months to become legal -- or risk
being expelled from the United States for three years and forced to reapply for
admission.

Those who remain in the country illegally for a full year after Tuesday, if they
are discovered or leave the country for any reason, will be prohibited from
returning for a decade. Those who are deported and then caught trying to sneak
back in will be barred forever.

Despite alarming rumors that have swept immigrant communities in recent weeks,
government officials say that there will be no mass deportations next month and
that they will focus most aggressively on foreigners who have committed crimes.
Moreover, critics of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say they doubt
authorities have either the ability or the will to track down and deport several
million people.

But there is no question that the 600-page measure enacted by Congress last
year, if strictly and widely enforced, will make it much more difficult for all
illegal residents to remain in or enter the United States. Those at risk include
visitors or workers with expired visas, political asylum seekers, Central
American war refugees and people who crossed the border without documents.

Proponents of the new law say it is needed to reverse the flow of illegal
immigrants, who they say compete with Americans for jobs, drain public services
and cost the government millions of dollars to pursue. But immigrant rights
advocates warn that the crackdown will separate families, punish law-abiding
workers and cause great financial sacrifice for people who have been in this
country for years.

According to immigration authorities, the illegal population currently includes
about 2.9 million foreigners, mostly Latin Americans, who entered the United
States without visas and settled invisibly into immigrant communities, plus 2.1
million people like Brizuela who overstayed their visas. The new law also will
affect about 320,000 Central American refugees whose temporary wartime amnesties
have ended.

In Maryland, Virginia and the District, officials estimate that there are
129,000 illegal immigrants, most of them from Central America and the Caribbean.
In the District, war refugees from El Salvador far outnumber all other
immigrants.

A Tougher Standard

Under the new law, illegal immigrants who are ordered deported will have to meet
a much tougher standard to win a reprieve. They will have to prove to an
immigration judge that returning to their native countries would cause "extreme
and exceptional hardship" to immediate relatives -- such as a chronically ill
child or a frail, elderly parent -- who are U.S. citizens or legal residents.

"Just because you have lived in the United States for several years and don't
want to go home, that's not a legitimate reason," said Rep. Lamar S. Smith
(R-Tex.), the driving force behind the new law. "We still have the hardship
provision, but now it will be enforced as it was originally intended, so people
won't use a humanitarian gesture in the law as a loophole to never leave."

The law also places stricter limits on applying for political asylum, whether
the immigrant has just arrived at a U.S. airport or has been living here for
some time. As of Tuesday, asylum seekers will have fewer chances to make the
case that they fear persecution or torture if they go home, and they will have
less time to file their claims.

Finally, the new law attempts to ensure that legal immigrants will not end up on
welfare after being brought here by their families. Starting next month, a
citizen or legal resident who sponsors a relative will have to prove that he or
she can support that person at 125 percent of the poverty level, which is $
22,000 for a family of four.

In recent months, thousands of undocumented immigrants have rushed to legalize
their status under the current law. Some, trying to win permanent residency,
have applied for political asylum or hastily married a U.S. citizen. Others have
turned themselves in for deportation, hoping to receive more lenient treatment.

Technically, according to the INS, illegal immigrants who receive a deportation
notice before Tuesday can have their hardship claims judged under the old law.
Many judges, however, are expected to follow the new guidelines, according to
immigration lawyers, and some judges have postponed hearings until the new law
takes effect.

The INS warned last week at a news conference that taking steps to become legal
before Tuesday "provides no advantage" to applicants, who have until Sept. 30 to
adjust their immigration status. But the sooner an immigrant takes action to
become legal, the sooner the case will work its way through the crowded
immigration courts.

Making a Hardship Case

Eldar Brizuela turned herself in several months ago in hopes of winning a waiver
from deportation. She argued that it would be a great hardship for her daughter,
a U.S. citizen, to move to Peru because she would have to give up her
scholarship to an exclusive parochial school, learn Spanish from scratch and
lose all contact with her father, whom she has seen periodically since her
parents divorced.

"I can't imagine taking Roussy back there after all these years," said Brizuela,
frowning as she polished knickknacks in a stately Northwest Washington home.
"Here she is building a future. She loves her ballet and soccer, and the
teachers tell me she is very good at math. In Peru, what could I earn? How could
I give her any kind of life?"

Under the old immigration guidelines, a sympathetic judge might have ruled in
Brizuela's favor. But by July, when her hearing is scheduled, the stricter
standards will be in place. If Roussy suffered from a serious illness such as a
congenital heart ailment, Brizuela might still be allowed to stay under the new
rules. But INS officials say the disruption of schooling or family ties alone
will not be sufficient reason to let illegal immigrants remain.

Immigration judges will still give some weight to economic factors, such as
whether the person facing deportation is the only source of financial support
for a child who was born here. But exactly how the new guidelines will be
interpreted in court, particularly the stricter definition of hardship, won't be
known until judges begin ruling on individual cases.

Even if Brizuela does manage to qualify for a deportation waiver, she might not
get one. Congress has limited the number of such reprieves to 4,000 a year, and
there has been such a surge in applications in recent months that the 1996-97
ceiling already has been reached.

Like Brizuela, many other illegal immigrants are struggling to survive on
part-time or other low-paying jobs with no benefits. Yet they say they dread
having to go back to countries where living standards and wages are even worse.

Javier and Consuelo Martinez, a couple from rural Mexico with two small
children, would do anything to stay in Woodbridge, where he works as a carpenter
and the family shares a crowded house with relatives. Last winter, they applied
for a waiver from deportation, but their case has been postponed repeatedly.
Their lawyer fears they have virtually no chance of winning under the new law.

"I came here to work honorably, not to take charity," said Javier Martinez, 29,
who was waiting in the lawyer's office with his wife, 25, who bounced a toddler
on her lap. "In my village, there is no electricity, no running water. We would
live in a tiny room with my parents. The schools are very poor. . . . I cannot
bear to imagine it."

Of course, not all illegal immigrants are model residents. In largely Latino
communities such as Langley Park, police have arrested a number of drug dealers
who turned out to be in this country illegally. Last year, an INS national task
force on gangs arrested 4,388 illegal immigrants, mostly from Mexico and Central
America, including one Salvadoran gang member from the District who had been
convicted of sexually assaulting a child.

INS Focuses on Criminals

Immigration authorities acknowledge that it would be difficult to find and
deport several million immigrants, but they say they intend to target "criminal
aliens" in particular. Under the new law, noncitizens who commit a wide variety
of crimes, from shoplifting to murder, can be deported as "aggravated felons."

"Congress has passed a law, and we have to respond. But as a practical matter,
we will continue to have our priorities," said a regional INS official who spoke
on condition of anonymity. "That means you won't see any initial change in the
enforcement of visa overstays, but you will see significant emphasis on going
after criminal aliens and employers" who hire undocumented workers.

But proponents of the new law say the tougher restrictions should be applied to
every undocumented immigrant, even those who work hard and pay taxes, to make up
for years of bureaucratic drift and judicial leniency that rewarded foreigners
who sneaked in ahead of those waiting in line abroad.

"The immigration service has become one big rubber-stamping agency, and our big
fear is that they will continue to wink and nod at the problem," said Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. He called
the legislative crackdown a "byproduct of years of mismanagement" at the INS and
an effort to "shut the loopholes" pried open by immigration lawyers.

"An alien's ability to immigrate should be based on his willingness to obey our
laws," Stein said.

As immigrant advocates see it, however, the new law is an exercise in
mean-spiritedness. They say it sets out to eliminate every possible avenue for
an undocumented foreigner to remain here while punishing severely those who fail
to comply with regulations. In the name of systemic reform, they argue, Congress
has forgotten that immigrants are human beings.

"This is zero tolerance," said Carol Wolchok, director of the American Bar
Association's immigration program in Washington. Although the new rules allow
for some hardship exceptions, "the law doesn't take into consideration any of
the individual human circumstances that until now immigration judges have had
some discretion to relieve," she said. "These are people with families, people
related to American citizens, people who have felt persecuted in their
countries."

The ax, according to immigrant rights groups, will fall most heavily on
political asylum seekers -- those foreigners who arrive without permission at
U.S. airports or borders and seek protection from war or repression. Until now,
most were allowed to enter and stay until their cases were heard by an
immigration judge.

But as of Tuesday, foreigners who try to enter the country with false documents
or none at all can be sent back on the spot unless they convince an immigration
officer that they have a "credible fear" of returning home. If they pass that
hurdle, they must undergo a formal asylum hearing, while in custody, within 48
hours.

If an asylum seeker is already in the United States and does not ask for asylum
within a year, the person will lose the right to apply. But immigration
officials say they do not plan to start enforcing that provision of the law
until April 1998.

Giselle, a shy, 29-year-old seamstress from Togo, recently sought help at the
Ayuda Inc. legal aid clinic in Adams-Morgan. She told the lawyer in halting,
whispered French that she had been arrested by soldiers in 1994 while passing
out political pamphlets, kept in a cell for two weeks and raped repeatedly.

With the help of relatives, she said, she eventually fled to the United States
on a six-month tourist visa but was too ashamed and frightened to explain to
U.S. officials what had happened. Her visa expired months ago, and she has been
hiding at a friend's house in Northeast Washington.

"I do not like to speak of what happened to me, but I cannot go back there.
[Togo's] government is like a god that does whatever it wants with you," said
Giselle, who asked that her last name not be published. "I can do nothing in my
condition, not even get a job at McDonald's. . . . [But] I would rather be in
prison in this country than in mine."

If Ayuda files an asylum claim for her, there is a chance Giselle can win her
case. But since she waited more than a year to come forward, she might, under
the new law, be barred from applying at all. And since she is living here
illegally, she could then be deported.

Refugee advocates are worried about low-level immigration officers suddenly
having the power to act as judge and jury of a refugee's fate. But immigration
officials say they have trained hundreds of agents to handle the new asylum
process sensitively and to give people the benefit of the doubt. The new law,
they argue, will protect bona fide refugees while weeding out thousands of
fraudulent asylum claims.

"We take very seriously our responsibility to afford protection to people who
are fleeing persecution and torture," said Paul Virtue, an executive associate
commissioner of the INS. "We believe the new process affords enough checks and
balances so that people don't fall through the cracks."

Tomorrow: How the new law and foreign policy changes will affect Central
American war refugees.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dayna smith; Chart, The Washington Post; Photo, juana arias;
Illustration, IMPACT OF NEW IMMIGRATION LAW BEFORE April 1 * Refugees could
apply for political asylum at any time after entering the United States.  *
Refugees detained while entering the United States could request asylum and
automatically have the right to a hearing before an immigration judge.  *
Immigrants ordered deported could win the right to remain in the United States
if they had been here seven years and could prove deportation would cause them
hardship.  * Foreign visitors with visas could leave the United States to travel
or obtain new visas without being barred from returning.  * Immigrants who were
deported and then tried to reenter the United States illegally could remain if
they paid bond and were claimed by a relative.  * U.S. citizens who sponsored
relatives for immigration had to pledge that the immigrant would not become a
burden on the government.  AFTER April 1 * Asylum seekers must apply within one
year of entering the United States, though new rules will not be enforced until
April 1, 1998.  * Asylum seekers must convince an immigration officer that they
are afraid to return home, or they can be immediately deported. If the officer
believes them, they will be given an asylum hearing within 48 hours.  *
Immigrants ordered deported can win the right to stay only if they have been
here 10 years and can prove it would cause extreme hardship to a relative who is
a U.S. citizen or legal resident.  * Visitors with expired visas must return
home to reapply. Anyone who remains illegally in the United States longer than
six months to a year, if caught, will be barred from returning for three to 10
years.  * Immigrants who have been deported and who try to reenter the United
States illegally will be barred from ever legally returning.  * For U.S.
citizens to sponsor relatives, they must prove they can support them at 125
percent of the poverty level until they become citizens or work for 10 years.
SOURCES: Illegal Immigration

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              29 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 04, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

9 Arrested in Fairfax Immigration Raid

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 155 words


Nearly 90 immigration and law-enforcement officers surrounded the Fairfax County
jail complex yesterday and arrested nine construction workers on charges of
violating immigration laws, officials said.

The workers were helping to build a 750-bed addition to the Fairfax County Adult
Detention Center, an official said. After their arrest by U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents, they were taken back to the jail to be booked, he
said.

Because of the unusual location and the number of escape routes at the
seven-story building, members of the sheriff's department's emergency response
team, Fairfax County police and the Secret Service joined the operation.

INS conducted an investigation after officials with the sheriff's department,
which operates the jail, found what they thought were forged documents,
unauthorized work permits and invalid green cards during an unrelated
investigation, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              30 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 02, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

INS Pursuing Aliens in Urban Gangs; New Immigration Law Aids Agents in Drive to
Put Criminals Out of the Country

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1485 words


As Nelson Vladimir Iraheta stood in a shopping center parking lot with his hands
cuffed behind him, his surprise at being arrested quickly gave way to
indignation.

"I went to prison already, man," the 26-year-old Salvadoran complained to the
Arlington police and federal agents who took him into custody one recent
evening. He demanded to see the arrest warrant, insisting he had done nothing
wrong since his release from jail a few months earlier.

In fact, Iraheta was not being charged with any new crime. The warrant was an
administrative one from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. It was
issued because he is an illegal alien with a criminal record, and a suspected
member of a violent street gang in Northern Virginia.

Iraheta, now being held in Louisiana pending deportation, is among nearly 4,400
legal and illegal immigrants who have been arrested across the country in the
last two years as part of an INS attempt to crack down on "criminal aliens,"
particularly those belonging to street gangs. While recent INS enforcement
efforts have been devoted largely to plugging the southwestern border and
occasional raids on work sites, the activities of a little-known INS program
called the Violent Gang Task Force have brought the agency and its extensive
federal powers to bear in a realm traditionally considered outside its purview:
fighting urban crime.

Using the broad jurisdiction of the INS and community-based resources of the
local police, the program is aimed at taking immigrants with criminal records
off U.S. streets -- permanently -- by bundling them out of the country within
weeks. The effort has received a major boost lately from a new immigration law,
which takes a tougher line against immigrants who commit crimes.

Although the INS has always had the power to deport illegal aliens, it has only
recently begun concentrating on the criminals among them. Many of the resulting
deportations stem from a program that takes criminal aliens directly from prison
after they serve their sentences. By contrast, the Violent Gang Task Force
targets those who are still at large, and thus more difficult and dangerous to
catch.

Formed in 1992, the task force has worked with police in 16 cities, including
greater Washington. But with only 120 of the immigration service's 1,600 special
agents assigned to it nationwide, it remains a fairly limited response to what
officials say is a growing law enforcement and immigration problem: the
proliferation of "alien gangs" in a number of immigrant communities across the
United States.

In Los Angeles, a predominantly Latino gang called 18th Street has surpassed
better-known groups such as the Bloods and Crips in size and strength, federal
officials said. It has an estimated 20,000 members in Southern California alone,
about 60 percent of them illegal immigrants. Affiliated with a deadly prison
gang called the Mexican Mafia, 18th Street is involved in a wide variety of
criminal activity, including drug dealing in alliance with Mexican and Colombian
cartels, officials said.

Its main rival is a gang called La Mara Salvatrucha, which has emerged as a
force among immigrants from El Salvador on the West Coast. (Mara is a term for
gang, and Salvatrucha translates roughly as street-smart Salvadorans.)

To the alarm of local law enforcement officials, both have shown up around
Washington, along with other Latino-based gangs such as La Mara Li and Brown
Union. Asian gangs also have proliferated here, including one in Northern
Virginia called Tiny Rascal Gangsters.

Little is known about any of these groups, and officials can only guess at their
local membership: a couple of thousand for the Latino gangs combined and a
smaller number for the Asian gangs.

Of their propensity for violence, however, there is no doubt. In an incident in
March, a 17-year-old Vietnamese immigrant associated with the Tiny Rascal
Gangsters was fatally shot in the head outside an Arlington pool hall known as a
hangout for Asian gangs. The killing may have been in retaliation for an
incident there the night before in which an 18-year-old Asian affiliated with
another gang was shot and wounded.

Since November in the Washington area, the Violent Gang Task Force has arrested
more than 30 alien gang members with previous criminal convictions and
identified 50 others who are serving time in local jails. Their criminal records
mean they can be deported, even if they are legal immigrants, and the INS can
often hold them without bond.

"If you're a criminal alien, it's pretty much one strike and you're out," said
Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman.

The new immigration law includes changes designed to increase and facilitate
deportations. It expands the category of deportable criminal aliens by
broadening the definition of "aggravated felony" and applying it retroactively
to crimes committed before the law was passed. Rape, sexual abuse of a minor and
various other crimes were added to the definition, and the thresholds for fines
and prison sentences were lowered.

The law also limits judicial review of most deportations of criminal aliens and
expands INS detention facilities. Chronic shortages of detention space have
impeded deportations, INS officials said.

"We never had a problem with arresting people," said Allen Provencal, an INS
supervisory special agent on the task force. "We had a problem with where we
were going to put them."

The INS found room for Iraheta and another convicted criminal, Juan Martinez, a
31-year-old construction worker from Mexico who was arrested in Arlington the
same night. Martinez also was sent to a Louisiana jail to await deportation,
even though he is a legal U.S. resident.

Surrounded by police and INS agents in the gathering dusk at a shopping center
parking lot, the slightly built Iraheta, whose gang nickname is Pollo ("chicken"
in Spanish) for his skinny appearance, said he did not understand what was
happening to him. Wearing a black Nautica T-shirt and baggy, green Tommy
Hilfiger pants, he was on his way to play soccer with friends when he was picked
up.

Iraheta said he was no longer a gang member and was working as a carpenter. He
has been in the United States for more than seven years and has two U.S.-born
daughters by his former Salvadoran girlfriend, he said.

But according to John Rizik of the Arlington Police, Iraheta was a member of a
Salvadoran gang called La Mara Li and still associates with its members. (Li
stands for locos intocables, meaning "untouchable crazies.")

Iraheta has been arrested several times on various charges since he crossed the
U.S.-Mexico border illegally in 1989, and he has served jail terms in Virginia
on drug and assault charges, police said.

"He thinks that because he did his time, he's home free," said Lloyd Miner, an
INS special agent assigned to the Violent Gang Task Force. Now, Miner said, the
INS will make sure Iraheta is deported, and if he gets caught in the United
States after that, he will face 20 years in prison.

If the INS wanted to deport him, Iraheta asked, why didn't the agency grab him
when he was in jail? Since his release, he has been trying to stay out of
trouble, he said, and the alleged gang members he associates with are boyhood
friends from El Salvador.

Similarly, Martinez, who became a permanent U.S. resident in 1990 under an
amnesty for illegal aliens, had been out of jail for three months since
receiving a one-year sentence for assaulting a police officer. Although he
actually served only five days in jail, the one-year sentence made him
deportable, and he too was hauled in under an INS warrant.

Other "criminal aliens" often slip through the system, however, in part because
state and local authorities do not check immigration status. High on the INS
wanted list here, for example, is Pedro Morales, a Salvadoran gang member who
was deported for a gun offense and returned illegally. He was jailed last year
in Prince William County for auto theft, but was mistakenly released under an
alias and is now at large, INS officials said.

"The system often can't deal properly with these individuals," INS spokesman
Bergeron said. "They often get arrested and released, or cop a plea and get
sentenced to time served, and as a result they never come into a system that's
designed to allow INS to identify them."

Of those arrested by the gang task force in the last two years, INS figures
show, the vast majority were from Mexico. They were followed by immigrants from
the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Vietnam and El Salvador. More than 60 other
countries also were represented, including China, Nigeria, Russia, Britain, Iran
and Singapore. Task force teams seized more than $ 87 million worth of drugs,
cars, cash and guns during the last two years and were pursuing at least 88
investigations nationwide at the start of this year.


LOAD-DATE: May 02, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Salvadoran Nelson Vladimir "Pollo" Iraheta stands
handcuffed in Arlington parking lot with INS agents Lloyd Miner, left, and Allen
Provencal of the agency's Violent Gang Task Force.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              31 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 19, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Immigration Fraud Schemes Proliferating Inside U.S.; With INS Focused on the
Borders, Illegal Aliens Who Get Across Are 'Home Free,' Officials Say

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1067 words


As the United States has focused on tightening control of its borders, illegal
aliens have taken advantage of reduced immigration enforcement inside the
country to launch numerous fraud schemes to settle here indefinitely and receive
a variety of federal immigration benefits, according to U.S. officials and
internal documents.

Most of those who engage in immigration fraud come here to work and improve
their living standard. But some are terrorists and criminals, notably members of
Russian and Chinese crime syndicates, government documents show.

Unless more effort is devoted to detecting and stopping fraud, U.S. officials
said, attempts to control illegal immigration will fail.

Once illegal immigrants enter the United States, the sources said, a lack of
enforcement capability by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
within the country and the easy availability of fraudulent documents ensure
that, in most cases, they are "home free." This creates a continuing "pull
factor" that encourages people to risk crossing the border illegally despite
tightened controls there or to use various other means to gain entry.

"Immigration fraud has increased dramatically in recent years and currently
pervades all aspects of [INS] responsibility," a recent internal INS report
said.

The issue is to be the subject of a hearing Tuesday before the House Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration chaired by Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.).

Of greatest concern to U.S. authorities is a sharp increase in what is known as
"benefit application fraud." In contrast to document fraud -- in which fake
passports, visas, birth certificates, Social Security cards, work permits and
other documents are used to enter or function in the United States -- benefit
fraud involves obtaining legal immigration status through fraudulent means.
Often, document fraud leads to benefit fraud, resulting in various types of U.S.
visas, political asylum, permanent residence and even U.S. citizenship.

After an ineligible applicant receives a valid, government-issued document --
such as alien registration card, or "green card," denoting legal immigrant
status -- the fraud is "unlikely to be detected thereafter," the INS report
says. "In addition to the wide range of INS programs affected," it adds, "the
sheer volume of fraudulent applications relating to a single benefit fraud
scheme can be enormous, and the structure of the criminal conspiracy complex."
In one case, nearly half of 22,000 applications filed by one immigration
consulting firm on behalf of illegal aliens seeking amnesty were proved or
suspected to be fraudulent, and 54 people who had collected more than $ 9
million in fees were prosecuted.

More worrisome, the report says, is that "alien criminals and terrorists
manipulate the benefit application process to facilitate expansion of their
illegal activities, such as crimes of violence, narcotics trafficking, terrorism
and entitlement fraud." For example, Mir Aimal Kansi, a Pakistani terrorist
wanted for fatally shooting two CIA employees outside the agency's headquarters
in 1993, had obtained two green cards, one through a political asylum
application and the other through the amnesty program.

Among cases under investigation are some in which Russian and Chinese organized
crime figures, smugglers, money-launderers, prostitutes, restaurant workers and
low-wage laborers have gained entry as executives of phony businesses through a
notoriously porous nonimmigrant visa category known as L-1A. The L-1A visas are
meant to facilitate "intra-company transfers" of foreign businessmen to set up
or manage U.S. subsidiaries.

INS investigators on the East Coast have identified more than 200 shell
companies set up in intra-company transfer schemes by Russian criminal
enterprises involved in illegal arms sales, drug trafficking and extortion. One
brazen gangster filed for an extension of his visa while serving a prison
sentence for a felony conviction.

According to a recent INS intelligence report, "thousands of Chinese are using
the L-1A visa as a means of legalized smuggling." People smuggled into the
United States by this means typically pay brokers up to $ 50,000 to assemble the
fraudulent documents and other material needed to support the visa application
and often file petitions for permanent immigrant status once they enter the
country.

An October 1996 State Department bulletin said investigations by the U.S.
consulate in Guangzhou showed that 90 percent of L-1A applications in China's
Hainan Province were "wholly fraudulent." It said the consulate in Shanghai also
"has a burgeoning problem with L-1A visa fraud and is without the resources to
investigate most cases."

The addresses listed for the U.S.-based subsidiaries to which the applicants are
transferring often turn out to be "flea-bag motels," mail drops, apartments, the
offices of immigration "consultants" or unrelated Chinese businesses that are
used as fronts, the INS report said. In one case, a man granted an L-1A visa as
a "corporate officer" of an import-export firm was found by investigators at the
listed address "sitting in a barn, wearing dirty old clothes and sorting some
type of vegetables." The phony company was one of four using the address.

In most cases, however, suspected benefit fraud is never investigated because,
the INS says, it lacks the manpower and resources to do so. With 1,600 agents
dedicated to interior enforcement nationwide -- less than half the number of
police officers in Washington -- the INS investigative branch is spread so thin
that more than half the fraud cases referred to it by INS service centers go
unaddressed, officials say.

"We have a large number of suspected fraudulent applications in our hands that
we can't even touch," one senior investigator said.

Because of a "proliferation of benefit fraud," the workload on the fewer than
200 INS agents who specialize in fraud investigations nationwide has increased
more than six-fold in the last 10 years, an INS paper on the issue says.

In its 1998 budget request, the INS investigations branch asked for 304 new
positions to establish fraud investigative teams, but the number was eliminated
by the time the overall budget was submitted. For interior enforcement, the INS
investigations branch estimates that it needs 3,200 new positions in 1999.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp, Mir Aimal Kansi, a Pakistani terrorist wanted for fatally
shooting two CIA employees outside the agency's Langley headquarters in 1993,
had obtained two green cards, one through a political asylum application and the
other through the amnesty program.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              32 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 06, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Addenda

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 527 words


* The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it had arrested nearly 3,700
illegal workers at more than 480 businesses during a six-week operation that
covered 13 states. It said the operation was part of its continuing crackdown on
firms that employ illegal aliens. Most of the arrests occurred in Texas and New
Mexico.

* A fast-moving wildfire raced across thousands of acres of Montana's Custer
National Forest, burning as many as 20 summer homes, injuring two firefighters
and prompting an appeal for reinforcements. Elsewhere in the West, however, the
nation's worst fire season in 39 years seemed to slacken under cooler weather.
Eleven fires totaling more than 212,000 acres were burning in Idaho, Montana,
Oregon, Utah, Wyoming, California and Colorado. A week ago, there were 52 fires
burning almost half a million acres.

* Michael Torrence, 35, who said he was just taking care of business when he
killed three people in 1987, was executed by injection in Columbia, S.C.
Meanwhile, Oregon prepared to execute Douglas Franklin Wright, 56, who killed
three homeless men in 1991. He would be the first person executed in Oregon in
34 years.

* Thomas W. McClure, 80, was charged with murder in the fatal shooting of his
wife of 55 years two weeks after she filed for a separation. Helen McClure, 79,
was shot nine times with a semiautomatic rifle in a grocery store parking lot
Wednesday in Amanda, Ohio, police said.

* If he is exonerated in the Centennial Olympic Park bombing, security guard
Richard Jewell may have a future at Atlanta radio station WKLS, which has
offered him a job -- on the condition that he's cleared -- as a bodyguard for
its disc jockeys during public events, a station official said. In the weeks
since the July 27 bombing, the FBI has conducted extensive searches and
surveillance of Jewell, but it has not charged him or formally ruled him out as
a suspect. He was credited with finding the knapsack that contained the bomb.

* Space shuttle Atlantis, which was rolled back into its hangar as Hurricane
Fran approached, was back out on the launch pad at Cape Canaveral and scheduled
to lift off before dawn on Sept. 16, NASA said. Atlantis is set to rendezvous
with Russian space station Mir and bring astronaut Shannon Lucid back home.

* Tim Phillips, who was behind the wheel of a Chevrolet Suburban on Saturday
night when it rolled into the lake near Union, S.C., where Susan Smith killed
her sons, was sober at the time, leaving mechanical failure the most likely
explanation for the drownings of Phillips, his wife, their three young children
and two other people, Sheriff Howard Wells said. When the truck was found, the
transmission was in park and the ignition still on, but the parking brake was
not engaged.

* A divorced couple who remarried with hopes of starting a new family after
their two young sons died in the Oklahoma City bombing are splitting up again.
"We got married out of desperation to have another baby, and that just wasn't
the right reason," Edye Smith said of her remarriage to Tony Smith. "We love
each other. But we just clash too much."

LOAD-DATE: September 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              33 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 18, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

86 Arrested in INS Raid on Eastern Shore Tree Nursery

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 423 words


Federal agents arrested 86 suspected illegal immigrant workers yesterday at a
tree nursery on Maryland's Eastern Shore, the second such large-scale raid on
the Eastern Shore in three weeks.

About 30 Immigration and Naturalization Service agents, assisted by Maryland
State Police troopers, fanned through the 2,000 acres at Angelica Nursery
shortly after noon, arresting 85 Mexican nationals and a Guatemalan, according
to Benedict Ferro, district director of the INS in Baltimore.

"I suspect we removed a large percentage of [Angelica's] work force," Ferro
said. "But it's a big area . . . and I'm not confident we got all" the suspected
illegal employees.

A woman answering the telephone at the nursery in Kent County said owners of the
business would not comment immediately on the raid.

The 86 workers were bused to Easton, in nearby Talbot County, for initial
processing yesterday, and officials said they were to be held last night at the
Wicomico County Detention Center in Salisbury, pending deportation and other
proceedings.

Just 21 days ago, INS agents conducted a similar raid, swooping down on two
chicken processing plants in Talbot and Dorchester counties and arresting 124
Latino employees suspected of being in the United States illegally.

Asked if the raids marked a special crackdown on the Eastern Shore, Ferro said,
"This was standard procedure: to go where the business takes us."

He said that nurseries and landscaping companies, like chicken processing
plants, "are very troublesome places for us," drawing illegal immigrants, most
from Mexico and countries in Central America.

Ferro would not say how agents learned of the alleged illegal workers at
Angelica Nursery. He said it was the first time that agents had raided the
nursery.

The raids three weeks ago, directed at poultry plants operated by Allen Family
Foods Inc., renewed concern among INS officials that the state's mammoth chicken
processing industry continues to be a haven for illegal workers.

Charles Allen III, president of Allen Family Foods, told reporters the day after
the raids that he believes agents are investigating whether plant supervisors
had participated in a smuggling ring to bring illegal workers to Maryland. Ferro
refused to comment.

Allen Family Foods was fined $ 43,000 by the INS in 1994 after agents arrested
several suspects in its plants. The INS accused the company of knowingly hiring
illegal immigrants and failing to maintain required records on the residency
status of its employees.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              34 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 26, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

10 Arrested in INS Raid at Quantico

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 104 words


Ten allegedly illegal immigrants were arrested at Quantico Marine Base as part
of a continuing crackdown on federal contractors who hire undocumented workers,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday.

The 10 were working on a new hotel for military personnel when they were
arrested in a raid Thursday, officials said. They worked for four federal
contractors: Sterling Metal Contractors, United Masonry Inc., Genesis
Construction and Donahoe Construction Co., officials said.

An employer can be fined as much as $ 1,000 a worker for a willful violation of
immigration laws, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              35 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 17, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Agent Arrested in Hong Kong; Alien-Smuggling Scheme Alleged

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 590 words


Authorities in Hong Kong have arrested a top U.S. immigration agent based in
Honduras, alleging that he was involved in smuggling Chinese illegal aliens
through Central America, the Justice Department confirmed yesterday.

Jerry Wolf Stuchiner, a 19-year veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, was detained Monday on arrival at Hong Kong's Kai Tak Airport by agents
of the British colony's Independent Commission Against Corruption. Found in his
possession were five forged Honduran passports that he apparently was delivering
to a Hong Kong-based alien-smuggling syndicate, the commission said.

Stuchiner had been based in Hong Kong for five years before taking up his post
as INS officer-in-charge in the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa, in May 1994. He
was considered one of the agency's top investigators of Chinese alien smuggling
and, as the only INS agent based in Central America, was instrumental in
building a case against Gloria Canales, an alleged alien-smuggling kingpin from
Costa Rica who was arrested by Honduran authorities in December.

At one point during Stuchiner's investigation of Canales, who was accused of
using extensive bribery to smuggle thousands of Chinese and Indians into the
United States through Latin America, she sought to have him assassinated, U.S.
officials said. At the same time that he was unraveling Canales's ring, however,
Stuchiner himself was under investigation by Hong Kong authorities and agents of
the U.S. Justice Department's Office of the Inspector General, officials said.

Agents from the inspector general's office were present when Stuchiner was
arrested Monday, the Justice Department said in a statement. Hong Kong
authorities also arrested a woman from El Salvador traveling with him and six
alleged partners -- two former Hong Kong immigration officers, three other Hong
Kong residents and an illegal immigrant from Taiwan, officials said.

The Honduran consul general in Hong Kong, Herby Weizenblut, was "briefly
detained and questioned" by the Hong Kong agents, the Justice Department said.

The department quoted Hong Kong authorities as charging that Stuchiner was part
of a scheme in which Chinese citizens indentured themselves to smugglers in
return for passports, travel identities and airline tickets to Central America
en route to the United States.

Central America has become a major staging area for the smuggling of Chinese and
other Asians, who often pay more than $ 30,000 each to be spirited into the
United States, investigators have said. Canales, accused of heading one of the
largest rings in Latin America, is believed to have smuggled at least 10,000
people a year, charging up to $ 6,000 each for the Indians and Chinese she moved
at her end of the smuggling pipeline.

The Justice Department declined comment on the allegations against Stuchiner,
but an informed source in another department said the INS agent was apparently
in league with corrupt Honduran officials in a ring separate from that of
Canales.

Stuchiner, who has been on vacation from his Honduras post since June, arrived
in Hong Kong using a U.S. diplomatic passport, officials said. He was arrested
under a Hong Kong anti-corruption law and is expected to be formally charged
with passport-related fraud this week, the Justice Department said.

In a brief statement, the INS said Stuchiner "has been placed in administrative
leave status pending further action on this matter" and that the service is
"cooperating fully " in the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              36 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 17, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Veteran Is Sentenced To 40 Months; Agent Admits Role In Alien Smuggling

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 712 words


A senior U.S. immigration agent was sentenced in Hong Kong to 40 months in
prison yesterday after pleading guilty to involvement in a Chinese
alien-smuggling ring.

Jerry Wolf Stuchiner, 45, a veteran investigator with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), was arrested July 15 upon arrival at Hong Kong's
Kai Tak airport with five forged Honduran passports.

At the time of his arrest by Hong Kong anti-corruption agents, Stuchiner headed
the INS office in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and was the only U.S. immigration
investigator based in Central America. He previously had served in Hong Kong
from 1989 to 1994 and was considered one of the agency's top experts on the
smuggling of Chinese illegal aliens to the United States, an estimated $ 3.5
billion-a-year business that brings up to 50,000 Chinese annually to this
country, according to a recent government study.

Stuchiner's crime, the equivalent in the INS of a major spy defection, has
prompted an investigation by the CIA and Justice Department to determine how
many illegal aliens may have been smuggled as a result of his activities, an
informed official said.

The case is the latest in a series of incidents that have embarrassed the INS at
a time when it says it is making progress in curbing illegal immigration and
breaking up major smuggling operations.

In June, four senior INS managers were reassigned after a Justice Department
investigation found that they had released or transferred dozens of detained
illegal aliens as part of an elaborate attempt to deceive a congressional
fact-finding delegation during a visit to Miami.

Last month, John Lonergan, the assistant INS district director in Newark, N.J.,
was indicted on corruption charges.

In San Diego, a union leader in the Border Patrol, a branch of the INS, accused
managers of falsifying arrest records and intelligence reports to portray a
border-control program called Operation Gatekeeper as a success. INS
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner ordered an investigation into the allegations,
which so far have not been substantiated, officials said.

Stuchiner, a 19-year INS veteran,, had been instrumental last year in breaking
up a major alien-smuggling ring allegedly headed by a Costa Rican woman, Gloria
Canales, who was accused of moving thousands of Chinese and Indians through
Central America to the United States.

After Stuchiner's arrest, the Honduran government suspended its immigration
chief, Angelina Ulloa de Venis, her deputy and five other officials on suspicion
of selling forged Honduran passports to Asians seeking to enter the United
States illegally. Ulloa has denied the allegations, saying she was "startled" by
the arrest of Stuchiner, with whom she had worked closely on the Canales
investigation.

Hong Kong authorities said Stuchiner admitted that he was delivering the five
Honduran passports, which contained a seal and signature but were otherwise
blank, to the Honduran consul general in the British colony. The diplomat, Herby
Weizenblut, was briefly detained by Hong Kong agents, then released. He has
since disappeared, and his whereabouts are unknown, officials said.

Stuchiner's defense attorney, Gary Plowman, acknowledged that the INS agent had
been a "courier with knowledge," whose actions were "certainly irrational and
stupid for a man who had spent his lifetime upholding the law." He would not
comment on his client's relationship with Weizenblut or on what Stuchiner stood
to gain by delivering the passports.

In court, Plowman presented letters and faxes commending Stuchiner. Many of them
were from Jewish organizations grateful for the role he played at the U.S.
Embassy in Vienna from 1985 to 1989 in helping Jewish refugees flee Iran during
the rule of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.

In sentencing Stuchiner the judge said he had committed "a gross breach of
trust," but that she was reducing his prison term from the six years she had
originally set. She said she took off two years because he had pleaded guilty
from the start, then deducted an additional eight months because he previously
had maintained a good professional record and had lost his health insurance and
pension.

Staff researcher Jenni Lau in Hong Kong contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              37 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 15, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

An Issue That Won't Go Away

Sanford J. Ungar

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X01

LENGTH: 1053 words


WHEN Congress returns in January, immigration will once again be near the top of
its agenda. Still pending is an effort to federalize California's Proposition
187 -- to give all the states the option (if not actually to encourage them) to
ban illegal immigrants from using public health facilities and their children
from attending public school.

Some politicians also want to legislate deep cuts in legal immigration, and many
-- annoyed by the seeming proliferation of Spanish and other immigrant languages
and mobilized by scare stories about bilingual education -- will push to make
English the official national language of the United States.

There is little new in the debate over immigration, even if its ferocity seems
greater today than at any time in recent memory. This country has agonized from
the very start over how to define what it takes to become "an American" and who
fits within the definition. Now, no less than before, facts often play a
secondary role to emotions.

Here are some books that may help put the arguments about immigration into
perspective:

Beyond the Melting Pot: The Negroes, Puerto Ricans, Jews, Italians, and Irish of
New York City, by Nathan Glazer and Daniel Patrick Moynihan (MIT Press, 1963),
is a classic study that refutes the old myth that Americans will assimilate so
thoroughly that they will eventually be indistinguishable from each other.
Related works include The Rise of the Unmeltable Ethnics, by Michael Novak
(Macmillan, 1972), and On Becoming American, by Ted Morgan (Houghton Mifflin,
1978).

Coming to America: A History of Immigration and Ethnicity in American Life, by
Roger Daniels (Harper & Row, 1990), provides a useful and unemotional overview
of immigration and how it has evolved.  For a slightly less sanguine view, see A
Nation of Strangers: Prejudice, Politics and the Populating of America, by Ellis
Cose (Morrow, 1992).

Structuring Diversity: Ethnographic Perspectives on the New Immigration, edited
by Louise Lamphere (University of Chicago Press, 1992), offers compelling, if
somewhat detached, case studies of several of the newer immigrant groups.

The granddaddy of the new wave of restrictionist books is The Immigration
Time-Bomb: The Fragmenting of America, by Richard Lamm and Gary Imhoff (Dutton,
1985). Lamm, as governor of Colorado and later as a new-wave gadfly and
alternative presidential candidate, has gone far with his argument that
increased immigration is creating a new underclass and threatening a population
explosion. Following in Lamm's tradition are Alien Nation, by Peter Brimelow
(Random House, 1995), and The Case Against Immigration, by Roy Beck (Norton,
1996). Brimelow, a former British journalist now living in the United States,
believes that he (or someone much like him in race and ethnicity) should be the
last American immigrant; Beck blames newcomers for economic and environmental
degradation.

On the other side, The Economic Consequences of Immigration, by Julian Simon
(Blackwell/Cato Institute, 1989), makes a strong case for the valuable
contributions of immigrants. So does Immigration and Immigrants: Setting the
Record Straight, by Michael Fix and Jeffrey S. Passel (Urban Institute, 1994).

For a balanced selection of the political and economic arguments on the issue,
there is Still an Open Door? U.S. Immigration Policy and the American Economy,
by Vernon M. Briggs Jr. and Stephen Moore (American University Press, 1994), and
Arguing Immigration: The Debate Over the Changing Face of America, edited by
Nicolaus Mills (Touchstone, 1994).

Among the many descriptions of life along the border with Mexico, Cutting for
Sign, by William Langewiesche (Pantheon, 1993), is one of the best. Going to
Miami: Exiles, Tourists, and Refugees in the New America, by David Rieff
(Little, Brown, 1987), tells the story of the Cubans in South Florida. Los
Angeles: Capital of the Third World, by the same author (Simon & Schuster,
1991), looks at the effect that immigrants from around the world have had on
Southern California.

For a variety of experiences, see Special Sorrows: The Diasporic Imagination of
Irish, Polish and Jewish Immigrants in the United States, by Matthew Frye
Jacobson (Harvard University Press, 1995), and Hmong: History of a People, by
Keith Quincy (Eastern Washington University Press, 1988).

A particularly good overview of the transforming effect of immigration on the
politics of America's most populous state can be found in The Coming White
Minority: California and America's Immigration Debate, by Dale Maharidge (Times
Books, 1996). (It is reviewed on the facing page.)

IN A TIME of torrid, but not necessarily enlightening, debate over immigration,
a far more insightful and subtle reflection of immigrant life in America can
often be found in fiction and film than in the political dialogue.

Dozens of novels and short-story collections on immigrant themes continue to be
published in the United States every year. One of my personal favorites remains
How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accent, by Julia Alvarez (Algonquin, 1991).
Arranged Marriage, by Chitra Divakaruni (Doubleday, 1995) is one of the latest
in a long line of works that have focused on the displacement experienced by
immigrants from India. Krik? Krak!, by Edwidge Danticat (Soho, 1995), describes
the lives of Haitians in Florida and New York, while Native Speaker, by
Chang-Rae Lee (Riverhead, 1955) offers a glimpse inside the complex, often
tragic experiences of Korean Americans.

In the recent cinema, "Lone Star," directed by John Sayles, goes a long way
toward explaining why immigration is viewed so differently in Texas than it is
in California. In telling the tale of three generations of a Mexican-American
family, "Mi Familia," directed by Gregory Nava and narrated by Edward James
Olmos, helps revise some frequently misreported history.

For a completely different perspective -- on the relationship between legal and
illegal immigrants and on the disappointment some immigrants feel with this
country -- a student of the issue could seek out "Someone Else's America," by
Yugoslav director Goran Paskaljevic.

Sanford J. Ungar, dean of the School of Communication at American University, is
the author of "Fresh Blood: The New American Immigrants."


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, jean-francois allaux for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              38 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 25, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

House Vote Boosts Anti-Crime Spending

John E. Yang; Dan Morgan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 697 words


The House approved yesterday a $ 29.5 billion election-year spending bill that
would significantly boost federal spending to fight crime, drugs and illegal
immigration.

The measure, approved 246 to 179, would fund the Commerce, Justice and State
departments and the judiciary for the year beginning Oct. 1.

Just as they do on the campaign trail, lawmakers in both parties embraced the
crime-fighting aspects of the bill.

It "puts Congress on record as being willing to put the resources required to
restore safety to our neighborhoods and make our citizens safe in their homes
and on their streets," said Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), chairman of the
Appropriations subcommittee that produced the bill. Rep. Alan B. Mollohan
(W.Va.), the panel's top Democrat, told colleagues that if they "like law
enforcement, they are going to love this bill. This is a real crime-fighting
bill."

The bill would provide Justice Department crime-fighting $ 16.3 billion, a $ 1.6
billion increase over current spending. This includes $ 2.8 billion for
enforcing immigration laws, enough to add 1,100 Border Patrol agents.

Drug enforcement programs would get $ 7.1 billion, including a $ 75 million
initiative aimed at fighting drug production and manufacturing overseas and $ 56
million to combat drug trafficking along the U.S.-Mexican border.

The measure also includes a provision, added by House Appropriations Committee
Chairman Bob Livingston (R-La.), that would require the president to seek Senate
ratification of any changes being negotiated with Russia in the 1972
Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.

On Tuesday, 56 Republicans joined Democrats in approving a $ 109 million
increase in spending for the Legal Services Corp., which provides legal aid to
the poor. The additional money gives the agency a budget of $ 250 million, near
the fiscal 1996 level. Partly in reaction to that vote, 68 Republicans voted
against final passage. Conservatives have charged that the Legal Services Corp.
uses tax dollars to promote liberal causes.

Overall, the bill would increase spending for the Commerce, State, and Justice
departments and related agencies by $ 1.7 billion over current levels. The House
still cut $ 2.5 billion from President Clinton's request, mainly in Commerce
Department technology initiatives, U.S. contributions to international
peacekeeping and State Department funding.

The Clinton administration opposes the bill, calling the cuts "unacceptable."
The Senate has not considered its version yet.

The Senate, meanwhile, continued debate on a $ 54.3 billion bill funding the
Agriculture Department and its programs in 1997.

A major step toward passage occurred late yesterday when a compromise was
reached on a provision Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) claimed would "cripple"
a Food and Drug Administration plan aimed at getting drug stores to provide
purchasers of prescription drugs better information about possible adverse
reactions and side effects.

The provision, similar to one attached to a separate FDA bill by Sen. Dan Coats
(R-Ind.), would have left it to consumer groups, pharmaceutical companies, drug
wholesalers and other interested parties to draw up a plan for dispensing useful
information about prescription drugs. Kennedy said the FDA would be prohibited
from implementing its own regulations or developing additional guidelines.

The provision reportedly was backed by drugstore chains and pharmaceutical
firms. Kennedy charged that "a powerful group, a special interest" had been
"fighting for 20 years" to keep the information out of consumers' hands, and he
described the amendment as a "gag order" on the FDA. He said many consumers were
unaware of potential dangers from pharmaceuticals, including birth defects,
fatal allergic reactions and blood disorders.

Under a compromise accepted by Kennedy, private groups would still draw up the
plan, but the FDA would have to approve it. Three-quarters of all prescription
drug purchasers would have to be receiving "understandable, readable and
complete" information about how to safely take prescription drugs by 2000, and
95 percent would have to be reached by 2006.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              39 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 03, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Education Clause Delays Illegal Immigration Bill

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 580 words


More than three months after the House and Senate passed bills to crack down on
illegal immigration, the legislation is still stuck in Congress, with
Republicans sorting out their differences over a key provision and Democrats
complaining of being shut out of the process.

Faced with an August recess beginning today and the upcoming GOP convention in
San Diego, Republicans scrambled to forge a compromise on a controversial
amendment to a House bill that would give states the option of denying free
public education to children who are residing in the United States illegally.

The amendment, sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), has fueled an
election-year debate over immigration, heating up the campaign cross fire
between President Clinton and GOP leaders. But it also has generated
recriminations among prominent Republicans and sparked public feuding by police
unions.

Gallegly agreed this week to a compromise that would delay the measure's
applicability to previously enrolled students by up to seven years in states
that adopted it, allow illegal immigrants to pay tuition rather than be barred
from school and subject the law to congressional review 30 months after
enactment. But he said the deal was contingent on a House-Senate conference
reconciling the two bills before the recess. Otherwise, he said, all compromises
would be "off the table" and he would work to make his amendment even tougher
when Congress reconvenes.

Efforts to convene a conference succumbed to a crush of last-minute business,
and the legislation remained stalled yesterday -- an odd state of affairs
considering that the House passed its immigration bill by a 338 to 87 vote in
March and the Senate approved its similar version 97 to 3 in May.

Throughout the deliberations, Democrats in Congress have been left on the
sidelines. "It's very frustrating," one Democratic aide said. "We've been
totally frozen out of the process."

The amendment drew early support from House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) and
California Gov. Pete Wilson (R). GOP presidential candidate Robert J. Dole
supported it in June while campaigning in California, reversing the position he
had taken on a similar measure that he helped defeat in 1982.

But opponents soon rallied elected officials, law enforcement groups and
educators. More than 50 senators, including at least eight Republicans,
denounced the amendment, as did the Republican governors of New York, New
Jersey, Texas, Illinois and Massachusetts. Texas Sens. Phil Gramm (R) and Kay
Bailey Hutchison (R) said in a letter that "permitting any child to grow up in
the United States idle and illiterate is unacceptable national policy," Sen.
Alfonse M. D'Amato (R-N.Y.) called the amendment "obnoxious," and retired Gen.
Colin L. Powell termed it "shortsighted."

Responding to criticism, Gallegly produced endorsements from Fraternal Order of
Police lodges in California and Arizona, the Law Enforcement Alliance of America
and the National Taxpayers Union.

The current federal requirement that states provide free public education to
illegal immigrants constitutes "the largest unfunded mandate in the history of
this country," Gallegly said. An estimated 700,000 illegal immigrant children
attend U.S. public schools, and the cost of educating them exceeds $ 4 billion a
year, he said. Wilson has put the cost of educating the estimated 355,000
illegal immigrant students in California alone at $ 1.8 billion a year.

LOAD-DATE: August 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              40 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 13, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Pataki's Immigration Explanation

Peter Baker; John E. Yang

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18; POLITICS; 1996 REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION

LENGTH: 176 words


Last week New York Gov. George E. Pataki turned down an invitation to speak at
the Republican National Convention. He would not say what he had been asked to
speak about or why he refused. It turns out the Dole camp had offered Pataki a
carefully scripted address on immigration that aides said he did not feel
comfortable with: His grandmother and uncle were both illegal aliens.

In an interview today with the Associated Press on the convention floor, Pataki
said his maternal grandmother came to America from Ireland using her older
sister's immigration papers after the sister decided not to leave home. He said
his uncle, a German sailor, jumped ship in New York City. "They both eventually
became citizens," Pataki added.

Asked about turning down the immigration speech, Pataki said: "New York has
represented hope and freedom to people from around the world and we have to
continue to do that."

Pataki opposes the GOP platform plank calling for the American-born children of
illegal aliens to be denied automatic U.S. citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              41 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 19, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Hispanics and Immigration

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A14; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 153 words


The Aug. 12 news story "GOP Immigration Policies Concern Hispanics" was biased
and inaccurate.

Hispanics support efforts to reduce illegal immigration. Public opinion polls in
recent years show that as many as 75 percent of Hispanic Americans want to
reduce illegal immigration.

The intent of the 14th Amendment was to provide citizenship for former slaves.
It was not intended to apply to illegal aliens. The United States is one of only
three countries in the world that still allow children born to illegal aliens to
become citizens. Americans have legitimate concerns about misapplying the 14th
Amendment when two-thirds of the births in Los Angeles public hospitals and half
of the births in El Paso hospitals are to illegal aliens.

I hope that The Post will reflect a willingness to be more objective in future
articles about immigration.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              42 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 27, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Looking for the Middle, Not for a Fight; Platform Reflects Careful Balance
Aiming for Unity; Big-Government Emphasis of Past Replaced by Smaller
Initiatives

Kevin Merida, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13; 1996 DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 1047 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 26


The Democratic Party's platform is something of a balancing act.

It insists that illegal immigration must be stopped, but deplores "those who use
the need to stop illegal immigration as a pretext for discrimination."

It boasts of the Democratic role in reforming the welfare system, but says
portions of the law President Clinton recently signed go "too far" and "should
be fixed."

The platform commits to protecting the environment, but says "we do not trap
business in a tangle of red tape."

It is, in short, a yin and yang blueprint for Clinton's middle-of-the-road fall
campaign -- with an emphasis on utilizing the bully pulpit rather than big
government to effect change.

When Democratic delegates ratify this platform on Tuesday, they essentially will
be endorsing a campaign strategy: It is better to focus on the enemy than to
battle one another over policy differences.

"The major thing it says is we don't have a fight," observed Democratic pollster
Peter Hart. "Usually we can spend days, weeks, fighting over the platform.
That's probably why we're at the United Center -- we're united."

There is still evidence of dissent within the party's coalitions, but what a
difference four years -- and an incumbent president -- make. By the time
Democrats arrived in New York for their convention in 1992, there already had
been several pitched skirmishes over the platform.

One of Clinton's vanquished primary opponents, former California governor Edmund
G. "Jerry" Brown Jr., blasted a draft document as "verbal cellophane" and
managed to win concessions for liberals on the environment. Another beaten foe,
former Massachusetts senator Paul E. Tsongas, had enough strength among fiscal
conservatives that Clinton operatives allowed him to bring his economic
proposals to the convention floor for debate -- though he didn't have the votes
to do so. And then-New York Mayor David N. Dinkins pressed for and won a
stronger commitment from the party to aid cities and the poor.

In fact, the 1992 platform contained a separate section, labeled "The Cities,"
that promised a "national public works investment and infrastructure program,"
summer jobs and training programs for inner-city youth and "targeted fiscal
assistance to cities that need it most." Some of these initiatives were
contained in Clinton's economic stimulus package that Republicans defeated in
1993. No separate section on cities exists in this year's document.

Drafted by administration officials, the platform is largely a nod to Clinton's
centrist impulses. And it contains, by omission, tacit acknowledgment of his
political and policy failures.

On health care, for instance, a 1992 plank says: "All Americans should have
universal access to quality, affordable health care -- not as a privilege, but
as a right." But with the beating the administration's broad health care reform
initiative took in 1994, this year's plank is more modest. And it gives the
president and congressional Democrats credit for passing a bipartisan health
insurance reform measure that ensures coverage for those with pre-existing
conditions and guarantees people can change jobs and keep their coverage.

On another politically hot subject, the 1992 platform explicitly called for
"civil rights protection for gay men and lesbians and an end to Defense
Department discrimination." There also was a last-minute word addition putting
the Democrats on record as opposing "homophobia" -- a symbolic gesture to gay
rights advocates who gave Clinton enthusiastic support.

Clinton's initiative to allow gays to serve in the military proved to be one of
the most politically damaging of his presidency; he ultimately settled on a
"don't ask, don't tell" compromise.

This year's platform stays away from specifics. It contains only a generalized
pledge to "end discrimination against gay men and lesbians and further their
full inclusion in the life of the nation."

That commitment is appreciated, said David M. Smith of the Human Rights Campaign
Fund, the nation's largest gay and lesbian political organization. "But once you
get below the surface into specifics -- gay people not being allowed to serve
openly in the military and gay people not having equal marriage opportunities --
it doesn't add up to gay people being treated equally and fairly."

However, even the liberals most troubled by aspects of the platform feel they
have few options. "In general," said Smith, "we understand the importance of
electing the president on a broad range of other issues."

The platform is an ode to Clinton's recent thrust as a campaigner. Its thematic
watchwords are: "Opportunity. Responsibility. Community." And the document is
replete with the kind of prodding, small-scale initiatives that don't rely on
major government funding. In a section on "ending domestic violence," the
platform notes Clinton's launch of a 24-hour, toll-free hot line for women in
trouble.

Though in some places the platform is dry and technical, it is also heavy on
red-meat attacks on the Republican-controlled Congress and GOP nominee Robert J.
Dole.

The way Democrats frame it, they believe that America "must put our families
first," while Republicans want to take "Big Bird away from 5-year-olds, school
lunches away from 10-year-olds, summer jobs away from 15-year-olds, and college
loans away from 20-year-olds."

For all the hoopla around Clinton's 1992 campaign pledge to "end welfare as we
know it," welfare reform occupied just seven sentences in the platform four
years ago. This year's version contains 39 carefully crafted sentences --
Democratic successes coupled with corrections that need to be made in the new
law -- but it is the one issue that threatens to upset the convention's
choreography.

"It's a disaster for poor women and children," said Dorothy Kelly Gay, a
delegate from Massachusetts. "This is a major problem. It is a big concern of
most of my women colleagues from Massachusetts. I think people are going to be
doing a lot of talking about it. I don't intend to be quiet."

But Rep. William "Bill" Clay's perspective on the role of platforms may
represent a more common response.

"It's an outline," the Missouri congressman said. "It doesn't commit anybody to
anything."


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post, COMPARING THE PLATFORMS ABORTION DEMOCRATS
"The Democratic Party stands behind the right of every woman to choose,
consistent with Roe v. Wade, and regardless of ability of pay." REPUBLICANS "We
support a human life amendment to the Constitution and we endorse legislation to
make clear that the Fourteenth Amendment's protections apply to unborn
children." CRIME DEMOCRATS ". . . any attempt to repeal the Brady Bill or
assault weapons ban will be met with a veto. We call on the states to . . .
guarantee that serious violent criminals serve at least 85 percent of their
sentence. . . . When young people commit serious violent crimes, they should be
prosecuted like adults." REPUBLICANS "We will reform the Supreme Court's
fanciful exclusionary rule, which has allowed a generation of criminals to get
off on technicalities. . . . We will . . . require adult trials for juveniles
who commit adult crimes." DISCRIMINATION DEMOCRATS "We continue to lead the
fight to end discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, age,
ethnicity, disability and sexual orientation. . . . We support continued efforts
. . . to end discrimination against gay men and lesbians. . . ." REPUBLICANS "We
oppose discrimination based on sex, race, age, creed or national origin . . . We
reject the distortion of those laws to cover sexual preference. . . . We will
attain our nation's goal of equal rights without quotas or other forms of
preferential treatment." EDUCATION DEMOCRATS "We should redesign or overhaul
schools that fail. We should expand public school choice, but we should not take
American tax dollars from public schools and give them to private schools."
REPUBLICANS "We will abolish the Department of Education, end federal meddling
in our schools and promote family choice." FOREIGN AFFAIRS DEMOCRATS "We are
committed to . . . working with others where appropriate -

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              43 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 13, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

The Expense of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 356 words


In the Sept. 4 editorial "Move the Immigration Bill," The Post took the position
that the job magnet must be eliminated to help deter illegal immigration. Very
true. But the The Post also takes the position that the education of children of
illegal immigrants should be retained. That is wrong. Education for their
children is just another attraction for illegal immigrants. We, as federal
taxpayers, should not be expected to subsidize illegals' children's education
any more so than the individual states. Birthright citizenship must be
eliminated. We, as a nation, cannot employ, educate or provide free medical care
for any illegal immigrant no matter where he or she comes from. We have done it
for too long already, and it should be stopped. A lengthy moratorium should be
declared on all immigration to let the vast multitude of foreign-born newcomers
from the past 25 years assimilate. It also would give those of us who were here
first a chance to catch our breath.

DOUGLAS S. CURRY

Silver Spring

I read with interest the editorial dissing and then dismissing my education
amendment to pending immigration reform.

Many of us feel that allowing states to make their own decisions on public
education -- an undertaking predominantly paid for with state funds -- is
reasonable and far preferable to the status quo, which forces states to educate
illegals and then sticks them with the bill.

I was encouraged that The Post acknowledged that the presence of illegal aliens
in public school classrooms is a "real problem" and an "enormous expense."
Unfortunately, this uncharacteristic moment of clarity was cloaked in a sadly
predictable liberal mind-set.

The Post's answer to this "real problem" is that "the federal government must
provide more help to those states that bear this special burden" (i.e., more
taxpayer dollars). Surprise, surprise. The Post's answer to a serious and
troublesome public policy issue comes not in the form of legislative leadership
but at additional expense to hard-working and overburdened American taxpayers.

ELTON GALLEGLY

U.S. Representative (R-Calif.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              44 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 14, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Measure May Be Revised

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 679 words


Threatened with a presidential veto and continuing disarray in GOP ranks over a
provision that would let states deny public education to illegal immigrants,
Republicans crafting the final version of an immigration bill are considering a
new proposal to shift billions of dollars in state education costs to the
federal government.

After months of dickering, the controversial provision, sponsored by Rep. Elton
Gallegly (R-Calif.) as an amendment to a House immigration bill, was included in
modified form in a Republican draft of a House-Senate conference report.

A conference committee plans to take up the report next week, then send it to
the floors of both houses for final passage before the end of the current
session.

But in view of opposition to the Gallegly amendment in both parties and
Clinton's vow to veto any immigration legislation containing it, Republicans
this week have been debating whether to remove the amendment to avert the
prospect of losing the entire bill.

As a possible compromise, another California Republican, Rep. Brian P. Bilbray,
introduced a bill Thursday to make the federal government responsible for the
costs of educating illegal immigrant students. He said he hopes the measure will
be packaged with the final immigration bill.

A current federal requirement that states provide free public education to
children who are in the country illegally is estimated to cost $ 4 billion a
year nationwide, nearly half of it in California alone.

"The federal government should be required to pay for its failure to secure our
borders," Bilbray said in introducing his bill. "My legislation is designed to
make sure that California taxpayers are not stuck with the bill for providing
free public education to 380,000 illegal immigrants enrolled in our schools, at
a cost of nearly $ 2 billion annually. This bill should be sent to Washington,
where it belongs."

Bilbray, who lives on the U.S.-Mexican border south of San Diego, said he
supported the Gallegly amendment, but he expressed reservations about the
compromises that its sponsor was forced to accept to win backing from key fellow
Republicans.

In its modified version, the provision would apply only to newly enrolling
students -- once a state invoked its option of barring them from schools.

Illegal immigrant children already enrolled in elementary school would be
allowed to finish grade six. Then they would be required to pay tuition if they
continued in grades seven through 12. Students already in those grades would be
allowed to finish high school.

Some critics say the Gallegly amendment would in effect amount to an amnesty
program for illegal immigrants already attending U.S. schools and would
reinforce a federal mandate on states to pay the cost of educating them during
the phase-out period.

In another modification, the provision would expire in 2 1/2 years unless the
Senate voted to continue it.

Given the compromises, the veto threat and the prospect that the provision could
get tied up in legal challenges even if enacted, key Republicans are wondering,
as one staffer put it, whether the Gallegly amendment is "something we want to
fall on our swords over."

Among the immigration bill's sponsors, Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) has always
been cool to the provision, and Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) is said to be
reconsidering his support.

However, Republican presidential candidate Robert J. Dole still backs the
amendment, a spokeswoman said, as does House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.).

For his part, Gallegly questioned how Clinton could defend a veto of the
modified version.

"Now we've basically grandfathered in everybody who's not already physically in
the U.S.," he said. How could Clinton justify forcing states "to pay for free
public education for people who haven't even entered the country illegally yet?"
he asked.

Gallegly said he would oppose the Bilbray bill because it would merely shift the
burden to U.S. taxpayers as a whole and would likely run into problems in the
appropriations process.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              45 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 19, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Flaw in the Immigration Bill

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A30; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 279 words


As a U.S. representative from a region that has a large illegal immigrant
population, I commend The Post for calling attention to the difficulty in
determining who is and who is not authorized to work in the United States
["Labor, the Law and Chickens," editorial, Sept. 2].

However, the editorial gave Congress too much credit by suggesting that pending
immigration reform legislation would solve this problem by providing for a
modern, computerized verification system to check a worker's status. We
desperately need such a system, but the immigration bill would not provide it.

In a bow to business and civil-liberties groups, the version passed by the House
makes the proposed verification system voluntary, while the Senate-passed
version postpones implementation of such a system nationally until after
Congress considers the results of the pilot projects. Thus, it appears that even
if this legislation is enacted, businesses that hire illegal immigrants will
continue to be able to get away with it the same way they do now: by claiming
that they didn't know employees' work authorization documents were fraudulent.

An estimated 300,000 illegal immigrants settle in the United States each year.
Almost all of them are lured here by the prospect of jobs, which they are able
to obtain because the law allows them to prove work authorization through
documents that easily can be forged. If we are serious about stopping illegal
immigration, we must require employers to verify employees' status with the
federal government. Unfortunately, Congress is not yet willing to do that.

ANTHONY C. BEILENSON

U.S. Representative (D-Calif.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              46 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 24, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

GOP Drops School Ban in Immigration Bill

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 424 words


House and Senate Republicans have agreed to drop from a major immigration bill a
controversial provision that would allow states to end free public education to
children of illegal immigrants, congressional sources said.

Instead, the Republicans plan to bring the measure up for a separate vote in
hopes of avoiding a Senate filibuster and presidential veto of the immigration
bill, while still providing their presidential candidate, Robert J. Dole, with a
campaign issue in California, the sources said.

The move is expected to be announced today when a House-Senate conference
convenes to reconcile two versions of the immigration bill. The bill is aimed
primarily at cracking down on the influx of illegal aliens into the United
States.

The controversial provision allowing states to bar illegal immigrants' children
from public education was sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.) and added
to the House bill, which passed overwhelmingly in March.

But the Senate version omitted such a measure, and a number of Senate
Republicans joined Democrats in opposing it.

The amendment was modified to apply to newly enrolling students who were in the
country illegally and to allow illegal immigrant children already in school to
complete elementary or high school. However, President Clinton vowed to veto any
bill containing even the modified version of the amendment.

Dole and House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) continued to back the provision
strongly, setting off intensive debates in the senior leadership of the party.
On one side were Republicans who favored abandoning the provision to save the
immigration bill, fearing that to do otherwise would brand the Republican-led
Congress as a do-nothing body.

Other Republicans hoped to profit politically from forcing Clinton to veto a
popular bill containing a measure on ending what proponents have called a $ 2
billion-a-year unfunded federal mandate on California taxpayers.

By separating the Gallegly amendment, the Republicans hoped to take the sting
out of what might be considered a slap in the face of the Dole campaign.

The measure could be expected to pass in the House but appears likely to fail in
the Senate.

White House officials have not guaranteed that the president would sign the bill
even with the education provision removed.

The bill would increase the Border Patrol, set up test programs to establish the
immigration status of workers, and make penalties tougher for document
counterfeiting and smuggling people into the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              47 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 26, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

House Votes Curbs on Federal Benefits, Public Education of Illegal Immigrants

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 567 words


The House yesterday passed decisively a landmark bill aimed at curtailing
illegal immigration and approved separately an amendment allowing states to end
free public education to the children of future illegal immigrants.

Both bills now go to the Senate, where they face strong opposition and possible
delaying tactics from Democrats.

The immigration bill, which would also deny legal immigrants access to a variety
of federal benefits, was approved 305 to 123, with 229 Republicans and 76
Democrats voting for it. Five Republicans, 117 Democrats and one independent
voted against it.

"This bill secures America's borders, penalizes alien smugglers, expedites the
removal of criminal and illegal aliens, prevents illegal aliens from taking
American jobs and ends noncitizens' abuse of the welfare system," said Rep.
Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), who sponsored the bill in the House.

The education amendment, which was put forward in a new, more lenient version
yesterday, passed 254 to 175 in a separate House vote. A previous version of the
amendment was deleted from the immigration bill Tuesday to resolve a split among
Republicans that threatened to derail the entire bill.

Opponents of the immigration bill may try to delay a vote on the measure in the
Senate in hopes of pressuring Republicans to agree to modifications in return
for ensuring its passage before the end of the current session, congressional
sources said.

The revised education provision, sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.),
would allow states to end free public schooling to illegal immigrants' children
who are not already enrolled by July 1, 1997. Any child enrolled in kindergarten
through grade 12 before then would be allowed to complete high school at the
expense of state taxpayers.

The measure, according to its backers, is intended to give states the option of
eventually stopping -- after a grace period that could extend to 13 years for
some students -- an unfunded federal mandate that costs states around $ 4
billion a year nationwide. California pays nearly $ 2 billion a year to educate
an estimated 380,000 children of illegal immigrants.

A state invoking the option would be able to bar newly enrolling children of
illegal immigrants from attending public schools or charge them tuition.

"This modified version of my amendment does not kick one child out of school,"
Gallegly said on the House floor in rebutting an argument advanced by President
Clinton, who last month threatened to veto any bill containing the provision.
"But it does serve notice to those who have not yet come here illegally that the
magnet of public education has been demagnetized." He said the measure was
intended to "stop an entitlement that would otherwise exist in perpetuity."

The approval of the immigration bill by House and Senate negotiators Tuesday --
after it had appeared close to death amid the Republican bickering -- triggered
an intensive effort by an array of interest groups to rally opposition to it
because of provisions that have been overshadowed by the debate on the Gallegly
amendment.

Lawyers, religious groups, labor unions, human rights organizations,
environmentalists and advocates for the rights of immigrants, children,
minorities, refugees, gays and people with AIDS have issued statements
denouncing the bill on various grounds and calling for a presidential veto.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              48 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 29, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration, Budget Agreement Reached; House Clears Path to Adjournment; Clinton
Gets More Funds for Favored Programs

Eric Pianin; Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1570 words


The White House and Republican congressional leaders struck an agreement early
yesterday assuring enactment of watershed legislation to thwart illegal
immigration and a companion giant spending bill that gives President Clinton
most of what he wanted for domestic programs. After brief debate last night, the
House passed it, 370 to 37.

The vote capped three days of marathon negotiations between a White House that
wielded a constantly changing list of demands and highly accommodating
congressional Republican leaders who were anxious to wrap up business and
dispatch their members back to their districts to campaign.

If approved by the Senate, the comprehensive spending bill -- providing about $
356 billion for domestic programs and benefits and $ 244 billion for defense --
will fund most of the government's operations for the fiscal year beginning
midnight Monday. Passage of the spending bill also would avert a government
shutdown similar to the ones that occurred last year.

Senate leaders have scheduled a vote on Monday. With the formal blessings of
Clinton, House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) and Senate Majority Leader Trent
Lott (R-Miss.), the legislation is assured of enactment. However, Senate
Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (S.D.) warned that he and other Democrats
might press to amend the omnibus spending measure when it reaches the floor.

The Republican-driven immigration legislation would crack down on the flow of
undocumented aliens into the country by tightening security along U.S. borders
and expediting the expulsion of illegal immigrants.

Clinton and Republican leaders both claimed victory and hailed the grueling
negotiations, finally concluded around 4:30 a.m. yesterday, as an extraordinary
display of bipartisanship after last year's bitter budget wars.

The Republicans claimed they had "jump-started the stalled war on drugs" by
adding hundreds of millions of dollars more for anti-drug efforts and prison
grants than the president requested. They also said their fiscal policies over
the past two years produced net savings to taxpayers of $ 53 billion.

"We have stood up and fulfilled the needs of the American people without
breaking the bank," said House Appropriations Committee Chairman Bob Livingston
(R-La.), one of the architects of the agreement. "For the first time in modern
history, we have reversed the course of government. We have begun downsizing."

In the end, however, the White House succeeded in getting practically all it
demanded, including $ 6.5 billion of spending for education, other domestic
programs and anti-terrorism initiatives above what Congress had approved. The
administration also forced the Republicans to drop what it characterized as the
most punitive and mean-spirited parts of the GOP immigration bill. Those
included provisions that would have allowed states to deny free education to
children of illegal immigrants and to cut off public benefits and AIDS treatment
to legal immigrants.

Campaigning in Rhode Island, Clinton said the compromise clearly reflected the
priorities for which he has fought over the past two years. "It is good for
America because it continues to move us toward a balanced budget while
protecting, not violating, our values," he said during a rally in Providence.

Citing victories for the administration on funds for education, the environment
and other programs, Clinton said the agreement reflected the priorities of the
American people who "have no intention of seeing our country torn apart and
divided over a radical agenda."

Gingrich last night praised both sides in unusually conciliatory terms in a
speech from the floor. "Congress many times has been very partisan," Gingrich
said. "But last week, I think, we have truly pulled the wagon together -- the
American people's wagon -- in a remarkably solid way."

When it came to the vote, all members of the Maryland and Virginia delegations
supported it except for two Democrats who did not vote, Reps. Benjamin L. Cardin
(Md.) and Rick Boucher (Va.). Twenty-two other members also did not vote. Rep.
Robert K. Dornan (R-Calif.) voted "present," and 167 Democrats joined 202
Republicans and 1 independent in supporting the measure while 24 Republicans and
13 Democrats were opposed.

For days, negotiators haggled over issues including U.S. aid to international
family planning agencies, patient counseling guidelines for physicians working
for managed health care programs, parks legislation, and a proposed ban on
ownership or possession of guns by people convicted of domestic violence. Yet
the dispute over the immigration bill posed the biggest barrier by far to a
final deal.

After forcing House Republicans on Wednesday to drop the provision barring free
education for illegal immigrant children, Clinton refused to sign off on the
overall spending deal until Republicans agreed to drop other provisions that
would go beyond the recently approved welfare reform legislation in penalizing
legal immigrants.

Republican members from California, Texas and other states with large
immigration problems angrily howled over Clinton's eleventh-hour demands,
describing them as "moving the goal posts," but early yesterday their leaders
agreed to additional concessions. Negotiators stripped out provisions that would
have permitted the deportation of legal immigrants who claim more than 12 months
of public assistance in a seven-year period and that would have denied legal
immigrants access to subsidized treatment for HIV infections.

The Republicans also agreed to change a measure that would have made it more
difficult for legal immigrants to eventually qualify for Medicaid and other
safety-net programs than it will be under a new welfare law recently signed by
Clinton. That statute would force future legal immigrants to wait five years
after they arrive to qualify for Medicaid, and only then if their family income,
combined withsupport from their sponsors, reaches a certain level.

The GOP immigration bill approved by the House Wednesday would have boosted that
threshold to 200 percent of the poverty level, effectively barring large numbers
of legal immigrants with meager incomes from benefiting from the programs. As
part of the compromise announced yesterday, however, the threshold was reduced
to 125 percent of the poverty level.

The negotiators, including White House Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta, Gingrich,
Lott and Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Mark O. Hatfield (R-Ore.),
also agreed to:

* Modify a version of administration-backed legislation to extend the ban on gun
ownership or possession by felons to cover as well anyone convicted of a
misdemeanor involving domestic violence, including child and spousal abuse.
While conferees narrowed some provisions, they stopped short of major changes
sought by the National Rifle Association and other critics. Sen. Frank R.
Lautenberg (D-N.J.), the bill's chief sponsor, said the result was a "huge
victory for the victims of abuse."

* Order a study of the feasibility of using taggants, a kind of marker, to trace
the origin of explosives used in bombs. At the insistence of Republicans,
however, the study will exempt black and smokeless powder, which is popular with
muzzle-loading enthusiasts but also is commonly used in pipe bombs.

* Slightly increase spending for U.S. aid to organizations providing family
planning services overseas and authorize the president to trigger a vote in
Congress next March over whether to speed up distribution of the funds.
Republicans have sought to dramatically squeeze spending for the program.

* Strip out a controversial national parks provision, which among other things
would have expanded corporate sponsorship of the parks. The House last night
voted 404 to 4 to pass a free-standing, scaled-back version of the bill and sent
it on to the Senate for consideration.

* Drop a Democratic provision allowing physicians working for managed health
care programs to advise patients about medical procedures, even if the
procedures are not covered by the health care program.

* Provide $ 500,000 to reimburse legal fees for fired White House travel office
employees.

The omnibus package contains six of 13 annual spending bills that Congress and
the White House were unable to fully agree upon before bumping up against the
fiscal year deadline. It provides funds for foreign aid, federal courts and the
Defense, Treasury, Labor, Health and Human Services, Interior, Commerce, Justice
and State departments.

The more than 2,000-page spending bill fulfills Clinton's request for increased
funding for education, including $ 4 billion for Head Start, $ 491 million for
the Goals 2000 program that many Republicans wanted to end and $ 7.7 billion for
compensatory schooling for disadvantaged children. It includes $ 12.7 billion
for the National Institutes of Health, $ 371 million more than Clinton sought,
and increases spending for such politically sensitive programs as disease
prevention, substance abuse control and violence against women initiatives.

It also includes $ 650 million for firefighting in western states, $ 400 million
to help victims of Hurricane Fran and funding for a 3 percent pay raise for the
military.

Congressional leaders will debate at 9 tonight on PBS.

Staff writer Dan Balz, traveling with Clinton, contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/karin cooper, At news conference, Sens. Daschle, left,
Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) and Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) discuss the spending bill.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              49 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 11, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Lawsuit Alleges INS Bias Against Latino Employees; In Seattle, Agency Faulted on
5,000 Deportations

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 599 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service came under legal attack this week, in
one case for allegedly discriminating against Latino employees and, in a
separate case, for deporting thousands of suspected illegal immigrants without
following proper procedures.

A discrimination suit was filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles
on behalf of seven Latino INS employees and charges that the agency
discriminates against Latinos in promotions, assignments, awards, disciplinary
proceedings and access to training.

"Latinos make up approximately one-quarter of the INS work force, yet they are
routinely treated as second-class citizens relative to other non-Latino INS
employees," according to a complaint that named Attorney General Janet Reno as a
defendant. The suit also alleged gender discrimination against female Latino
employees.

In a separate case in Seattle, U.S. District Judge John C. Coughenour ruled
Wednesday that the INS had failed to adequately inform about 5,000 people that
they had the right before deportation to a hearing to rebut charges that they
had used false documents to enter the United States. The ruling found the INS at
fault in part for failing to provide forms in Spanish.

The Justice Department, the parent organization of the INS, had no comment on
either case, saying the matters involved "pending litigation." On the
discrimination suit, the INS said it employs proportionally more Hispanics than
any other federal agency, including a deputy commissioner and one of three
regional directors.

The discrimination suit's seven plaintiffs said they were acting on behalf of
more than 4,700 Latino employees of the INS. The seven, who are claiming
unspecified damages for back pay and other lost compensation, have worked as
investigators, Border Patrol agents, detention officers, port officials and
clerical support staffers.

If they win the suit, the damages could run into the millions of dollars, said
William A. Daniels, a lawyer representing the complainants.

"Nobody is looking for special treatment or quotas," he said. "We're asking for
everyone to be treated fairly." He said the INS maintains "a good old boy
system" in which people in charge hand out promotions, preferred assignments and
training opportunities to "friends and relatives."

One plaintiff, Jesus G. Quintanar Jr., a 47-year-old supervisory special agent
in the immigration service's Los Angeles office, said he was repeatedly denied
promotion in favor of "less educated and qualified" employees who were
"predominantly anglo or closely associated with anglo upper-level management,"
the complaint said.

Richard J. Marroquin Jr., 49, a deputy chief Border Patrol agent in Laredo,
Tex., said he has been rejected for promotion nine times in the last 10 years.
He charged that on two occasions after applying for a promotion, unfounded
allegations of misconduct were filed against him and used to justify the
rejection.

In the Seattle suit, filed by the American Civil Liberties Union and immigrants'
rights groups, Judge Coughenour ruled that the INS had used "highly technical,"
"legalistic" and "confusing" forms and procedures in deportation proceedings
against immigrants charged with document fraud. He said the forms failed to
"adequately apprise" them of their right to a hearing.

Providing the forms only in English was "simply unacceptable," the judge said,
and he ordered the INS to readmit temporarily an estimated 2,500 people it has
deported so that they can contest their expulsions.

The INS has 60 days to appeal the ruling.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              50 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 12, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Mayor Giuliani Makes Case For Immigration in Lawsuit

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Oct. 11


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani (R) took his vocal pro-immigration stand to court
today when New York City sued the federal government over provisions in two new
laws on welfare and immigration.

The lawsuit filed in Manhattan federal court contended that the provisions,
which allow city employees to turn in illegal immigrants who seek services such
as police protection, hospital care and public education, were unconstitutional.

Provisions in both laws overturned a 1985 New York City executive order that
forbade city employees from reporting illegal immigrants, with the exception of
criminal suspects.

The city claimed the new laws violated the 10th Amendment, which gives the
states all powers not expressly granted to the federal government, and sought to
prevent their enforcement.

By filing the lawsuit, Giuliani kept a promise to fight the provisions and
fueled his momentum as a self-described national spokesman in favor of
immigration, a position that has set him apart from many Republicans.

The lawsuit said the provisions would discourage undocumented aliens from
reporting crimes, which would make it harder for the city to protect all its
residents.

"The reasons for this policy are evident: undocumented aliens who are witnesses
to or victims of crime must not be deterred from coming forward for fear of
deportation, nor should undocumented aliens who are infected with contagious
diseases be deterred from seeking treatment, nor should undocumented alien
children be afraid to attend public schools and forfeit their right to an
education," the lawsuit said.

Giuliani, as mayor of an immigrant-dominated city, today said immigrants
"revitalize and reinvigorate the culture and economy of our cities and states."

"What we need to do is get out a different message, a positive message about
immigration throughout the country," he said. He has taken his views to forums
outside his home city three times in the past two months.

In his latest speech on the issue Thursday night in Massachusetts, Giuliani said
the Welfare Reform Act and the Immigration Reform Act passed by Congress and
signed by President Clinton were "inherently unfair."

The welfare law that Clinton signed in August -- despite the opposition of some
advisers and many in his own Democratic Party -- prevents most legal immigrants
from receiving food stamps and income for the elderly and disabled.

"I believe the threat to immigration is really a threat to the future of the
country," Giuliani said at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of
Government Thursday night.

About 400,000 undocumented aliens, 85,000 of school age, lived in New York City
as of 1993, according to court papers. Under the new welfare plan, an estimated
130,000 of the city's immigrants would lose their food stamps by 1998, 30,800
would lose supplemental security income and 18,480 would lose Medicaid benefits.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              51 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 23, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Running Mate Carries Ball In California; Immigration, Defense Are Themes for
Kemp

Paul Duggan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Oct. 22


With time winding down on Robert J. Dole's presidential bid, running mate Jack
Kemp today opened the GOP team's stepped-up effort in California, planning to
talk tough from now until Election Day about affirmative action, illegal
immigration, defense procurement and other issues thought to resonate deeply
among voters here.

"Emphasis on that issue package is going to allow us to win California," with
its 54 electoral votes, declared Kemp campaign manager Wayne Berman. "And the
simple fact is that with California, we win the presidency."

At a forum with representatives of 15 California taxpayer groups in the
Sacramento Convention Center this afternoon, Kemp turned to the costs of
immigration. Saying the cost of dealing with illegal immigrants was too large a
drain on state resources, Kemp blamed the Clinton administration for failing to
control the country's borders.

"I think it's very interesting that the state of California, with a Republican
governor, a Republican attorney general, is suing the Clinton administration for
the same thing that the state of Florida, with a Democratic governor, is suing
Bill Clinton for. For what? Nonsupport!" Kemp said.

"They are not supporting the state of Florida, the state of California, or
Arizona, or New Mexico," he said. "And Bob Dole believes if the federal
government doesn't control the borders, you pay the cost of those social
services, which are draining the taxpayers of California."

He also declared that he and Dole support Proposition 209, a California ballot
initiative that would require voter approval of any general state tax increase.

For Kemp, today was the start of what aides said will be a travel schedule
weighted heavily to California in the two weeks left before Nov. 5. After his
Monday arrival in San Diego and his appearances today in Los Angeles and
Sacramento, Kemp flew to Oakland for an economic forum with residents of a
retirement community.

Kemp plans to devote about half his time to California over the next two weeks,
Berman said. He said the Republican team intends to spend at least $ 8 million
on advertising, mailings, phone banks and campaign travel here in the period,
and that hardly a day will go by without Kemp, Dole or Dole's wife, Elizabeth
Hanford Dole, stumping in the state.

A come-from-behind win in the Golden State -- where the latest nonpartisan Field
Poll showed Dole trailing by 10 percentage points -- would give the Republican
challenger one-fifth of the total electoral votes needed for election.

"Our strategy is predicated really on the simple fact that on the principal
issues in California, we're on the right side, President Clinton's on the wrong
side," said Berman, citing, for example, Dole's support for a November ballot
initiative that would ban the state from basing employment or educational
preferences on race, ethnicity or sex.

He said Kemp will hit Clinton on illegal immigration, accusing the president of
paying too little attention to the problem.

"The president has cost California over $ 3 billion a year," Berman said,
referring to California's expense in dealing with illegal immigrants. "That's
tax money that could have otherwise gone for schools, otherwise could have gone
to improve roads, improve the economy, drug treatment programs."

Kemp also will focus on California's defense industry, Berman said.

Post-Cold War military spending reductions have hit that industry hard, Berman
pointed out, and he said Clinton "has abandoned having a clear defense spending
and procurement strategy, and therefore businesses in California have had no way
to plan for what kind of long-term orders they're going to get. And it's had a
significant impact on employment for businesses that feed the military
procurement system."


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, GOP vice presidential nominee Jack Kemp tells the football
team at his alma mater, Fairfax High School in Los Angeles, that he and
presidential candidate Robert J. Dole seek to unite the country.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              52 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 28, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Dole Tailors Immigration Remarks to Audiences in California

Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Oct. 27


Attempting to exploit California's resentment of illegal immigrants without
seeming mean-spirited, Robert J. Dole today told a crowd of mostly Vietnamese
immigrants that he can police the Mexican border better than President Clinton.

The Republican presidential nominee also promised that if his administration
cannot stanch the flow of illegal immigrants into this country, he will order
the federal government to reimburse California and other border states for the
cost of educating, hospitalizing and jailing them.

"If President Clinton can't protect the borders, then he ought to pay the tab,"
Dole said at a high school that on Sundays is used to teach Vietnamese language
and culture to a large immigrant community here.

Dole's speech, delivered before a billboard-size sign saying "Celebrating Legal
Immigration -- The American Dream," complemented his television commercials that
began airing in California last week. Showing overcrowded classrooms, the
commercials accuse Clinton of ignoring the $ 3 billion annual cost of 2 million
illegal immigrants to this state's taxpayers.

Dole's aides have said the candidate would be making his passionate opposition
to illegal immigration and affirmative action the driving themes of his
three-day swing through California. Dole said today that both are "very
important. They're wedge issues."

But Dole's speeches have touched quickly on both subjects and are loaded with
qualifiers, apparently to keep him from sounding insensitive.

Dole emphasized here that immigration "is what this America is about." On
Saturday, in a speech to a mostly white audience in Merced, he had struck a much
different tone, saying, "America is for Americans."

Today's speech, delivered to about 3,000 people, was notable for what Dole left
out. He did not mention what has become a standard applause line of his stump
speech, a demand that non-citizens not be allowed to contribute money to
political campaigns. He did not repeat another campaign refrain: "You can learn
as many languages as you want, but it should be English first." And he did not
remind the audience that he supported a welfare reform law that denies Social
Security benefits to most non-citizens.

The candidate made it clear Saturday that while he opposes federal programs
giving preferences in hiring to minorities -- and supports a California
initiative that would bar affirmative action in government hiring and college
admissions -- he also believes there should be "affirmative action programs for
low-income people."

Asked how he could do that, Dole did not explain. "Just do it," he said. "It's
not that difficult."

Dole's lack of fervor on the two issues, according to recent polls, mirrors the
attitude of many Californians. Illegal immigration was a burning concern here
during the deep recession of the early 1990s. It helped Republican Gov. Pete
Wilson engineer a come-from-beyond victory in 1994. But it has since lost its
salience, with California voters ranking immigration below "other" on a list of
issues that most affect their lives, according to a Los Angeles Times poll.

Similarly, support for the initiative to ban affirmative action has slipped in
California, although a majority still supports it. Clinton, who opposes the ban,
does not appear likely to lose many votes because of the issues. Polls show he
is nearly as popular among supporters of the ban as is Dole.

Dole appears to have a strong claim on the Vietnamese immigrant community, where
memories of the Vietnam War remain strong and where there is anger over
Clinton's decision to establish diplomatic ties with Vietnam. In his speech,
Dole said, "I frankly don't think we should have recognized North Vietnam."

"I love Bob Dole. He fights for freedom," said Tom Vo, 38, owner of the Matsuri
Restaurant in San Jose and an immigrant who fled Vietnam 16 years ago. "Bill
Clinton is no good."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              53 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 03, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Wilson Acts to End Prenatal Aid for Illegal Aliens; California Health Care
Advocates Voice Outrage at Proposed Rules

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 579 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.


Gov. Pete Wilson (R) has proposed emergency regulations to deny prenatal
services each year to an estimated 70,000 pregnant women in California who are
undocumented immigrants as part of his drive to cut state benefits to illegal
immigrants.

Widely criticized by health care advocates, Wilson's action Friday signals the
end of a program approved by the Legislature in 1988 that has provided
state-subsidized pregnancy checkups and other prenatal care for poor women who
are illegal immigrants.

Hours later in Los Angeles, U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer refused a
request to block the regulations and said Wilson has the authority to impose the
restrictions as part of the new federal welfare law.

"Congress has decided that the states should deny health benefits to illegal
aliens," Pfaelzer said in a nine-page decision.

"This is a huge victory," said Sean Walsh, gubernatorial spokesman. "It
essentially says the Congress and the American people's voice will be heard and
that activist groups who seek to thwart the will of the American people at every
opportunity have been denied."

Immigrant advocates were "disappointed," said Mark Rosenbaum, legal director for
the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.

Rosenbaum predicted other legal assaults, however, including a possible
challenge under constitutional guarantees of equal protection for all. "Denying
prenatal care to citizen children is an open question that could be litigated,"
he said.

The proposed regulations, expected to be approved by the state Office of
Administrative Law within 10 days, will become effective Dec. 1.

The overhaul of the federal welfare system, signed into law Aug. 22 by President
Clinton, bars states from providing nonemergency pregnancy services to illegal
immigrants unless those services are approved by state legislatures after the
passage of the federal law.

Under the 1988 law signed by Republican Gov. George Deukmejian, California has
been providing prenatal services since federal Medicaid guidelines prohibited
such aid for illegal immigrants.

But the Legislature so far has taken no action to reinstate the program, which
is financed exclusively by the state at an annual cost of about $ 69 million.

Wilson's decision to end the program prompted a harsh reaction from many health
groups.

They credit prenatal care -- a regimen including regular checkups, nutrition
supplements, counseling and fetal monitoring -- with reducing mortality and
illness rates for children and mothers and averting abnormalities and serious
complications such as low-birth weight babies. "We consider this to be extremely
short-sighted public policy," said Charlotte Newhart, chief administrative
officer for the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, California.

For now, said Irene Riley, chief of governmental relations for Los Angeles
County, county health officials plan to continue providing the aid unless the
Board of Supervisors decides otherwise. As a result of Wilson's action, she said
county taxpayers will have to pick up the more than $ 9 million annual tab.

Other health experts predicted that the governor's action would prompt many
legal immigrants to shy away from seeking any kind of medical care, even
immunizations for their U.S.-born children.

Among the 50 states, observers say only California has moved forcefully to
implement the welfare law's restrictions on aid for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              54 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 22, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Opposed to Immigration

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A30; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 350 words


Why is the article on Alfredo Ras con, titled "The Non-Citizen Soldier,"
subtitled ". . . a Symbol in Fight for Immigrants' Rights" [Metro, Nov. 8]? Mr.
Rascon is truly an American hero deserving of our gratitude and admiration. I
did not read where Mr. Rascon's rights were denied him. In fact, I have not read
where the rights of legal immigrants are being assailed anywhere in the country.

Why are those of us who are strenuously opposed to immigration being labeled as
anti-immigrant or, even worse, as racists? Does the United States have a
sovereign right to control its borders and determine how many people will be
allowed to emigrate into this country? Does the geography of a foreign nation
give its citizens more of a right to uncontrolled entry into the United States
than the citizens of another foreign nation whose border is not contiguous with
the United States?

When the United States was trying to populate a continental-sized country, it
made sense to allow the offspring of illegal immigrants to become citizens as a
right of birth in this country. But we are not trying to populate this country
anymore. Granting citizenship on birth to the offspring of illegal immigrants is
a mandate for illegal immigration.

Why is talk of amending the Constitution to deny citizenship to the offspring of
illegal immigrants considered anti-immigrant or even racist? If I were to rob a
bank and give the loot to my offspring would he or she be allowed to keep it?
Obviously not, because the loot would have been obtained by an illegal act. The
property of drug dealers can be confiscated because it was bought with money
obtained by an illegal act. Notwithstanding the 14th Amendment to the
Constitution, why should the offspring of persons who are in the United States
illegally benefit from the illegal act of the parents? Why can't my son or
daughter keep the loot or the drug dealer's family keep the property?

Those who portray someone opposed to illegal immigration as anti-immigrant or
racist are the true demagogues in our society.

JOSEPH R. FARRELL

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              55 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 15, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Making It In the U.S.A.

Roberto Suro

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X04

LENGTH: 1207 words


THE NEW SECOND GENERATION

Edited by Alejandro Portes

Russell Sage Foundation. 246 pp. $ 45; Paperback, $ 19.95

IMMIGRANT AMERICA

A Portrait (second edition)

By Alejandro Portes and Ruben G. Rumbaut

University of California Press. 421 pp. $ 40; Paperback, $ 14.95

IN 1974 the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Leonard
E. Chapman, a growling former Marine general, promised to open up a million good
jobs for American citizens if Congress would let him seal the border and carry
out mass deportations of illegal immigrants. Twenty years later in California,
Gov. Pete Wilson promised voters that if the state didn't have to spend any
money on illegal immigrants it could put a computer on every desk in every
public school.

The public-policy debate on immigration has shifted from employment to social
services, from anxieties about losing jobs to concerns that public spending on
immigrants deprives Americans of their due. And now these worries encompass all
immigrants, legal and illegal, as was evident last summer when Congress passed a
law to keep all the foreign-born, including naturalized U.S. citizens in some
cases, from getting welfare.

This shift reflects changes in an immigrant population that has grown not only
much larger but also more permanent and more complete. The newcomers are no
longer just a first-generation vanguard of young adults looking for jobs. Now
there is also a second generation. These children of immigrants, who were either
born here or came at a young age, need schooling, health care and much else.
Their future will reveal whether the United States still has the magic to make
immigrants a source of strength.

Alejandro Portes, chair of the sociology department at the Johns Hopkins
University, was among the first important scholars of immigration to recognize
that the children of the foreign-born represent a distinct and crucial subject
matter. He helped marshal the funding and the collaborators for a series of
major studies that are reported in The New Second Generation, a collection of
essays.

Whether they are examining the lives of rich Cubans in Miami or poor Mexicans in
San Diego, the authors conclude that immigrant youths are all learning English
and adapting to their new land. But what kind of Americans will they become?
Portes argues at the very beginning of the volume that the nation has a lot
riding on the answer: "This puzzle is whether today's children of immigrants
will follow their European predecessors and move steadily into the middle-class
mainstream or whether, on the contrary, their ascent will be blocked and they
will join children of earlier black and Puerto Rican migrants as part of an
expanded multiethnic underclass."

Sheer numbers alone ensure that the outcome will have a huge impact on the
nation. Sometime in the late 1990s the size of this second generation will
surpass the 28-million mark set by the children of European immigrants in the
1940s. Even after conducting surveys, case studies and statistical analyses of
all sorts, the authors are cautious about predicting a fate for the second
generation because every piece of research uncovers the potential for diverse
and unpredictable results. For example, social status is not a clear indicator
of the tendency to assimilate. The children of poor immigrants often retain a
strong ethnic identity, especially when they feel discriminated against here.
But the children of affluent immigrants also often adopt a strong
national-origin identity because they see their parents's homeland as a source
of pride.

The picture becomes especially complicated when various authors describe
instances of "downward assimilation." In these cases immigrant children abandon
their parents' language and customs, learn English and become thoroughly
Americanized but with such disastrous results as criminality and unemployment.
Living in America's inner cities, they have adapted to the world around them.
Meanwhile other children, even from the same national origins, sometimes do
better when they retain a stronger immigrant identity.

The essays in The New Second Generation are written more colloquially than
papers for an academic journal, but they are nonetheless a little heavy on
sociological jargon, which could easily have been explained to make the volume
more accessible. In addition, this book primarily reports on research, and
readers looking for bold judgments and prescriptions will come away frustrated.

One broad conclusion, however, does emerge clearly from these studies: The
future of the second generation will be determined by what they encounter here
as much as, if not more so, by the skills and cultures that the first generation
brought from abroad. As Ruben G. Rumbaut, a sociologist at Michigan State
University, says at the conclusion of an essay on the difficulty of becoming an
adult and becoming an American at the same time, "in the final analysis, it is
the crucible without that shapes the crucible within."

The interplay between the character of the newcomer and the context of the new
land gets much broader treatment in Immigrant America: A Portrait. This classic
work by Portes and Rumbaut, first published in 1990, has been updated and
expanded in a new edition.

Viewing the current era of immigration as a highly varied process rather than an
event, the authors examine the major elements of that process, such as
occupational adaptation and language acquisition. A theoretical framework and an
abundance of up-to-date statistical material are provided for each topic. The
writing is professorial, but the book provides an invaluable overview.

PORTES AND RUMBAUT openly proclaim their assessment that "overall immigration
has been and will continue to be positive for the country," and sometimes they
seem to be at pains to make that case. Immigrant America's major weakness lies
in a tendency to overemphasize the significance of the Indian physicians, Korean
businessmen and others arriving with more education than the U.S. average.
Despite their considerable contributions, these newcomers are substantially
outnumbered by the Cambodian refugees, the Mexican laborers and others who
arrived with fewer skills than the native-born. For better or worse, the
public-policy challenges are created by those on the low end.

The only real disappointment in this second version of Immigrant America is a
new concluding chapter that offers analysis and suggestions on those policy
challenges. Neither of the authors has much background in this area either as a
scholar or as a practitioner, and compared to the rest of the book this chapter
is thinly researched and loosely argued. They suggest, for example, that the
United States could battle illegal immigration by taking the money now used to
track down illegal immigrants here and giving it to nongovernmental
organizations for economic-development projects in Mexico. After so masterfully
developing the complexity of this subject, it is a shame that they end the new
edition on a simplistic note.

Roberto Suro, a deputy editor for the national desk of The Washington Post, is
the author of a forthcoming book on immigration.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/arizona daily star-david sanders, A group about to be
sworn-in to become American citizens in Tucson, Ariz.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              56 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 09, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Court Dismisses States' Claims for Costs of Illegal Immigration 'Invasion'

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 599 words


California and Arizona plan to petition the Supreme Court to overturn an appeals
court ruling that rejected their demands for federal reimbursement for the costs
of illegal immigration, state officials said yesterday.

In a decision Tuesday in San Francisco, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
dismissed lawsuits by the two states seeking billions of dollars in federal
payments to cover such costs as educating, incarcerating and hospitalizing
illegal immigrants. The decision said the claims raised "political questions"
outside the jurisdiction of the courts.

"This is a groundbreaking case that raises novel legal issues which we knew
would have to be decided by the United States Supreme Court," California Gov.
Pete Wilson (R) said in a statement. "We are now in a position to seek that
review from the high court."

He added: "Ultimately, the federal government cannot avoid its obligation to
protect the state's borders against illegal immigration."

In its lawsuit against the federal government in 1994, California argued that
the government had violated the Constitution by failing to protect the state
from an "invasion" of illegal immigrants and by forcing it to pay for the
consequences. The federal government has sole responsibility to enforce
immigration laws, including the prevention of illegal entries into the United
States.

California's initial complaint sought $ 10.4 billion in federal reimbursement
for costs incurred over several years, including $ 1.6 billion for prison
construction. The complaint depicted a state treasury under siege from illegal
immigrants, who it said accounts for 5 percent of the state's population, with
125,000 unauthorized residents coming each year.

With the nation's largest share of illegal immigrants, California says it spends
$ 2 billion a year to provide free public education to children who are in the
state illegally; $ 376 million a year on emergency health care for illegal
immigrants, and $ 511 million a year for incarceration and parole supervision of
those convicted of crimes.

The circuit court said it was in no position to determine whether the United
States had been "invaded," and that California's claims presented
"nonjusticiable political questions." In any case, it said, such suits are
barred by the doctrine of sovereign immunity.

In a brief, separate ruling, the court dismissed Arizona's suit on essentially
the same grounds. Arizona had sought reimbursement for education and prison
expenses incurred because of illegal immigration, said Karie Dozer, a
spokeswoman for the state attorney general. She said Arizona also would seek
Supreme Court review.

Four other states have filed similar suits. New York, New Jersey and Florida
were rebuffed by U.S. circuit courts, and the Supreme Court last year refused
Florida's request for review. An appeal by Texas to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals is pending.

Wilson hopes to succeed before the Supreme Court, despite Florida's failure,
because California's suit raises a number of new statutory claims and because
its illegal immigrant "invasion" -- the crux of its constitutional claim -- is
much larger than Florida's, an aide to the governor said. "Having 125,000 people
violate your border annually certainly rises to a level above many military
border incursions," the aide said.

In a separate suit pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C.,
California is demanding that the attorney general either take custody of illegal
immigrants now in state jails or reimburse the state for their incarceration.

LOAD-DATE: January 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              57 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  February 05, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

50 Held After INS Raid

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 136 words


Fifty workers suspected of being illegal immigrants were arrested during a
federal raid at a major Shenandoah Valley poultry plant.

After the raid at the Wampler-Longacre turkey processing plant in Harrisonburg,
29 men and 21 women who could not produce valid citizenship or immigration
documents were taken to the Rockingham County jail, said Russ Bergeron, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.

They are to appear before a federal judge in Alexandria, Bergeron said.

Jane Brookshire, Wampler's vice president for human resources, said the company
makes every effort to comply with immigration laws and to check workers'
documents. "We are concerned, as the INS is, about the falsification of
documents," she said. "It's very difficult to detect false documents."

LOAD-DATE: February 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              58 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 08, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrant Population Grows to 5 Million

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 762 words


The number of illegal immigrants residing permanently in the United States has
grown to about 5 million and is rising by 275,000 a year, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said yesterday.

In what federal officials called their most accurate calculation ever of illegal
immigration, the INS estimated that this population has increased by 28 percent
in the past four years alone. According to the new analysis, illegal immigrants
now account for nearly 2 percent of the total U.S. population.

The new figure raised questions about the strategy of Congress and the Clinton
administration to throw the great bulk of U.S. resources at the southwestern
border with Mexico in efforts to combat illegal immigration.

According to the INS study, 41 percent of the illegal resident population, or
2.1 million people, originally entered the country legally at airports and other
entry points but then overstayed their temporary visas. Of the net increase in
the illegal population of 275,000 a year, about 125,000 a year are visa
overstayers, the INS said.

Yet, while dramatically beefing up the U.S. Border Patrol, Congress did not
appropriate funds for a relatively modest addition of 300 investigators to
ferret out visa overstayers inside the country.

"Congress and the administration . . . remembered the policemen and forgot the
detectives," complained INS special agent Robert A. McGraw in a recent article
in the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association journal. "Neglect of INS
investigations . . . continues, and this means little or nothing is likely to
improve."

According to advocates of lower immigration levels, the new estimate of illegal
immigrants also represents a failure of the 1986 immigration reform act in which
Congress granted amnesty to nearly 3 million illegal aliens. The act was
intended to clamp off future illegal immigration, but it failed to deal
effectively with unauthorized employment and to remove the "job magnet" that
draws people to this country, these advocates complain.

"The illegal population has now reached the level that it was before the 1986
amnesty," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies.
"The past 10 years have essentially canceled out the entire effect of the
amnesty."

In announcing the new estimate, Robert Bach, the INS executive associate
commissioner for policy and planning, described the illegal immigrant population
as a problem largely "inherited" from previous administrations. He said that
over the past two decades, "a lack of resources and attention allowed illegal
immigration to flourish," but that the administration now has an effective
"multiyear strategy" to cope with it.

"It takes awhile to turn an aircraft carrier around," he said. "We have no
reason to believe the problem is getting worse. We have every reason to believe
we're making significant progress." He cited record expulsions of 68,000 illegal
aliens last year and said the INS expects to remove 93,000 more this year.

However, critics said the removals still fall far short of keeping up with the
new arrivals of illegal aliens, much less of putting a dent in the 5 million
illegal population.

In issuing its new figures, the INS revised upward its estimate of the illegal
population in 1992, to 3.9 million from 3.4 million, meaning that the Clinton
administration inherited nearly 80 percent of the current total, Bach said.

The illegal immigrant population is heavily concentrated in certain regions of
the country, with 83 percent of the residents thought to be living in seven
states, the figures show. California tops the list with 40 percent of the total,
or about 2 million people, up nearly 100,000 a year since 1992. Texas accounts
for 14.1 percent of the U.S. illegal population and New York has 10.8 percent,
the INS reported.

The District of Columbia has 30,000 illegal residents, or 0.6 percent of the
national total, a number that has grown by 2,000 a year since 1992. Virginia has
55,000 illegal immigrants, up from 42,000 in 1992 and accounting for 1.1 percent
of the U.S. total. Maryland has 44,000, with growth of 3,000 a year.

A majority of the U.S. illegal immigrant population, 2.7 million or 54 percent,
came from Mexico, the INS said. The countries with the next highest shares were
El Salvador, Guatemala, Canada and Haiti.

The 5 million figure does not reflect the total impact of illegal immigration on
the U.S. population, since it does not include children born in the United
States to illegal immigrant parents, INS officials said.

LOAD-DATE: February 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              59 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 14, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

29 Alleged Illegal Immigrants Arrested

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 126 words


Federal agents raided a Prince George's County laundry service about midnight
Wednesday and arrested 29 suspected illegal immigrants, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said.

The arrests took place at the Maryland Linen Exchange, in the 8700 block of
D'Arcy Road in Forestville, where the undocumented immigrants were making about
$ 6 an hour, the INS said.

Of those arrested, 25 were from Mexico and four were from Guatemala, the INS
said. Some of those arrested may leave the United States voluntarily, and the
others will face deportation hearings, the INS said.

The agency said the Linen Exchange was cooperating with its investigation.
Employers can be fined as much as $ 2,000 a worker for knowingly hiring illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              60 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 02, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Debating Immigration The French Way

Jim Hoagland

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The French have fused race and immigration into an existential issue that now
dominates their politics. For the French, the issue turns on their twin
intellectual obsessions: history and culture. But the boiling-hot debate over
controlling immigration also has big implications for the faddish '90s topic of
economic globalization.

In parliament, in the media and in the streets of Paris, the French are arguing
about methods for cutting down on illegal immigration by Africans, Arabs and
Asians. Many French believe -- in the face of evidence to the contrary -- that
clandestine immigration is the prime factor in their country's record
unemployment, and in spreading crime.

In this they do not differ greatly from many Americans, especially those in
border states who bear an unfair share of the burdens they associate with
Hispanic and Caribbean immigration, or those Germans who would like to see
Turkish workers and families who have lived 20 or more years in Germany return
"home" permanently.

But this is one more thing the French do their own way: They debate immigration
more openly and honestly than do other industrial democracies. They agonize or
exult over anti-immigrant worker measures that do not differ significantly from
those already adopted, with little sustained fanfare, in the United States and
Germany.

The penchant of the French for defining themselves through political and
ideological battle explains in part why relations with foreign "visitors" have
become an issue of national identity as France sorts out its place in Europe and
the world.

In one sense, the chickens of the colonial past are coming home to roost. The
new immigration measures affect the peoples to whom the French once exported
their culture and politics, as well as their goods, their missionaries and army
units to maintain order in the colonies.

But suddenly Africans, Arabs and Asians of modest means who thought they had
been granted access to a world culture find they are greeted with suspicion or
even hostility if they seek to work in or visit France. The xenophobic National
Front political party of Jean-Marie Le Pen promises to expel the estimated 3
million legal and illegal immigrants who have established homes in France, and
open up 3 million jobs for French citizens.

The National Front recently captured its fourth city hall in southern France,
and President Jacques Chirac's conservative majority in the National Assembly
fears the far right will take seats from it in next year's parliamentary
balloting. To preempt Le Pen, the government introduced legislation in
parliament giving the police greater powers to look for and detain unregistered
aliens.

Polls show the legislation is broadly popular. Most of the controversy and
protests have centered on one incredibly insensitive clause that would have
required French hosts of foreign visitors to file reports with the police when
the foreigners left the hosts' homes.

That carried unacceptable echoes of France's collaborationist past in World War
II, when French Jews were reported to Nazi authorities for deportation to death
camps. The government quickly modified the clause to eliminate the informer
requirement.

France's conscience is uneasy, about the Vichy era and about what it proposes to
do to its former colonial wards, who made significant contributions to building
the modern French economy.

But the French dilemma is in fact only an exposed cutting edge of a problem
faced by other industrial democracies that have become magnets for immigrant
workers and families in this era of global communications, easy travel, and easy
trade and capital movement.

Money, goods, technology and ideas move across increasingly permeable national
frontiers with ease. This is the core of "globalization," which in many ways
recreates the mercantile conditions of colonial empires, minus the missionaries
and troops.

But people who move across borders for work -- especially those from culturally
and racially distinct communities -- have become a source of political
controversy in country after country -- even though they have been stimulated by
the global media and entertainment industry, and by the practices of world
business, to seek better standards of living wherever they can find them.

As they tighten immigration controls, the French are also channeling the
development funds they spend in Africa into areas from which immigrant flows are
heaviest. We want you to continue to partake of our products and our culture,
the French action suggests, but do so chez vous.

That may sound terribly cynical, if not vaguely racist. But the French dilemma
should offer food for thought for the law-, policy- and opinion-makers of
America, now the world's greatest cultural and economic magnet, major harvester
of the fruits of globalization and source of the most powerful dreams of a more
glamorous life.

In recent years the actions and words of America's leaders have undermined the
United Nations and other international bodies. They have not supported expanding
the work of the World Bank and other development organizations.

The French are wrestling, however imperfectly, with the responsibilities their
actions and attitudes toward other peoples create. Can Americans make the same
claim?

LOAD-DATE: March 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              61 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 23, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Fighting for Their U.S. Lives; New Law Gives Gay Illegal Immigrants Fewer Ways
to Stop Deportation

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 998 words


The Washington couple have been together for eight years. Pat Gleason, 49, is a
social worker, and Wan Lee, 44, is a massage therapist. On weekends, they putter
in the garden of their Capitol Hill home or attend an Asian cultural event.

But their quiet, comfortable life has been shaken this spring by a strict new
immigration law that will make it harder for Lee, an illegal immigrant from
Malaysia, to stay in the United States. Unless all illegal residents take steps
by September to legalize their status, they will have to leave the country or
risk being deported and barred from returning for several years.

Other illegal immigrants may be able to fight deportation by marrying a U.S.
citizen or permanent resident or, if they have children or other dependents in
the United States, by seeking family hardship exemptions. But for this couple,
such options aren't possible.

Gleason and Lee are gay.

There is no way to know how many of the estimated 5 million illegal immigrants
in the United States are gay. But the Lesbian and Gay Immigration Rights Task
Force, a group with chapters in 10 cities, said several thousand gay people,
most with expired visas, have sought its help in recent months.

Most gay men and lesbians, according to the task force, come to the United
States for the same reasons other immigrants do -- to work, study and seek a
better life. But those whose native countries persecute homosexuals also flee
expecting to find a more welcoming environment.

In recent years, the U.S. government has opened its doors to foreign-born
homosexuals. In 1990, it repealed a longtime law barring them from immigrating;
in 1994, it began allowing them to seek political asylum.

Under the old immigration law, illegal immigrants could avoid deportation by
proving that they would face economic or personal hardship if sent back to their
native countries. The new law, which took effect April 1, requires illegal
immigrants to prove that deportation would cause "extreme hardship" to a spouse,
child or parent who is a U.S. citizen or a permanent U.S. resident.

But since gay people cannot legally marry one another, cannot produce children
with their partners and often come to the United States without their parents,
lawyers for gay immigrants say it will be nearly impossible for them to meet
those requirements. They also say many gay people will have more trouble seeking
political asylum because they have either suffered abuse or hidden their
homosexuality -- and will be reluctant to describe their situations to
authorities.

"The new law is a tremendous blow to lesbian and gay immigrants, who have only
very recently had equal treatment under U.S. immigration law," said Shannon
Minter, a spokeswoman for the gay immigrants task force. "For those who want to
become legal, it really locks them out of any remedy."

Proponents of immigration reform say Congress did not intend to put gay people
at a special disadvantage but rather sought to crack down on illegal immigrants
across the board.

"I can understand why [gay immigrants] wouldn't want to be treated differently,
and I guess this is a consequence of not having a traditional family, but it
seems an enormous stretch to argue they are being discriminated against," said
K.C. McAlpin, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
"The law was intended to tighten the loopholes in general."

Proponents of the law also note that family sponsorship is not the only avenue
for gay immigrants to become legal. They also can ask an employer to sponsor
them for residency. But this process generally takes longer, and applicants must
have unusual skills that no legal resident readily can provide.

For months before the new law took effect, Gleason and Lee agonized over their
options. Lee had tried once, and failed, to get his employer at a restaurant to
sponsor him. Gleason's ex-wife offered to marry Lee, but he declined, because
marriages of convenience are considered fraudulent by immigration authorities.

Finally, before the new law took effect, Lee turned himself in and requested a
waiver of deportation under the old, more lenient law. The couple have collected
letters from family members and friends, hoping to show that Lee, whose family
in Malaysia does not know he is gay, would suffer great hardship if forced to go
back. If he loses his case, however, he almost certainly will be deported.

"This has been like coming out a thousand times over, in a more intense and
stressful way than we ever expected," Gleason said during a recent interview in
the couple's back yard garden.

Struggling for words, Lee said he would feel lost if forced to return to
Malaysia, where he said homosexuality is not accepted. "I will lose everything,"
he said, brushing away tears that were rolling down his cheeks. "I go back into
the closet."

Josue Torres, 38, a consultant from Colombia who lives in Mount Pleasant, has
decided to apply for political asylum. He came to this country on a student visa
that expired about a decade ago; he doesn't want to go back.

"Anyone openly gay in Colombia is ostracized. There are even social cleansing
squads that hunt them down and attack them," he said.

Torres probably could continue to elude immigration authorities. But now that he
has found a comfortable niche in U.S. society, with a network of friends and a
long-term partner, he wants to come out of the illegal immigration closet, as
well.

"I want to stay, and I want to do it the right way," he said.

Wan Lee's lawyers say they do not believe he can make a strong case for asylum,
even though he says he fled a hostile environment. He and Gleason are pinning
their hopes on an immigration judge who will hear Lee's plea for a waiver of
deportation in May.

"We recognize we are taking an exceedingly great risk," Gleason said. "But we
want to make our life together legal and real, instead of waiting in limbo. This
is our only chance."


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, Wan Lee, left, an illegal immigrant from Malaysia,
and Pat Gleason have been together for eight years but cannot marry.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              62 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 15, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Cases Pile Up As Judgeships Remain Vacant; Drug Crackdown, Immigration Inundate
U.S. Courts in Texas

Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex.


The drug and illegal immigrant cases keep coming. No sooner does Chief U.S.
District Judge George Kazen clear one case than a stack of new cases piles up.
He takes work home at night, on weekends.

"It's like a tidal wave," Kazen said recently. "As soon as I finish 25 cases per
month, the next 25 are on top of me and then you've got the sentence reports you
did two months before. There is no stop, no break at all, year in and year out,
here they come.

"We've already got more than we can say grace over down here," he said.

This is what happens to a federal judge on the southern border of the United
States when Washington cracks down on illegal immigration and drug smuggling. It
is a situation much aggravated by the fact that the Senate in Washington has
left another federal judgeship in this district vacant for two years, one of 72
vacancies on federal district courts around the country.

As Border Patrol officers and other federal agents swarm this southernmost
region of Texas along the Mexican border in ever-increasing numbers, Judge
Kazen's docket has grown and grown. He has suggested, so far unsuccessfully,
that a judgeship in Houston be reassigned to the Rio Grande Valley to help cope.

In Washington, where the laws and policies were adopted that has made Kazen's
life so difficult, the Senate has made confirmation of federal judges a tedious
process, often fraught with partisan politics. In addition to the 72 federal
district court vacancies (the trial level), there are 25 circuit court vacancies
(the appellate level) and two vacant international trade court judgeships across
the country, leaving unfilled 99 positions, or 11 percent of the federal
judiciary. Twenty-six nominations from President Clinton are pending, according
to Jeanne Lopatto, spokeswoman for the Senate Judiciary Committee, which
considers nominations for recommendation to the full Senate for confirmation.

Of those 99 vacancies, 24 qualify as judicial emergencies, meaning the positions
have been vacant more than 18 months, according to David Sellers of the
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. Two of the emergencies exist in Texas,
including the one in Kazen's southern district.

Lopatto said the thorough investigation of each nominee is a time-consuming
process. But political observers say Republicans, who run the Senate, are in no
hurry to approve candidates submitted by a Democratic president. The pinch is
particularly painful here in border towns. The nominee for Brownsville, in
Kazan's district, has been awaiting approval since 1995. Here in Laredo, Kazen's
criminal docket has increased more than 20 percent over last year.

"We have a docket," he said, "that can be tripled probably at the drop of a hat.
. . . The Border Patrol people, the Customs people at the [international]
bridges will tell you, they don't catch a tenth of who is going through. The
more checkpoints you man, the more troops you have at the bridges, will
necessarily mean more stops and more busts."

And many more arrests are expected, the result of an unprecedented focus on
policing the U.S.-Mexican border. Earlier this year, Clinton unveiled a $ 367
million program for the Southwest for fiscal 1998, beginning Oct. 1, that
includes hiring 500 new Border Patrol agents, 277 inspectors for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, 96 Drug Enforcement Administration agents and 70 FBI
agents.

In Kazen's territory, the number of Border Patrol agents already has swollen
dramatically, from 347 officers assigned to the Laredo area in fiscal 1993 to
411 officers in fiscal 1996. More tellingly, in 1993, agents in the Laredo
sector arrested more than 82,000 people on cocaine, marijuana and illegal
immigration charges. By 1996, arrests had soared to nearly 132,000, according to
data supplied by the INS.

All of which is keeping Kazen and the other judges here hopping. "I don't know
what the answer is," said U.S. District Judge John Rainey, who has been acting
as "a circuit rider" as he tries to help Kazen out in Laredo from his post in
Victoria, Tex. "I certainly don't see it easing up anytime soon. There still
seems to be such a demand for drugs in this country, and that's what causes
people to bring them in. Until society changes, we won't see any changes down
here."

In a letter to Rep. Henry B. Gonzalez (D-Tex.) in February, Kazen outlined the
need for a new judge in the Laredo or McAllen division, rather than in Houston,
where a vacancy was recently created when then-Chief Judge Norman Black assumed
senior status. "The 'border' divisions of our court -- Brownsville, McAllen and
Laredo -- have long borne the burden of one of the heaviest criminal dockets in
the country, and the processing of criminal cases involves special pressures,
including those generated by the Speedy Trial Act," he wrote.

On a recent typical day, Kazen said, he sentenced six people on drug charges and
listened to an immigration case. His cases tend to involve marijuana more often
than cocaine, he said.

"The border is a transshipment area," he said. "The fact is, a huge amount of
contraband somehow crosses the Texas-Mexican border, people walking through
where the river is low, and there are hundreds and hundreds of miles of
unpatrolled ranchland.

"In some cases," Kazen continued, "we're seeing a difference in the kind of
defendant. We're almost never seeing the big shots -- we're seeing the soldiers.
Once in a while, we'll see a little bigger fish, but we're dealing with very,
very smart people. We see some mom-and-pop stuff, too. There was a guy who came
before me who had been in the Army umpteen years, and he needed the money, he
was going bankrupt, so he did this 600-pound marijuana deal. He said he stood to
pick up $ 50,000, and now he's facing five to 40 years.

"We see kids 18 and 19 years old," Kazen said. "We see pregnant women. We see
disabled people in wheelchairs. This is very, very tempting stuff."

In Washington, the argument over court vacancies continues. On April 30,
Attorney General Janet Reno told the Judiciary Committee, "Chief judges are
calling my staff to report the prospect of canceling court sittings and
suspending civil calendars for lack of judges, and to ask when they can expect
help. This committee must act now to send this desperately needed help."

In remarks yesterday to the Federal Judges Association meeting in Washington,
Reno warned that "the number [of vacancies] is growing."

"As you are no doubt aware," Reno told the judges, "the level of contentiousness
on the issue of filling judicial vacancies has unfortunately increased in recent
times."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              63 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 29, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Arrests 33 in Md. Raid Of Army Construction Site

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 404 words


Federal agents arrested 33 suspected illegal immigrants yesterday at a Walter
Reed Army research center construction site in Silver Spring, part of a
crackdown on the booming illegal work force in Maryland.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agents seized the workers as they arrived
at the site in the early morning.

"A couple of folks ran off into the woods on us," said Benedict J. Ferro,
district director for the Baltimore INS office, "but otherwise everything went
off without incident."

He said arrests and deportations are increasing sharply in the Washington area
and nationwide. He said that in Maryland alone, agents arrested 776 suspected
illegal workers in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 and that the INS expects
to arrest "900-plus" in the current fiscal year. "There is no crest in sight,"
Ferro said.

Those arrested yesterday, most from El Salvador and Mexico, were taken first to
Baltimore for processing and then were either released on a minimum $ 3,000 bond
each or jailed pending deportation and other proceedings.

Ferro said most of the people taken into custody lived in Virginia or
Washington. They were working at the Maryland site apparently because of what
they perceived as better pay, an average of $ 8 an hour, he said.

He said it was unusual that they were willing to work on a U.S. government
construction site, where they are more apt to be checked for identification.
"They must have reached a certain comfort level," Ferro said.

The research center is being built for the Walter Reed Army Institute of
Research to replace the one on the grounds of the Walter Reed Army Medical
Center in Washington. The complex is being built by Manhattan Construction Co.
for more than $ 100 million at the Walter Reed annex in Silver Spring near
Linden Lane.

Manhattan Construction Vice President Ted Baker said the arrested employees,
about 10 percent of the work force at the site, are "all documented to my
knowledge. . . . In fact, I know some are legal aliens and some are [U.S.]
citizens."

Ferro said the INS will examine Manhattan Construction records to see whether it
knowingly hired any employees who lack INS "green cards" or other documentation
showing they are eligible to work in the United States. Employers are subject to
criminal and civil actions for such violations.

Baker said his company maintains "strict processing for incoming employees."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              64 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 31, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Ailing Child, Mother Find Hearts of Gold; In a Borderline Case, Girl to Get
Cardiac Care

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 935 words


When federal immigration agents nabbed Leydina Henriquez and her daughter,
Keysi, as they tried to sneak across the Mexican border into Texas last
Christmas Eve, there was every reason to believe the pair would quickly be
deported to their native Honduras.

But Keysi, a thin, impish girl of 9, has a hole in her heart. In fact, say
cardiologists at Children's Hospital in Washington, she has numerous holes in
the wall between the two lower chambers of her heart, plus a malfunctioning
valve and intense pressure in the blood vessels in her lungs.

Despite years of heart treatment in Honduras, Keysi's problems kept worsening.
So last winter her mother, who had been living illegally in Washington for three
years, decided to fly home and bring the girl back, hoping that, by some
miracle, she could be cured in the United States.

"I knew I was taking a great risk, but if I had left her in Honduras any longer,
I knew she was going to die," said Henriquez, 29, who lives with her husband,
Jose, an undocumented Mexican immigrant, in an apartment on 13th Street NW. "I
put her in God's hands."

Indeed, the hole in Keysi's heart has touched an extraordinary variety of people
-- from usually skeptical U.S. Border Patrol agents who gave her special
permission to enter the country to cardiac surgeons who have agreed to operate
on her for a fraction of their usual fees.

Doctors at Children's Hospital will perform open-heart surgery on Keysi next
month, and a local nonprofit foundation, Marcelino Panevino, has pledged to
raise the money to pay all her medical expenses.

At a deportation hearing Wednesday in Arlington, immigration officials agreed to
allow Keysi and her mother to remain here until at least October, when they will
assess the girl's medical progress.

Henriquez, who was separated from Keysi's father years ago, entered the United
States illegally in 1994, leaving Keysi and another daughter with her mother.
Working at a discount store in Washington, Henriquez regularly sent money home
for Keysi's heart medication, but the girl never improved.

Henriquez decided to sneak Keysi into the United States. She paid a smuggler $
3,000, and they started walking across Mexico.

The odyssey took two months. Henriquez lost 23 pounds. Keysi ran out of heart
medicine. The smuggler abandoned them just before they reached the border at
Brownsville, Tex. Henriquez tried to cross on her own, with Keysi and several
other Hondurans, but she ran right into the Border Patrol.

"I thought we were finished, but I told them about Keysi's heart," Henriquez
recounted. "By then . . . she was very weak, and her face was purple."
Immigration officials at the border, who turn back 90 percent of the people they
catch entering illegally, granted the pair permission to remain for several
months on humanitarian grounds.

Henriquez used the rest of her savings for airfare to Washington. She took took
Keysi to a clinic, which sent the girl to Children's.

Cardiologists at the hospital said the girl would need expensive open-heart
surgery.

Henriquez was out of money and uninsured and had no right to government
assistance. But surgeons, social workers and officials at Children's were so
moved by the little girl's case that they agreed to reduce the total charges
from $ 57,000 to $ 39,000.

"We can't save all the children with heart disease in the world, but when a
compelling case comes before us, whether or not they are residents, it is our
moral obligation to help," said Thomas Hougen, a cardiologist at Children's.

Without the surgery, he said, Keysi would live only another 20 years; with it,
she may be able to lead a normal life.

Hospital aides contacted the Marcelino Panevino foundation, established by the
Rev. Eugenio Hoyos, of St. Anthony's Roman Catholic Church in Falls Church, to
help sick immigrant children.

"It's precisely because she is here illegally and has no access to help of any
kind that we want to get involved," said Jay Marks, vice president of the
foundation. "Some of our members were once illegal, so they know what it's like,
and now they want to carry on the American tradition of lending a hand."

For Keysi and her mother, an equally important display of compassion has come
from immigration authorities. Under a new immigration law that took effect April
1, it is much more difficult to win a permanent exemption from deportation, but
officials have twice extended the pair's temporary permission to stay.

"In light of the new law, we need to find innovative ways to help people in a
crisis," said William J. Carroll, district director for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Arlington. "We hope this case demonstrates the concern
we really have for people."

Henriquez and her daughter are scheduled for a deportation hearing Oct. 9.
Henriquez is about five months pregnant -- her child is due the same week as the
hearing and will automatically become a U.S. citizen if born here. She hopes
that might help her win the right to remain permanently.

Meanwhile, Marcelino Panevino officials said they are not sure whether they can
raise all $ 39,000. When Keysi spoke on a Spanish-language radio show Thursday,
the station was flooded with callers, from a disco owner who contributed his
weekend receipts to a little girl who offered her Barbie doll.

"It is so much more than we ever dared hope for," said Henriquez, folding
laundry in her apartment while Keysi sucked on a popsicle. ". . . God saw my
struggle and heard my prayers. He did not let her die on the road, and He will
not let her die now."


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Leydina Henriquez and her daughter, Keysi, are
looking ahead to better times. Keysi, 9, will undergo heart surgery next month.
In a happy moment, Leydina Henriquez and daughter Keysi are far from their time
of desperation in December at the Texas-Mexico border.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              65 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 31, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Ailing Child, Mother Find Hearts of Gold; In a Borderline Case, Girl to Get
Cardiac Care

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 935 words


When federal immigration agents nabbed Leydina Henriquez and her daughter,
Keysi, as they tried to sneak across the Mexican border into Texas last
Christmas Eve, there was every reason to believe the pair would quickly be
deported to their native Honduras.

But Keysi, a thin, impish girl of 9, has a hole in her heart. In fact, say
cardiologists at Children's Hospital in Washington, she has numerous holes in
the wall between the two lower chambers of her heart, plus a malfunctioning
valve and intense pressure in the blood vessels in her lungs.

Despite years of heart treatment in Honduras, Keysi's problems kept worsening.
So last winter her mother, who had been living illegally in Washington for three
years, decided to fly home and bring the girl back, hoping that, by some
miracle, she could be cured in the United States.

"I knew I was taking a great risk, but if I had left her in Honduras any longer,
I knew she was going to die," said Henriquez, 29, who lives with her husband,
Jose, an undocumented Mexican immigrant, in an apartment on 13th Street NW. "I
put her in God's hands."

Indeed, the hole in Keysi's heart has touched an extraordinary variety of people
-- from usually skeptical U.S. Border Patrol agents who gave her special
permission to enter the country to cardiac surgeons who have agreed to operate
on her for a fraction of their usual fees.

Doctors at Children's Hospital will perform open-heart surgery on Keysi next
month, and a local nonprofit foundation, Marcelino Panevino, has pledged to
raise the money to pay all her medical expenses.

At a deportation hearing Wednesday in Arlington, immigration officials agreed to
allow Keysi and her mother to remain here until at least October, when they will
assess the girl's medical progress.

Henriquez, who was separated from Keysi's father years ago, entered the United
States illegally in 1994, leaving Keysi and another daughter with her mother.
Working at a discount store in Washington, Henriquez regularly sent money home
for Keysi's heart medication, but the girl never improved.

Henriquez decided to sneak Keysi into the United States. She paid a smuggler $
3,000, and they started walking across Mexico.

The odyssey took two months. Henriquez lost 23 pounds. Keysi ran out of heart
medicine. The smuggler abandoned them just before they reached the border at
Brownsville, Tex. Henriquez tried to cross on her own, with Keysi and several
other Hondurans, but she ran right into the Border Patrol.

"I thought we were finished, but I told them about Keysi's heart," Henriquez
recounted. "By then . . . she was very weak, and her face was purple."
Immigration officials at the border, who turn back 90 percent of the people they
catch entering illegally, granted the pair permission to remain for several
months on humanitarian grounds.

Henriquez used the rest of her savings for airfare to Washington. She took took
Keysi to a clinic, which sent the girl to Children's.

Cardiologists at the hospital said the girl would need expensive open-heart
surgery.

Henriquez was out of money and uninsured and had no right to government
assistance. But surgeons, social workers and officials at Children's were so
moved by the little girl's case that they agreed to reduce the total charges
from $ 57,000 to $ 39,000.

"We can't save all the children with heart disease in the world, but when a
compelling case comes before us, whether or not they are residents, it is our
moral obligation to help," said Thomas Hougen, a cardiologist at Children's.

Without the surgery, he said, Keysi would live only another 20 years; with it,
she may be able to lead a normal life.

Hospital aides contacted the Marcelino Panevino foundation, established by the
Rev. Eugenio Hoyos, of St. Anthony's Roman Catholic Church in Falls Church, to
help sick immigrant children.

"It's precisely because she is here illegally and has no access to help of any
kind that we want to get involved," said Jay Marks, vice president of the
foundation. "Some of our members were once illegal, so they know what it's like,
and now they want to carry on the American tradition of lending a hand."

For Keysi and her mother, an equally important display of compassion has come
from immigration authorities. Under a new immigration law that took effect April
1, it is much more difficult to win a permanent exemption from deportation, but
officials have twice extended the pair's temporary permission to stay.

"In light of the new law, we need to find innovative ways to help people in a
crisis," said William J. Carroll, district director for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Arlington. "We hope this case demonstrates the concern
we really have for people."

Henriquez and her daughter are scheduled for a deportation hearing Oct. 9.
Henriquez is about five months pregnant -- her child is due the same week as the
hearing and will automatically become a U.S. citizen if born here. She hopes
that might help her win the right to remain permanently.

Meanwhile, Marcelino Panevino officials said they are not sure whether they can
raise all $ 39,000. When Keysi spoke on a Spanish-language radio show Thursday,
the station was flooded with callers, from a disco owner who contributed his
weekend receipts to a little girl who offered her Barbie doll.

"It is so much more than we ever dared hope for," said Henriquez, folding
laundry in her apartment while Keysi sucked on a popsicle. ". . . God saw my
struggle and heard my prayers. He did not let her die on the road, and He will
not let her die now."


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Leydina Henriquez and her daughter, Keysi, are
looking ahead to better times. Keysi, 9, will undergo heart surgery next month.
In a happy moment, Leydina Henriquez and daughter Keysi are far from their time
of desperation in December at the Texas-Mexico border.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              66 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 30, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Agents Raid Redskins Stadium Site, Take 19 Alleged Illegal Workers

Wendy Melillo, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 512 words


Federal agents raided the construction site of the new Washington Redskins
stadium early yesterday and arrested 19 workers suspected of being in the
country illegally.

The arrests were part of a larger effort to target construction sites in the
metropolitan area where federal officials say some jobs are occupied by illegal
workers.

"In this area, construction sites are considered one of our most troublesome
areas of enforcement and one of our top priorities for 1997," said Benedict J.
Ferro, district director for the Baltimore office of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The arrests prompted a Maryland official to review hiring practices at the
football stadium for the Baltimore Ravens under construction at Camden Yards.

"We don't think we have any illegal aliens, and since we heard about this, we
are taking a hard look [at hiring practices] because we do not accept illegal
aliens on our project," said Bruce H. Hoffman, executive director of the
Maryland Stadium Authority.

Officials at the MCI Center, under construction in the District, said they were
confident that the Clark Construction Group, the general contractor for both the
Redskins stadium and the MCI Center, would quickly resolve the situation.

Redskins officials said they were troubled to learn that federal agents did not
have a search warrant when they entered the Landover construction site, acquired
last year by Redskins owner Jack Kent Cooke. And Clark officials said they were
unable to find any Clark workers who gave agents permission to conduct a search.

"My question is, how did they get on the site without a search warrant?" said
Gerard E. Evans, Cooke's chief lobbyist. "If they got permission, that obviates
the need for the search warrant. If they did not, which exception did they use
to get on the site?"

A team of 15 agents went to the construction site about 6:30 a.m., just as
workers were arriving for the morning shift. Ferro said the agents entered the
property off Brightseat Road, went to the parking lot near the stadium and asked
permission of four men in a Clark trailer to check workers.

"We received an enthusiastic invitation to proceed," Ferro said.

Andrea White, a Clark spokesman, said Clark officials had not identified any
employees who gave permission to talk to the workers.

"It is very disruptive when this happens," White said. "The workers are doing
hard work, and they don't like to carry their papers on them. When INS shows up,
the workers run to their cars to get their papers and that adds up to a lot of
time lost."

It was unclear yesterday if the workers arrested were employed by Clark or one
of its 40 subcontractors. About 600 workers are employed at the site. Clark
could be fined up to $ 2,000 a worker if federal agents determine they knowingly
hired illegal workers.

"We have consistently worked to ensure that our employees provide appropriate
documentation, and we have not knowingly employed anyone who is ineligible for
employment," said Louise E. Pulizzi, a Clark spokeswoman.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              67 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 25, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Alien-Smuggling Driver Sought

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 126 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.


Police were searching for a truck driver who abandoned 40 illegal immigrants,
including two who died after they were packed in a trailer and smuggled into
Texas from Mexico.

Sheriff's deputies found the dead men in a field south of Austin on Tuesday
after another passenger, who said he had been beaten and robbed by the driver,
staggered into a busy truck stop.

The truck "was loaded with cargo and they had 40 people stuffed in there," said
Lt. Dennis Gutierrez of the Hays County sheriff's office.

With temperatures hovering around 100 degrees this week, police believe the two
men died from the heat. One was identified as a Mexican citizen by Mexican
consular officials. Others in the truck were believed to have been from Ecuador.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              68 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 27, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Dole Makes High-Stakes Bet on California Votes; Candidate Hopes to Plug Into
State's Anxiety Over Immigration and Affirmative Action

Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, Calif., Oct 26


Robert J. Dole today rolled his "Rally the Valley" tour across the flat, fertile
heart of California's Central Valley. But his costly gambit to win this state's
54 electoral votes is chugging up a very steep hill.

"I smell victory in California," an ebullient Dole said this morning, kicking
off his seven-stop bus tour in the vegetable- and hay-growing community of
Visalia. He claimed President Clinton, who's been here 28 times in the past four
years, has tried his best to seduce this state but failed.

"He came out here a lot for haircuts and others things," Dole said, referring to
the infamous 1993 haircut that initial news reports said tied up air traffic at
Los Angeles airport. "And he's going to get another haircut on Nov. 5."

Dole's decision to risk it all in California was borne in part by the state's
respected Field Poll, which earlier this month showed that the Republican
nominee had shaved Clinton's lead from 20 to 10 points. That poll, along with
GOP internal polls showing an even closer race, triggered a major change in
national strategy by the Dole campaign.

Hoping to plug into anxiety here about illegal immigration and anger over
affirmative action, Dole strategists have since made a high-stakes bet on
California. They have diverted television spending from northeast states such as
New Jersey and Pennsylvania and poured it in here. They plan to spend as much as
$ 1.5 million a week, which is considerable even by California standards. But
the worry for the Dole campaign was that the Field Poll may have been a blip. A
Los Angeles Times poll, conducted after the final presidential debate in San
Diego on Oct. 16, gives Clinton back the commanding 20-point lead he has held
here since early summer. It showed Clinton ahead in every major urban center in
the state, as well as here in the Central Valley.

Clinton, meanwhile, took a day off the campaign trail, the last one planned on
his schedule before Election Day. While Clinton stayed in Washington to
celebrate the 49th birthday of first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, it fell to his
weekly radio address to spread the message of the day -- boasting of his
anti-crime credentials and urging states to help compensate the victims of gang
violence.

Clinton noted that he recently endorsed a constitutional amendment to guarantee
various rights to crime victims, including the right to speak at sentencing and
parole hearings, and said he is trying "to take crime out of politics and put
the focus back on people."

While Dole labored against the odds in California, there was good news a
continent away, as the candidate won an endorsement from New York City's
maverick Republican mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani. Giuliani said Dole and his
running mate Jack Kemp offered a vision of inclusion, opportunity and optimism.
Before they headed off to Game 6 of the World Series, Giuliani said Kemp
"understands cities from every aspect -- the people of the cities, the diversity
of the cities [and] how to bring people together." The endorsement is unlikely
to have much real impact in New York, where Clinton is so far ahead that neither
candidate is actively campaigning.

One theme of Dole's bus tour this weekend is what he called "Bill Clinton's war
on California." Dole claimed that Clinton's cuts in the defense budget have cost
the state a half-million jobs and $ 10 billion.

But Dole may find it difficult to get much traction on this issue in a state
where there has been a broad economic recovery in the past four years.
Unemployment is down from 9.7 percent to 7.1 percent, and the state has added
more than 600,000 jobs -- after losing about 58,000 during the presidency of
George Bush.

Dole also began airing a commercial that says 2 million illegal immigrants in
this state "cost us $ 3 billion." It slams Clinton for fighting a referendum
that voters here approved two years ago that limits all but emergency health
care to illegal aliens. Enforcement of that law has been held up in courts here.

But Dole faces a tough task in replicating the come-from-behind victory that
Gov. Pete Wilson engineered in 1994. The Times poll showed voters here believe
that Clinton, by 39 percent to 30 percent, has better ideas than Dole for
dealing with immigration.

Support remains strong here for Proposition 209, the Dole-supported and
Clinton-opposed statewide initiative that would bar affirmative action in
government hiring and college admissions. State and national GOP organizations
will spend at least $ 2 million on commercials on the referendum through the
Nov. 5 election.

But polls suggest Dole may pick up few votes on the issue because, among the
majority of voters who support the initiative, nearly as many say they will vote
for Clinton as for Dole.

In his stump speech this morning, Dole seemed to be ratcheting back, slightly,
the harsh accusations against Clinton and the angry media bashing that have
filled his speeches in recent days.

Most conspicuously, Dole did not repeat the assertion he made Friday that
Clinton had personally participated in the FBI files scandal by sifting through
raw FBI files gathered on Republican officials.

Asked if Dole was backing off, Dole campaign spokesman Nelson Warfield said
"absolutely not."

In his radio address, Clinton said states should devote some of the money they
receive from a federal crime-victims fund to pay for relief for victims and new
efforts "to keep gang violence from spreading."

The federal fund recently got a $ 440 million infusion, thanks to federal
criminal prosecutions of two business giants. The Archer Daniels Midland Co.
agreed to a $ 100 million fine for a price-fixing violation, and a Japanese
firm, Daiwa Bank, was levied $ 340 million in a fraud case stemming from illegal
trading in New York.

The money is distributed by state governments to pay for medical bills and lost
wages for victims, rape crisis centers, and shelters for battered women. Clinton
said that 10 percent of the latest infusion, or $ 44 million, should be devoted
to the gang problem.

"We're putting crime victims where they belong," Clinton said, "at the center of
the criminal justice system, not on the outside looking in."

Staff writers Paul Duggan with Kemp and John F. Harris in Washington contributed
to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              69 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 01, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Officials Wonder if Bribery Arrests at Federal Prison Are Isolated or Trend

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 992 words


Life inside a federal prison is supposed to have its drawbacks, but for one
cocaine trafficker, life without his favorite denture adhesive seemed so
intolerable he offered a guard a $ 300 bribe to smuggle him the stuff, according
to court records.

Saying, "hear no evil, see no evil," the guard, Rodney T. Robinson, allegedly
accepted the bribe, and within a few weeks also agreed to smuggle heroin into
the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn, N.Y., a facility for federal
prisoners, and to doctor prison computer records so the drug dealer could avoid
deportation.

Federal agents were listening and watching all along because the drug dealer had
turned informant. As a result, Robinson now is one of 11 corrections officers
from the New York detention facility facing bribery charges in what Justice
Department officials portray as the largest case involving corruption at a
single federal prison.

The probe began in late 1995 after an inmate told a federal investigator that
contraband was readily available inside the Brooklyn prison, which houses
inmates awaiting trial and sentencing. For the next 18 months, investigators
used several informants, undercover agents and a variety of surveillance
techniques to capture guards smuggling everything from pasta to steroids into
the detention center. Bribes allegedly ranged from $ 100 to $ 1,000.

The Brooklyn case has caused senior Justice Department officials to worry that
corruption among guards at the 90 institutions run by the U.S. Bureau of Prisons
is more widespread than was previously suspected.

"I am concerned that there is more corruption of this sort out there," said
Michael R. Bromwich, inspector general of the Justice Department, who led the
prison corruption probe. "It would be odd if the temptations we documented in
this case did not exist in other places."

Federal prison officials disagree. "We too are deeply concerned about what
happened in Brooklyn, but we do not believe that this is a trend or that it
should reflect negatively on the 29,000 dedicated individuals working in the
federal prison system," said Todd Craig, spokesman for the Bureau of Prisons, an
agency of the Justice Department.

But Bromwich notes that there have been several recent instances of corruption
at other federal prisons. An undercover operation at the U.S. penitentiary in
Atlanta last year produced convictions or guilty pleas by five correctional
officers on charges of smuggling drugs into the facility. In 1995, a female
inmate at the federal prison in Danbury, Conn., informed on a guard who offered
her cosmetics or narcotics in exchange for sexual favors. The inmate turned down
the sex and the cosmetics but arranged to pay the correctional officer $ 1,000
for a stash of heroin. The guard pleaded guilty to drug trafficking charges.

Other recent investigations have produced convictions against a guard who
smuggled muscle-building steroids into a prison in Michigan and a prison
counselor who allowed inmates to slip out of a halfway house in Wisconsin.

"Even one instance of corruption is too much, and each one has to be attacked
aggressively," Craig said. "But these are isolated episodes."

Ten federal prison personnel were convicted in 1996 of taking bribes or
smuggling drugs.

"The problems are greatest in urban areas where you have organized crime figures
and major drug dealers with access to vast sums of money who are in close daily
contact with prison guards who are not paid substantial salaries," Bromwich
said. "It is a dangerously volatile mixture."

About 60 percent of the nearly 98,000 inmates in Bureau of Prison facilities are
drug offenders. That figure reflects mandatory sentencing for drug crimes, as
well as an overall law enforcement strategy that has steered more drug dealers
and traffickers into the federal prison system. In 1980, by comparison, 24,000
inmates were housed in federal prisons, and 25 percent were drug offenders.

Bromwich said the changes in the size and the nature of the federal prison
population have produced challenges best illustrated by the Brooklyn
investigation, which was code-named "Operation Badfellas." That is a reference
to the 1990 Martin Scorsese gangster film "Goodfellas," which featured a scene
of Mafia members cooking up an Italian feast in prison.

In the Brooklyn investigation, Arturo Cruz, a federal guard, was accused of
arriving at work one day with such a copious store of food and liquor that he
looked like "Santa Claus carrying a sack full of presents on his back,"
according to an informant quoted in court documents. Cruz allegedly provided
inmates with bottles of vodka, steaks, meatballs, manicotti, eggplants, big tins
of olives and peppers and a steady supply of mozzarella cheese.

Cruz allegedly used a haircutting cart to distribute some of the goods as he
made his prison rounds. In exchange for delivering his delectables, Cruz
allegedly received bribes of up to $ 900 per load. On one occasion, several
organized crime inmates allegedly acknowledged his services by giving him
tickets to the annual Christmas show at Radio City Music Hall. Afterward, Cruz
allegedly told an informant that his wife was "ecstatic" and that the seats were
"so good he could practically touch the people on stage."

Many of the allegations in the Brooklyn case involve far more serious violations
of prison security. Raymond Cotton, an eight-year veteran of the Bureau of
Prisons, is accused of tipping off inmates about searches of their cells. In
addition to bribes, he was allegedly rewarded with tickets to New York Knicks
basketball games.

Another veteran officer, Anthony Martinez, is charged with arranging for Mafia
figures to visit their colleagues in the Brooklyn prison and allowing an inmate
to search prison files to locate the "rat" who had acted as an informant in his
case.

None of those charged in the Brooklyn case has entered a plea yet.


LOAD-DATE: June 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp/joyce naltchayan, MICHAEL R. BROMWICH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              70 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 30, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Citizenship Isn't a Birthright

William F. Chip

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 856 words


The Republican Party's platform for the 1996 presidential campaign urges
legislation or a constitutional amendment that would withhold automatic U.S.
citizenship from the American-born children of illegal aliens. This plank has
drawn the attention of those on the lookout for fresh signs of Republican
mean-spiritedness. In an Aug. 8 editorial, for example, The Post variously
characterizes the citizenship plank as "destructive," "vindictive," and a "new
low" in "immigrant bashing."

Much of the negative commentary on the citizenship plank is laced with
misinformation. The headline of The Post's editorial, "Children Without a
Country," erroneously implies that withholding birthright citizenship would turn
the children of illegal aliens into stateless vagabonds. Yet Mexico and nearly
all other countries routinely grant citizenship to the foreign-born offspring of
their citizens. The issue for most American-born offspring of noncitizens is not
statelessness but whether they are entitled to U.S. citizenship in addition to
the citizenship of their parents.

Equally misinformed are attempts to cast the citizenship plank as an assault on
the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. The Aug. 8 editorial erred when
asserting that "every individual" born within our borders since adoption of the
14th Amendment has enjoyed birthright citizenship. The 14th Amendment confers
birthright citizenship only on persons born, "subject to the jurisdiction" of
the United States.

The phrase "subject to the jurisdiction" was authored by Sen. Lyman Trumbull of
Illinois, who also had written the first postbellum legislation enfranchising
emancipated slaves. When asked to explain these words during congressional
debate on the 14th Amendment, Trumbull answered that the "jurisdiction" he had
in mind was a United States claim to the American-born person's "complete"
allegiance. The senator argued that enfranchisement of the otherwise stateless
former slaves was a moral imperative, but that it would be wrong to presume or
impose a duty of allegiance on the children of American Indians and foreign
diplomats, since the children would owe competing allegiance to an Indian tribe
or foreign nation notwithstanding their birth in the United States.

That the 14th Amendment did not extend birthright citizenship to the children of
tribal Indians was confirmed by the Supreme Court in Elk v. Wilkins (1884).
After Wilkins there remained the question how any child of noncitizen immigrants
could be born a United States citizen in light of the parents' country's
potential claim of allegiance. That question was answered in United States v.
Wong Kim Ark, in which the court held that the 14th Amendment conferred
birthright citizenship on the children of noncitizen parents who had taken up
lawful and permanent residence in the United States. Although a century has
passed since Wong Kim Ark, the court's holding never has been extended to the
children of noncitizens whose U.S. residence is limited or prohibited by law.

There is no plausible basis for presuming that the offspring of illegal aliens,
tourists, exchange students and other temporary visitors in the United States
have or ought to have a greater allegiance to the United States than to their
parents' countries. Most illegal aliens come here for temporary economic
advantage, not to alter their political identity. When thousands of them marched
to protest California's Proposition 187, they carried the flag of Mexico, not
the Stars and Stripes.

While Sen. Trumbull and his colleagues regarded U.S. citizenship as a mixed bag
of privileges and duties, modern civil libertarians are inclined to focus on the
privileges. When only privileges are considered, withholding birthright
citizenship from an American-born child is readily portrayed as the political
equivalent of taking candy from a baby. However, a blanket grant of citizenship
without regard to the parents' immigration status loses some of its humanitarian
luster when one considers, as Trumbull did, that a birthright citizen is subject
to U.S. income taxes and military conscription for the rest of his life.

The impulse to confer automatic citizenship on the American-born children of
illegal aliens, like the impulse to allow their foreign-born children to enroll
in U.S. public schools, springs from the faulty premise that illegal alien
families are here to stay and that all of us will therefore suffer if the
children grow up uneducated and without political rights. However, illegal
aliens love their families as much as we love ours; if they could not enroll
their kids in our public schools, the overwhelming majority would not set up
United States households in the first place.

The truth is that most illegal aliens are not innate lawbreakers, but they will
not respect laws that we ourselves do not respect. If we establish clear rules
and show that we will not merely pretend to enforce them, the problem of illegal
immigration will start to solve itself.

The writer, a Washington attorney, serves as general counsel to the Federation
for American Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              71 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 22, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Alleged Illegal Alien Arrested in Crew at Vice President's Compound

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 577 words


Federal agents yesterday detained two Central Americans who showed up to work on
the grounds of the vice president's compound and charged one of them with being
in the United States illegally, officials said.

Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) arrested Isaac
Belzazar Figueroa, 22, from Honduras, after questioning four employees of a
Maryland-based landscaping company at the U.S. Naval Observatory, site of the
vice president's residence. The INS initiated deportation proceedings against
Belzazar and was holding him without bond.

The arrest was triggered by a routine check of workers' identification cards by
a Secret Service officer at the vice president's compound. The officer noticed
that one worker, from El Salvador, held a recently expired work permit. The
officer then called the INS.

In questioning the four workers, the INS agents found that two of the four had
legal status. The other two were taken into custody, but the Salvadoran was
released after it was found that he has a pending asylum application, INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron said. The man was advised to update his work permit.

Belzazar told INS agents he had crossed the border illegally near Brownsville,
Tex., Bergeron said. He said the Honduran then retained a lawyer and refused to
answer further questions. Found in Belzazar's possession were a Honduran
identity card and a Maryland driver's license, Bergeron said. The INS does not
regard driver's licenses as proof of legal status in the United States, in part
because they are easy to obtain fraudulently.

A Secret Service spokesman, Arnette Heintze, said he had no information on what
document Belzazar might have shown at the vice president's compound. Heintze
said a driver's license "is the most common form of identification" presented to
Secret Service guards.

The arrest left open the question of whether Belzazar could have entered the
compound with his Maryland driver's license if not for his co-worker's expired
ID card. Heintze refused to address the question. "Nobody got through anywhere,"
he said. "There's nothing for us to follow up on."

The four workers were employed by Maryland Landscape Inc. of Brookeville, Md.,
which was hired by the Navy to perform landscaping work at the vice president's
compound. An executive of the firm said he was unaware of the arrest and did not
respond to questions about Belzazar's employment. The INS said Belzazar had
worked for the company since March.

The incident raised questions about the ability of illegal immigrants to obtain
documents that often can allow them to work without authorization in the United
States and establish seemingly legitimate resident status.

An immigration bill enacted last month originally contained a provision
requiring all states to check driver's license applicants for legal status, but
it was deleted at the Clinton administration's insistence in favor of a proposal
for pilot programs.

"Driver's license fraud is one of the single biggest problems we have with
fraudulent documents, because the driver's license is probably the most
presented form of ID in order to work," said Allen Kay, a spokesman for Rep.
Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), who sponsored the immigration bill.

INS officials said illegal immigrants often use fake birth certificates and
other "breeder documents" to obtain genuine driver's licenses, which they then
use for employment and various other purposes.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, larry morris, Navy hired Maryland firm to work at Vice President
Gore's residence.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              72 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 02, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Two Cuban Boxers Ask for U.S. Asylum; Olympians Held by Immigration

Athelia Knight, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 561 words


Two Cuban Olympic boxers met with a U.S. immigration official yesterday to
discuss their reasons for requesting political asylum in this country, according
to a lawyer representing the two athletes.

Joel Casamayor, 24, the 1992 Olympic gold medalist in the bantamweight division,
and Ramon Garbey, 25, a three-time world champion in the super middleweight
division, have asked to defect to the United States because "they would rather
die than fight for Fidel Castro," said Al Rogers, the administrative officer of
a Los Angeles-based law firm that is representing the two boxers.

Rogers said the two boxers, who were considered favorites to win gold medals at
this summer's Olympic Games, fled a training camp for Cuban boxers in
Guadalajara, Mexico, early last week. With the help of people in Mexico,
Casamayor and Garbey managed to travel from Guadalajara to Tijuana, where they
met on Sunday with Rogers and Frank E. Ronzio, the lead lawyer in the case,
Rogers said. The people who were helping the Cubans to defect contacted Ronzio's
firm -- which specializes in immigration cases -- several days ago, he said.

Rudy Murillo, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in San
Diego, confirmed that the two boxers were being detained at an immigration
processing center near San Diego. However, he said he could not discuss the
case.

Top Cuban athletes have defected to the United States in the past. Pitchers
Livan Hernandez, 20, and Osvaldo Fernandez, 27, defected last year, and this
spring received multimillion dollar contracts from the Florida Marlins and San
Francisco Giants, respectively. Rey Ordonez, a shortstop for the Cuban national
team, defected while in Buffalo for the World University Games in 1993 and now
plays for the New York Mets. More than 40 of Cuba's top athletes defected in
1993 in Puerto Rico during the Central American and Caribbean Games.

Rogers said the boxers maintain that back home they have been pressured to sign
documents and make statements that would place them as Communists, and that they
have refused to do so. He said Castro uses the Cuban Olympic boxing team, which
won seven gold medals at the 1992 Games in Barcelona. "They do not want to be
instruments to be used to support the oppression of Cuban people," he said.

After meeting with the lawyers Sunday, the two boxers were driven across the
border at San Ysidro, where they asked for asylum, Rogers said. He said no
immigration official who handles asylum cases was available to interview the
boxers on Sunday, so they were detained at the service processing center in El
Centro, which is about 115 miles from San Diego.

Yesterday, Casamayor and Garbey were interviewed by an immigration official in a
preliminary screening interview to determine whether the asylum case warrants
parole, Rogers said. Parole status would allow the boxers to be free or leave
detention pending a hearing before an immigration judge on the merits of their
political asylum case, he said. The parole proceedings will continue today.

The boxers were still in the midst of their interviews late yesterday evening
and no decision had been made, Rogers said. If the boxers are released, they
will travel to Los Angeles, where the law firm is located, he said.

The Cubans will send 160 to 190 athletes to the Games, which begin July 19.

LOAD-DATE: July 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              73 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 03, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Persecution by Circumcision; Woman Who Fled Togo Convinced U.S. Court but Not
Town Elders

Cindy Shiner, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1471 words

DATELINE: KPALIME, Togo


Mouhamadou Kassindja is a practical man. That is why after his brother died a
couple of years ago he found a wealthy husband to support his teenage niece,
Fauziya Kasinga, and ordered her circumcised in line with local custom.

She refused both the circumcision and the marriage -- something unheard of in
this region -- and fled first to Ghana, then Germany and eventually to the
United States. As a result, her uncle, a local Islamic leader, or imam, with
three wives and 14 children, has envisioned an equally practical solution to
avert another scandal.

"After Fauziya we don't send girls to modern school anymore, only to Koranic
school," he said, referring to the teachings of the Islamic holy book. "The
modern school civilizes the girls too much and ends up causing too many
problems."

Kasinga's troubles reached from this tiny West African country to the U.S. legal
system when she arrived in Newark in 1994 with a false British passport and was
jailed. She was released in April. Last month the U.S. Board of Immigration
Appeals ruled that Kasinga, 19 -- who spells the family name differently than
her uncle -- should be granted political asylum based on her fear of female
circumcision, a ritual practiced in some parts of Africa and Asia, aimed at
keeping young women chaste, clean and faithful.

It was the first time a court with national jurisdiction recognized that the
circumcision of women -- or genital mutilation, as it is called by human rights
activists who oppose the practice -- can be a form of persecution. The ruling is
binding on all U.S. immigration judges who hear asylum cases.

A lower immigration court previously had denied Kasinga's asylum claim, in part
on grounds that some of her story was "not credible." But family members in
Kpalime who are opposed to what she did corroborated the gist of her story -- at
least what occurred in Togo -- to a reporter and indicated that she would indeed
face trouble if she returned.

"If she arrived here today, she would have to take up the problem with the town
elders," her uncle said in Kpalime, a pretty town at the foot of a mountain
about 80 miles north of Lome, Togo's capital. "Regarding the circumcision,
they'll make her do it. It's tradition. If her husband doesn't want her, then
the family will choose another man. It's not her right to choose a husband. It's
the responsibility of the family. She's still young."

Her male cousin, Moussinou, 18, agreed. "Even if you're out of the village or
out of the country, in [neighboring] Benin or Ghana, they will come and get you
and bring you back and make you do it," he said.

Circumcision has been performed on an estimated 80 million women worldwide. It
involves cutting away the clitoris and labia minora with a knife or razor blade.
The only anesthetic is herbal. The ritual is often performed in unsanitary
conditions that can lead to tetanus. According to the World Health Organization,
the risk of maternal death is doubled by circumcision and the risk of a
stillbirth increases several fold.

Roughly 12 percent of women in Togo over 15 have undergone the procedure. But in
Kasinga's tribe, the Tchamba, the rate is 98 percent, according to a University
of Benin study. Kasinga said in her affidavit that she knows of four women from
her tribe who died from circumcision.

"We don't want it either, but we are forced to accept it because it is
tradition," said Adidjatou, 27, one of the uncle's three wives.

The scandal surrounding Kasinga's flight from such a fate turned into an
international cause celebre. It came at a time when the issue of female
circumcision, recognized as a human rights violation by the United Nations, was
gaining momentum and attention. The practice has been condemned by the
International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics, and Alice Walker's novel
"Possessing the Secret of Joy" brought attention to the topic. Earlier this
year, photographer Stephanie Welsh won the Pulitzer Prize for her photos of
female circumcision in Kenya.

Kasinga's case not only aroused an international furor, but had serious local
repercussions hidden from the world's attention in a small Togolese town. She is
a soft-spoken young woman who, after her father's death, was taken out of
boarding school in Ghana, brought back to Togo and informed she was to be
married. Her mother, she has said, was banished in accordance with local custom
and her father's family took over the household. Gifts had already been
presented by both families in separate marriage ceremonies when the teenager
escaped with her sister to Ghana.

With little more than her student identification card and $ 3,000 from her
mother's inheritance, she boarded a midnight flight for Germany. She likely paid
a bribe to board the African aircraft without a passport. When she landed in
Germany, Kasinga said in an affidavit, she was allowed in without a passport
after showing that she had adequate cash and was carrying her Togolese and
student identification papers. She said she bought a British passport from a
Nigerian she met on a train in Germany. Upon arrival in Newark, she was detained
and remained in jail for nearly 1 1/2 years.

Her vague explanations of how she found lodging in Germany with a woman she met
at the airport and how she acquired the false passport left a number of
unanswered questions and apparently figured in the initial rejection of her
asylum claim.

"She's not straight out of the bush at all," one Western diplomat said. "Many of
these other girls don't even know how to get to Lome, much less climb on an
international airline."

But Kasinga's father was unusual for his tribe. He had only one wife and married
his older daughters into monogamous marriages. As a wealthy, educated man he
could stand up to community leaders in opposing female circumcision, and his
other daughters were spared it.

His brother, Mouhamadou, an Arabic teacher with a ready laugh, is of more modest
means and said he struggled under the financial burden added by taking on his
niece and a younger nephew. Finding a husband for Kasinga eased the pressure,
and acquiring a wealthy new in-law is nothing to shrug at in the context of the
African extended family. The uncle said he summoned the police to search the
country for her, out of both worry and humiliation. Kasinga's mother and
siblings were forced out of town -- most have since left the country -- and her
uncle said he and his family were ostracized by the local community.

Kasinga's story differs from her uncle's in some respects. She has said her
mother was run out of town long before, just after her husband's death in 1993,
in line with local practices. And she said that it was her aunt -- her father's
oldest sibling -- who took over the family home and arranged the marriage. She
did not mention her uncle at all in her affidavit. But he clearly saw himself as
the power broker, the person who helped draw up the marriage contract.

Asked to explain the inconsistency, Kasinga said yesterday through her lawyer
that she had heard that her aunt had been greatly embarrassed and shamed by all
the attention brought on the village by the case. Perhaps, she suggested, her
uncle had taken a greater share of responsibility to protect her aunt, his
sister.

The uncle also said Kasinga had "brothers" in Germany and the United States,
which she has adamantly denied. She has supplied addresses of both of her
brothers in Togo. She does have a cousin in Virginia, and in West Africa the
term "brother" is loosely interpreted, especially in extended families. Kasinga
has said she had no relatives in Germany.

At home, her uncle said, he ran into trouble with town elders who accused the
family of shuttling Kasinga away and embarrassing her husband, Ibrahim Isaka,
45, a former district assemblyman. Isaka lives in Kpalime with his three other
wives. He could not be reached for comment.

The uncle's home, a gray concrete structure with an inner courtyard filled with
mango trees, has electricity but no running water. It is equipped with a
television and a VCR.

Despite the scandal Kasinga caused, her uncle does not appear to hold a grudge.
But he is fiercely loyal to his religion and his tribe's traditions. While he
now sends his daughters only to Koranic school, which he contends will keep them
obedient, he said he knows that he cannot hold modern influences at bay forever.
Now, like her court case in the United States, Kasinga's actions could well set
a precedent in her home town.

"Maybe now that Fauziya has refused and fled, there will be others that will
refuse and flee, too," her uncle said. "Before, we used to circumcise very small
girls. But as things have evolved we've let them get a little older. Maybe as
time passes we won't do it at all."


LOAD-DATE: July 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, cindy shiner for The Washington Post; Photo, bill o'leary,
Mouhamadou Kassindja, shown with two of his wives, says modern schooling
"civilizes the girls too much." The U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals ruled last
month that Fauziya Kasinga, above, should be granted political asylum.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              74 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 07, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Nation's Political Asylum System Draws Criticism From Both Sides; Handling of
Contrasting Cases Illustrates Inconsistency in Process

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1647 words


After a four-month voyage for which smugglers charged him $ 31,000, Gao Qiu
arrived in New York with a false Japanese passport in April 1993. He requested
political asylum based on the one-child family planning policies of his native
China, was released by airport immigration officials and granted a work permit
pending a decision on his case.

When Fauziya Kasinga showed up at Newark International Airport in December 1994
with a false British passport and claimed asylum based on her fear of ritual
female circumcision in Togo, she was immediately detained and spent more than a
year in a succession of jails.

The two cases with vastly different outcomes -- the first largely unnoted and
the second highly publicized -- illustrate contrasting aspects of a hotly
debated issue in America: political asylum.

Groups on opposite sides of the issue generally reflect a debate over the
current levels of legal immigration.

Immigrants' rights supporters and other pro-immigration groups criticize the
government for detaining asylum seekers who arrive illegally with claims later
deemed legitimate.

Advocates of lower immigration levels argue, essentially, that too many are let
in. Despite reform efforts by the Clinton administration, they say, the U.S.
asylum system is out of control, overwhelmed by fraudulent claims and subject to
increasing abuse because of an ever-expanding definition of persecution.

There is little dispute that the system is often arbitrary. Whether an illegally
entering asylum seeker gets detained on arrival or "paroled" into the country
often depends not on the merits of the claim, but on the availability of
detention space.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) says it has no overall
statistics on how many asylum seekers are detained and how many are released on
arrival. But it is clear that thousands get into the country by making such
claims, even though they may have arrived with false documents or none at all --
having handed them off to smugglers aboard an aircraft.

Unlike refugees, who are screened by U.S. officials abroad and whose admissions
are limited by annual quotas, asylum seekers are a self-selected group not
subject to any numerical limits. Because asylum, as opposed to refugee status,
is granted to people on U.S. soil, an applicant must first reach the United
States, which often depends on a smuggling ring's ingenuity, the payment of
large bribes and fees en route and the quality of fake documents they rely on to
get to the United States.

From about 3,000 applicants a year in the 1970s, the number of asylum seekers
has risen sharply, exceeding 146,400 in fiscal 1994, 149,500 last year and
90,700 in the first six months of the current fiscal year, according to the INS.
The totals include more than 147,400 cases under a special settlement for
Central Americans, but exclude 20,000 to 50,000 "defensive" claims filed each
year by people seeking to avoid deportation.

More than 486,500 asylum seekers are in a backlog waiting for their claims to be
adjudicated. For all practical purposes, they are immigrants, although they are
not counted as such under any of the admissions categories set by Congress. Many
have been here for years and are considered unlikely ever to be deported, even
if their claims are eventually rejected, because they have put down roots and
can use other legal avenues to stay.

In some ways, the system's defects and contradictions are highlighted by the
contrasting experiences of Gao Qiu and Kasinga.

The Togolese woman, who was 17 when she fled her West African homeland to avoid
an arranged marriage and ritual circumcision, encountered some of the harshest
treatment the immigration system has to offer.

She was sent to the notorious Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., where
she says abusive guards shackled and isolated her and where, in June 1995, she
was tear-gassed and beaten during a riot. Shipped to prisons in Pennsylvania
after the privately run Esmor facility was shut down, Kasinga says she was
strip-searched and locked up with common criminals before her ordeal ended with
her release in April and the approval of her asylum claim last month.

Gao Qiu (pronounced Gow Chu), the son of a factory accountant, left his wife and
child in his native Fujian Province in December 1992 and, steered by an
alien-smuggling organization, passed through Hong Kong, London and three Latin
American countries before landing at New York's John F. Kennedy International
Airport with a forged passport identifying him as a Japanese student. There he
claimed asylum.

After some perfunctory questioning, he was not only free to go, but was
immediately eligible for a work-authorization document under rules that have
since been changed.

Gao Qiu spent two days in New York, then was driven to Washington to work in a
restaurant here. He soon became involved in a gang of recent Chinese immigrants
-- asylum claimants like himself -- who preyed on other new Chinese arrivals in
the District's Chinatown area. The gang would kidnap their countrymen and hold
them in D.C. safe houses, often beating and torturing them, until their friends
or families here or in China came up with thousands of dollars in ransom.

Agents of the FBI and the Washington district office of the INS broke up the
ring in April 1994, arresting several gang members, including the lanky,
bespectacled Gao Qiu, who was known by Chinese aliases meaning "Tall Guy" and
"Four Eyes." After a trial last year in U.S. District Court here, he was
sentenced to 11 years and three months in prison.

Interviewed in the D.C. jail before he was moved to a federal prison, Gao Qiu
maintained his innocence, saying he was "betrayed" by a childhood friend who
worked at the same restaurant and drew him into the ring. But Gao Qiu, 29,
acknowledged that he had come to the United States "to work" and improve his lot
economically, rather than out of any opposition to coercive family planning.

According to State Department officials, more than 90 percent of Chinese asylum
claimants come from three counties of Fujian Province, where alien smuggling has
become a cottage industry, and the vast majority of their cases are judged to be
fraudulent. One evaluator reported coming across hundreds of applications that
used identical language or listed the same New York address.

"All this abuses the system," tying up personnel and resources, the official
said. Yet many unqualified applicants get through, he said, because there is
"tremendous pressure to reduce the backlog," and the easiest way to do so is to
grant asylum.

In seeking to address problems with the asylum system, the Clinton
administration has stopped automatically giving applicants work permits, which
had become a major incentive for phony claims by illegal aliens seeking jobs.

The administration also is working to increase detention capacity, contracting
with private firms to open a new facility in New York this month and reopen the
former Esmor center in New Jersey under new management in September. At the same
time, the INS is moving to "revitalize" a four-year-old asylum prescreening
program aimed at making more consistent early decisions on who should be
detained and who should be released while their claims are being decided, said
INS general counsel David Martin.

"We don't want to use our detention space on people who are likely to prevail on
their asylum claims," he said. "We'd rather use those beds for criminals." While
the effort predates the Kasinga case, he acknowledged that her ordeal "has
focused some attention on the desire of having a good asylum prescreening
program."

But even as the government tries to detain more of those who arrive illegally
with spurious claims, critics say, it keeps stretching the definition of
persecution, which U.S. law says must be based on "race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group, or political opinion."

Under pressure from feminist, antiabortion and gay rights groups, government
agencies and immigration judges have ruled since 1994 that applicants may
qualify for asylum based on declarations of homosexuality, assertions of women's
rights, opposition to coercive birth control, fear of female circumcision and
even spousal abuse in their home countries.

Potentially, say opponents of current immigration policies, the expanded asylum
criteria could apply to hundreds of millions of women in China, Africa and
various Muslim countries.

While no one expects a sudden massive influx, "there is no question that
extending the grounds for asylum is going to give more people an opportunity to
get into the United States," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for
Immigration Studies and an advocate of lower immigration levels. "It's a sort of
bait that we wave in front of people around the world" who might not otherwise
qualify for admission.

"The system is still beyond broken," said Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), a
strong supporter of expedited removal procedures and other measures to deter
illegal immigration. Of asylum seekers allowed into the country at the JFK and
Miami international airports last year on condition they return for hearings on
their claims, 94 percent were never heard from again, he said.

"Economic reasons are not a justification for asylum, yet that's what the
overwhelming majority are coming here for," Gallegly said. "This is a great
conduit to illegally enter the country."

Ultimately, the broadening of "victim status" and the growing numbers of
claimants risk undermining public support for America's long-cherished asylum
tradition, critics say.

"If the American people see this process as a sham," said Rosemary Jenks of the
Center for Immigration Studies, "the end result is that eventually we're not
going to have an asylum policy."


LOAD-DATE: July 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo, bill o'leary, GAO QIU Fauziya Kasinga, who fled her West
African homeland to avoid an arranged marriage and ritual circumcision, was
immediately detained and spent more than a year in a succession of jails before
being granted asylum last month.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              75 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 16, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

College Educators Fear Impact Of Anti-Immigrant Legislation

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1545 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Eduardo Padron likens his college to a factory, not one producing gizmos, but a
virtual assembly line for the manufacture of productive citizens: In come
Haitian cabbies, Honduran maids and Cuban waiters -- all legal immigrants -- and
out go biomedical technicians and computer programmers, many subsidized by
federal dollars.

Padron should know. The Cuban-born president of Miami-Dade Community College,
the largest of its kind in the United States, went to school with the help of
federal loans and grants.

But Padron says he sees dark days ahead for his factory, for Congress is
preparing legislation that, educators say, will make it far more difficult for
legal immigrants to get federally subsidized student loans and grants.

The debate is about more than financial aid. It gets to the very core of
contemporary America's conflicting views about the value of immigrants: Are new
legal arrivals a source of economic renewal who should be allowed access to the
pool of grants and loans to go to school? Or are they something more
parasitical, a drain on the coffers, who elbow aside more deserving native-born
Americans and then return to their own countries with federally financed
diplomas?

More than 400,000 legal immigrants -- permanent residents with green cards who
in many cases eventually will become citizens -- received federal student aid in
1993, the last year tabulated. Most was in Pell Grants, which average $ 1,600 a
year, totaling about $ 660 million for legal immigrants. Four million U.S.
citizens got $ 6.2 billion in Pell Grants the same year.

Exactly how many immigrants would be cut off by the legislation before Congress
is unknown. Educators argue that most would lose the support and that it likely
would be devastating to thousands of immigrants and many institutions of higher
learning, and could hurt economically in several regions of the country,
especially Southern California, New York and New Jersey and South Florida.

Educators here in South Florida, which produces the greatest number of Hispanic
college graduates in the nation, say the pending legislation is spreading fear
and dire predictions of campus closings and the creation of a category of
second-class citizens.

"This is contrary to everything we believe as Americans," Padron said. "These
people are law-abiding taxpayers. The overwhelming majority will become U.S.
citizens. We want them to be assets, to be educated, to contribute to society."

But many members of Congress -- led by the Republicans, but with overwhelming
support from Democrats -- disagree. In an era of tough choices, they say, why
should immigrants who are not U.S. citizens be showered with what they describe
as a type of educational welfare?

Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), the force behind the legislation in the Senate,
believes that an immigrant's sponsor -- not U.S. taxpayers -- should bankroll
the cost of higher education if at all possible.

Two provisions addressing legal immigrants and student aid are contained in
far-reaching and complex immigration legislation that deals mostly with illegal
aliens. Illegal aliens and foreign students have never been eligible for federal
financial grants and loans, because they are not legal permanent residents, but
are here on temporary visas, or, in the case of illegal immigrants, no visas.

The Senate bill requires that all legal immigrants who apply for federal school
subsidies include not only their own immediate family's income to establish need
and eligibility, but also their sponsor's income.

For immigrants to become legal residents, they must have a sponsor. Sponsors are
sometimes charities, such as churches, or individuals, including immediate
family members or close relatives. The sponsor clause is called "deeming," and
as Simpson describes it, "Deeming means that if your sponsor has money, his
money is considered your money when you go down to get relief from the
taxpayers."

Simpson says that if a sponsor is not financially well off enough to support his
or her charge, then the federal government will step in and help. Simple and
fair, according to Simpson. But college administrators say that the deeming
provisions, which could double or triple an immigrant student's on-paper net
worth, in reality would mean that many students now getting aid would be
ineligible. When asked how many of his legal immigrant students would suffer a
cut, Padron answered, "Most."

Moreover, educators say, it is unlikely that many well-to-do sponsors would come
through with money for college tuition; now, they are not legally required to do
so. The other provision in the Senate bill is even more troubling to educators
and immigrant students. It states that if a legal immigrant receives any form of
needs-based assistance, including student aid, for 12 consecutive months, he or
she can be deported under "public charge" provisions.

The House bill does not address either deeming or deportation. Instead, it
requires an immigrant's sponsor to co-sign for any student loans, guaranteeing
repayment.

The difference between the House and Senate bills will be resolved in conference
committee over the next several weeks. Opponents of the new restrictions, such
as Sen. Bob Graham (D-Fla.), say that some of the provisions may be weakened,
but they do not expect outright reversal. The Clinton administration has not
signaled whether the provisions regarding legal immigrants and financial aid are
enough to warrant a veto.

"The deeming provision is awful and the deportation provision is frightening,"
said Terry Hartle, a vice president at the American Council on Education, a
trade association that represents 1,800 colleges and universities.

Simpson and his allies have argued to the contrary. "Why should the rest of us
cough up the money when the sponsor has not done it yet, or has not run out of
money himself or herself?" Simpson said during debate on the bill in May.

For students who receive financial aid, an end to the program would, in many
cases, mean an end to their education. "It is the difference between getting an
education and not getting an education," said Juan Carlos Clavijo, 28, a
Colombian who is a legal resident and is attending Florida International
University here.

Clavijo, an engineering major, said he hopes to work for the U.S. Transportation
Department upon graduation and plans on becoming a U.S. citizen. He estimated
that the federal government has given him about $ 2,000 to pay for tuition and
books.

"There is an anti-immigrant mood in the country these days," said Clavijo, who
added that it seems like the country is signaling new arrivals that they are not
wanted. "Education is so valuable. You cannot put a price tag on it," he said.
"I would think that Americans wouldn't care where a PhD is from. Asia. South
America. Africa. These people are really valuable."

Steve Sauls, a vice president at Florida International University, said the
immigrants who would be hurt by the proposed changes are exactly the kind of new
arrivals the country needs more of: They speak English, they're smart, they're
ambitious and they pay taxes.

"Higher education is not only valuable to the student, but to the community," he
said. "These people are not going home. They're staying here. We want them.
They're going to become citizens, so why not help them become more productive
citizens?"

Though legal immigrants get most of their aid in the form of grants, they also
repay their subsidized loans at a rate greater than native-born Americans,
according to Hartle, citing Education Department statistics. Beyond the
proposal's impact on students, immigrant-loaded communities here and elsewhere
could suffer under the provisions, according to educators and their allies. In
California, 105,000 legal immigrants get student aid; in New York, 87,000; and
in Texas, 23,000.

In South Florida, an estimated 20,000 legal immigrants receive federal student
aid. If the bill before Congress passes with the deeming provisions, educators
here say, the universities and colleges stand to lose as much as $ 70 million in
funds, both from tuition and from matching taxpayer funds provided by the state.

For example, Padron's Metro-Dade Community College, which educates about 120,000
students, could lose many of its 11,000 legal immigrants. Padron said he would
probably have to close at least one, and perhaps two, of the school's five
campuses.

Defenders of student aid for legal immigrants argue that the program does not
take away from U.S. citizens. Pell Grants, for example, are based on need and
any student who meets the requirements gets the money.

"It's not a zero-sum game where Jose or Andre takes money away from John or
Andy," Graham said.

But others are not so sure. At Florida International University, several U.S.
citizens, while sympathizing with their immigrant classmates, expressed support
for ending aid for immigrants, if it meant more assistance for them.

"I think it's good. It's more money for us," said Richard Rodriguez, 30, an
accounting major born in New York. "I know it might be tougher for them but
there's so many of us born here who go into debt to go to college. A little more
money for us wouldn't hurt."


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, andrew itkoff for tw; Chart, AID FOR IMMIGRANTS Seven percent of
those who received federal aid for higher education in 1992-93 were legal
immigrants . . .  Legal immigrants 459,000 Citizens 6.3 million . . . who repaid
their loans at a rate slightly higher than that of citizens.  Default rate,
1992-93 Citizens 1.04% Legal immigrants 0.76% The local picture One key source
of aid is Pell Grants, which average $1,600 a year and are not repaid. The chart
below shows the number of Pell Grants to legal immigrants and share of the
state's total.  Maryland6,33212% Virginia4,259 6 D.C.623 9 SOURCES: General
Accounting Office, American Council of Education analysis of data from
Department of Education and National Post-Secondary Education Student Aid Study
Florida International University student Juan Carlos Clavijo says there is "an
anti-immigrant mood in the country."

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              76 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 19, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Turnaround at INS

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 544 words


The Post's July 7 news story on U.S. asylum policy ["Nation's Political Asylum
System Draws Criticism From Both Sides"] ignores the transformation the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) has brought to the nation's
political asylum system -- the same improvements applauded in The Post's Jan. 15
editorial "Some Progress at INS." The editorial noted that "considerable
distance has been covered [by INS] in improving procedures," and concluded that
INS reforms "make the law work as it is meant to -- and should -- work."

In 1993, the year the Chinese migrant profiled in the article was smuggled into
this country, the U.S. asylum system was in crisis. INS was chronically
underfunded and understaffed, and people illegally in the United States were
filing for asylum solely for the purpose of receiving work authorization.
Limited detention resources made for inconsistent treatment of asylum seekers
arriving at airports. Almost all claims, legitimate and fraudulent, languished
in an asylum backlog, which by 1993 had grown to 334,000 and by 1994 to 425,000
cases.

President Clinton mandated reform of the asylum system in mid-1993. The
administration also ensured necessary funding through the 1994 crime bill for
doubling INS asylum staff and significantly increasing the number of immigration
judges.

Asylum reform was implemented in January 1995 and has produced dramatic results.
Over the first year of operation, the number of new asylum claims dropped by 57
percent -- the lowest level in years. The Asylum Corps doubled its productivity,
completing 126,000 cases in 1995 compared with 61,000 cases in 1994. Throughout
these reforms, our approval rate for asylum cases has remained close to what it
was in prior years, approximately 25 percent.

Today, asylum officers hear approximately 85 percent of all newly filed claims
within 60 days. Bona fide applicants are quickly recognized, and others are
referred to deportation proceedings. Now that we are staying current with new
cases, we are also taming a backlog of 471,000 cases, which will be
substantially reduced over the next year.

Simultaneous to asylum reform, the Clinton administration addressed the threat
posed by organized criminal alien smugglers. The president's commitment of
unprecedented interagency resources to this issue curtailed large-scale boat
smuggling. Along with breaking the smuggling ring that brought one of the
article's subjects to the United States, INS secured the arrest of the organizer
of the most notorious smuggling voyage, the Golden Venture, which ran aground on
Long Island in 1993. We brought down Gloria Canales and co-conspirators in a
major smuggling ring in Central America. U.S. attorneys in Los Angeles, New York
and San Francisco and elsewhere also convicted preparers of fraudulent asylum
applications.

The INS asylum reform effort has been a successful turnaround. Expanding the
work of the Asylum Corps to do pre-screening in INS detention centers is an
important next step as the service grapples with the complex demands of
maintaining our nation's cherished tradition of providing asylum.

DORIS MEISSNER

Commissioner

U.S. Department of Justice

U.S. Immigration & Naturalization Service

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              77 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 20, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Senate Defeats Two Attempts To Soften Welfare Legislation

Judith Havemann; Barbara Vobejda, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 998 words


The Senate yesterday defeated two Democratic amendments that would have softened
the impact of welfare legislation on children and immigrants, rejecting an
opportunity to make the bill more acceptable to President Clinton.

The voting heightens the political dilemma faced by the White House, which had
counted on the Senate to modify what the administration considers the most
objectionable provisions of a welfare bill approved by the House on Thursday.

The legislation would dramatically alter the nation's welfare system, ending the
six-decade-old guarantee that ensures assistance for the eligible poor and
turning over control of public assistance programs to the states. The Senate is
expected to approve the measure next week.

The House legislation, adopted largely along party lines on a vote of 256 to
170, also failed to answer complaints raised by Clinton, who has objected to
"deep cuts" in the food stamp program, denial of aid to most legal immigrants
and a ban on vouchers to help purchase services for children whose parents have
been cut off welfare.

The amendments rejected by the Senate would have restored assistance to legal
immigrants and provided vouchers to children.

Presidential adviser George Stephanopoulos said yesterday that the
administration still hopes a bill that Clinton would be willing to sign will
emerge from a joint House-Senate conference committee, but indicated the White
House has no plans to offer clear guidelines on how to make the bill acceptable.
Stephanopoulos repeated the White House position that Clinton will not sign "a
bad bill" and that Congress will have to produce something that "meets the
president's principles."

Only 30 Democrats voted for the House bill and Senate Democratic leader Thomas
A. Daschle (S.D.) warned yesterday that the same lack of Democratic support
would be true in the Senate if amendments were not added to protect children.
Without such changes, he said, "my expectation is that a large percentage,
perhaps almost all Democrats, will vote against it."

Democratic opposition to the bill would further complicate matters for Clinton,
who has made it clear that he wants to sign a welfare bill before the election.
That would allow him to meet his 1992 campaign pledge to "end welfare as we know
it" and satisfy widespread sentiments evident in polls showing that a majority
of voters want the system changed.

On the other hand, liberal Democrats have warned Clinton that the GOP proposals
would harm children and result in greater poverty. The measure requires welfare
recipients to work, limits benefits to five years and allows states to deny aid
to unmarried teenage mothers.

Clinton vetoed welfare legislation twice last year, and Republicans have been
using those vetoes to attack the president. But now Republicans are divided over
the best political use of the welfare issue. Some have argued that they should
produce a bill guaranteed to prompt another veto so that their prospective
presidential candidate, Robert J. Dole, can continue to portray Clinton as an
obstacle to welfare reform. Others, concerned about their own reelections, favor
producing legislation that the president will sign so they can point to a
concrete accomplishment by the GOP Congress.

The House approved an amendment Thursday that would further restrict food stamps
by requiring childless adults to work in order to receive benefits. If they were
not working, adults would be limited to three months of benefits until they
turned 51. Democrats argued that the provision would hurt middle-class workers
who were temporarily laid off, and Daschle labeled it "the Oliver Twist
amendment."

Clinton also has cited food stamp cuts as a point of concern, saying adults
would be forced to work even though the bill would not provide employment for
those who could not find jobs. And he urged Congress to approve a system of
vouchers that would allow states to use federal funds to help families buy
diapers and other basic services for children after their cash assistance had
been cut off.

An amendment that would have required such vouchers in states that limit welfare
benefits to less than five years, offered by Sen. John Breaux (D-La.), was
defeated 51 to 47. The measure required 60 votes to pass under Senate rules
governing the debate. Breaux said the non-cash vouchers would have been used for
such basic essentials for children as clothing, medicine and school supplies. He
called it a "reasonable centrist proposal" that would protect "innocent children
who didn't ask to be born."

Republicans said it was a ruse to continue welfare benefits forever. "This would
create a huge new expensive mandate on states and a huge new bureaucracy, and
nothing in the bill prohibits states from using their own money to provide
vouchers," said Sen. Pete V. Domenici (R-N.M.).

Clinton also objects to language that would ban legal immigrants who have not
become citizens from receiving food stamp benefits and payments under the
Supplemental Security Income program for the elderly and disabled. The bill also
would allow states to deny other types of assistance and would bar most future
immigrants from receiving aid until they became citizens.

Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) argued that the provisions are fair because
immigrants entering the country promise not to go on public assistance. "This
promise of self sufficiency is not being honored," he said, and the bill "shifts
the welfare costs from taxpayers to the relatives who sponsor the immigrants."
Eliminating those provisions in the bill, he said, would cost $ 16 billion.

But Sen. Bob Graham (D-Fla.) urged his colleagues to strip the immigrant
provisions from the bill, rather than "trashing all the work we have done" in
separate immigration legislation, where eligibility requirements for aid are
spelled out specifically. His amendment was shelved on a 62 to 34 vote.

Staff writer Dan Balz contributed to this report


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              78 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 20, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Lady Liberty's Light

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A17; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 372 words


The use of a grieving Statue of Liberty to illustrate articles about restricting
immigration has become a really tiresome cliche. It betrays not only a lack of
imagination but also a misunderstanding of the statue's purpose and history. The
latest example was a July 5 op-ed article championing the cause of
"undocumented" (a k a "illegal") immigrants ["Poison Provisions in the
Immigration Bill"].

It's certainly true that the Statue of Liberty became a symbol to many arriving
immigrants (including my grandparents in all probability), but that's not the
reason it was initially stuck up in the middle of New York Harbor. The first
clue is that Lady Liberty is not even looking down the bay to welcome new
arrivals but back toward France whence she came.

The original name of the statue was "Liberty Enlightening the World," and the
message it was intended to convey around the globe was "be like us," not
necessarily "move in with us." It was a centennial gift from the French people
to commemorate "the alliance of the two nations in achieving the Independence of
the United States of America" and to attest to "their abiding friendship." When
the statue was unveiled in 1886, a decade late for the centennial celebration,
not one word was said about its serving as a beacon to immigration.

The oft-quoted lines about "huddled masses" were something of an afterthought.
They were written by the poet Emma Lazarus in 1883 as part of a fund-raising
effort to pay for the pedestal on which the statue rests. In 1903, friends of
Lazarus managed to get a plaque bearing her poem affixed to an interior wall of
the pedestal -- not carved into the base, as is often claimed -- where it was
pretty much ignored for years.

To be fair, it should be noted that the Statue of Liberty also has been used in
the past by the opponents of immigration -- i.e., a famous cartoon showing her
abandoning her pedestal to protest the poor quality of new arrivals. Fortunately
that sort of thing has passed from fashion. Now it's time for the other side in
the immigration debate to follow suit.

Let's treat Lady Liberty with the dignity she deserves. That doesn't include her
use for special pleading.

-- John G. Leyden


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              79 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 01, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Legal Immigrants Will Face Harsher Welfare Deadlines, Advocacy Groups Say

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 730 words


Legal immigrants are treated more harshly in legislation President Clinton plans
to sign to overhaul the nation's welfare system than in a similar bill he vetoed
last year, according to social service, religious and immigrant advocacy groups.

Like the previous welfare bill, the measure passed by the House yesterday would
bar food stamp, federal disability and virtually all other means-tested federal
assistance to most legal immigrants who are not citizens.

But unlike the previous bill, which gave current residents one year to become
citizens or make other arrangements before the cuts took place, the new bill
hammered out by House and Senate negotiators would cut off many immigrants from
food stamps and assistance for the elderly poor and disabled within months, even
weeks, of enactment.

"Under this, they would be cut off . . . as soon as they could be identified,
which in most cases, is almost immediately," said David Super at the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities.

Nearly 40 percent of the $ 55 billion of savings in the bill comes from denying
aid to legal residents already here and future immigrants.

Despite his strong objections to the immigrant provision, Clinton said yesterday
he would sign the bill and send legislation to Congress later to restore
protections for legal immigrants.

"It was wrong to say to people, 'We'll let you work here, you're helping our
country, you pay taxes, you serve in our military, you may get killed defending
America,' " Clinton said, " 'but if someone mugs you on the street corner, or
you get cancer, or you get hit by a car, or the same thing happens to your
children, we're not going to give you assistance anymore.' "

Karen Narasaki, executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Legal
Consortium, said that while Congress "has improved other aspects of a deeply
flawed welfare bill, they made the provision covering immigrants more punitive."

Based on budget office estimates, analysts said the changes would mean that in
an average month, an estimated 1 million legal immigrants, many of them children
and most of them already in the country, would be cut off from food stamps;
about 650,000 immigrants, most of them already here, would no longer have access
to Medicaid; and roughly 500,000 current residents, including at least 45,000
refugees, would be cut off from Supplemental Security Income, or SSI.

In addition, most other federally means-tested programs -- from crisis hot lines
and gang prevention to English classes -- would be barred to future immigrants
who come after the bill's enactment for the first five years here. After that
time, many would still be ineligible for help under new eligibility standards
that would count the income of their sponsors as their own. States would also
have the option to exclude residents and new immigrants from Medicaid and
state-funded means-tested programs.

Among the few exemptions from the outright bar on aid are refugees who have been
in the country less than five years, veterans and family members, and immigrants
who have worked 40 quarters without receiving any means-tested aid.

But "there are no exemptions for elderly people, disabled people, sick people,
and little children who have no way to . . . support themselves and who have no
sponsors," said Sharon Daly, an analyst for Catholic Charities U.S.A.

The removal of federal benefits will mean states and private charities will
shoulder heavier burdens. Many states require counties -- as the providers of
last resort -- to provide a social safety net for indigent persons with no other
means. Illegal immigrants are excluded from that mandate.

Hardest hit would be states with large immigrant populations, such as
California, home to 40 percent of the nation's immigrants who receive benefits,
Florida, New York and Texas.

Among California counties that will be forced to absorb an estimated $ 10.7
billion in medical and social services costs over the next six years for legal
immigrants are Los Angeles County, whose health care system nearly collapsed
last year before it was rescued by a presidential bailout, and Orange County,
which just emerged from bankruptcy and now must pick up the tab for a large and
growing Asian immigrant population, officials said.

Staff writer William Claiborne in Los Angeles contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              80 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 02, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

California Faces New Welfare Reality; Counties With Large Immigrant Population
Fearful of Financial Hit

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 1


For the past year and a half, the welfare reform debate in Congress has been to
many local government officials across the country little more than the distant
background noise of federal politicians bickering over abstract concepts. Today,
the reality of the potential financial impact on counties with large immigrant
populations struck home with full force.

The bill's reduction in medical and social service benefits to legal immigrants
who are not citizens, estimated by the Congressional Budget Office to account
for about 40 percent of the $ 54.1 billion to be cut in federal welfare spending
over the next six years, will be "catastrophic" as the costs of providing a
social services safety net of last resort are passed to the counties, the
officials said.

California's 58 counties, home to 40 percent of the nation's estimated 1.5
million legal immigrants who receive federal benefits, could be forced to absorb
as much as $ 10.7 billion in medical and social services costs for noncitizens
over the next six years, the officials said. The burden will come at a time when
a number of county governments already are facing severe fiscal crises.

"Once the president signs this bill, the real crisis will hit," said Frank
Mecca, executive director of the California Welfare Directors Association. "The
counties have virtually no ability to raise general tax revenues, but they'll
still have to care for these people. It's a disaster in the making."

Under the bill, future legal immigrants who are not citizens would be ineligible
for most federal welfare benefits and social services during their first five
years in the United States. Current residents who are not citizens would lose
their food stamps and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) assistance for the
elderly poor and disabled. States will be allowed to decide whether to withdraw
Medicaid benefits from legal immigrants living here and from new immigrants.

However, California county officials pointed out that under state law, the
counties -- as the providers of last resort -- are obligated to maintain a
social services safety net, including medical care in county hospitals, for
indigent persons with no other means of support. Illegal immigrants are excluded
from that requirement.

Mike Nevin, president of the California State Association of Counties, said:
"It's just devastating. These people will be at the doorsteps of our hospitals
with communicable diseases, and we'll have to take care of them. It's an awful
situation, because we just don't have the money." Nevin, who is supervisor of
San Mateo County, added: "What will we do? I don't know. You'll have to ask me
next year."

California is not alone in sounding the alarm. County officials in other states
with large immigrant populations -- most notably New York, Texas and Florida --
say that ultimately they will be forced to pick up the cost of caring for all
indigents, including legal immigrants, who are denied social services benefits.

"We see this as not necessarily a tax savings but a shift in the tax burden,"
said Larry E. Naake, executive director of the National Association of Counties.
"Perhaps federal taxpayers will get some relief, but in the end, the county
taxpayers will have to pick up the costs." The association's president, Michael
Hightower, said counties that have already reached legislated taxing limits will
be forced to cut essential services, such as law enforcement and fire
protection.

Among the most vulnerable of the counties are Los Angeles County, whose health
care system nearly collapsed last year from a lack of funds before it was
rescued by a $ 364 million federal bailout, and Orange County, which just
emerged from a $ 1.64 billion bankruptcy and now will be forced to pick up the
social services tab for a large and growing Asian and Latino immigrant
population.

Los Angeles County officials estimate that denying SSI payments and food stamps
to legal immigrants could cost the county $ 236 million a year if the immigrants
seek general assistance benefits. If the state decides to withdraw Medicaid
benefits, there could be an additional burden on the county of $ 100 million a
year in providing emergency health care.

"All the legal immigrants who are being taken off the welfare rolls are going to
end up on our doorstep," said County Supervisor Gloria Molina, a Democrat who
was co-chairwoman of President Clinton's 1992 election campaign here.

Angelo Doti, director of financial assistance for Orange County's Social
Services Agency, said his county has 22,800 noncitizens receiving SSI payments,
many of whom could be forced onto county general relief rolls. "This has the
potential for becoming a nightmare," he said. "We borrowed money to get out of
bankruptcy. We're hardly in a position to take on new costs."

LOAD-DATE: August 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              81 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 13, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

States Face Dilemma on Immigrants; U.S. to End Welfare For Legal Noncitizens

Jon Jeter, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 860 words


Of all the questions that Congress has left for the states to answer about the
lawmakers' blueprint for a new social welfare system, the most pressing at the
moment is this: When the federal government ends virtually all forms of public
assistance for legal immigrants who are not U.S. citizens, will the states pick
up the tab?

Most features of the welfare overhaul probably won't materialize in any concrete
way for at least a year, but the provision denying cash benefits and most other
forms of public assistance to legal immigrants will take effect Jan. 1.

That leaves state and local officials only five months to make the first major
decision of the new welfare era, which was ushered in this month when Congress
approved dramatic revisions to the nation's 61-year-old relief system. The
legislation ends the federal guarantee of aid to the poor, and it provides
states with lump-sum payments, or block grants, with fewer regulatory strings
attached. But if states want to continue providing cash assistance to legal
immigrants, they must do it with their own money.

The issue is of special interest in the Washington region -- particularly
Montgomery County and Northern Virginia -- because the area is the nation's
fifth most popular destination for thousands of Latino, Asian and African
immigrants.

In Maryland, social service administrators are clearly uncomfortable about
paring nearly 3,200 legal immigrants from the public relief rolls. But to do
otherwise would cost Maryland taxpayers $ 5 million annually, half of which had
been provided by the federal government, said Lynda Fox, deputy director of the
Department of Human Resources.

Legal immigrants "are by and large a good investment of our funds," said Chuck
Short, director of the social services department in Montgomery, which provides
cash assistance to about 850 immigrants.

"We are going to try to continue to do whatever we can for them," Short said.
"But we don't have extra resources to do that by any means."

Virginia's relief rolls include about 1,500 legal immigrants, according to Chad
Clark, a spokesman for the state Department of Health and Human Resources. State
officials estimate that it would cost Virginia taxpayers slightly more than $ 1
million annually to pick up the federal government's share, Clark said.

No decisions have been made yet, but "we're not too concerned about the legal
immigrant provision, and in fact we support it," he said.

District officials said this week that figures on the city's immigrant
population receiving welfare benefits are unavailable. Johnny Allem, a spokesman
for Mayor Marion Barry, said it was premature to speculate about whether the
city would replace the federal government's portion of cash benefits for legal
immigrants.

The historic legislation, which President Clinton has promised to sign, limits
public assistance to five years and requires recipients to work. But the bill
contains a grandfather clause for states that have been granted federal
approval, or waivers, to run experimental efforts intended to move the poor off
the dole and into the workplace. With a waiver in hand, states can delay most of
the new federal rules for as much as eight years.

Maryland and Virginia are among 42 states planning to take advantage of the
grandfather clause. The District, Pennsylvania, New Mexico and Nevada have in
recent weeks asked federal officials to exempt them from some of the bill's more
stringent measures.

About 5 percent of the 12.8 million people nationwide receiving cash benefits
are legal immigrants, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services. The vast majority of immigrants never receive any form of public
assistance, and a significant portion of those who do are likely to be refugees
fleeing political persecution at home.

The dilemma surrounding immigrant aid provides perhaps the first glimpse of the
new world of welfare, in which states -- like teenagers leaving their parents'
home for the first time -- discover that freedom comes with new
responsibilities.

The states soon will have to decide whether to continue providing food stamps to
legal immigrants after the program gradually begins to exclude them in late
1997. The cost of providing the vouchers to poor immigrants could be much
greater than cash assistance.

In Maryland, more than 16,000 immigrants receive food stamps. Unlike cash
assistance, which is financed by the federal and state governments, food stamps
are paid entirely with federal dollars. So if states choose to continue
providing food stamps to legal immigrants, they would be assuming a completely
new burden.

The federal plan to overhaul welfare will have the greatest effects far from
Capitol Hill, said Susan Kellem, a spokeswoman for the American Public Welfare
Association.

The states, counties and cities where the poor live, work and go to school "are
really the lowest common denominator," Kellem said. "And these kinds of
decisions are going to resonate the most where they are the most visible, and
that's in the cities and the counties. They really have their work cut out for
them."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              82 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 15, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

On Immigration Issues, GOP's Public Stance, Platform Are at Odds

John E. Yang; William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26; 1996 REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 14


Standing just a few miles away from the busiest U.S.-Mexican port of entry,
Monica Cano Powell told the Republican National Convention tonight of how her
four grandparents came to the United States from Mexico and built lives for
their families in Los Angeles.

"There is a right way and a wrong way to come to this country," said Powell, one
of the many "Main Street Americans" the GOP convention is featuring. "Both my
grandparents came here legally. . . . For legal immigrants, America holds a
wealth of opportunity."

Powell and other speakers at this tightly scripted convention have presented the
public face of a party that embraces immigrants as strengthening the fabric of
America. The party's platform, however, offers a much sterner countenance,
discomforting some GOP officials.

The first two nights of the convention offered similarly heartwarming,
prime-time tales of successful immigrants. Colin L. Powell recalled his Jamaican
immigrant parents and declared that "the Hispanic immigrant who became a citizen
yesterday must be as precious to us as a Mayflower descendant." Keynote speaker
Rep. Susan Molinari (N.Y.) hailed the story of her great-grandfather's journey
to America from Italy.

But during the first hours of the convention Monday afternoon, in a session not
televised by the major networks, delegates approved a platform calling for
ending federal welfare benefits for legal immigrants, as the welfare bill
President Clinton has promised to sign would do, and denying citizenship to the
U.S.-born children of illegal residents and those who are not "long-term" U.S.
residents.

Some of those attending the convention said they wished the prime-time speakers
were more direct. "I don't believe an immigrant has the right to come in here
and get a free ride and give nothing in return," said Michael Joseph, 47, an
alternate delegate from San Antonio. "I'd like to hear it said like that."

Many leading Republicans say they are uneasy with some of the party's positions
on immigration. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Henry J. Hyde (R-Ill.), who
headed the platform committee, said in an interview this week that he is "very
uncomfortable" with the document's immigration plank.

"It's one of the burdens of being chairman of a committee; you're obliged to
carry your committee's position," Hyde said.

Texas Gov. George W. Bush said he would not deny free public educations to the
children of illegal immigrants in Texas, as the immigration bill pending in
Congress would do. "George Bush ought to be able to make that decision for
Texas," he told Washington Post editors and reporters today.

Bush said he was "ambivalent" on the platform's plank on denying citizenship to
the children of illegal or temporary residents. "This needs a full debate," he
said.

At the same time, though, many of these Republicans note the political potency
of these positions. The platform, Hyde said, reflects the fact that "people are
getting nervous about . . . the loss of identity. . . . The average Joe out
there won't think it's so extreme."

That many lawmakers voted for a welfare bill while opposing its provisions
cutting off a range of federal benefits for legal immigrants indicates "we're in
an election year and a mean-spirited time," said Sen. Robert F. Bennett
(R-Utah).

While appealing to voters in some parts of the nation, the party's stance could
be counterproductive in some others, both GOP officials and Latino leaders said.

"We risk alienating the Hispanic population in the same way we lost the support
of African Americans," said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.). "By doing what we're
doing, we risk turning off the fastest-rising population in the Southwest."

"There is too much scapegoating going on in this convention," Luis Natividad,
chairman of the Latino Unity Coalition of San Diego, said in an interview. "The
warning went out that we'll extract a political price for the repressive
measures they [Republicans] want to put on us."

There are an estimated 27 million Latinos in the country, but the Census Bureau
predicts the total will grow to 36 million by the year 2005, surpassing the
number of blacks.

Just blocks away from the waterfront convention hall, Hispanics interviewed
randomly said they were vaguely aware of the tough immigration policies emerging
from the convention. But none had heard about the conciliatory statements made
in the prime-time speeches.

"It's ridiculous; if you are born here, you should be an American citizen,"
Manuel Tejeda, 38, a janitor, said as he lunched at Las Cuatro Milpas, a local
eatery practically underneath a freeway bridge south of the convention center.

Born here to parents who were illegal immigrants, Tejeda would have been denied
automatic American citizenship under the current GOP proposal.

"I feel illegal immigrants are just trying to better their lives," he added.
"They're just doing what other generations of Americans did."

Staff writers Dan Balz and David S. Broder contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              83 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 29, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Saying No To the Flow

Jim Hoagland

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: PORT GRIMAUD, France


The biggest story of August for the French has not been Boris Yeltsin's grim
decline into serial incapacity and defeat in Chechnya, nor the hokey convention
coronations in America. Even the weather and traffic at vacation-crowded beaches
here on the Mediterranean have played second fiddle to the drama of a small
group of African immigrants who occupied a Parisian church and staged a
seven-week hunger strike before police dispersed them last week.

Summer headlines and newscasts have been dominated by the Africans, longtime but
nonlegalized residents of France who face deportation under newly toughened
immigration laws. The Africans won coverage and sympathy but no reprieve from
the law.

Their dilemma is the cutting edge of a continuing national debate about
immigration. To be more precise, the French debate is about shutting off
immigration and squeezing out hundreds of thousands of Arab and African
noncitizens in a country that faces record levels of unemployment.

But that is not just a French debate. The changes the French have made in
immigration laws cut to the heart of the changing nature of citizenship in an
era of globalization. The attempt to reverse the flow of would-be workers and
residents from former colonies is specifically French in many aspects; but it
also reflects a general and rising concern about immigration in the world's
industrial democracies, and especially in the United States.

The economic and social forces collected under the shorthand term of
globalization are cracking the melting pots of once proudly assimilationist
societies such as France and the United States. The ease with which people,
capital, ideas and goods move across frontiers are creating unpredictable new
pressures in the affluent north.

A nation's concerns and confidence can be measured accurately by the foreigners
it chooses to demonize. France at mid-century was a country that feared
absorption or domination by the wealthier citizens of an American hegemon:
Yankee Go Home was the slogan of the day.

Today the graffiti here reads: Arab and African Go Home. France at the end of
the millennium fears inundation by the poor and hungry of the Southern
Hemisphere.

Different in most other respects, France and America long have had this in
common: They have automatically defined those born on their soil as their
citizens. By letting geography as well as lineage open the gate of national
identity, these two countries have historically demonstrated their belief in the
universality and accessibility of their civic systems and civilizations. They
have used the brainpower and muscle of new arrivals for constant renewal.

But the ruling conservatives in Paris, faced with a stagnating economy and a
rising political challenge from the xenophobic right-wing National Front,
changed the rules in 1993 by drastically limiting the ability of children born
in France to noncitizen parents to acquire French citizenship. Without that
protection, many of the parents demonstrating in that Paris church face the
threat of immediate expulsion.

What strikes an American visitor is that France has begun to do in immigration
precisely what the Republican Party platform writers want to do in America. The
San Diego platform endorses a constitutional amendment to deny automatic
citizenship and other benefits to children born on U.S. soil to "parents who are
not legally present in the United States or who are not long-term residents."

Bob Dole has said publicly he cannot support this plank. But the Republicans who
wrote it would feel right at home in France on this issue. When the problem is
global, all politics is not local. And not simple.

In the context of a platform that defines property rights as the essential
element in protecting the U.S. environment and tax cuts as the guarantor of U.S.
economic strength, it is not surprising that the Republicans portray immigration
solely as a supply-side problem. They do not address clamping down on the black
market of jobs that draws and sustains illegal immigration.

The problem is even larger than that: The industrial world's exports, along with
its jobs and welfare benefits, draw African tribesmen and Mexican teenagers
northward. The important market for manufacturers, whether they sell dreams and
commercial entertainment or toothpaste, is global. They have helped establish a
global standard of living, and a global standard of fantasy, that the tribesman
or the teenager will defy borders and police patrols to acquire.

The industrial nations need to see the problems that create and are created by
immigration as joint responsibilities that can be met only with a joint global
response. To believe that any one nation or political party can deal
successfully with immigration alone is to misunderstand the times in which we
live.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              84 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 13, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Panel Rebukes INS on Miami Probe

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 513 words


A House panel sharply rebuked the Immigration and Naturalization Service
yesterday for its handling of a probe into the deception of a congressional task
force by INS officials and demanded tough punishment for those involved.

In a hearing before the House Judiciary immigration and claims subcommittee,
lawmakers grilled INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner about efforts by at least
13 senior INS officials to mislead a congressional fact-finding mission to Miami
last year.

Meissner said that she, too, was misled by the officials, who sought to conceal
overcrowding at a detention center and understaffing at the Miami airport.

However, Republicans on the subcommittee chastised Meissner for rewarding or
promoting several of the accused officials while they were under investigation
by the Justice Department.

The members also denounced what they said were lenient proposals in the Justice
Department that the three most senior officials implicated in the deception
receive suspensions of 10 to 20 days.

The deception came to light when Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), who had headed
the fact-finding mission, received a letter of complaint signed by nearly 50 INS
employees.

The Justice Department's investigation later found that 101 of the 407 illegal
aliens held at Miami's Krome Detention Center were moved out within 24 hours of
the delegation's June 10, 1995, visit to relieve overcrowding, according to
testimony by Inspector General Michael R. Bromwich.

Of the 101, officials released 58 into the community, although 35 had not been
medically cleared, four had criminal records and the criminal histories of 17
others could not be ascertained, Bromwich said.

He said the INS deputy district director in Miami at the time, Valerie Blake,
was particularly concerned that Krome would appear "out of control." The
11-month investigation showed her remedies were authorized by senior officials
at the INS eastern regional office in Vermont, notably Carole D. Chasse, the
regional director, and Michael Devine, the deputy regional director, Bromwich
said.

Compounding the deception, he said, were officials' efforts to impede the
inquiry and an "abysmal" response by INS headquarters to requests for documents.
These difficulties lengthened and complicated the investigation, which occupied
as many as 17 agents and may have cost more than $ 1 million, Bromwich said.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the subcommittee, said the "final
insult" was a series of promotions and rewards received by at least five
implicated officials while the investigation was underway.

Meissner said she regreted the misconduct in Miami and was committed to
repairing her agency's relations with Congress.

But she defended the awards and promotions as based on 1994 performance, and
said she took the strongest action available to her after the inspector
general's report came out in June by reassigning Chasse, Devine, Blake and Miami
district director Walter D. Cadman pending the outcome of disciplinary
proceedings by the Justice Department.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              85 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 15, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

A Million New Citizens

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 424 words


BEFORE THE FISCAL year ends on Sept. 30, a record number of immigrants will have
become citizens. A new high had been set only last year: 445,853. This year's
total is expected to be 1.1 million. Some congressional Republicans suspect a
Democratic plan to load up the voter rolls, but the administration replies that
there are good and innocent reasons for this increase.

This administration took office with a large backlog of applicants for
citizenship, primarily because the 1986 immigration law granting amnesty to
certain illegal aliens made them eligible for citizenship in the early '90s.
Three million applied, more than the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS) was equipped to process in a short time. Doris Meissner, commissioner of
the INS, testified at confirmation that she intended to address that backlog by
reducing the processing time from two years to six months. An enthusiastic
Congress tripled the naturalization staff and reprogrammed some INS funding for
this task.

A second spur to citizenship was provided this summer when Congress passed
welfare reform legislation making even legal resident aliens ineligible for a
broad spectrum of federal benefits. Quite reasonably, many immigrants, most of
whom had never received government assistance of any kind, decided to protect
themselves and their families by becoming citizens.

These two factors alone explain the rising number of applicants. That so many
are being processed so quickly is a triumph for the INS, not evidence of a
nefarious political scheme. Congressional Republicans have found a few glitches.
One of the six companies hired to give part of the citizenship test was found to
be cheating. But all applicants were further examined by INS, and that company
has been notified of the government's intent to suspend its contract. Some
30,000 fingerprint cards intended for FBI checks of criminal records were
temporarily mislaid. A few dozen serious offenders were later identified in this
group. The INS either pulled applications that had not yet been approved or
revoked citizenship fraudulently obtained.

No one knows how these new citizens will vote in November. Some groups are more
conservative than others, and Republicans may be pleasantly surprised. But even
if the majority turn out to be Democrats, that doesn't mean there was corruption
in the citizenship process. These new Americans have every right to take the
opportunity offered to make permanent their status and to participate fully in
the electoral process.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              86 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 18, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

GOP Cancels Conference on Immigration Bill; House and Senate Democrats Criticize
Republican Handling of Controversial Legislation

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 837 words


Beset by infighting in GOP ranks and mounting Democratic criticism, Republicans
yesterday sought to break a long-running deadlock over revisions to major
immigration legislation that passed the House and Senate with strong bipartisan
support this spring.

After the continuing disarray prompted GOP leaders to abruptly postpone the
scheduled start of a House-Senate conference to reconcile two versions of the
bill, House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.) hinted that Republicans
might be willing to drop a controversial amendment that would allow states to
deny free public education to newly enrolling illegal immigrant students, as
long as President Clinton would sign the bill if they did.

"What we want is an immigration bill that can be signed into law," Armey told
reporters. "We want to be sure that all the sound and fury regarding [the
amendment] is not just a stalking horse for other provisions" that Clinton may
oppose.

Armey made his remark after congressional Democrats blasted Republican handling
of the legislation, charging that it has been stripped of provisions that
address some of the real problems of illegal immigration and turned into a
partisan campaign tool.

Signals of Republican willingness to resolve the impasse drew some skepticism
from lawmakers in both parties who suspect that GOP leaders would prefer to kill
the bill, thereby denying President Clinton another high-profile signing
ceremony that might enhance his reelection campaign.

The delay "clearly indicates that the Republicans can't get their act together
on an issue of critical concern," said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.). He said
some Republicans "want to have a bill that the president will veto" and are
therefore fighting to preserve the controversial education amendment.

Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), who sponsored the Senate version of the bill,
seemed to agree, accusing unidentified fellow Republicans of "contriving a way
to kill the bill."

The amendment, sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), has been denounced
by the president as a measure that "would result in kicking children out of
school and onto the streets." Clinton said in August that he would veto a bill
containing it.

The measure's backers say a modified version of it would allow students in
grades seven through 12 to complete high school and children in grades one
through six to complete elementary school. Only when a child completed grade six
would the provision apply, allowing a state to charge tuition for further public
school education.

Democrats said this was still unacceptable. They said the estimated $ 5,000 to $
6,000 a year tuition would be more than illegal immigrant families could afford.

A federal requirement to provide free public education to illegal immigrant
children currently costs states an estimated $ 4 billion a year. California says
it spends nearly half that amount annually to educate an estimated 380,000
illegal immigrant students.

In a news conference before the scheduled start of the immigration bill
conference, several Democratic members of the conference committee from the
House and Senate denounced other aspects of the Republican-revised legislation
that they said had prompted them to oppose the entire package.

Rep. John Bryant, a conservative Texas Democrat who had co-sponsored the House
bill with Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), charged that Republicans have "destroyed
the bipartisan consensus" for the original legislation, which was aimed at
cracking down on illegal immigration by strengthening the U.S. Border Patrol,
stiffening penalties for document fraud, denying benefits to illegal aliens and
developing a system for employers to verify the work eligibility of job
applicants.

"Republicans have totally caved in to lobbyists for employers," Bryant said.
"I'm very disappointed and frankly contemptuous of what the Republicans have
done."

He and Kennedy said a Republican-drafted conference report had deleted a
provision to provide the Labor Department with an additional 350 investigators
to help crack down on employers who hire illegal workers. They also said
language in the report would weaken a law that prohibits discrimination against
legal workers who may look or sound foreign.

In addition, Democrats charged, provisions for a pilot employer verification
program and for the creation of counterfeit-proof birth certificates and other
frequently forged documents have been diluted.

The legislation "treats unscrupulous employers with kid gloves and treats kids
with an iron fist," Kennedy said.

Other Democrats, including Sens. Paul Simon (Ill.) and Patrick J. Leahy (Vt.)
and Reps. Barney Frank (Mass.) and Howard Berman (Calif.), criticized provisions
that they said would make it more difficult for low-income Americans to bring
immediate relatives into the United States, would make new welfare reforms even
harsher for legal immigrants, and would toughen entry requirements for people
seeking political asylum.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig , Sen. Kennedy and Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.) at
Hill news conference.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              87 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 21, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Food Stamp Restriction Begins Monday in Va.

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 499 words


Virginia will begin turning down noncitizen legal immigrants who apply for food
stamps starting Monday as part of the new federal welfare reform law, making the
state the first jurisdiction in the area to do so, state and local officials
said yesterday.

For those immigrants already receiving food stamps, Virginia officials will
review their cases as their benefits expire, and if they are no longer eligible
under the new, stricter criteria, they will lose their food stamps.

In Maryland and the District, officials will begin rejecting new applicants for
benefits Oct. 1, and they will follow the same review procedures for immigrants
receiving food stamps.

Under the welfare reform measure signed into law a month ago, legal immigrants
are barred from receiving food stamps until they become citizens, unless they
fall into certain exempt categories. Those exceptions include refugees in their
first five years in the country, veterans, and legal residents who have worked
10 years without receiving any federal means-tested benefits.

In the Washington area, the biggest impact of the welfare reform legislation on
the legal immigrant community falls in Fairfax and Montgomery counties, which
have the largest foreign-born populations.

In Fairfax County, where 12,500 families receive food stamps, an esti mated
4,000 legal immigrant families were receiving food stamps in early August. Local
officials do not know how many of those families eventually will lose their
benefits, but they are scrambling to alert recipients to the changes.

"We hope to send out letters next week," said Juani Diaz, who heads Fairfax
County's benefits program. In addition to mailing out letters in English, the
county also is trying to translate the information into Spanish, Vietnamese and
Persian, she said.

In Arlington, where the total food stamp caseload was 4,678 in July, officials
said 10 percent to 30 percent of the cases could be affected by the provision
barring noncitizen immigrants from getting food stamps.

Maryland and District officials said they do not know how many families of legal
immigrants would be affected by the provision because they have never had to
keep track of recipients by citizenship before.

Even though some community groups knew the changes in the law were imminent,
some nevertheless were taken by surprise.

"Wow. I didn't know it started on Monday," said Kim Oanh Cook, who heads the
Falls Church-based Vietnamese Resettlement Association, which works with
refugees and immigrants. "People are constantly applying for food stamps, and
I'm sure it's going to hit them."

Like many community groups in the area, her association has been trying to get
assistance from area food banks and other resources to help supplement those who
would lose their food stamps. "But it has been very tough," she said. "We are
competing with the other ethnic groups who are poor."

Staff writers Jon Jeter and Cindy Loose contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              88 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 24, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 373 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees:

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 2:30 p.m. Consumer affairs, foreign
commerce & tourism subc. Revising consumers' rights in automobile purchases. 253
Russell Office Bldg.

Foreign Relations -- 10 a.m. Need for national ballistic defense system. 419
Dirksen Office Bldg.

Governmental Affairs -- 10 a.m. Requiring federal govt. to contract with private
sector for goods & services. 342 DOB.

Indian Affairs -- 9:30 a.m. Civil jurisdiction in Indian country. 106 DOB.

Judiciary -- 9 a.m. Pending nominations. 226 DOB.

Special Committee on Aging -- 9 a.m. Revisions to Social Security. 628 DOB.

HOUSE

Meets at 10:30 a.m.

Committees:

Agriculture -- 1:30 p.m. Dept. operations, nutrition & foreign agriculture subc.
Hatch Act & related law violations. 1300 Longworth House Office Bldg.

Conference -- 11 a.m. Mark up immigration reform bill. H-137 Capitol.

Government Reform & Oversight -- 1 p.m. National security, international affairs
& criminal justice subc. and Judiciary immigration & claims subc. Joint hearing.
Immigration & Naturalization Service's "Citizenship USA." 311 Cannon House
Office Bldg.

Government Reform & Oversight -- 6 p.m. Business meeting. Consideration of
investigative reports on: crude oil underpricing, year 2000 software conversion,
security of FBI files & management of federal govt. 2154 Rayburn House Office
Bldg.

International Relations -- 1 p.m. International operations & human rights subc.
Revising role & duties of U.N. sec. general's office. 2172 RHOB.

International Relations -- 2 p.m. International economic policy & trade subc.
Oversight hearing. Status of U.S. export promotion programs & their impact on
trade competitiveness. 2200 RHOB.

National Security -- 3 p.m. Military personnel subc. Programs designed to assist
at-risk youth in a military environment. 2118 RHOB.

Rules -- 4 p.m. Business meeting. Consideration of rules for debate on
conference report for Veterans Affairs & Housing & Urban Development depts.
approps. & intelligence authorization report. H-313 Capitol.

Transportation & Infrastructure -- 4 p.m. Public buildings & economic
development subc. Mark up pending legislation. 2253 RHOB.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              89 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 27, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Punishing Legal Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 440 words


THE PRESIDENT refused comment yesterday on the immigration conference report
accepted by the House and now pending in the Senate. The final form of the
measure and the manner in which it will be considered -- alone or as part of a
continuing resolution -- are still being negotiated, he said, and he doesn't
want to commit himself to signing or vetoing the measure at this time. That a
compromise still is being considered is a good sign; unless some changes are
made, the bill should not become law.

To give credit where it is due, Republicans have made some important revisions.
They agreed to separate out the Gallegly amendment relating to the education of
the children of illegal aliens. They added a right to review by an immigration
judge of initial decisions to deny asylum to those coming to this country with
false papers or through countries where they would have been safe. At the same
time, however, they have insisted on harsh provisions relating to legal aliens.
At least one of these provisions appeared full-blown in the conference report
without ever having been considered in either house.

The welfare reform bill passed earlier this year unfairly excludes legal aliens
from many important federal assistance programs. The immigration conference
report goes further. It would provide for the deportation of legal aliens who
use means-tested benefits such as Medicaid, education loans and subsidized job
training for more than 12 months. Perhaps most egregious is a provision inserted
in this section of the bill that makes an exception for the treatment of
communicable diseases (sensible) except for AIDS patients. This particular
language never was considered in either house. Why people who have come to this
country legally -- who have been law-abiding, taxpaying, hard-working residents
and who may even have served in the armed forces -- should be treated so
callously is hard to understand.

Legislation addressing the problem of illegal immigration is politically
attractive in large border states such as California and Texas, where most of
this population settles. And in the current climate of immigration-bashing, a
candidate who votes for this bill in its present form probably will take no
risks. It will be tempting for the Senate to go along and for the president to
accept a bill that does so much harm to those who have entered this country
legally and who may -- by reason of accident, illness or some other misfortune
-- need help from the community they have joined. That temptation should be
resisted. No bill that is so unfair to this struggling, law-abiding group should
become law.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              90 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 27, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Clinton Defense of Legal Immigrant Rights Threatens Massive Spending Bill

Eric Pianin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 969 words


A new round of White House objections to a House-passed bill to thwart illegal
immigration looms as the major obstacle to an agreement on a massive spending
bill that is needed to avoid another government shutdown and to allow Congress
to adjourn for the year.

The administration is demanding that the GOP leaders agree for the second time
this week to alter their immigration bill, this time by dropping a section that
would cut public benefits for legal immigrants.

"We're willing to consider it," a top aide to House Speaker Newt Gingrich
(R-Ga.) said last night. But the aide added, "First, we want proof the Democrats
are sincere" about wrapping up the remaining spending negotiations.

Jittery Republican leaders, anxious to send their members home to campaign,
complained earlier that the administration was negotiating in bad faith despite
numerous GOP concessions on the immigration bill and other legislative and
spending issues.

With memories still fresh of last year's GOP debacle during two government
shutdowns, House Republican Conference Chairman John A. Boehner (Ohio) charged
that Democrats were creating roadblocks "designed to cause another train wreck,"
as last winter's government shutdowns were called. An exasperated House
Appropriations Committee Chairman Bob Livingston (R-La.) said that if the
Democrats were determined to "string us out," then responsibility for another
government crisis "would lie at their feet."

The administration insists it wants a deal, and White House Chief of Staff Leon
E. Panetta and other administration officials met throughout the night with GOP
leaders at the Capitol in search of a compromise. At a Democratic rally on
Capitol Hill earlier in the day, President Clinton said the public wants a
Congress that will "fight for the interests of working families, expand
education opportunities, balance the budget in the right way, and never, ever
shut the government down again."

However, GOP hopes for completing all congressional work by this weekend seemed
increasingly remote, as the White House and Congress slogged through a daunting
pile of paperwork and talking points. So far, the White House and Congress have
approved only seven of the 13 annual spending bills necessary to keep the
government operating during the new fiscal year. In their rush to meet the
midnight Monday deadline, Congress is folding the remaining six bills --
including spending for the Defense, Health and Human Services, Education,
Commerce, Veterans Affairs, Justice and State departments -- into a giant
spending package.

The Republicans have bowed to virtually all of the administration's spending
demands, agreeing to about $ 6.5 billion of additional spending for education,
other domestic programs and anti-terrorist initiatives. But there were still
scores of other related spending issues and policies to be resolved, as well as
the larger policy disputes over immigration, a controversial omnibus parks bill
and a plan to privatize the Student Loan Marketing Association (Sallie Mae), a
government-sponsored agency.

House and Senate GOP aides complained that White House officials have been slow
in responding to specific proposals during the past week or two, including a
final batch delivered to the White House at 1 a.m. yesterday. Democrats said the
issues are too complicated and far-reaching for them to rush to judgment. "Now
we have to roll up our sleeves and start negotiating," Panetta said yesterday
during a break in his meetings on Capitol Hill. "It's more just getting through
the sheer volume we have to do."

Republicans thought they had resolved their differences with the administration
over legislation curtailing illegal immigration on Wednesday, after the House
passed a bill, 305 to 123, that was stripped of an amendment allowing states to
end free public education to future illegal immigrant children. The White House
threatened a veto unless the amendment was dropped.

A White House official later informed House GOP leaders that the administration
would block a final agreement on the spending bill unless the immigration bill
was further altered to drop the section that would cut public benefits for legal
immigrants.

That section conforms the immigration bill to recently adopted welfare
legislation that bars legal immigrants from receiving Supplemental Security
Income (SSI) and food stamps and bars them for five years from qualifying for
Medicaid and most other social service programs. After five years, legal
immigrants could qualify for Medicaid and most other programs only if they meet
strict requirements. The provisions are retroactive (unlike in the welfare bill)
and are lifted only if the immigrant becomes a U.S. citizen or works and pays
taxes for 10 years.

Under the section, called Title 5, all legal immigrants may be subject to
deportation unless they have a valid affidavit of support from their sponsor.
Exceptions are made for battered spouses and children and widows.

House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.) complained about the president's
insistence on the immigration issue, saying, "I think it's out of line."

A White House official said last night he was confident the Republicans would
eventually relent and agree to drop the entire section. "It's just a good way to
have a win-win situation for Americans," the official said, because it would
result in legislation that cracks down on illegal immigrants without punishing
those who are in the country legally.

In case the two sides cannot agree on the immigration bill, Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) moved to force a vote aimed at blocking further
delays and called for that vote late Monday or early Tuesday.

Staff writers William Branigin and Helen Dewar contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              91 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 01, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Food Stamp Cutoff a Matter of Geography for Area Immigrants

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 487 words


The District, Maryland and Virginia have adopted different timetables for
implementing a provision of the new national welfare law that denies federally
funded food stamps to many legal immigrants who are not citizens.

Starting today, immigrants who apply for food stamps in the District will be
screened to determine whether they fall into certain exempt categories,
including refugees in their first five years in the country, U.S. military
veterans and legal residents who have worked 40 quarters.

Immigrants now receiving food stamps in the District will be screened as their
benefits expire. Legal immigrants make up only about 1 percent of the estimated
98,000 people receiving food stamps in the city, said John M. Bayne, who heads
the District's Income Maintenance Administration.

Under the immigration bill passed yesterday by Congress, legal immigrants who
were receiving food stamps on Aug. 22 -- the date the welfare law was enacted --
will be allowed to keep receiving them until April 1, even if they are found to
be ineligible when their benefits expire.

From April 1 to Aug. 22 of next year, states can drop legal immigrants off the
food stamp rolls if they no longer are eligible.

In Maryland, new applicants will be screened starting today, state officials
said. For legal immigrants now receiving food stamps, the state has postponed
implementing changes until Nov. 1 to give recipients a month's notice.
Information was mailed Friday to all food stamp recipients notifying them of
changes in the law.

The delay means that no legal immigrants who are receiving food stamps will lose
their October benefits, said Corinne Stevens, who oversees crisis, income and
victim services for Montgomery County's Health and Human Services Department.

As of Aug. 1, Montgomery County had about 3,800 legal immigrants receiving food
stamps, Stevens said, but she did not know how many were children. Maryland Gov.
Parris N. Glendening (D) has said the state will assume the $ 2.1 million cost
of continuing to provide food stamps to the children of legal immigrants.

Virginia began denying food stamps to new noncitizen applicants last week. In
Fairfax County, which has one of the area's largest immigrant populations,
county officials said it was too early to determine how many new applicants had
been turned down after one week.

In the Falls Church office, which serves about half of the county's 4,000 legal
immigrant families receiving food stamps, at least one person living in a
shelter for the homeless was denied emergency food stamps, officials said. The
applicant arrived in the United States as a refugee 15 years ago and did not
qualify for the five-year exempt period. Officials declined to identify the
person or the shelter, citing privacy laws.

Meanwhile, the county is extending benefits for a maximum of 12 months for legal
immigrants who already receive food stamps.

LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              92 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 03, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Latinos Prepare to March on Washington; Organizers Reveal Seven-Point Immigrant
Rights Platform

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 734 words


Latino leaders began a 10-day countdown yesterday to a Columbus Day march on
Washington, unveiling a seven-point platform on Latino and immigrant rights that
includes a call for a simpler citizenship process and a $ 7 minimum wage.

During a news conference yesterday in the basement of a Mount Pleasant church,
march organizers declined to estimate how many people they would bring. They
said the march is supported by more than 1,000 Latino organizations across the
country and has been endorsed by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, national
Latino civil rights groups and the U.S. Catholic Conference.

Juan Jose Gutierrez, an immigrant advocate from Los Angeles, said the march and
its platform are intended to help unite the often divided Latino community to
"stop the tide of anti-immigrant abuse."

Planning for the march began three years ago when California voters were
debating Proposition 187. That ballot initiative, passed in 1994 but still
stalled in the courts, would deny education and public services to the children
of illegal immigrants.

Gutierrez and other activists called Latinos the country's newest scapegoats and
criticized the immigration bill signed this week by President Clinton as
"Draconian" and "dangerous."

Jaime Martinez, a union organizer in Texas, said about 4,000 marchers will be
coming from Houston on 80 buses and about 1,000 people from San Antonio on 15
buses. Dallas and Austin each are sending five buses, and South Texas is sending
three buses, Martinez said.

The Texas marchers plan to hold demonstrations in Austin and Little Rock on
their way to Washington, he said.

In New York, organizers said that they knew of at least 50 buses leaving for
Washington early the day of the march but that other buses were being chartered
by various groups throughout the city's five boroughs. In Chicago, organizers
said they had chartered 10 buses and were considering chartering more.

March organizers said that they have arranged for buses to park at Robert F.
Kennedy Memorial Stadium and that marchers will take the Metro to the U
Street-Cardozo station.

The march will begin at 8 a.m. Oct. 12 in Meridian Hill Park, also known as
Malcolm X Park, at 16th and Euclid streets NW. It will follow 16th Street to H
Street, turn west for a block to 17th Street and continue south around the White
House to the Ellipse.

Gutierrez said each of seven speakers will focus on one of the seven planks in
the platform: human and constitutional rights for all; equal opportunities and
affirmative action; free public education for all; expansion of health services;
citizen police review boards; labor law reform and a $ 7-an-hour minimum wage;
and a streamlined citizenship application process and the extension of amnesty
for those who entered the United States before 1992.

Organizers said the speakers will include Raul Yzaguirre, of the National
Council of La Raza; Rep. Henry B. Gonzalez (D-Tex.); Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez
(D-N.Y.), the first Puerto Rican woman to serve in Congress; and labor union
executive Linda Chavez-Thompson, of San Antonio. Entertainers will include actor
Edward James Olmos, comedian Cheech Marin, singer and actor Ruben Blades,
actress Rita Moreno and musicians Carlos Santana and Willie Colon.

Several African Americans have agreed to share the podium with Latinos,
including Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.).

In the District, students at Bell Multicultural High School have been canvassing
Latino neighborhoods to publicize the march. Mauricio Gamero, 17, a senior who
came from El Salvador when he was 2, said he was surprised at how many people
told him they were afraid to attend because they thought there might be a huge
immigration raid.

"People don't want to be exposed," Gamero said.

At the news conference, Gutierrez and District activists offered reassurance to
those who might be concerned about attending the march. "To the best of my
knowledge, the great majority of the American public does not support a fascist
police state," Gutierrez said. "Everybody should come fully confident that there
will be absolutely no problems of any type."

Martinez said Latinos in different parts of the country are calling the march by
different names, including the "freedom march" and the "march for justice."

"This march will be in the spirit of Dr. King, in the spirit of Cesar Chavez,"
Martinez said.

LOAD-DATE: October 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              93 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 09, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 38 words


SENATE

Not in session.

Committee:

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration subc. Oversight of Immigration Service's
Citizenship USA program & naturalization policy. 226 Dirksen Office Bldg.

HOUSE

Not in session.

LOAD-DATE: October 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              94 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 15, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

SUPREME COURT CALENDAR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 157 words


The Supreme Court will hear oral argument today from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the
following cases:

No. 95-1521. Department of State v. Legal Assistance for Vietnamese Asylum
Seekers. Whether the State Department's policy of not processing an immigrant
visa application in a particular foreign country based on consular venue
considerations unlawfully discriminates on the basis of nationalities. (One
hour.)

No. 95-938. Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Yang. May the Board of
Immigration Appeals base its refusal to grant an alien a discretionary waiver of
deportation on acts of fraud that were linked to an initial fraudulent entry
into the United States? (One hour.)

No. 95-728. Warner-Jenkinson Co. v. Hilton Davis Chemical. Is a patent infringed
when a product is the "equivalent" to the invention claimed in a patent, even
though the second product is outside the literal scope of the patent claim? (One
hour.)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              95 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 18, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Getting a Grip on Immigration

Stephen S. Rosenfeld

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 808 words


It's tough to get a handle on the rolling review of immigration policy now going
on in this country. Immigrants, even legal ones, have been singled out for rough
treatment in recent legislation bearing on welfare as well as immigration.
Still, on Sunday you could read in this newspaper that a group of Latino
demonstrators -- obviously not intimidated -- was asking for a minimum wage of $
7, free education through college and legal amnesty for all undocumented or
illegal aliens. There is a measure of excess on both sides.

What has happened is plain enough. The last bargain Americans made with
themselves about immigration is coming unglued. In 1965 the United States
switched from a modest flow of mostly skilled immigrants coming proportionally
from the countries where Americans had -- up till then -- come from, to a
broader flow of less-skilled people and their extended families, many from the
Third World, especially restive, nearby Mexico. The debate is about whether the
resulting mix suits us.

I am one who grew up in the '30s and '40s savoring the romance of immigration --
its offer of freedom and a bite of the American apple to needy but productive
and relatively easily assimilated foreigners. But the evident reality of
immigration today is in some aspects grittier: social and economic costs that
may or may not be offset by the immigrants' work and other contributions;
arrival in an economy that makes some immigrants, including illegals, grating
competitors of citizens, including working-class blacks; an ambiguous attitude
toward previously unquestioned notions of the cultural and civic obligations of
American citizenship.

Little wonder that our current American debate is ragged and divisive. The issue
is complex; things have moved on. The policies of openness and inclusiveness
that are under scrutiny now date from the 1960s; their roots go back to the
great immigration surge before World War I -- a memory, but to many Americans
still a resonant one. Many immigration critics and skeptics, meanwhile, evoke
the attitudes of reduced openness and greater exclusivity associated with the
interwar period. The plates are clashing.

Much of this was supposed to have been fixed already. Congress attempted to make
a clean cut between legals and illegals -- the latter were to be barred and, if
they still made it in, caught and sent home. But the border, employer and other
controls that were meant to catch the illegals, and the measures of cooperation
with Mexico that were meant to deter them, never were adequately established and
enforced. This is what created the special tension in California and the other
major gateway locations, where, mostly by federal default, large numbers of
illegals have piled in. The answer would seem to be obvious -- police and pay
the bill for the illegals -- but it turns out to be harder than most people
thought.

The task has been aggravated by a cumulative blurring of the line between legals
and illegals. There should be no question about benefits for legals and their
families; we invited them into our house, and we should treat them well. Some
people go on, however, to claim it's wrong to deprive uninvited and illegal
immigrants of certain benefits. The argument is on. But it can hardly be denied
that the providing even of limited benefits, and the spreading of the word about
it, can contribute to a magnet effect that draws in more illegals. Those who
want to provide, say, schooling to children of illegals should address the
question of how to demagnetize this benefit or spread its burden.

No doubt many illegals are go-getters who would make good Americans. They are
also queue jumpers. The legals filled out the papers, respected the rules and
waited in line for their turn. This gives them a powerful claim to enter and to
join a nation that prides itself on the rule of law. The illegals jump the
queue. Not only does that give them an unfair advantage over the law abiders. It
chills the public's heart toward all immigrants.

Yes, the employers of illegals who bait the trap are as accountable as the
workers caught in it. The system of checking on employers has to be improved.
But the system of checking on employees has to be improved too. The late Barbara
Jordan had some good ideas. Their essence is fair.

Foreign policy comes home with the issue of immigration. That means specifically
that the United States has an immense interest in helping Mexico lower the
pressure that sends migrants across a border that seems to many Mexicans not so
much a border as an arbitrary line. This is the rationale for bailing out the
peso, and much more. Doing the many things necessary to gain control of its
border with Mexico is, after ensuring that the country is safe from nuclear
attack, the United States' first foreign policy goal.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              96 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 26, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Magnets for Immigration

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 226 words


The 1965 Immigration Reform and Control Act "switched from a modest flow of
mostly skilled immigrants" to "a broader flow of less-skilled people and their
extended families," as Stephen Rosenfeld recently asserted in The Post [op-ed,
Oct. 18].

His view of immigration today as being "grittier" with "social and economic
costs that may or may not be offset by the immigrants' work and other
contributions" is accurate.

But Mr. Rosenfeld's conclusion that noncitizens who are here legally are
entitled to a place at America's generous welfare table is not logical. Welfare
hurts people. It entraps entire families in webs of government dependency for
generations.

The higher percentage of "less-skilled" immigrants that Mr. Rosenfeld cites is
costing American taxpayers $ 26 billion per year in welfare benefits. Noncitizen
applications for one program alone -- Supplemental Security Income -- are
increasing by 50 percent per year or more.

And if Mr. Rosenfeld believes that providing public benefits to illegal aliens
creates a "magnet effect" that draws even more here for welfare, then surely he
can see the same effect at work among legal noncitizens, 21 percent of whom
currently receive some form of welfare, an all-time high.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Member, House Subcommittee on Immigration

Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              97 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 14, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Court Strengthens INS Authority Against Fraud

Joan Biskupic, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 308 words


The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service may consider the fraud an alien used to enter the country when deciding
whether the person should be deported.

The unanimous decision strengthens the INS's authority to decide when someone
should be forced to leave the country. It also reverses an appeals court ruling
saying that because the government has a general policy of disregarding
fraudulent acts committed by people trying to gain entry, it must also exclude
from consideration any fraudulent acts connected to how one ultimately got into
the United States.

"It is assuredly rational, and therefore lawful, for [the INS] to distinguish
aliens . . . who engage in a pattern of immigration fraud from aliens who commit
a single, isolated act of misrepresentation," Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in
Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Yang.

The case involves Yueh-Shaio Yang and his wife, Hai-Hsia Yang, who were married
in China and moved to Taiwan.

According to the court, the pair schemed to enter the United States, first by
divorcing in Taiwan. Hai-Hsia came to the United States in 1978 and, using $
60,000 provided by her former husband, obtained a fraudulent birth certificate
that allowed her to assume the identify of a U.S. citizen.

Yueh-Shaio then remarried his ex-wife in Taiwan under the false identity and
because she had used the false papers to become a U.S. citizen, he could obtain
citizenship as her spouse.

His wife, meanwhile, obtained a divorce so that she could obtain a visa under
her true name through another relative.

The 9th Circuit said all of the acts were "inextricably intertwined" with the
initial fraud. In reversing that decision, the high court said "the agency's
discretion is unfettered" and said the acts should not be seen as linked.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              98 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 18, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Immigration Issues Await New Congress; Surging Legal Influx Will Be Among Topics
Of Renewed Debate

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1219 words


The far-reaching immigration law that took effect last month has left many
issues festering, and legislators on both sides of the political divide agree
that renewed debates are likely when Congress reconvenes next year.

The law, which was hailed as landmark legislation when it was signed by
President Clinton in September, dealt with the relatively soft target of illegal
immigration. Although there was broad agreement on the need to curb the influx
of illegal aliens, controversies over how to go about it nearly derailed the
bill. Left over for the new Congress is the much thornier question of what to do
about legal immigration, which rose sharply in 1996 and is projected to keep
climbing next year.

The debate over legal immigration revolves around numbers. At its core is the
question of how many newcomers should be let into the country. But while there
seemed to be bipartisan support for reducing legal immigration in line with the
recommendations of an independent commission last year, efforts to legislate
such cuts ran into stiff opposition, not just from ethnic and immigrants' rights
lobbies but also from business.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, legal immigration
increased about 25 percent during fiscal 1996 from the previous year, meaning
that about 900,000 people entered the country. When other categories of
newcomers are factored in, such as asylum seekers and "parolees" granted special
admission, the total approaches 1 million.

The surge in legal immigration is attributed in large part to a decade-old
amnesty law that legalized 2.6 million illegal aliens, many of whom have become
citizens and sought permanent resident status for their family members. Unlike
other immigrant categories, the visa allotment for "immediate relatives" of U.S.
citizens has no numerical limits.

The recent influxes have raised alarms in Congress over the long-term impact of
immigration, particularly on the country's population growth. Lawmakers
concerned about the high levels of immigration also complain about the more
immediate social costs of the system and a loss of control over who is allowed
to immigrate. The system, they say, is driven less by America's needs than by
"chain migration," in which successive waves of immigrants bring in their
relatives.

Immigration imposes a burden on public schools and health services, these
restrictionists argue, while it tends to depress wages in certain sectors and
frustrates efforts to move Americans from welfare to work. What is needed now,
they assert, is an immigration "time-out" so that those already here can be
assimilated.

On the other side of the debate are members of Congress from both parties who
laud the historical contributions of immigrants to American life and who worry
that cuts would prevent families from reunifying and deny businesses access to
the world's "best and brightest." Immigrants have helped revitalize inner-city
neighborhoods and contributed to America's high-tech edge, these advocates say.

While in principle some may favor slight reductions, it has proved impossible up
to now to reach consensus on where to make cuts. Every proposal to reduce or
eliminate a category of legal immigrants, whether family-based or
employment-related, has provoked an outcry from those concerned.

Meanwhile, the influx seems to have taken on a life of its own, with an impact
far beyond the numbers usually associated with legal immigration.

The INS estimates, for example, that America's illegal immigrant population,
about 4.6 million, is increasing by about 300,000 people a year. Adding them to
the total of about 1 million immigrants and asylum seekers, then subtracting the
estimated 200,000 people a year who emigrate, leaves a net annual addition of
about 1.1 million people from all forms of immigration.

It is true that, of this number, an unknown percentage were already living in
the United States when granted legal immigrant status. On the other hand, the
total does not include more than 650,000 people a year who are admitted for
periods ranging from three to 10 years under several "nonimmigrant" visa
categories, State Department figures show. Many of these "nonimmigrants" end up
staying permanently.

According to the Census Bureau, about one-third of population growth in the
United States stems from immigration. When U.S.-born children of recent
immigrants are included, immigration accounts for more than half the population
growth, the bureau says.

The surge in legal immigration in recent years -- levels are double what they
were two decades ago -- has contributed to a sharp revision of the Census
Bureau's projections for population growth in the next century. In 1989, the
bureau forecast that the U.S. population, now about 265 million, would level off
at about 300 million by the year 2050. But in 1992, the bureau had to withdraw
that projection, largely because of trends in immigration and the fertility of
nonwhite women.

The Census Bureau now puts the U.S. population in 2050 at nearly 400 million. By
a less conservative estimate based on somewhat higher immigration, it could even
surpass half a billion, the bureau says.

About 93 percent of the population growth in the year 2050 will result from
immigration that has occurred since 1991, the bureau estimates. Citing these and
other census statistics in a House speech earlier this year, Rep. Anthony C.
Beilenson (D-Calif.) warned that far from leveling off, the U.S. population
"will continue to grow unabated into the late 21st century."

More immediately, the new Congress is expected to have its hands full with what
some legislators say is the "unfinished business" of immigration reform.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) wants to restrict the ability of employers to
use temporary foreign workers to replace Americans. Critics of job-related
immigration say employers often use it to cut salary and benefit costs, and that
the influx of temporary workers tends eventually to drive jobs overseas and
erode the U.S. tax base.

Kennedy, a senior member of the Senate committee that deals with immigration,
says he favors a "modest reduction" in legal immigration, but indicates he is
most interested in obtaining additional Labor Department inspectors and cracking
down on employers who hire illegal workers.

"The key question next year is whether we protect American workers or coddle the
unscrupulous employers," Kennedy said.

Other Democrats want to roll back provisions of the new welfare and immigration
laws that restrict benefits to legal immigrants and make it more difficult for
people seeking political asylum to enter the country.

Republicans, meanwhile, may try again to give states the option of denying free
public education to illegal immigrant children and end automatic birthright
citizenship for children born in the United States to illegal immigrant parents
-- both highly controversial issues and sources of division within the GOP.

The naturalization of record numbers of immigrants, which has been under
investigation by a House subcommittee, appears likely to continue drawing fire
in the Republican-controlled Congress, especially because new citizens may have
tipped the balance in favor of a Democrat in at least one House race.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              99 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 19, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigrants: Who and How Many?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 501 words


REFORM OF THE laws governing legal immigration was a casualty of the election
year. The subject is emotionally charged, of great personal interest to millions
of voters and a source of anxiety in a variety of economic sectors. It was too
hot for candidates to handle, so it was dropped from an immigration reform
package. But it will surely be revived when the new Congress convenes in
January.

A reversal of this country's historically generous immigration policy is not at
issue, though some hard-liners have proposed a five-year moratorium on new
entries. Instead, the debate will be about the size of the pool admitted and its
composition. For a variety of reasons, including the influx of close relatives
of people given amnesty by a 1986 law who are now citizens and eligible to bring
in immediate family members without reference to quotas, immigration levels are
now very high -- over a million a year, including refugees. The Census Bureau
estimates that by the middle of the next century, the U.S. population, now 265
million, will rise to 400 million, with almost all this population growth
resulting from post-1991 immigration. It is neither unreasonable nor xenophobic
for Congress to reexamine current levels of immigration and to consider the
recommendation of the bipartisan commission led by the late Barbara Jordan that
legal entries be slightly reduced to accord with those of six or seven years
ago.

If the overall number of those admitted is to be reduced, who should be cut?
Current immigration law gives preference to family members, including married
brothers and sisters. This creates a chain migration as sisters-in-law of
citizens, for example, become eligible to bring in their families, which in turn
have in-laws who bring in theirs. The Jordan Commission suggested eliminating
this preference and the one for adult children, so that the spouses and children
of permanent residents can be admitted more quickly. That proposal ran into
trouble among those immigrant groups whose relatives benefit from the current
law. But it should be revived early this year before election pressures take
hold.

Perhaps the most difficult question ahead is whether to continue to emphasize
family-related preferences to the detriment of highly skilled applicants who
have no family here. Canada, for example, puts a premium on well-educated
immigrants who can find employment easily and fill slots for which qualified
Canadians are in short supply. A comparable shift here would markedly change the
nature of the immigrant population and this country's own assumptions about the
potential of even the poorest, least educated people who come to these shores to
better their lot. It is, as the Jordan Commission stated, the right and
responsibility of this government to set reasonable limits on the numbers of
newcomers and to rearrange preferences to reflect the national interest.
Determining what that national interest really is will be a task for the
incoming Congress.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              100 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 04, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Distances Itself From California Group; Immigrants Rights Organization at
Center of Dornan Election Dispute

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 687 words


With allegations of vote fraud continuing in one of the most hotly contested
congressional elections, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is
distancing itself from an organization that reportedly registered immigrants to
vote before they became citizens.

The INS this week suspended citizenship interviews at three Los Angeles area
offices of Hermandad Mexicana Nacional, a Hispanic and immigrant rights group,
pending the outcome of a voting probe. To streamline the naturalization process,
the INS had been conducting final citizenship interviews at the group's offices
with applicants who had passed English and civics tests administered by
Hermandad.

According to published reports, dozens of Hermandad clients illegally registered
to vote after passing the tests and the INS interviews, but before they were
sworn in as citizens. Some said they had registered to vote at Hermandad offices
while INS officers were present.

Of more than 1,300 people registered by Hermandad last year, nearly 800
reportedly cast ballots Nov. 5. At least some of them voted in the California
district in which Rep. Robert K. Dornan, 63, a Republican, lost by 979 votes to
Democrat Loretta Sanchez, 36.

Dornan blamed his defeat on alleged irregularities, including voting by
noncitizens and felons. He filed a complaint with the House seeking to overturn
the election result. Sanchez, a member of the district's growing Hispanic
population, said a recount had confirmed her victory. She is scheduled to be
sworn in when Congress convenes Tuesday.

"I don't want to be the first person in history, man or woman, House or Senate,
to be voted out of office by felons, by people voting who are not U.S. citizens,
who are felons or children or people not allowed to vote," Dornan said in a
television interview last month. He charged that up to 1,000 noncitizens and
felons had cast ballots.

Republican members of a House subcommittee have accused the INS of improperly
naturalizing criminals in a rush to produce new pro-Democratic voters in time
for the Nov. 5 elections.

The Los Angeles Times reported last week that 19 noncitizens acknowledged voting
in the Dornan-Sanchez race before completing the naturalization process. All
said they had registered to vote at Hermandad, 18 of them after taking
citizenship classes there and passing a test and INS interview, the paper
reported. They did not say whom they voted for.

The Orange County Register reported that 30 Hermandad clients had registered to
vote weeks before they were sworn in, although all but four became citizens
before the election. It is nevertheless a felony under state law to register to
vote before becoming a citizen. Under a new federal immigration law, noncitizens
who vote are ineligible for naturalization and can be deported.

The Orange Country District Attorney's Office began investigating "possible
registration and voting" by ineligible persons, but has not collected enough
evidence to prosecute anyone, Assistant District Attorney Wallace Wade said.

Richard Rogers, INS district director in Los Angeles, said that pending the
investigation, the INS would no longer interview citizenship applicants at three
Hermandad testing sites, requiring applicants to come to an INS office. He said
INS officers would routinely ask applicants if they had voted.

A spokesman for Hermandad, Jay Lindsey, said the group takes the allegations
"very seriously" and is conducting a review to determine if any regulations were
violated. He denied that the group knowingly committed voter fraud and said "we
do not engage in politics."

Some Hermandad sites are affiliates of Naturalization Assistance Services Inc.,
one of five companies designated by INS to conduct citizenship classes and
testing. The firm ran into trouble last year after evidence of fraud was found
at some of its sites. Last week, the INS ordered it to shut down its citizenship
testing program on Jan. 6.

Hermandad also has sites affiliated with another company, which will continue to
administer citizenship tests and prepare applicants for INS interviews.

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              101 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 31, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

18 Stadium Workers Here Illegally

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 163 words


All but one of the 19 workers arrested at the construction site of the new
Washington Redskins stadium in Landover were in the country illegally, federal
immigration officials said yesterday.

Seven workers were released yesterday because they already faced deportation
proceedings at the time of their arrest, said John Shallman, a U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service spokesman. One of those men arrived in the United
States legally but his work papers had expired, Shallman said. Ten workers were
held on $ 3,000 bond each, and two -- already facing final deportation orders --
were held without bond.

Shallman said five workers were employed by the Clark Construction Group, the
general contractor building the stadium. Eleven worked for four of Clark's
subcontractors and three said they were uncertain of who their employer was.

The workers were arrested Wednesday during an early-morning raid at the Landover
site just as they arrived for work.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              102 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 10, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

INS Arrests 20 Workers in El Paso Clubs

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


Immigration officials arrested 17 mariachis and three waitresses who were
working in the United States illegally, and turned three of the strolling
musicians over to Mexican authorities on Saturday.

Federal agents made the arrests Friday in a sweep of five nightclubs in this
border city.

One of the mariachis sent back to Mexico was a minor. The two others were a
blind musician and his escort. The rest of the mariachis were awaiting
deportation at the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in El
Paso. The waitresses were held at the local jail because the detention center
cannot accommodate women.

The nightclubs could face fines of up to $ 2,000 per worker if they are found to
have knowingly hired undocumented workers.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              103 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 18, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Revised Laws Leave Many Area Immigrants in Limbo

Jacqueline L. Salmon; William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1566 words


Ravi Narahari, a 32-year-old computer programmer from India who came to the
United States in 1991, has acquired the trappings of middle-class American life:
a rented home in Rockville, a car, a 401(k) retirement account and a life
insurance policy.

Soon he could lose all of it. He is waiting for his green card, the document
that would change his immigration status from temporary worker to permanent U.S.
resident. But he may not get the card before the end of September, when two
immigration law changes are due to take effect.

A new law and an expiring old one could force him and thousands of other people
waiting to become legal U.S. residents to choose between leaving the country
indefinitely or going underground.

Either choice would cost him dearly, said Narahari, who works for a medical
service company in McLean. If he stays here illegally, he cannot continue
working for the firm. If he leaves the United States, he said, "financially I'll
have to restart my life."

The new law that has helped put Narahari and many others in a bind has become
the focus of mounting concern in recent weeks in immigrant communities in
Washington and elsewhere. Designed to prevent the common practice of visa
overstays, it was a little-noticed provision in the immigration bill that
Congress approved last year.

"There's an incredible amount of justified uncertainty in the immigrant
community," said Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer in the District. "People
are just starting to go crazy, because they're just learning about this."

Those most affected are green-card applicants whose visas have lapsed or who
entered the country illegally in the first place. Many have worked here for
years in a wide variety of occupations, from nannies and maids to restaurant
chefs and professionals.

Although there is no official estimate, Maggio and others say that thousands of
Washington area residents -- and tens of thousands of people nationwide -- are
in this legal limbo and are likely to feel the impact of the new law.

These immigrants usually would remain here in an illegal status until their
green-card applications were approved. They then were required to leave the
country to obtain immigrant visas at a U.S. diplomatic post abroad and reenter
the United States legally to receive their green cards. Upon their return, they
would face no repercussions for their previous illegal stays.

In 1994, Congress gave such applicants another option. If they paid the
Immigration and Naturalization Service a fine, recently raised to $ 1,000, they
could adjust their status from illegal to legal immigrant without having to
leave the United States. That provision is due to expire Sept. 30.

Under the new law, if immigrants remain in the United States illegally for more
than 180 days after April 1, they will have to wait three years before they can
obtain a new U.S. visa abroad. If their illegal stay lasts more than a year,
they will be banned from reentering this country for 10 years.

This makes the fine-paying provision crucial. If Congress extends it, green card
applicants would be able to dodge the three- to 10-year bans by paying the fine,
thereby avoiding the trip to a U.S. consulate abroad. But congressional sources
say an extension looks unlikely.

The resulting double whammy is likely to force green-card applicants who are
here illegally to go back to their home countries to wait months or years for
their cards, immigration lawyers and U.S. officials say.

The INS has not yet issued its regulations for implementing the new rule, but
immigration lawyers are advising their clients that exemptions or waivers are
likely to be few and difficult to obtain.

Many foreign workers and their advocates argue that Congress essentially has
moved the goal posts in the middle of the game, changing the rules for thousands
of people who were following an established process to become legal U.S.
residents.

"The people penalized by this law are going to be the people who are in the
process of getting legal," Maggio said. "If you're looking to tighten up on
immigration laws, why punish those who are almost legal? It's just going to
drive people underground even more. Those who are illegal will have no
motivation to get legal."

The new law also punishes the households and small businesses that employ
foreign workers who are trying to adjust their status, critics say.

"What employer is going to wait three years or 10 years" for an employee to be
allowed back into the United States? asked lawyer Luis Salgado, who is host of a
local Spanish-language radio talk show on immigration issues. "Those
relationships are lost, and any chance to return will be lost."

But supporters of tougher immigration restrictions say the penalties for visa
overstays and illegal entry into the United States must be severe and consistent
if they are to have a deterrent effect.

Dan Stein, executive director of the District-based Federation for American
Immigration Reform, calls the new law "a revolutionary step forward" and says he
has little sympathy for the argument that immigrants who are "almost legal"
deserve special treatment. "We're finally beginning to get some teeth in the
incentive to encourage immigration-law compliance," he said.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee and a leading sponsor of last year's law, served notice to the INS
at a subcommittee hearing last week that he expects strict enforcement of the
new provision.

"The congressional mandate to end the revolving door for illegal aliens is
specific and detailed," he said. "Given how clearly Congress has spoken, INS
should carry out that mandate 100 percent."

Applications for green cards typically are sponsored by an immigrant's employer
or relative. The wait can take years, even decades, because of annual limits on
the number of cards the INS issues, which vary depending on the applicant's
sponsorship and country of origin.

A District man who is sponsoring his Filipino nanny's four-year-old application
said she came to him about a month ago in tears and told him she had just heard
about the new law. Her visa has expired, and she believes she is still years
away from receiving her green card. Like most of the employers and workers
interviewed about the new law, the man spoke on the condition that his name not
be used for fear of triggering INS action.

If the nanny is not granted an exemption from the new rule, she probably will
continue to live illegally in the United States but will have to quit her
current job to avoid detection by authorities, said her employer, who has two
children in her care. "It would be devastating for the kids, who are so young
and just love her," he said.

A nanny from Trinidad who came to the United States seven years ago and is
working for a family in Hyattsville said she expects to wait several more years
for the green card she applied for 19 months ago. She supports her 15-year-old
daughter, who is still in Trinidad, and she had hoped to bring the girl to the
United States someday. Now the change in the law has made her future here much
less certain, the nanny said.

"It makes me very upset and very mad," she said. "I consider this my home after
being here all these years."

Other immigrants say they fear being forced to return to a country they barely
know.

Jean, a 27-year-old Lebanese citizen, came to this country with his family when
he was 12. He went to high school in Bethesda, attended a junior college in
Montgomery County and found a job at a Washington hotel, working his way up
during the last seven years from clerk to front-office manager. He has been
waiting nearly three years for a hearing before the Board of Immigration Appeals
on his green-card petition. He fears that if nothing happens before September,
he will have to return to Lebanon.

In addition to English, Jean knows French, Spanish and Italian. But he barely
speaks Arabic, the language of his homeland.

"I feel like an American," he said. "I've lived in this culture for so many
years, it's hard not to feel like an American."

Linda, a single mother who works for a Washington firm, is angry that she may
lose Marites, the Filipino nanny who has taken care of her 4-year-old daughter
since the girl was born. After hiring Marites, Linda obtained a certification
from the U.S. Labor Department that no American was available to fill the job,
then sponsored her for a green card. Since then, the nanny's visa has expired.

Linda said she pays unemployment, Social Security and other taxes for Marites
and has tried to work within the system.

Marites said she came to the United States in 1990 with a temporary work visa.
Her first two years in her previous household job were "very hard," she said,
but the money she managed to send home helped pay for the education of her two
brothers and two sisters.

Now, with the new immigration law, "everything that I dreamed of" suddenly is
fading away, she said. She is deeply upset at the thought of having to leave her
American family, especially "the little girl that I learned to love as if she
was my own child," Marites said.

"I think this problem is affecting her, too," she said. "I feel that I belong to
this family now. We have a very special bond, and I never want to leave them
this way."


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, james m. thresher, Ravi Narahari, of Rockville, fears he won't
get a green card in time.  Ravi Narahari said that if he leaves the United
States and returns to India when the law changes take effect, "financially I'll
have to restart my life."

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              104 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 01, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Line-Jumpers

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 176 words


The article "Revised Laws Leave Many Area Immigrants in Limbo" [front page, Feb.
18] attempted to document the effects of the landmark immigration law that was
enacted last year.

Unfortunately, several important points were omitted:

Visa overstayers such as those cited in the story account for 41 percent of the
5 million illegal aliens living permanently in the United States. The story
ignores the severity of this problem.

Visa overstayers are in the United States illegally and are no different from
aliens who jumped the border.

Non-citizens collect $ 26 billion in welfare benefits annually from hard-working
American taxpayers.

Temporary visas are just that -- temporary. In no way do they convey a right to
permanent legal status. Temporary visa holders know that.

American immigration policy should put the interests of Americans before the
interests of non-citizens. The new law does that.

LAMAR SMITH

Washington

The writer, a Republican representative from Texas, is chairman of the House
immigration subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              105 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 06, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Internal 'Weaknesses' Cited in Immigration Ills; Authenticity of Fingerprints
Submitted to FBI Called a Problem

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 474 words


Administration officials yesterday blamed the defects of a controversial
citizenship program on long-standing "systemic weaknesses" in the naturalization
process, including a failure to verify the authenticity of fingerprints
submitted for FBI background checks.

In a hearing called by two House subcommittees, Assistant Attorney General
Stephen R. Colgate said this problem was corrected only this month. Previously,
he said, "it was the individual responsibility of the applicant" to submit
fingerprints, meaning that someone with a criminal record could hand in another
person's prints to avoid triggering a "hit" in the FBI's 30-million-name
criminal history database.

"That was one of the internal control weaknesses," Colgate said. Starting March
1, applicants for citizenship must have their fingerprints taken by a
specifically authorized official, he said.

The fingerprint loophole was one of several flaws in the system that were
pinpointed by previous government studies but left uncorrected until a huge
surge of citizenship applications focused attention on them.

Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner Doris M. Meissner testified that a
program to deal with the surge was not motivated by "political or electoral
considerations" and said the immigration service "resisted" pressures to relax
its standards.

"There were systemic weaknesses" in the citizenship process, she said, and "our
responses to the weaknesses were not sufficient."

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House immigration subcommittee,
said the flaws raise concerns that far more criminals have been improperly
naturalized than the administration has acknowledged. Yesterday's hearing on the
"Citizenship USA" program was held by Smith's Judiciary Committee panel and the
national security subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Reform and
Oversight.

An INS audit of the program has found that nearly 180,000 new citizens had not
undergone complete FBI background checks and 71,000 others had criminal records.
Of the latter, 10,800 had been arrested for felonies.

So far, Colgate said, 6,600 of them were found to have been properly naturalized
because felony arrests are not necessarily disqualifying. In 168 cases, the
applicants apparently were ineligible for citizenship.

In a recent case that illustrates the ease with which applicants could submit
someone else's fingerprints, a Nigerian man in Maryland who was convicted
several years ago of heroin trafficking and ordered deported was able to apply
for legal immigrant status under another identity, an INS investigator said.

The Nigerian man's fingerprints were submitted to the FBI for that process, but
no match was found.

Investigators became aware of the fraud only when they tracked him down recently
and arrested him as a fugitive.


LOAD-DATE: March 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig , On Hill, Immigration and Naturalization
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, left, and Deputy Commissioner Chris Sale.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              106 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 21, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Consulting Firm Hired to Help Fix INS Program

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25; IN BRIEF; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 237 words


Attorney General Janet Reno said yesterday that a private accounting and
consulting firm has been hired to help revamp the problem-plagued naturalization
program run by the federal government.

She said Coopers & Lybrand had been selected under a $ 4.3 million contract
lasting as long as two years to help the Immigration and Naturalization Service
improve the system under which immigrants become U.S. citizens.

"I think it is clear the system is much in need of repair," Reno said at her
weekly news briefing. "Let's get the best advice we can to address these
problems."

Republicans in Congress have complained about fraud and abuse in the Citizenship
USA program operated by the INS. They charged that Clinton administration
officials rushed the naturalization program for political gain, believing the
new citizens would vote Democratic in the November elections.

They also alleged the program had been "hijacked" by Vice President Gore's
office to produce a million new voters by Election Day. Some immigrants with
criminal records mistakenly had been allowed to become citizens.

Reno, appearing with the immigration agency chief, Doris M. Meissner, said
Coopers & Lybrand will review all aspects of the naturalization program in a
three-phase study.

Reno said the department's Justice Management Division also would work on the
"reengineering effort" involving the naturalization program.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              107 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 21, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

White House Queries Activist on Citizenship

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 351 words


An immigrant rights advocate invited to attend a White House briefing scheduled
for today was asked whether she was a U.S. citizen while several of her invited
colleagues were not questioned.

The citizenship question is part of a new White House policy implemented early
this year following news reports about foreign business executives, lobbyists
and consultants who were brought in by Democratic Party fund-raisers to meet
with President Clinton at the White House. Immigrant rights advocates say the
policy is being implemented selectively.

Before today's immigration briefing, Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president at the
National Council of La Raza, a national Latino advocacy organization, was twice
asked over the phone by staff members in the White House women's office, part of
the Office of Public Liaison, about her citizenship.

"I hit the ceiling," said Munoz, who is a citizen. "I have smoke coming out of
my ears, I'm so mad. This is exactly what we're fighting against."

But neither Josh Bernstein, a policy analyst at the National Immigration Law
Center, nor Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum,
who also were invited to the briefing, were asked the citizenship question.

"There are laws against this stuff in the workplace," said Sharry, who called
the episode unbelievable. "This selective questioning of people is based on
what, the number of vowels in their name?"

White House spokeswoman Mary Ellen Glynn said the new White House policy has
been to ask visitors to the White House for their date of birth, Social Security
number and citizenship, for security reasons. The policy was implemented Jan. 21
by Chief of Staff Erskine B. Bowles after the disclosure that a prominent
Chinese business executive, an Indonesian business family and a reputed Russian
mobster were among those invited by party fund-raisers to meet the president.

"We will look into this to make certain this policy is applied uniformly," a
White House official said. "If it is not being applied uniformly, we will take
some action to make certain it is."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              108 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 22, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Confusion Over Law Roils Immigrant Communities

William Branigin; Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 848 words


With the effective date of a new immigration law fast approaching, confusion and
rumors about some of its tougher provisions are roiling immigrant communities
around the country, prompting thousands of people to throng federal offices,
arrange hasty marriages and besiege law offices and legal aid clinics.

Anxious immigrants have been camping out overnight in front of Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices in New York and Dallas to beat what they believe
-- mistakenly, officials say -- is an April 1 deadline to file applications that
will allow them or their relatives to stave off deportation.

The INS seems at a loss to explain why the panics have been concentrated in
these two cities. There have been no unusual crowds at INS offices in the
Washington area, but in recent weeks hundreds of concerned people have been
calling and lining up for advice at the area's legal aid clinics and immigrant
centers.

The confusion surrounds a landmark immigration law passed by Congress last year.
While key provisions take effect on April 1, INS officials say the date is not a
deadline for filing any application, as many immigrant communities seem to
believe.

Filing an application to obtain a "green card" denoting legal immigrant status
or getting married in an attempt to qualify for that status before April 1
"provides NO advantage to the applicant under the changes in the immigration
law," the INS said in a statement yesterday. It said the effective deadline to
"adjust" immigration status is Sept. 30, unless Congress passes an extension.

Moreover, marrying a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident does not guarantee
that an illegal alien can gain legal status, INS officials said.

After a doubling of the usual crowds outside the INS office in lower Manhattan
in recent days, the panic seemed to subside yesterday. The office typically sees
about 1,500 people a day, INS officials said.

In the Washington area, "they're not lined up around the block, but everyone is
freaking out," said Clair Chekasky, a lawyer with Hogar Hispano, a legal aid
clinic in Arlington. "They think they have to get everything in by April 1 or
else, and I can't honestly tell them they don't. The INS is confused, the judges
are confused, we're trying our best, and all the immigrants are scared."

Yvonne Vega, director of the Ayuda legal aid clinic in Adams-Morgan, said that
hundreds of people, from undocumented Central Americans to East European asylum
seekers, had called or shown up for walk-in advice about the new law in the last
several weeks.

"There is tremendous confusion," she said. "We try to explain exactly what the
law says, but people have heard so many versions, they choose to believe the one
that will help them."

On one recent day, there were 36 people waiting to see Ayuda lawyers before the
doors opened at 9 a.m. Many were Central Americans who had no legal papers and
feared they would be deported after April 1. Others, from Africa and other parts
of the world, asked whether quickly applying for political asylum would help.

"Are they going to deport everybody?" asked Jose Hernandez, 48, a leathery
Salvadoran man in a dirty uniform. He said he sneaked across the Mexican border
in 1986 but never applied for political asylum or a work permit. "I can tell you
who was the president back then if it would help," he volunteered.

Upstairs, a younger Latino man named David in paint-spattered pants confided to
a lawyer that he had no papers either. Sheepishly, he asked her if getting
married before April 1 to a Venezuelan-American woman he barely knew would
protect him from the new law.

"Don't tell me about that," the lawyer winced, covering her ears. "You're not
supposed to marry someone just to get your papers. I can't give you advice about
it. Go away and good luck." His shoulders sagging, the man thanked her and
trudged back out into the street.

Much of the confusion stems from a provision in the new law aimed at penalizing
people who overstay their visas. If they remain in the United States illegally
for six months after April 1, they will be barred for three years from obtaining
a new visa at a U.S. consular office abroad. If they stay illegally for a year,
they will be barred for 10 years. This means that people trying to become legal
permanent residents will have to leave the country by the end of September --
unless Congress extends a current provision that allows them to adjust their
status in the United States by paying a $ 1,000 fine.

Other provisions that take effect April 1 include expedited procedures to expel
foreigners who arrive with invalid documents and restrictions aimed at denying
admission to those who falsely claim political asylum.

In practice, however, the INS does not foresee any massive immediate increase in
deportations among the country's estimated 5 million illegal immigrants, as many
of them now seem to fear.

"Our enforcement priorities are on the removal of criminal aliens," said Paul
Virtue, the acting INS executive associate commissioner for programs.


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/todd plitt, People wait in line Thursday outside Immigration
and Naturalization Service in New York, where large crowds formed this week
because of confusion over provisions of new immigration law that takes effect
April 1.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              109 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 23, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Canada Detains 2 Saudis Over Dhahran Bombing; FBI Hopes to Question Suspect
About 1996 Blast That Killed 19

Howard Schneider, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 22


Canadian immigration officials have detained two Saudi Arabians in connection
with the bombing in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, last summer that killed 19 American
airmen and injured 500 others, and one has emerged as a focus of FBI attention,
U.S. and Canadian officials said today.

Hani Abdel Rahim Sayegh was detained in Ottawa on Tuesday as "a security risk to
Canada," said Benoit Chiquette, spokesman for Canada's immigration minister.

Chiquette said he could not elaborate on the reasons for the detention, but that
there was enough concern about Sayegh for both Immigration Minister Lucienne
Robillard and Solicitor General Herb Gray to sign documents ordering his arrest.

In Washington, the FBI issued a statement saying it hoped to question Sayegh,
28, about the June 25 bombing of the Khobar Towers, home to American military
personnel and others stationed in Saudi Arabia.

The FBI statement indicated that Sayegh's arrest was the result of cooperation
among U.S., Saudi and Canadian investigators in identifying and locating him.

An official with the Canadian Security Intelligence Service said the arrest
certificate was based on the agency's belief that Sayegh had committed a
criminal act abroad, had been involved in an act of terrorism and was a member
of a terrorist organization.

Under Canadian law, the arrest certificate will be reviewed by a federal judge;
if it is found to have been warranted, a deportation hearing would begin.

When and whether the FBI can interview Sayegh while his immigration case is
pending is an issue Canadian and U.S. authorities still must work out, the
official said.

The second Saudi, Fahad Shehri, also is in the custody of Canadian immigration
officials. Immigration authorities said he arrived in Canada in December,
claiming refugee status. As he was being interviewed by Canadian authorities, he
said he needed protection in Canada because he was being sought in Saudi Arabia
in connection with the bombing and feared for his life.

The FBI has made no public comment about its possible interest in Shehri as a
suspect in the case. Both men are being held in the Ottawa Detention Center. It
was not known if the men are Shiites. Saudi officials have said they believe the
attack was carried out by Saudi Shiite extremists who were trained in Lebanon
and acted with the support of the Iranian government.

Sayegh's arrest and the Canadian and Saudi assistance in tracking him represent
"another positive step forward in our mutual efforts to solve this tragic act of
terrorism," the FBI statement said.

U.S. Justice Department officials have been openly critical of Saudi Arabia for
shutting FBI agents out of active participation in the investigation. Assistant
FBI Director Robert M. Bryant told Congress last month that the FBI still had
"ongoing and serious concerns" about lack of Saudi cooperation in investigating
the bombing.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              110 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 24, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Saudi Suspect May Be Driver in Bomb Plot; Capture Could Provide Break in Air
Force Housing Blast

Pierre Thomas; R. Jeffrey Smith, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1022 words


A Saudi citizen detained last week in Ottawa at Washington's request is
suspected of being the driver of a vehicle used in connection with last summer's
terrorist bombing of a U.S. military housing complex in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia,
that killed 19 Air Force members and injured 500 others, senior U.S. law
enforcement officials said last night.

If the officials are correct, the capture by Canadian immigration authorities of
Hani Abdel Rahim Sayegh would constitute a major breakthrough for the FBI in its
nine-month probe of the bombing, which has been frustrated by what U.S.
officials have called inadequate cooperation by Saudi investigators.

Sayegh, 28, is said by the officials to have fled Saudi Arabia because he was
the object of a manhunt there, and has expressed a desire not to return. But he
has not cooperated with authorities who have been questioning him while
documents are being prepared to justify his deportation to the United States,
the officials said.

Sayegh was taken into custody more than a week after U.S. authorities learned he
was in Canada, during which time he became the object of intensive surveillance.
FBI officials expressed concern last week when The Washington Post inquired
about reports of the surveillance, and requested that the newspaper hold off
reporting that a Saudi citizen in Canada was being closely watched on suspicion
of a connection to the bombing.

Sayegh was arrested last Tuesday under a Canadian immigration service
certificate alleging he was "a security risk to Canada," which Canadian
authorities said was based on the government's belief that he had committed a
criminal act abroad, was involved in an act of terrorism and was a member of a
terrorist organization.

The U.S. officials said that they believe Sayegh is a Shiite Muslim. Saudi
officials have told Washington privately that they believe the bombing was
carried out by Shiite Muslim members of a group known as Saudi Hezbollah, which
they say is a wing of the radical Lebanese-based group known as Hezbollah, or
Party of God, that has long been funded, trained and equipped by Iran.

Sayegh's name had surfaced as a suspect shortly after the June 25 bombing of the
Khobar Towers housing complex, the U.S. officials said. "We think he's a major
player and we have had interest in him for some time," said a senior law
enforcement official, speaking on condition he not be identified.

The bombing occurred after an explosives-laden truck was driven near a fence
that surrounded the housing complex. The driver of the truck was observed
getting into a car idling nearby shortly before the bomb was detonated,
shattering windows throughout the building and injuring many of its occupants.
Saudi officials told Washington last fall that they had captured the man who
drove the truck. Two senior U.S. law enforcement officials said while they
believe Sayegh was the driver of a vehicle in connection with the bombing, they
could not definitively say which vehicle.

Saudi officials did not return phone calls for comment last evening. But
Sayegh's deportation to the United States would give the FBI its first direct
access to an individual alleged to be associated with the blast. U.S. efforts to
interview about 40 Saudi citizens detained by Saudi Arabia on suspicion of
involvement in the blast have so far been frustrated by Saudi investigators, who
have provided Washington only with summaries of their findings and transcripts
of their interviews with the suspects.

Sayegh was said by one U.S. official to have been in Canada since August, and is
alleged to have flown there from Saudi Arabia after a brief layover in Boston.
The official, who is familiar with details of the joint U.S.-Saudi
investigation, declined to say how Washington learned of his whereabouts.

Shiite activists in the United States and in Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province,
where most Saudi Shiites live, separately said yesterday that on the basis of
his family names, Sayegh is a Saudi Shiite.

According to one of the activists, who spoke on condition of anonymity, the
Sayegh family hails from a village called Tarut, on a small peninsula that juts
into the Persian Gulf about 25 miles northwest of the Khobar Towers complex.
Many of those Shiites arrested by Saudi security forces after the bombing were
from Tarut and adjacent towns in the mostly agricultural area along the gulf
coast.

A second Saudi citizen, Fahad Shehri, also has been detained by Canadian
authorities in recent months because Shehri claimed to be the object of a Saudi
manhunt related to the bombing. But U.S. authorities have disavowed any interest
in Shehri, and Saudi authorities have said Shehri is not a suspect. Several
dissident sources said Shehri almost certainly is a Sunni Muslim from the area
of southwestern Saudi Arabia known as the Hijaz. Shehri is the name of an
extended family or tribe centered on the southern Hijaz, they said.

The religious affiliation of the men is important because Saudi authorities, in
the aftermath of the bombing, seemed to concentrate their inquiry on the Shiite
community. Saudi Shiites have long complained of discrimination at the hands of
the Sunni ruling family and the Eastern Province has been the scene of
occasional Shiite unrest. Many of those arrested were affiliated with Saudi
Hezbollah, an extremist group that follows the anti-Western teachings of radical
Shiite clerics in Iran.

But Shiite dissidents in the Eastern Province remain skeptical of the government
claim. They say the government has targeted their community to deflect attention
from growing extremism within Sunni ranks. And the government's failure to press
formal charges against those Shiites still in detention, they say, suggests that
it is unable to prove its case.

The government is still holding about 30 or 40 Shiite suspects but released
"five or six" during the recent Muslim holy month known as Ramadan, a dissident
from the Eastern Province said. "Up till now we are waiting to hear from the
authorities," he said.

Correspondent John Lancaster in Cairo contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              111 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 28, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Refugees in U.S. at Risk Of Being Uprooted Again; Latin Americans Decry New
Immigration Law

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2296 words


Second of two articles

Orlando Diaz, a school custodian from Alexandria, and Carlos Aguado, a computer
software consultant from Kensington, seem to have little in common.

Diaz, 38, is a refugee from rural El Salvador, where the U.S.-supported army
fought a bloody war against leftist rebels from 1980 to 1992.

He crossed the Mexican border on foot in 1989 and is now struggling to make
mortgage payments on a modest row house. His wife works in a fast-food
restaurant at night.

Aguado, 40, is a highly educated man from Nicaragua, where U.S.-backed
insurgents fought a leftist government from 1984 to 1990.

He collaborated with the rebels and flew his family here in 1988, when life got
too precarious in Managua. He now owns a spacious suburban home and drives a
Mercedes-Benz.

Yet all of a sudden, these two Central American immigrants find themselves in
the same boat. Recent changes in U.S. foreign policy and a tough new immigration
law that takes effect Tuesday, April 1, are combining to jeopardize their
continued stay in this country. Now, even though both have lived here legally
for years, both could be deported.

Across the nation, about 320,000 Central Americans, including more than 30,000
in the Washington area, will soon feel the effects of the crackdown. Some of
those facing possible deportation are Salvadorans and Guatemalans who entered
the United States illegally but were allowed to stay u nder a 1990 lawsuit
settlement that granted them emergency amnesty. Others are Nicaraguans who were
welcomed here by a sympathetic government but whose political asylum petitions
collected dust for years.

"This is going to tear families apart," said Saul Solorzano, a Salvadoran
immigrant who directs the Central American Resource Center in Northwest
Washington's Adams-Morgan community. "It was war and insecurity that motivated
them to leave, but now they have discovered a new world with new standards of
living. It is horribly unfair to send them back to an environment where there is
no work, no running water and people still drive ox carts."

Legally, the haven for Central Americans was supposed to be temporary, ending
when the violence subsided in their homelands. But as the civil conflicts
dragged on and wartime amnesties were extended again and again, the refugees put
down roots. They began to feel like Americans and to believe that this was their
home forever.

Turns out they were wrong.

First, the Clinton administration stopped extending blanket protection to
Central American refugees, arguing that the wars were over and that it was time
to go home. Now, immigration authorities have started ordering thousands of them
to report for individual political asylum hearings. The first batch of notices
for Salvadorans went out last week, and refugee advocates believe that many will
lose their cases and be ordered deported.

Second, under the new Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
Act and a related ruling last month by the immigration appeals board, war
refugees will have a much tougher time fighting deportation orders and winning
permanent residency.

Until now, if an illegal immigrant had lived in the United States for seven
years, owned a house, paid taxes, obeyed the law and had children born in the
United States, he or she stood a good chance of being allowed to stay on grounds
of hardship. Thousands of Central American refugees have won such cases, and
thousands of others were planning to apply once they had been here seven years.

Starting Tuesday, however, an applicant trying to fend off deportation must have
lived in this country for 10 years and must meet a much stiffer test of
"exceptional and extremely unusual hardship," such as having a child or parent
who is a U.S. citizen and is gravely ill or totally dependent on the person
being deported. Also, Congress has placed an annual limit of 4,000 on the number
of deportations that can be waived for humanitarian reasons -- and that ceiling
already has been reached for 1996-97.

Supporters of the new immigration law say the contributions made by the
refugees, and the difficulties they may face if sent back, cannot offset the
compelling national need to set firm limits on the number of immigrants allowed
to settle here. The government, they say, must ensure that foreigners welcomed
during temporary emergencies do not remain in the country, competing with U.S.
workers and receiving government benefits.

By definition, they argue, the amnesty offered in 1990 to Central American
refugees who had entered the country illegally was to be short-term. Even though
amnesty was extended three times by Presidents Bush and Clinton before it was
allowed to expire in December 1995, they say it was never intended as a means of
becoming a permanent resident.

"While people from El Salvador may have made a contribution to our society, they
have a moral obligation to return home now and help rebuild their own," said Dan
Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "If
we don't enforce the temporariness of amnesties, then no one ever leaves. If we
turn asylum programs into immigration programs, we are just moving the
industrious class of people from one country to another."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says that, technically, illegal
immigrants who turn themselves in and receive deportation notices before April 1
can have their hardship petitions reviewed under the old law. But according to
immigration lawyers, most judges are expected to follow the new guidelines, and
some judges have postponed hearings until the new law takes effect. Judges also
have been ordered not to grant any more deportation waivers unless the 4,000
limit is increased.

Diaz, who was an agricultural technician in El Salvador, is devastated by the
turn of events. His two youngest children were born in the United States, and
his 10-year-old son can barely read or write Spanish anymore. After years of
scrimping, he and his wife just bought their small row house.

"I don't know what will become of us. Everything we have built is here, and the
situation in El Salvador is still so difficult. To go back and start from
nothing would be a tragedy for us," he said. "Every country has the right to
make its own rules, but if we had thought we were going back, we never would
have invested so much."

For Nicaraguans, the legal situation is slightly different but no less
threatening. Many applied for political asylum years ago, and their cases were
delayed indefinitely as a de facto form of amnesty. Others lost their asylum
bids but were not told to leave. And each year they remained in the country
brought them closer to the seven years they needed to live here before applying
for a deportation waiver.

But last month, the immigration appeals board ruled in a case challenging the
new law that once immigrants receive an initial notice that they may be
deported, the clock stops on time they are accruing toward the seven years of
residency. Many Nicaraguans received their initial notices several years ago,
and the ruling means that all the residency time they had built up since then
has been wiped out.

Aguado received his first notice in 1993, but he was never given a hearing date.
He stayed here, built his software company, purchased a gracious home and paid
hundreds of thousands of dollars in income and payroll taxes. Last year, he
requested and won a deportation waiver on the basis of hardship. But the day
after the immigration board's ruling in the other case, the government appealed
his waiver, saying he had not been in the country long enough to apply.

"I am brokenhearted," said Aguado, the father of three. "When I started this
process, I was completely legal, and I did everything according to the law. Now,
in one day, they have cut our nine years here to five. It puts me, my family, my
business and thousands of other Nicaraguans in total limbo."

Organizations of Central American immigrants argue that the refugees were misled
by U.S. officials into believing that they would be able to stay and were
encouraged by the Clinton administration to apply for deportation waivers and
permanent residency. And they warn that Central America's struggling postwar
economies cannot afford to lose the millions of dollars that relatives working
in the United States send home each year to their families -- let alone absorb
several hundred thousand returnees.

Two dozen immigrants' rights groups from across the country, with support from a
few liberal members of Congress, have asked the government to grant permanent
residency to all 280,000 asylum applicants from El Salvador and Guatemala.
Locally, they have formed committees in Washington, Virginia and Maryland to
circulate petitions and plan protests.

Nicaraguan refugee groups, in turn, say they have an extra, politically based
right to be exempted from the new law. While many Salvadoran refugees opposed
U.S. policy in their country and in some cases supported the leftist guerrillas,
most Nicaraguan refugees supported the U.S.-backed contra rebels who tried to
overthrow the leftist Sandinista government.

Exile organizations in Florida, home to most Nicaraguan refugees and several
conservative members of Congress who have championed their cause, have held
rallies, and yesterday, they sued the Justice Department to ease the new
guidelines. They argue that the Nicaraguan refugees' past service to U.S.
interests makes them more deserving of special treatment than other Central
American refugees.

"We don't want to discriminate against our Latino brothers, but our case is
special," said Luis Debayle, director of the Nicaraguan American Chamber of
Commerce in Miami. "Our people fought a war for American national security, and
it's not fair to suddenly send them back just because it's no longer an issue."

Immigration officials say it will take several years for all the Central
American asylum cases to be heard, and they stress that there will be no massive
deportations or cancellations of work permits while appeals are in progress. And
some families, authorities say, will qualify for asylum on the basis of past
persecution.

But for tens of thousands of immigrants, peace in Central America eventually
will mean pulling up stakes in an adopted, affluent country and trying to make a
new life in impoverished and war-ravaged homelands.

"If this is what God wills and the law says, we will obey, but it's going to be
very hard," said Jorge Salazar, 35, a building supervisor from Falls Church who
left Guatemala in 1990 with his wife and two children. He worries that he won't
be able to find a job there now.

"If there is a massive return, I can only imagine the chaos," he said. "But God
has kept us together, so we will put our faith in Him and find a way to
survive."

CONFUSED ABOUT THE NEW LAW?

Effective April 1, immigrants who are in the United States illegally must obtain
a work permit or visa by Sept. 30 or have applied for permanent residency,
political asylum or relief from deportation. Otherwise, if caught, they must
leave the country and reapply for admission.

* To apply for permanent residency, an immigrant must be sponsored by an
employer or spouse who is a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. The process can
take months.

* For answers to questions about immigration status, consult any of the
following organizations:

Immigration and Naturalization Service

Washington

800-375-5283

Ayuda

Washington

202-387-0434

Hogar Hispano

Arlington

703-979-2640

Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights

Washington

202-547-5692

American Immigration Lawyers Association

Washington

202-371-9377

IMPACT OF NEW IMMIGRATION LAW

BEFORE April 1

* Refugees can apply for political asylum at any time after entering the United
States.

* Refugees detained while entering the United States can request asylum and
automatically have the right to a hearing before an immigration judge.

* Immigrants ordered deported can win the right to remain in the United States
if they have been here seven years and can prove deportation would cause them
hardship.

* Foreign visitors with visas can leave the United States to travel or obtain
new visas without being barred from returning.

* Immigrants who are deported and then try to reenter the United States
illegally can be barred from returning for five years.

* U.S. citizens who sponsored relatives for immigration have to pledge that the
immigrant will not become a burden on the government.

AFTER April 1

* Asylum seekers must apply within one year of entering the United States,
though new rules will not be enforced until April 1, 1998.

* Asylum seekers must convince immigration officials that they are afraid to
return home or risk being immediately deported. If asylum is denied, any appeal
to an immigration judge must be heard within seven days.

* Immigrants ordered deported can win the right to stay only if they have been
here 10 years and can prove it would cause extreme hardship to a relative who is
a U.S. citizen or legal resident.

* Visitors with expired visas must return home to reapply. Anyone who remains
illegally in the United States longer than six months to a year will be barred
from returning for three to 10 years.

* Immigrants who have been deported and who try to reenter the United States
illegally will be barred from ever legally returning.

* For U.S. citizens to sponsor relatives, they must prove that they can support
them at 125 percent of the poverty level until they become citizens or work for
10 years.

Sources: Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, American
Bar Association


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Aris Economopoulos for TWP, Orlando and Ana Diaz, shown with
their children, made a life in this country to escape war in El Salvador. Now
they worry about deportation.  Nicaraguan refugee Carlos Aguado, with wife
Claudia and son Carlos, says the change in U.S. policy "puts me, my family, my
business and thousands of other Nicaraguans in total limbo."

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              112 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 28, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Opponents Sue to Postpone Changes in Immigration Policy

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 610 words


Immigrant rights advocates yesterday asked a federal judge to delay a tough new
law scheduled to take effect Tuesday, arguing that the government has not given
immigrants and the Immigration and Naturalization Service enough time to get
ready for the sweeping policy changes.

"Confusion reigns, your honor," Robert Rubin, of the Lawyers' Committee for
Civil Rights in San Francisco, told U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan during
a hearing in Washington.

With attorneys for three other organizations, including the American Civil
Liberties Union, Rubin asked Sullivan to delay the new law for a month to give
the government more time to prepare for it and to "remedy the fear and confusion
prevailing among immigrants."

But lawyers for the Justice Department said the government is ready to implement
the law on schedule. They argued that any delay would cause problems and that
the public had been given adequate time to respond to the regulations governing
enforcement of the law, which were published March 6.

Judge Sullivan said he will issue a ruling Monday in the case, one of three
legal challenges filed against the law in federal courts.

The new law will toughen barriers to all forms of illegal immigration. It will
allow immigration officers to immediately deport people who enter the country
without documents. It also will make it harder to fight deportation and will bar
immigrants who remain in the United States with expired visas, and then leave,
from returning for three to 10 years.

Supporters of the new law say it is needed to reverse the flow of illegal
immigrants, who now number about 5 million, and to make up for years of lax
enforcement of previous immigration laws.

"This new law helps send a negative message to people in other countries," said
Roy Beck, of Arlington, who is a leading proponent of limiting immigration.
"Now, people will tell their friends back home that things are not so hospitable
anymore."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, said the law is a "sound and sensible" response to the problem.
"Some parts may seem harsh," he said, "but that's only because our immigration
laws have been so poorly enforced for so many years."

In other challenges to changes in immigration policy, Nicaraguan immigrant
groups in Miami filed suit yesterday to overturn a recent ruling by the Board of
Immigration Appeals that, combined with the new law, may prevent as many as
40,000 longtime Nicaraguan refugees from seeking relief from deportation.

And in California, an immigrant rights group last week persuaded a federal judge
in Oakland to spare 11 Mexicans from being deported. They had sought waivers on
grounds of personal hardship but were told by immigration judges that a new
4,000-a-year ceiling on such waivers had been reached.

Lawyers for the Mexicans yesterday went back to court to ask that judges be
allowed to grant deportation relief to all immigrants who qualify under the
hardship provision, regardless of the ceiling. A decision is pending.

Immigrant rights groups say they expect more suits to be filed against the new
immigration guidelines.

But Paul Virtue, a senior immigration official, said yesterday that the new law
"complements the administration strategy" on immigration reform. "We feel
strongly that in order to maintain the integrity of legal immigration, we have
to address the problem of illegal immigration," he said.

Virtue said that much of the initial confusion among immigrants about the law
has been resolved and that his agency will be "fully prepared on April 1 to
implement these changes."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              113 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 01, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

New Immigration Policy Gets 11th-Hour Go-Ahead

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 733 words


A federal judge decided yesterday to delay until Saturday implementation of a
tough new immigration law, saying he agreed with immigrant advocacy groups that
the public had not been given enough time to learn about the law's complex
regulations.

But early this morning, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
acting on an appeal by the Justice Department, overturned the judge's stay.

Brian Jordan, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
the appeals court's action puts the law into full effect today, as scheduled. It
was not clear what action would be taken next by lawyers for the immigrant
advocates, who had sued for the delay.

The immigrant advocates argued that the government's regulations, intended to
guide immigration agents in enforcing the law, had not had adequate public
review, and U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan sided with that view.

Immigration officials had said that Sullivan's ruling would cause "wide-scale
confusion" and "significantly undermine" their ability to enforce the new law
and filed an immediate appeal last night. The appeals court issued it's ruling
at about 1 a.m. today.

The government warned that if the regulations were not in place, thousands of
deportation cases could be jeopardized and immigration agents at airports and
borders would have to process more than 5 million people entering the country
between today and Saturday, including several hundred thousand with questionable
documents or other problems, without knowing exactly how to treat them.

The new law stiffens requirements for the granting of political asylum, makes it
easier for the immigration service to deport arriving foreigners and makes it
harder to win a waiver of deportation. It also requires all illegal immigrants
to leave the country within the next six months or risk being barred from
returning for several years.

"I can't emphasize enough, if we have a bare statute with no regulations . . .
there will be sheer chaos at ports of entry," Linda Wendtland, a lawyer for the
Justice Department, said during the hearing before Sullivan.

But Sullivan said he was not convinced that a "chaotic situation" would result
from delaying the regulations. In contrast, he said, he was persuaded by
immigrant advocates who sought the delay that it was crucial to give the public
a full 30 days, as required, to learn about the new law. As of today, the rules
have been available to the public for 26 days.

"This is not an ordinary law. . . . Four days may seem minimal, but under these
circumstances, four days cannot be trivialized," Sullivan said in his ruling,
which came after a long day of arguments and recesses and just seven hours
before the law officially took effect.

Wendtland and other lawyers for the Justice Department, which oversees the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, also argued that they had delivered the
regulations to the Government Printing Office on time and that was the same as
making them public. The immigrant rights groups argued that the rules were not
made public until March 6, when they appeared in the Federal Register.

"This is very serious legislation that will affect a lot of people's lives, so
every day matters," said Judy Rabinovitz, a lawyer with the American Civil
Liberties Union, which sued the government along with the American Immigration
Lawyers Association and the San Francisco-based Lawyers Committee for Civil
Rights.

Immediately after Sullivan's ruling, attorneys for the advocate groups filed a
second suit against the new law, this one directly challenging the regulation on
political asylum. They said that asylum seekers arriving in the United States
could risk being sent home without an adequate chance to prove they fear
persecution.

Immigration officials have said they will make every effort to ensure that bona
fide asylum seekers are given an opportunity to make their case, while weeding
out fraudulent claims. Immigrant advocates, however, say the new rules give
immigration officers too much power to deport an asylum seeker instantly.

In recent weeks, the new law has created widespread confusion and alarm in
immigrant communities. The law was passed by Congress in the fall, and
immigrants have flooded legal aid clinics and immigration service offices, many
mistakenly fearing that they would be deported after today.


LOAD-DATE: April 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post, WHO IS AFFECTED BY THE NEW IMMIGRATION LAW?
The new immigration law affects all illegal immigrants living in the United
States, including those with expired visas and those who crossed the border
illegally.  The new law affects any foreigner who tries to enter the country
without a proper visa or who tries to seek political asylum.  The new law does
not affect legal permanent residents who have "green cards." The new law does
not mean that illegal immigrants will be immediately deported. Immigrants
affected by the new law should take steps to become legal before Sept. 30, or
else leave the country and reapply for legal admittance. If they remain
illegally in the United States after that date, they can be barred from
returning for several years.  Steps an illegal immigrant can take to become
legal include applying for political asylum or seeking sponsorship for permanent
residency from an employer or spouse who is a U.S. citizen.  An immigrant who is
ordered deported can apply for a waiver on grounds that deportation would cause
extreme and unusual hardship to an immediate relative who is a U.S. citizen or
permanent resident.  Foreigners should not attempt to enter the United States
without proper documents unless they believe they can convince an immigration
officer on arrival that they would face persecution or death if sent back to
their native country.  For answers to questions about immigration status,
consult any of the following organizations: Immigration and Naturalization
Service Washington 800-375-5283 Ayuda Washington 202-387-0434 Hogar Hispano
Arlington 703-979-2640 Lawyers Committee for Human Rights Washington
202-547-5692 American Immigration Lawyers Association Washington 202-371-9377

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              114 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 02, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Alarm Among Immigrants; New Policy Generates Confusion, Another Legal Challenge

William Branigin; Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1077 words


As major provisions of a new immigration law took effect yesterday, advocacy
groups opened a broad-gauge legal challenge to the measure and immigrants voiced
a growing sense of alarm about its impact.

Yesterday, the groups sought to block the law's procedures for dealing with
asylum-seekers as part of what they say will be a prolonged legal attack aimed
at overturning the law's tougher elements.

The suit, accompanied by dire warnings that the new law already is sending
refugees back to face "possible death and persecution" in their homelands, was
the second filed in less than a week aimed at delaying the enforcement of
certain provisions or rolling back new procedures. So far, neither suit has
succeeded in blocking provisions of the law.

The last-minute legal action has served to increase confusion among immigrants.
Although the Immigration and Naturalization Service has attempted to quash
rumors of mass deportations and other feared effects, signs of continued turmoil
were evident yesterday at immigrant centers in the District.

"I've heard so much about this law that I don't understand anything," said Ana
Lilia, 30, a nanny from Mexico who lives in Adams-Morgan and who has applied to
become a permanent resident. "I think this law should be for people who come
here to do ill, to take advantage, not for those of us who come here to work and
get ahead," she said.

Passed last September, the law strengthens immigration enforcement along the
U.S.-Mexico border and cracks down on illegal aliens, who number about 5
million. Much of it went into force immediately after it was signed into law,
but portions have needed new regulations by the INS before they could be
implemented.

For most of those who have entered the country illegally and remained
underground, the new law means little. But those who are trying to legalize
their status, or who have resided here for years under special rules for Central
American refugees, eventually may be forced to leave under the new law.

Maria Caballero, a legal immigrant from El Salvador who operates a small
house-cleaning service in the District, said she was worried about the new law's
impact on many of her fellow Salvadorans. She cited a provision that requires
illegal immigrants to leave the United States by Sept. 30 or risk being barred
from returning for three years.

"They say people have only six months to arrange their situation, and then they
have to leave. It seems like such a crude thing to do," said Caballero, who has
lived in the United States for 16 years. "People come here with so many dreams.
Why don't they deserve a second chance?"

At the Casa Maryland, a nonprofit center in Langley Park that offers job
placement and legal advice to Latinos, staff lawyer Maria Reff said many of her
clients are terrified that they will now be deported. And at Ayuda Inc., a legal
aid clinic in Adams-Morgan, Anya Sykes, an immigration lawyer, said her office
was swamped with calls.

"It's been totally crazy," Sykes said. "Mothers have called asking if their U.S.
citizen children will be deported if they don't have passports. Doctors have
called asking how a bed-ridden patient can apply to become a citizen. One lady
begged me to come with her to an immigration hearing, because she was afraid she
would be grabbed and deported on the spot."

Immigration officials have tried to assure the public there will be no massive
deportations as a result of the new law. However, hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants face the prospect of eventually having to leave the country
under its provisions. The new law also makes it easier to deport an illegal
immigrant, as well as to prevent a foreigner from entering the country with fake
documents.

According to lawyers and immigration experts, the initial lawsuits herald a
broader legal assault on the new law in the months ahead, with challenges
anticipated by civil rights and immigrant advocacy groups to a variety of the
measure's provisions, including those that stiffen penalties on people who
overstay visas, impose a time limit for filing political asylum applications and
limit judicial review.

Immigration lawyers and immigrants' rights groups charge that many provisions
deal too harshly with people who are trying to legalize their status here or are
fleeing persecution in their homelands.

"The law takes aim at the right problem, illegal immigration, but this
scattershot approach takes out a lot of innocent bystanders," said Frank Sharry,
director of the National Immigration Forum.

Advocates of lower immigration levels, on the other hand, argue that the
lawsuits are an effort by groups representing illegal immigrants to win in the
courts a battle they lost in Congress. They say these groups are trying to
undermine provisions aimed at dismantling a system that has allowed illegal
immigrants to enter the United States by the millions over the years and stay
with impunity. That system, they note, has benefited immigration lawyers now
fighting the law.

"A lot of the provisions that Congress passed are in fact responses to the
aggressive moves by the immigration bar over the years to exploit every
loophole, every crack and every nook and cranny of the immigration law to
obstruct effective enforcement of it," said Mark Krikorian, director of the
Center for Immigration Studies.

The opening shot in the assault on the law was a suit filed last week in U.S.
district court here seeking to delay enforcement of provisions that were due to
take effect April 1. In a confusing decision, Judge Emmet G. Sullivan Monday
ordered a four-day postponement of the new INS regulations, but not the
statutory provisions of the law itself. Citing the prospect of chaos at ports of
entry, the Justice Department filed an late-night emergency appeal, and the
ruling was overturned early yesterday by the U.S. Court of Appeals.

Later yesterday, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Lawyers' Committee
for Civil Rights, which had represented four immigration advocacy groups in
seeking the delay, filed another suit challenging the law's procedures for
dealing with foreigners who arrive with false or no documents and claim
political asylum.

The groups asked Judge Sullivan to order immigration officials to provide
foreigners entering the country with clearer and more immediate information
about their rights to seek political asylum.

A hearing is scheduled for Friday.


LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, craig herndon, Receptionist Maria Cruz directs a flood of calls
at Ayuda Inc., a District legal clinic.  Maria Caballero, a legal immigrant from
El Salvador, worries about others.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              115 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 03, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Justifying the IRA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 406 words


BRIAN DESMOND Pearson is a lucky man. An immigration judge in New York rejected
a government effort to deport him and found that the Irish Republican Army
bombings for which he had served 12 years in prison were not deportable offenses
but political ones. If the ruling stands, Mr. Pearson will be able to remain in
this country with his American-born wife and daughter. He and his supporters
have used this occasion to boost the IRA and to argue that none of its criminal
members now in the United States deserves to be deported either.

Special circumstances in the Pearson case won him community support and the
intervention of political leaders, including Reps. Benjamin Gilman and Peter
King. The offenses were indeed bombings, but because the bombers gave
considerable advance warning, no one was injured. The targeted buildings were
used by police and military, not civilians. Mr. Pearson served a long sentence
and has had no run-ins with the law since coming to this country a month after
he was released. He has an American family and a good job as a carpenter. His
neighbors' testimony about his character and reputation was impressive. The INS
concedes he is no threat to national security.

But brushing off bombings as political acts creates a dangerous precedent.
Moreover, in the New York Times, Mr. Pearson defended his crimes provocatively.
"Young people in Northern Ireland," he said, "are faced with the same decision I
made. You can do nothing, in which case I think you should hang your head in
shame, or you can do something and lose your life or spend a long time in jail."
That is exactly wrong. In Northern Ireland an alternative -- peacemaking -- has
been supported by a vast majority for a long time. It is arduous, frustrating
work, constantly disrupted by those who think like Mr. Pearson, break truces and
attempt to undermine the brave people from Belfast, Dublin and London who have
chosen negotiation over bombs.

Talks on the future of Northern Ireland have been suspended until after the
British elections next month. They will be resumed with less hope than they
began a few years ago, because the IRA and its followers -- a minority -- have
returned to violence. If Mr. Pearson has learned anything during his peaceful
and prosperous time here, he should have noted the contrast between societies
where reconciliation is a paramount goal and those where bombers are seen as
heroes.

LOAD-DATE: April 03, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              116 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 05, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Federal Judge Delays Action on Immigration Law

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D02; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 186 words


A federal judge in Washington postponed action yesterday on a request by
immigrant advocate groups to stop authorities from turning away foreigners at
U.S. airports and borders without informing them they can seek political asylum.

Under an immigration law that took effect Tuesday, immigration inspectors may
deport any foreigner who arrives without proper documents, unless the person
immediately expresses a fear of returning home. The advocate groups argued that
many people fleeing oppression are afraid to tell their stories and thus may be
returned "into the hands of their persecutors."

But attorneys for the Justice Department said that immigration officials had
"bent over backwards" to make sure the new procedures are thorough and fair.
Immigration agents now must ask all undocumented foreigners whether they fear
"persecution, harm or torture" if sent home.

U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan said he needed more time and information
to study the case. He gave both sides several days to provide more documents,
and he tentatively scheduled a hearing on the new rules for mid-May.

LOAD-DATE: April 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              117 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 08, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Judge Denies Palestinian's Release; INS Hearing Planned

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, April 7


A U.S. District Court judge declined today to release Mousa Abu Marzook from
federal detention and said, in effect, that an immigration judge should decide
what to do with the militant Palestinian leader who has been in prison here for
almost 22 months.

The action failed to end the confusion about Marzook's fate caused Thursday when
Israel decided to drop a long-standing request that Marzook be extradited to
face charges there of involvement in murder and terrorism. At least one Arab
country -- Jordan -- has indicated willingness to take him, but in the meantime
he has been caught up in an American legal tangle.

Judge Denise Cote's refusal today to grant Marzook's request for freedom so he
can leave the country meant that his legal status will remain in doubt for at
least a few more days. Lawyers from the U.S. Attorney's Office here told Cote
that the Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to schedule a hearing
before an immigration judge "in the very near future," but were unable to say
exactly when that might be.

Marzook is leader of the political wing of Hamas, an organization that opposes
the Middle East peace process and has been involved in terrorist acts against
Israel. He denies the terrorism charges and, with his wife and six children, had
lived in this country, most recently in the Virginia suburbs of Washington, for
several years.

Nevertheless, he was arrested by INS agents at John F. Kennedy International
Airport here in July 1995 as he arrived back from the Middle East and has been
in federal custody since. Originally, the INS instituted a so-called exclusion
proceeding against him based on a 1990 law that refuses admission to people
involved in terrorist activity.

The INS action was put aside after Israel made its extradition request. In
January, Marzook abandoned his fight against extradition and demanded to be sent
to Israel. However, the Israeli government, citing fears that his return would
provoke Hamas to new terrorist acts, informed Washington last week that it was
giving up its extradition bid.

The INS then moved to reinstate the exclusion process. However, Marzook's
lawyers, noting that he has said he is willing to voluntarily leave the country,
argued to Cote that he should be released immediately and allowed to go to a
country of his choice.

That move was opposed by the government, which contends that only an immigration
judge can rule on Marzook's status. The government also contends that to avoid a
full hearing by an immigration court, he must admit that the terrorism
allegations are accurate. Marzook has refused to do that, although his lawyers
say he is willing to remain silent and not contest the charges.

Although she reserved a final decision, Cote said she believed that Israel's
unwillingness to pursue its extradition request had removed the case from her
jurisdiction and made it a matter for an immigration court.


LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, MOUSA ABU MARZOOK

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              118 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 20, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Republicans Start to Break Ranks on Welfare Cutoff for Legal Immigrants

Judith Havemann, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 700 words


Cracks are opening in the once nearly solid wall of Republican opposition to
restoring welfare benefits for legal immigrants.

With nearly 1 million noncitizens on notice that they may lose disability checks
and food stamps in about 100 days, Republicans are beginning to break ranks with
congressional leaders on the issue.

The welfare law passed last August would bar federal disability and food stamp
benefits to immigrants who have not become citizens. Immigrant rights groups are
stepping up pressure on lawmakers to alter the cutoff, which was responsible for
much of the savings the measure provided.

But competition for limited funds in the budget makes a legislative solution
only a 50-50 proposition, legislators, immigrant groups and others said in
interviews.

"I am worried that there may be some false hope out there," said Rep. E. Clay
Shaw Jr. (R-Fla.). "One of the messages that has to get out is that people who
are not citizens and can take care of themselves had better make plans to do
so."

Although Russian refugees and others who were largely quiet during the two-year
gestation of the welfare law have held rallies and news conferences on the
cutoff, most members of Congress are still not engaged.

"We have had quite a few people from out of town come up and speak to us about
this issue,' said Shaw, a principal author of the welfare law. "But I haven't
had many members come and talk to me about it."

Three Republican senators, with five Democratic co-sponsors, introduced
legislation last week to continue paying benefits to legal residents who already
were receiving them when the legislation passed last August. Sens. John H.
Chafee (R-R.I), Alfonse M. D'Amato (R-N.Y) and Mike DeWine (R-Ohio) called
restoration of benefits a matter of fairness to poor, elderly and disabled
immigrants who came here under one set of rules, only to have them changed years
later.

Six House Republicans have signed on to more limited legislation that would
continue benefits to legal immigrants who are physically or mentally incapable
of becoming citizens. And Republican governors -- led by George Pataki of New
York and Jim Edgar of Illinois -- are campaigning to keep states from having to
pick up the costs of care for incapacitated people dropped from federal
programs.

President Clinton pledged to restore the guarantee of assistance for all legal
residents when he signed the law Aug. 22. He also wants to help immigrant
children.

Last Monday, the Senate approved by voice vote a resolution stating that
"elderly and disabled legal immigrants who are unable to work should receive
assistance essential to their well-being." But the resolution was largely
symbolic; there was no financial commitment.

Up to now, poor immigrants who were disabled or elderly were entitled to the
same disability benefits and food stamps as citizens. Congress wiped out this
entitlement, saying it had been abused by immigrants who came here to retire at
taxpayer expense.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) said this week that while he was
"looking at concerns in these areas, I am not inclined to go for a blanket
change."

Shaw said he had proposed block grants of up to $ 2 billion to the states to
help them care for immigrants who have no other means of support.

Some state officials fear the block grants, not only because of the difficulty
of distributing the money, but because they would have to set up crash systems
to determine who was most in need.

The administration also opposes block grants, because "they fail to solve the
problem of equity," according to an administration official. Immigrants might be
eligible for help in one state but not another, or receive different levels of
assistance in neighboring jurisdictions.

Clinton's plan would cost $ 14.6 billion over five years. The price of the bill
introduced by the three Senate Republicans has not been officially estimated,
but aides say they think it would cost $ 8 billion to $ 12 billion over five
years.

Even Shaw's $ 2 billion may be too much. "This is really going to take the
backing of the speaker and the leadership to get even any large block grant," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              119 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 23, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Posts 27% Rise in Legal Immigration; Almost 916,000 People Admitted Last
Year

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 582 words


The United States admitted nearly 916,000 legal immigrants last year, a sharp
increase that appears likely to add fresh fuel to a national debate over the
appropriate level of immigration.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which released the figure yesterday,
said it represents a 27 percent jump from fiscal 1995 and resulted from
increases in the number of visas granted to relatives of U.S. citizens and
employer-sponsored immigrants, plus a "carryover" of unused visas from 1995 that
increased the availability of family-based immigrant visas in fiscal 1996.

The higher admissions of U.S. citizens' immediate relatives, which rose 36
percent and have no numerical caps under the immigration law passed last year,
were driven in part by increased processing of applications by illegal
immigrants seeking to legalize their status, the INS said. The increase also
reflected record levels of naturalization in the past couple of years.

Employment-based immigration, in which U.S. companies sponsor foreign workers
for legal permanent residence, increased 38 percent. Family-based immigration,
which accounted for two-thirds of the total last year, rose 30 percent.

Mexico provided the largest share of legal immigrants, 18 percent of the total.
The Philippines, India, Vietnam and China were next on the list. By region, the
INS said, 37 percent of legal immigrants came from "North America," which
includes Mexico, the Caribbean and Central America, while 34 percent were from
Asia. Europe accounted for 16 percent.

Pro-immigration groups immediately sought to play down the increase in legal
immigrants, arguing that it represents a "temporary" blip that would give way to
a decline in legal immigration levels after a year or two. Groups that favor
reducing immigration argued that the number is alarmingly high and urged
Congress to take another look at legal immigration.

In a news conference coinciding with the release of the numbers, immigration
advocacy groups sought to head off any move by restrictionists to argue for cuts
in legal immigration.

"Legal immigration to the U.S. is a highly regulated and tightly controlled
system that is in the national interest," said Jeanne A. Butterfield, director
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "The new INS numbers represent
an expected one-time bulge that is largely the echo of the 1986 amnesty
program." She referred to a law that allowed 2.6 million illegal aliens to
become legal residents. Many have since acquired U.S. citizenship and petitioned
for relatives to join them as legal immigrants.

"The new numbers are hardly cause for alarm," said Stephen Moore of the Cato
Institute. Rather, he said, they are "very good news," although, as an
economist, he would like to see more highly skilled people among them.

Restrictionists, meanwhile, expressed concern about the influx of large numbers
of people with less than a high school education -- 37 percent of all immigrants
from 1990 to 1996, according to a new Census Bureau report.

"Over the next five years, America will admit 2 million immigrants who lack a
high school education," said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and a sponsor of last year's bill. "They
will compete directly with 2 million citizens who must leave welfare and find
jobs." He said it "makes no sense" to force unskilled U.S. citizens, many of
them minorities, to compete with new immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              120 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 25, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

How the GOP Discredits Welfare Reform; The politics of immigration.

Mickey Kaus

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 1121 words


During last year's Republican convention in San Diego, I ran into a prominent
conservative strategist (name withheld) and suggested to him that parts of the
1996 welfare reform, which we both favored, were gratuitously tough on legal
immigrants. He said I didn't understand. The ban on welfare for legal
immigrants, he explained, was part of a bargain with Republican nativists who
wanted to stop immigration entirely. They'd agree to continue it only if assured
that immigrants wouldn't come to this country and go on welfare. That seemed a
fine deal, I said -- but to fulfill the bargain, the restrictions on welfare
needed only apply to future immigrants. They didn't have to affect elderly,
disabled immigrants who were already here and who had relied on the old rules.
The Republican strategist agreed that a retroactive cutoff wasn't necessary.

Then he added, "Did we do that?"

Yes, you did. As a result, almost half a million old, disabled -- and perfectly
legal -- immigrants are threatened with loss of benefit checks in late August.
That's when, under the 1996 law, they will be barred from receiving Supplemental
Security Income (SSI), the basic federal income guarantee available to the poor
who, due to age or infirmity, are not expected to work. They will also lose food
stamps. Majority Leader Trent Lott says he's willing to consider a small
temporary block grant to help states cope with this problem, but not much more.
A few GOP senators have recently broken ranks with Lott, but many Republicans
actually still seem to think it clever that they forced President Clinton to ask
that welfare reform be "reopened" to restore the immigrants' benefits.

Can they be serious? Put aside, if that's possible, the human cost of letting
the retroactive immigrant cuts go through. Consider only the cynical politics.
By failing to reverse the cuts, or by dragging out the inevitable process by
which they will be reversed, Republicans risk discrediting both themselves and
the welfare reform for which they fought for decades.

That law should be a Republican triumph. It is overwhelmingly popular, yet most
congressional Democrats opposed it. At its core, it ended the most despised
federal welfare program, Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), which
sent cash aid to poor, mostly single-mother families. AFDC has been replaced
with a block grant for states to spend on aid programs of their own devising.

So far, despite predictions of a near-apocalypse from the left, this part of the
reform seems to be going reasonably well. States are not rushing to be mean. Yet
the law's basic message -- that even single mothers are expected to work --
seems to be having an impact. It is one reason welfare caseloads are plummeting
nationwide, freeing money for states to spend on long-term, hard-core
recipients. Ultimately the goal is (to use a term favored by Newt Gingrich)
transforming the "culture of poverty" that AFDC sustained.

The immigrant cuts are, at best, tangential to this goal. SSI is not AFDC. It
goes to those too old (over 65) or too sick to work. Retirees and invalids are
not mainstays of a "culture of poverty." Yet what is the first big story the
public will hear about the impact of the new welfare law? The story of
94-year-old babushkas faced with the prospect of being thrown out of their
apartments, of senile grandfathers being turned out of nursing homes.

It's not hard to predict what will happen. Voters will say to themselves "Wait a
minute; that's not what we meant by welfare reform," just as in 1994 they said
that shutting down the government wasn't what they meant when they elected
Gingrich speaker. Democrats will use the unpopularity of the SSI cuts to
discredit both Republicans and the larger reform effort. And if Republicans
don't think the press will use the immigrants' agony to the same effect, then
they take their own paranoia about the "liberal media elite" less seriously than
perhaps they should.

I suspect most congressional Republicans know that changing the rules
retroactively on elderly and disabled legal immigrants was -- and is --
indefensible. They know that in the end they will have to come up with a fix.
But they are in the middle of budget negotiations with the White House, and they
don't want to give away such a valuable bargaining chip until the very end.

This might be a sound strategy, except for one factor: The elderly immigrants
affected don't realize it's all a budget game. Many will be terrified, and some
of them will be so terrified of either losing all support or becoming a burden
on their children that they will end their lives. At least one already has -- a
retired laborer named Ignacio Munoz in Stockton, Calif., according to a recent
Wall Street Journal story. You can bet, when such tragedies occur, that fingers
will be pointed (not unreasonably) at Republicans.

The only way to avoid this predictable disaster is to convincingly reassure the
elderly immigrants now. Another "block grant," which individual states may or
may not use to replace some or all of the lost federal aid, won't provide this
reassurance. A two-year delay in the cutoff -- another half-solution being
bandied about -- only postpones the crisis. So the suicides begin in two years
instead of two months. Indeed, a delay would turn the SSI question into a sort
of permanent bleeding sore for the Republican Congress.

The obvious move for Republicans is to take the issue off the table,
permanently, by simply "grandfathering" in all those who came to this country
under the old SSI rules (before the 1996 law was signed). Republicans can still
save billions by changing the SSI rules for future immigrants. They can still
blast Clinton, whose budget fails to protect all existing SSI recipients (it
retains the cutoff of those who are old but able-bodied) yet continues
indefinitely SSI payments for future immigrants, as long as they can
successfully claim they became disabled after they arrived.

With a "grandfather" clause, Republicans would also be protecting the meaning of
citizenship, the requirements for which are currently being watered down in a
desperate attempt to naturalize elderly immigrants before they lose their
benefits. And above all, the Republicans would be able to cleanly defend the
1996 welfare reform against Democrats who still hate it and will almost surely
try to undermine it.

If Republicans move quickly and unilaterally to restore the SSI benefits, they
can even hog most of the credit. They'll look magnanimous. Of course, the move
will be entirely justified by political self-interest. But I won't tell if you
won't.

The writer is a contributing editor of the New Republic.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, eleanor mill

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              121 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 01, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Says It May Never Find Naturalized Criminals

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 638 words


Despite pledges to remedy its flawed naturalization procedures, the immigration
service may never know how many people were improperly granted U.S. citizenship
under a controversial program that has come under congressional and Justice
Department scrutiny.

At a hearing yesterday of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, top
officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service could not provide
assurances that the agency will be able to identify, let alone "denaturalize,"
all those who were sworn in as new citizens in spite of criminal records or
misrepresentations that should have disqualified them.

In response to intensifying criticism of its Citizenship USA program, which was
designed to speed up procedures and eliminate a growing backlog of applicants,
the INS has pledged to revoke the citizenship of people found to have been
ineligible. New regulations will facilitate such revocations, making them an
administrative procedure rather than one that requires prosecution by a U.S.
attorney.

However, since the INS cannot compel people who already have become U.S.
citizens to resubmit their fingerprints for FBI background checks, it has no way
to check thousands of immigrants who sailed through the naturalization process
without undergoing the required checks, the subcommittee was told.

In addition, there is no way of knowing how many people took advantage of a
gaping loophole that was identified in 1994 but addressed only in March: the
ability of applicants to submit other people's fingerprints to avoid triggering
a "hit" in the FBI database. The INS, anxious to streamline the citizenship
process, began accepting fingerprints handed in by the applicants themselves
rather than performing the time-consuming procedure in its offices.

"We may never know the full extent of the damage that has been done to public
safety by granting criminals citizenship during the Citizenship USA program,"
said Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the immigration subcommittee. "But
any number of naturalized criminals is an insult to all Americans -- native-born
or naturalized."

At the hearing, Smith grilled INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner and general
counsel David A. Martin about the program, which Republicans have charged was
"hijacked" by the Clinton administration for political purposes. Although the
White House made clear that it wanted Citizenship USA to produce at least 1
million new citizens before last year's elections, the program's failures were
caused by "systemic weaknesses" rather than political pressure, Meissner has
said.

Martin dodged repeated questions on whether the INS would be able to
denaturalize everyone who was ineligible for citizenship, but he eventually
conceded that it is harder to revoke the citizenship of an unqualified person
than it is to deny naturalization in the first place.

In a recent internal memo, Martin said it was "highly uncertain" that the
Justice Department could successfully revoke the citizenship of people who lied
on their applications -- which normally would disqualify them -- unless they had
also been convicted of a felony.

Of 1.05 million immigrants who were naturalized from August 1995 to September
1996, nearly 180,000 did not undergo complete FBI background checks as required
by law, either because their fingerprints could not be read or were never
submitted, an INS audit has found. An additional 71,500 who received citizenship
had FBI records stemming from arrests or INS administrative actions.

Because the 180,000 are already citizens, questions about their eligibility may
never be answered unless they voluntarily resubmit their fingerprints, Rosemary
Jenks of the Center for Immigration Studies told the hearing. Some may do so,
she said, "but it certainly won't be the criminals."

LOAD-DATE: May 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              122 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 08, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Laotian Veterans Join Fight for Benefits

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 454 words


Thirty years ago in the jungles of Laos, thousands of guerrilla fighters were
secretly recruited and trained by the CIA. They fought the North Vietnamese,
marked trails for American planes to bomb and rescued U.S. pilots after their
planes were shot down.

Yesterday two dozen of those men, now in their sixties and seventies, came to
Washington to demand that U.S. officials honor their sacrifices by restoring
welfare benefits that they and many other elderly immigrants are scheduled to
lose by fall.

Lined up in combat uniforms, the Laotian veterans addressed a noon rally of
about 500 immigrants in Lafayette Square, across from the White House, called to
protest new laws that will cut benefits to legal immigrants and force many
illegal immigrants to leave the country.

"I rescued many American pilots, and I feel I am worthy of American help," said
Nhia Lor Vang, 68, a Laotian veteran who lives in Philadelphia and receives $
500 a month in Supplemental Security Income.

"When the American troops pulled out, we had to run for our lives," he said. "We
came here not by choice but by death."

Under a proposed amendment to the 1996 welfare reform bill, the Laotian fighters
and Indochinese refugees who aided U.S. forces in Vietnam would be exempted from
the welfare cutoffs for legal immigrants who are not U.S. citizens. The
amendment has passed the House and is in the Senate.

More broadly, a tentative budget compromise reached last week between the White
House and congressional leaders calls for restoring about half of an estimated $
24 billion in welfare benefits for immigrants that lawmakers cut off last year.

Nevertheless, several Democratic members of Congress and other speakers at the
rally stressed that the partly restored aid would leave tens of thousands of
ailing immigrants without Social Security benefits and food stamps.

"Part of a loaf of justice is not enough. We have to keep on marching and
fighting," said Sen. Paul D. Wellstone (D-Minn.), who is sponsoring legislation
to fully restore the benefits. Similar rallies were scheduled yesterday by
immigrant groups in 10 other cities.

In Washington, the protesters also included Salvadoran janitors, Russian Jewish
emigres and anti-gang organizers from California. Some called for Central
American refugees to be made permanent residents, while others complained
generally about the tough new laws restricting immigrant rights.

"I like to make citizen, but nothing stays in my little head. I cannot make
answers for test," said Irma Hernandez, 64, an immigrant from Honduras who is
likely to lose her Social Security benefits because she cannot pass
English-language tests required to become a U.S. citizen.


LOAD-DATE: May 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, nancy andrews, The Rev. Whit Hutchison, of Washington, holds son
Gabriel Swanson-Hutchison and a sign during the rally at Lafayette Square.
Three-year-old Thalia Tobar, left, passes by them.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              123 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 15, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Judge Halts Deportation of Nicaraguans; Harm to Those Affected by INS
Interpretation of New Law Is Cited

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 14


A federal judge today ordered an immediate halt to the deportation of
Nicaraguans and other immigrants who claim the United States has improperly
denied them residency. The action could affect thousands of immigrants in the
United States.

U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King ruled that the Nicaraguans and other
immigrants affected by new immigration laws would be "irreparably harmed"
without an immediate restraining order against the federal government.

"No one will be deported," he ruled.

Plaintiffs' lawyers said the ruling would apply to immigrants in Alabama,
Georgia and Florida who were stripped of their rights under the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's interpretation of new immigration laws.

But they contended the ruling could have a far wider effect.

They said it could apply not only to some 40,000 Nicaraguans, most based in
Miami, who are plaintiffs in class-action lawsuits against the government, but
also to potentially hundreds of thousands of immigrants across the country, both
Nicaraguan and of other nationalities, whose cases fall within the guidelines of
the restraining order.

"This is a significant victory for the Nicaraguan community," plaintiffs' lawyer
Ira Kurzban said. "It halts all deportations."

The ruling touched off a raucous celebration outside the federal courthouse in
Miami, where more than 100 Nicaraguan immigrants waved flags, honked horns and
cheered.

"I believe that was the most justice the United States can give us now, even if
it was temporary," said Edgar Roa, a Nicaraguan who has lived in the United
States for 14 years.

In an oral ruling from the bench following two days of hearings, King declared
that thousands of immigrants would suffer irreparable harm if the deportations
were allowed to proceed.

"They'll be separated in many instances from their families and will be forced
to go to a country where they may suffer extreme hardship," King said.

At issue in the case is a new immigration law passed by Congress last fall,
several provisions of which went into effect April 1.

Lawyers for the immigrants argued that the INS improperly applied the law
retroactively to dismiss appeals by immigrants. Kurzban alleged the government
tricked his clients, urging them to appeal their deportation cases and then
deciding later that most should be dismissed on technicalities.

The way the INS used the new law meant that Nicaraguan families who had been in
the United States for more than 10 years could be separated, lawyers argued,
because some were subject to virtually immediate deportation while others whose
cases were heard earlier could legally stay.

Immigrant advocates have argued that many Nicaraguans fled civil war in their
homeland in the 1980s at the urging of the United States and settled here at the
behest of the Reagan and Bush administrations as a form of protest against the
ruling Sandinistas.

But many were held in legal limbo -- without formal residency -- until their
special status ended under the Clinton administration and they were suddenly
faced with deportation.

King, who denied a government motion to dismiss the case, ruled that under
current regulations "there simply is no remedy for the perceived wrongs" to the
immigrants. He ruled his court had jurisdiction and halted deportations
indefinitely, until the case could be fully heard.

He also gave the go-ahead for the class-action suit. Kurzban said the class
included "all persons in Georgia, Alabama and Florida stripped of their right to
seek suspension of deportation" as a result of a decision by the Board of
Immigration Appeals in February.

That decision said the new immigration law could be used to deny people their
right to claim suspension of deportation, a mechanism by which immigrants can
stay in the United States, if they were served with papers within seven years of
entering the United States.

King ultimately will hear class-action lawsuits filed on behalf of an estimated
40,000 Nicaraguans that named as defendants President Clinton, Attorney General
Janet Reno and Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner Doris M. Meissner.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              124 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 22, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

INS to Admit Cuban Father To Give Kidney

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 21


Immigration authorities said today they had agreed to allow a Cuban father to
come to the United States to donate a kidney that could save his daughter's
life.

Alberto Blanco, a 34-year-old Havana resident, was given the go-ahead to travel
to Miami immediately from the communist-ruled Caribbean island to be with his
daughter, Greta, who suffers from congenital renal disease and could soon die
without a new kidney.

It was uncertain whether Blanco would be a compatible donor, but doctors at
Jackson Children's Hospital hoped he would be a match for his 12-year-old
daughter.

"I would say there's a 90 percent chance he will be a match," said Gaston
Zilleruelo, a University of Miami pediatrics professor overseeing the child's
care.

Blood testing performed in Cuba found that he could be a donor, and tissue
testing to determine his ultimate compatibility will be done when he arrives,
doctors said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service decision to grant temporary entry
permission to Blanco on humanitarian grounds was made because there was
"compelling evidence that the child is dying through progressive kidney
failure," INS spokesman Brian Jordan said.

Greta's mother, Margarita Caride, was not a possible donor for her daughter
because she suffers from diabetes. Mother and child were allowed to come to the
United States in January 1994 when Cuban doctors decided they could no longer
help, Zilleruelo said.

Jordan said Alberto Blanco could travel to the United States as soon as he was
given permission by the Cuban government. He would be allowed to stay until his
temporary permit expires.

The INS annually grants an average of 2,000 humanitarian entry permits,
determined on a case-by-case basis, he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              125 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 28, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigrants, Welfare and the GOP

E. Clay Shaw Jr.; Lamar Smith

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 990 words


Mickey Kaus's article excoriating Republicans for ending welfare benefits for
noncitizens ["How the GOP Discredits Welfare Reform," op-ed, April 25] is merely
the latest in a host of articles and editorials in The Post critical of
Republican welfare policy on aliens. Reading The Post, no one would know how
carefully the Republican policy had been thought through, how consistent the
policy is with long-standing principles of immigration policy, nor how popular
the policy is with most Americans.

More than 100 years ago, our country's first law on immigration ordered
immigration officials to deny entry to anyone who might need public aid. Then,
in the early part of this century, the law was strengthened to provide for
deportation of any alien who actually became a public charge. Thus, ending
welfare for aliens who do not have a strong record of work in the United States
is simply an extension of our country's historical policy.

Between 1982 and 1995, the number of alien recipients of Supplemental Security
Income increased by more than 500 percent. By 1996, legal aliens, who make up
less than 6 percent of the population, received over half the cash benefits from
the SSI program for the elderly. According to recent research at Harvard
University, alien households in the United States are more likely to receive
welfare than households with only citizens. In fact, many aliens immigrate to
America with the express intent of accessing welfare as soon as they are
eligible. Books such as "What You Need to Know About Life in America," sold
abroad, have extensive chapters detailing how to apply for U.S. welfare
programs.

Clearly, welfare for aliens, which violates long-standing immigration policy to
begin with, has grown out of control. When American taxpayers are spending more
than $ 8 billion a year providing welfare benefits to people who claimed they
were coming to America for opportunity, something must be done.

And it was. Last year's welfare reform law ended most welfare for aliens who
have not worked to earn their benefits. Now the complaint raised by Kaus and
others is that aliens who were already receiving welfare are threatened with
destitution.

But the facts show otherwise. To move the nation from the policy of abundant
welfare for aliens to carefully restricted welfare for aliens, Congress created
a host of provisions designed to ease the transition for those already receiving
welfare. First, Congress provided everyone with a one-year transition to adjust
to the new policy.

Second, aliens who become citizens are eligible to continue receiving benefits.
Government experts predict that eventually half the aliens who would otherwise
lose their benefits will become citizens. Moreover, the frequently reported
horror stories about aliens too old or disabled to learn English or pass the
citizenship test are greatly exaggerated. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service has a host of waivers for elderly or disabled aliens trying to
naturalize.

Third, Congress allowed states to continue providing benefits from both the cash
welfare programs for children (formerly the Aid to Families with Dependent
Children program) and the Medicaid program. The federal money that states used
to spend on noncitizens and their children is included in the block grant that
replaced AFDC. But because states are no longer required to give benefits to
every noncitizen, and because the number of families receiving benefits from
this program is now in its steepest decline in history, states will have
billions of dollars in surplus money to spend on needy aliens if they choose to
do so.

Fourth, Republicans exempted three important groups from losing welfare
benefits: aliens who have worked for 10 years (including husbands and wives who
together meet the 10-year requirement), those who have served or are serving in
the military, and refugees (who, because they often have left their countries
abruptly, are allowed to receive benefits for five years after entry to give
them time to adjust to life in America).

We estimate that if these categories are combined, around 60 percent of aliens
receiving welfare benefits when the bill passed will continue receiving
benefits.

What of the other 40 percent? The administration and many Democrats want to
simply continue benefits for these aliens at a cost to taxpayers of more than $
3 billion per year. But Republicans object. Relatives, not taxpayers, should be
the first line of support. Most of these aliens have relatives and friends in
the United States who have signed sponsorship affidavits promising to help the
alien if the need arose.

The recent budget talks produced a bipartisan compromise that would continue
benefits for disabled aliens who were in the country when the welfare bill
passed last August. We regard this compromise as flawed because it makes
taxpayers the first line of assistance for hundreds of thousands of aliens whose
families promised to support them as a condition of entry. Even so, given the
overall accomplishments of the balanced budget plan and the retention of the
basic policy of banning welfare for new arrivals in the U.S., we will recommend
that our colleagues support this compromise.

However, the administration also wants to guarantee benefits for aliens who
become disabled in the future, thereby reestablishing the discredited policy of
permanent welfare for new arrivals. This policy will not be accepted by
Congress.

Republican reform of welfare is consistent with long-standing principles of
immigration, is supported by the American people, saves billions of dollars and
will improve the productivity of immigrants who continue to be welcome to our
shores.

Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr. (R-Fla.) is chairman of the human resources subcommittee
of the House Ways and Means Committee. Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) is chairman of
the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              126 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 07, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

White House Leadership Sought on Refugee Matters; Panel Recommends 'Correction'
of Immigration Law

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 657 words


A bipartisan commission on immigration issued a blueprint for U.S. refugee
policy in the post-Cold War era yesterday, calling on the White House to take
charge of refugee matters through a new office and exert renewed international
leadership.

In a report to Congress, the Commission on Immigration Reform recommended
setting up an office in the president's National Security Council to coordinate
responsibilities currently scattered among several Cabinet-level departments.

The commission also asked that President Clinton establish a task force to set
guidelines for involving U.S. military forces in humanitarian operations around
the world.

The nine-member commission was mandated by Congress in 1990 to examine and make
recommendations on U.S. immigration policy.

In contrast to a controversial report it issued two years ago in which it called
for major cuts in legal immigration, the commission this time did not recommend
any specific level of refugee admissions. The panel is scheduled to issue its
final report in September before disbanding.

In its latest recommendations, the commission complained that tough provisions
of an immigration law passed last year could harm people with bona fide claims
to political asylum in the United States.

The legislation was aimed at curbing abuse of the asylum system, which critics
say has allowed thousands of people who cannot otherwise qualify as immigrants
to settle in the United States by making phony claims of persecution.

The commission said a provision requiring the summary expulsion of asylum
seekers who cannot immediately demonstrate a "credible fear" of persecution in
their homelands could result in sending people with legitimate claims back to
repressive countries.

At the same time, it urged immigration officials to deport rejected asylum
seekers, arguing that letting them stay indefinitely undermines the credibility
of the system.

"The U.S. is entering an era in refugee policy that requires renewed U.S.
leadership," said Shirley M. Hufstedler, a former judge and education secretary
who succeeded the late Barbara Jordan as the commission's chairman.

To sustain that leadership, the United States needs a "comprehensive and
coherent" refugee policy, Hufstedler said, adding that "we must practice what we
preach."

By avoiding any mention of specific numbers, the commission left unclear whether
it still stands by a controversial "target" of 50,000 refugee admissions a year
in its 1995 report -- about half of recent annual levels.

Instead, the panel recommended setting a floor, but not a ceiling, for future
admissions and warned that the number of refugees "could drop to unacceptably
low levels" in the post-Cold War era because of declining flows from the two
previous major sources, Southeast Asia and the former Soviet Union.

The report proposed establishing a new system of priorities for refugee
admissions ranging from those requiring "urgent rescue" to people who are safe
but need "durable" resettlement.

The commission did not address the thorny issue of the expansion in recent years
of the definition of a refugee, which has been interpreted in some cases to
include people who claim persecution on grounds of homosexuality, female genital
mutilation, forced birth control and spousal abuse.

The recommendations for "correction" of the new immigration law were welcomed by
groups such as the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which called the
legislation an "assault by Congress on the institution of asylum."

However, advocates of tighter restrictions on immigration expressed
disappointment that the commission did not grapple with the widening definition
of persecution.

"With the millions and millions of people around the world who are refugees, we
need to select very carefully and within very limited criteria whom we accept,"
said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: June 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              127 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 08, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Speaker Urges U.S. Reprieve For Nicaraguan Immigrants

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 7


House Speaker Newt Gingrich said today he had sent a letter to Attorney General
Janet Reno asking her to extend for a year a special program protecting the
immigration status of Nicaraguans in the United States.

"It is totally wrong to punish innocent people," he said at a meeting on
immigration and other issues with Miami-area political and community leaders.
The letter to Reno was dated June 6 and distributed today.

The meeting was attended by most of Miami's leading Republicans, among them
Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Jeb Bush, the son of
former president George Bush and a narrow loser in Florida's gubernatorial
election in 1994.

Many members of Miami's Latin American community, traditionally dominated by
staunchly Republican Cuban Americans, have questioned what they see as the
Republican Party's hostility to newcomers.

In particular, some have protested plans to make English the official U.S.
language, eliminate government benefits to legal immigrants and allow
deportation of tens of thousands of Central Americans who came to the United
States during civil wars of the 1980s.

An estimated 40,000 Nicaraguans living in the Miami area are at risk of being
kicked out of the United States under the tough new immigration rules.

The Miami Nicaraguans have filed suit against the government, saying they are
taxpaying workers who should not be deported to a country that remains unstable
by a government that offered them refuge. Immigrant advocates have argued many
of them fled their homeland at the behest of the Reagan and Bush administrations
as a form of protest against the ruling Sandinistas.

During the meeting, Gingrich said he opposed forcing new laws retroactively on
immigrants already in the United States, although he said he favored making
changes that would affect new immigrants, including development of a private
insurance system for legal residents.

"It's one thing to say about the future, let's set ground rules we all
understand," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              128 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 13, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Free to Resume Deportations

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The U.S. government is free to resume deportations of Nicaraguans and other
immigrants after a federal judge today was unable to reach a decision on a
preliminary injunction blocking any such action.

U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King said he hoped that immigration officials
would use their discretion and not immediately begin deportations when a
temporary restraining order expired at midnight. The decision, however, was the
government's, he added.

After listening to hours of lawyers' arguments, King said he had too much
material to absorb to make a hasty decision on issuing a preliminary injunction
against deportations.  The injunction was sought by lawyers in a class-action
suit on behalf of 40,000 Nicaraguans and other immigrants. New immigration laws
enacted in April have left tens of thousands of immigrants, many of whom have
been allowed to live in the United States for years, open to deportation to
their countries.

After the decision was announced, hundreds of Nicaraguans gathered outside the
courthouse howled in dismay and cried "Justice, Justice."

"It leaves us a little scared that after midnight they will start deportations.
They are going to start deportations," said Nestor Nunez of the Fraternidad
Nicaraguense, a community group that has spearheaded the Nicaraguan campaign.

Plaintiffs' lawyer Ira Kurzban said immigration officials have misinterpreted
tough new laws passed by Congress last September. Dexter Lee, the government's
attorney, said it was merely enforcing laws passed by the Congress.

After the judge's closing remarks, Kurzban said: "I think he did the only thing
he could do."

King promised to make a final decision his highest priority.

"It is now up to the discretion of the government as to what they do," King
said. "I hope and do not expect that Friday, June 13, will resemble December 7,
1941," he said, referring to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              129 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 15, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Recommendations on Refugees

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C08

LENGTH: 433 words


THE U.S. COMMISSION on Immigration Reform, which Congress created to make
recommendations on refugees as well as immigration, has issued a report on
refugee matters that skirts the tough questions hanging over this sensitive
policy area.

The United States now admits about 100,000 refugees a year. The exact number is
adjusted every year by the executive branch in consultation with Congress and is
flexible in order to accommodate changing world conditions. The commission's
report is replete with appeals to accept and help resettle refugees. But it does
not make recommendations on two central issues. How many of the world's refugees
should the United States be expected to take each year? And what groups of
people should qualify as refugees?

Aside from suggesting that Congress play a greater role in setting the annual
total, the commission doesn't suggest targets. And instead of a maximum number
of admissions, it recommends that a minimum standard be set -- an unusual
feature in this area of the law where the demand for admissions always exceeds
the number of slots available.

Choices also must be made in deciding who qualifies as a refugee. Traditionally,
the definition applied to those in fear of persecution because of race,
religion, political activities and the like. But applications are now being made
on behalf of other mistreated groups such as homosexuals, victims of genital
mutilation and persons subject to restrictions on reproductive freedom. It would
have been helpful for the commission to weigh these claims and at least make
some recommendations to Congress.

The report does call for some adjustments to recently enacted immigration laws
that make it difficult for asylum seekers -- people who, instead of applying for
refugee status abroad, enter this country and only then ask permission to
remain. The recent legislation was prompted by mounting abuses in this area.
Almost all applicants, for example, were admitted and given work permits while
their cases were being considered. Most simply disappeared. Some reform was
needed.

Now decisions are made on an expedited basis, but most applicants are kept in
custody while their cases are under consideration. The commission would allow
aliens who have a good case for asylum to be released into the community pending
adjudication. It also would like to narrow the number of crimes for which an
alien can be denied asylum. The list now includes any conviction for a crime
carrying a penalty of a year or more, which might be too severe. Both
recommendations deserve consideration by Congress.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              130 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 16, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

A Slow Start for INS

Pamela Constable

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 266 words


The task before local immigration officials is large -- interviewing about
32,700 Central American refugees in the Washington area to see whether they
qualify for permanent political asylum or will be ordered to leave the United
States. They're off to a slow start.

The effort began in early April, and officials said last week that by May 30
they had completed only 53 interviews.

"We expected it to go slowly in the beginning," said Brian Jordan, a spokesman
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "We knew a lot of people would
either not show up [for appointments] or ask to cancel because they have gotten
sponsored for legal residency through their family or employer."

Many of the refugees have lived here for years under a temporary legal amnesty,
and officials have had difficulty finding some people.

Nationwide, immigration officials must decide the fate of about 248,000 Central
Americans who entered the country illegally but were allowed to remain because
of civil wars in their homelands. Jordan said that 4,500 people have been
interviewed since April and that some have been granted asylum. Those who are
denied will be ordered to leave the country unless they appeal to the
immigration courts.

"We strongly advise people who are denied asylum to return to their home
countries and apply for residency," he said. "If they are apprehended [in this
country], it will be much more difficult for them to ever return." Under a tough
new immigration law, illegal immigrants who do not leave by September can be
barred from returning for many years.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              131 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 25, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Nicaraguan Leader Appeals To Clinton for Immigrants; Amnesty Has Expired; Judge
Grants Deportation Reprieve

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 819 words


Nicaraguan President Arnoldo Aleman yesterday appealed to the White House to
give tens of thousands of Nicaraguan refugees a chance to remain permanently in
the United States, while in Miami a federal judge granted some 40,000
Nicaraguans and other immigrants a seven-month reprieve from deportation.

At issue is the status of long-time refugees from Nicaragua and neighboring
countries whose chance to remain in the United States has been virtually
eliminated by a far-reaching immigration law passed last year.

Many Nicaraguans fled from civil war and revolutionary rule in the 1980s,
entered the United States illegally and were granted temporary amnesty. Over
time they raised families and settled into communities. But now the amnesty has
ended, and the new immigration law makes it much more difficult for them to
become legal.

In addition, an immigration court ruling in February made many refugees
retroactively ineligible to apply for relief from deportation, and immigration
officials in Florida then began deporting longtime Nicaraguan residents.

"We will fight with all our heart and all our strength on behalf of all Central
Americans in their struggle for freedom from deportation," Aleman told
journalists at the Capitol. He was flanked by a half-dozen members of Congress,
including two senior Republicans, who are supporting his cause.

A spokesman for the Justice Department said the Clinton administration is
exploring a number of ways to grant relief to those refugees whom the law would
affect.

"We want to alleviate the harsh provisions of the law that deny relief to people
who should be eligible," said Carole Florman. "We are trying to figure out a
system that addresses the concerns in a practical, reasonable way."

Aleman met yesterday with Attorney General Janet Reno and other administration
officials, asking that they extend a legal amnesty for Nicaraguans and overrule
the February ruling. He also told journalists that shipping thousands of
refugees home could threaten his country's fragile democracy.

At the same time, 120 members of Congress signed a letter to President Clinton
asking that he grant some 250,000 Central American refugees an opportunity to
prove they should be allowed to stay here. Two bills are being introduced that
would protect various groups of Central Americans from being deported.

"For these immigrants, the rules have been changed in the middle of the game,"
wrote Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and 119 colleagues. "These deportations
represent a betrayal of our nation's commitment to allow these individuals to
receive a fair hearing under rules that applied to them when they entered the
country."

In Miami yesterday, the preliminary injunction issued by U.S. District Judge
James Lawrence King meant that immigration officials must halt all deportations
of Nicaraguans and other affected refugees in Florida and two other southern
states until January. At that point, King will hold a full trial on a
class-action suit brought in March by a group of refugees.

In a strongly worded, 67-page decision, King said he had rarely seen such a
"dramatic, heart-rending and powerfully persuasive case of irreparable harm" to
tens of thousands of people. He had previously issued two temporary orders
barring the deportations, which expired this week.

"This sends a clear signal to the administration that their interpretation of
the new law is wrong, and a denial of due process," said Ira Kurzban, the lead
lawyer in the Miami suit.

In recent weeks, the plight of the Nicaraguans has drawn increasing support from
influential Cuban American groups and legislators in both parties. Cuban
Americans in Miami have joined with Nicaraguans in two hunger strikes, and
Republican Cuban American legislators have co-sponsored bills on their behalf.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) visited Miami two weeks ago and pledged his
support.

But lawyers for the Justice Department and some Republican lawmakers argue that
U.S. officials never intended to turn Nicaragua's wartime amnesty program -- or
other programs affecting about 200,000 Salvadorans and Guatemalans -- into a
path to permanent immigration.

The Justice Department is considering whether to appeal King's ruling, and
Capitol Hill observers say there is little likelihood that Congress will change
the new immigration law, which drew overwhelming support in both Houses.
Advocates for the Nicaraguans have higher hopes, though, that the White House
will act on its own to solve their problem, and perhaps that of the other
Central Americans.

"This is a black spot in the history of the United States, but we are a lot
closer to the administration acting than we have ever been before," said Ana
Navarro, a Nicaraguan American lawyer from Miami. "If we continue to attack on
all fronts -- legislative, judicial and administrative -- something's got to
give."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              132 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 01, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigration Law Arouses Adopters' Opposition; Vaccination Requirements May
Expose Infants to Medical or Psychological Risk, Critics Say

Susan Okie, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z07

LENGTH: 1082 words


Pamela Madigan is waiting eagerly to adopt a baby girl from China, and she plans
to do everything possible to keep the infant healthy. That will include trying
her best to avoid complying with federal immigration law.

New government rules, which take effect today, require that children adopted
abroad be vaccinated in their home countries before they are allowed to come to
the United States.

The rules are part of a 1996 law that seeks to protect the health of all
Americans by ensuring that immigrants are fully vaccinated against infectious
diseases. But the requirements have evoked vigorous and unexpected protests from
members of the international adoption community, who fear that the vaccinations
may expose fragile or malnourished children to a new set of medical and
psychological risks.

Madigan said she and her husband, Frank, fully intend to immunize their baby as
soon as soon as they get her home to Seattle. But she is worried about the
potential hazards of vaccines given abroad, including the possibility of a bad
reaction, an infection from a non-sterile needle, or the use of a substandard
product.

"Think about being 12 months old and injected with seven vaccines, then handed
over to new parents and getting on an airplane for 20 hours," she said. "I'm
going to work on a moral or a religious waiver" that would exempt the child from
the regulations.

Americans adopt more than 11,000 children from other countries each year, and
about half of the adoptees come from orphanages. They make up a small proportion
of the approximately 300,000 immigrants who are granted permanent residency
visas each year. But because of their circumstances, they are often malnourished
or have suppressed immune function, which could interfere with their response to
vaccines, said Jerri Jenista, a pediatrician in Ann Arbor, Mich., who
specializes in infectious diseases and is also an adoptive parent.

"Superficially they may look healthy but they are truly not," she said. "Very
often they've been abandoned. Their families are extraordinarily poor, and
parents are often drug-abusing or alcoholic or have had some social disaster
come upon them so they couldn't keep their children."

Adopted children whose records indicate they were immunized in foreign
orphanages often show no evidence of having responded to the vaccinations when
tested in the United States, according to a study by Dana Johnson, a physician
at the International Adoption Clinic in Minnesota. This lack of response could
be caused by a poorly functioning immune system or by the use of vaccines that
were inactive because they were outdated or improperly stored, he suggested in a
letter to the State Department opposing the regulations.

Jenista said American pediatricians often discount vaccination records from
other countries and begin the immunization process all over again.

Under the new rules, the health and immunization records of children being
adopted in other countries must be checked by doctors in those countries who
have contracted with the State Department to perform pre-immigration physical
exams. Adoptees are supposed to be as up-to-date as possible on the
immunizations recommended for U.S. children. These include vaccines against
diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DTP), polio, hepatitis B, Hemophilus influenzae (a
type of bacteria that causes meningitis), measles, mumps, rubella (German
measles) and chickenpox.

Some of those vaccines, such as DTP and polio, are routinely given in almost
every country, but others, such as chickenpox, are not widely used. Some require
several boosters. If a child is old enough to be immunized and has not already
had the disease, the rules say the vaccine (or at least the first dose) must be
given before a visa can be granted.

A consular official can waive the requirement if the immigrant (or in this case,
the parent) has a moral or religious objection to vaccination. The examining
doctor can recommend a medical waiver if a child is not old enough to receive a
certain vaccine, or if there is a "medical contraindication" to giving it (such
as an allergy to a vaccine component, or an illness).

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service defend the new rules,
saying they contain adequate safeguards against unsafe vaccines or practices.
The doctors who perform the pre-immigration physicals are expected to follow
accepted medical procedures for giving vaccines, including using sterile
needles, said Sophia Cox, an adjudications officer for the INS. She said they
are free to grant a medical waiver if they have any concerns about the quality
of vaccines available in their countries.

"Part of this is a miscommunication or perhaps a lack of understanding of who
these . . . physicians are and what exactly they do," she said.

Jenista and other adoption experts fear the new U.S. rules may prompt orphanages
in other countries to administer vaccines using non-sterile needles, exposing
children to the risk of infection with the hepatitis B and C viruses or the
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) that causes AIDS.

Cox acknowledged that orphans in some countries have become infected in this
way, but added that many foreign orphanages vaccinate children to meet local
requirements, regardless of U.S. policy.

In recent weeks, advocates of international adoption have conducted a spirited
discussion of the new regulations via the Internet and have urged concerned
parents and would-be parents to contact federal agencies and to lobby lawmakers.

David Juhren, an administrative assistant at the International Monetary Fund,
has been participating in the campaign against the new rules even though he and
his wife, Ingrid, picked up their adoptive daughter in Russia four months ago,
before the regulations went into effect.

"Adoptive parents really have to go through a lot, especially adopting
internationally," he said. "This is just another bureaucratic hoop."

The new law's congressional sponsors say the uproar took them by surprise. Rep.
Bill McCollum (R-Fla.), who co-sponsored the legislation, said he has asked the
State Department and the INS to provide written assurance that children being
adopted in other countries won't be endangered by substandard vaccines or
medical practices.

"The intent was that everybody get vaccinated," he said. "We thought that was
the right way to do it. If we have to change the law to let them get all the
shots here, so be it."


LOAD-DATE: July 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, khue bui, The adoptive parents of 14-month-old Gracie Juhren are
among those protesting the new immigration rules. "This is just another
bureaucratic hoop," says David Juhren, who along with his wife, Ingrid, brought
Gracie from Russia in February.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              133 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 06, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Rules for Bringing In Kin Worry Immigrants; Sponsors Will Be Required to Earn
Moderate Income and Pledge Support of Relatives

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1127 words


Cirilo Zavala, a 64-year-old immigrant from El Salvador, hasn't seen his wife
Angela since he left their village in 1989. The grizzled Arlington man, a legal
resident who cleans office buildings at night, can under law bring Angela here
to live through the sponsorship of his daughter, a housekeeper who recently
became a U.S. citizen.

But chances are, it will never happen.

Under a provision of the new immigration law due to take effect next month, all
U.S. residents and citizens will be barred from sponsoring relatives to
immigrate here unless the sponsors can prove their income is at least 25 percent
higher than the federal poverty level, or about $ 19,500 for a family of four.

In addition, the law requires that sponsors sign a legally binding commitment to
support anyone they bring in until the immigrants have worked 10 years or become
citizens. If an immigrant is discovered using public benefits to which he is not
entitled, the sponsor can be fined and prosecuted for repayment. This marks a
distinct shift from past practice. Although sponsors have always had to pledge
to support their arriving relatives at first, those promises have never been
legally enforceable.

The new sponsorship rules result from revisions to welfare and immigration laws
passed by Congress last year. They are aimed at reducing the numbers of
immigrants who enter the country legally but without money or skills, and who
are thus more likely to apply for welfare, food stamps and other public benefits
after they arrive.

According to the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that
advocates stricter controls on immigration, nearly 21 percent of all immigrants
use some form of welfare -- most often free school meals, Medicaid and
supplemental Social Security -- compared with 14 percent of American-born
residents.

"The purpose of these provisions is to protect the American taxpayer from
freeloading relatives of immigrants," said Dan Stein, the group's executive
director. "We do not need more newcomers joining the ranks of the impoverished."

But some immigrant advocate groups said the use of welfare by newcomers is much
lower, and that the new law unfairly discriminates against low-income families
who seek to be reunited. They cite several studies, including one conducted by
government immigration analysts, showing that nearly half of U.S. families from
Mexico and El Salvador, one-third from Korea and 25 percent from China could not
meet the new income test for sponsors.

"We believe this income requirement amounts to a back-door way to limit all
immigration. The test is rigid and artificial," said Jeanne Butterfield, an
official of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Butterfield and other
advocates met Thursday with immigration officials to discuss proposed new rules
that will implement the law. They are pushing for more flexibility, including a
provision that would allow total household income, not just that of a single
sponsor, to be considered in the calculations.

Jeffrey Passel, a demographer with the Urban Institute, said his group
calculates that about 40 percent of immigrant families earn too little to meet
the new requirements. He said making sponsors legally responsible for their
relatives "corrects a basic flaw" in the system, but preventing them from
bringing family members here legally could "encourage illegal immigration."

The greater Washington area is home to tens of thousands of Central American
immigrants, many of them unskilled peasants who arrived illegally but were
allowed to remain as refugees from civil wars. Now some have been here long
enough to become permanent residents or even citizens, giving them the right to
petition the government to bring in their parents, children or siblings.

But according to local Latino and immigrant organizations, many of these
families are still working in low-level jobs such as cleaning and cooking, and
their incomes are not high enough to meet the new requirements for sponsorship.
In some cases, even combining several relatives' incomes as co-sponsors may not
be enough.

"We are starting to warn people that their incomes won't be sufficient to prove
that their relatives won't be a public charge," said Yvonne Vega, director of
Ayuda, a legal aid clinic for poor immigrants in Adams-Morgan. "Public charge"
is the phrase officials use to describe a person who depends on government
charity.

In the Zavala household, for example, three family members work cleaning homes
and offices, but the sponsoring daughter earns only $ 7,000 a year. If her
father and another relative could be added to her petition, they might barely
qualify to bring in the mother, who could not come to the United States before
because the family had neither the money nor the legal right to bring her. But
it is not yet clear whether the new regulations will allow multiple sponsorships
or count total household incomes.

"I have been working here for a long time. I clean toilets and do whatever I
must, but I have never asked anyone for help," said Cirilo Zavala, sitting on a
sagging brocade couch in his barren apartment. "If the North American officials
would open their hearts and allow my wife to come, I would be very grateful."

Despite their desire to crack down on immigrants' use of welfare, congressional
Republicans have recently relented on one controversial aspect of welfare reform
that would have cut off supplemental Social Security benefits to half a million
elderly and disabled immigrants. Late last month, under a balanced budget
agreement with the White House, legislators restored most of those benefits,
which were scheduled to be cut off in August.

To advocates of reduced immigration, this political reversal makes it even more
important that the sponsorship process be carefully controlled and the final
regulations tough. As Stein's group sees it, allowing "surrogate sponsors," such
as wealthier but distant relatives, could be an "Achilles heel" that would
seriously weaken the law.

Federal immigration officials said last week that the new regulations will be
made public within three weeks, after which groups on both sides of the
immigration debate will have one month to comment before they take effect. The
officials said they are still nailing down some details, such as how to
calculate income, keep track of sponsors and define what benefits they must
repay.

But one thing is clear: Now, much more than before, an immigrant's right to
bring in parents, children or other relatives from abroad will depend on how far
that person has moved up the American economic ladder and on how much of a
burden he or she is willing to shoulder in order to be reunited with family left
behind.


LOAD-DATE: July 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, family photo; Photo, bill o'leary, Cirilo Zavala last saw his
wife Angela, above, when he left their El Salvador village in 1989.  Zavala, 64,
is unsure if his family can meet income requirements for bringing his wife here.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              134 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 11, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Reno Challenges 1996 Law As Harsh on Immigrants; Congress Asked to Rewrite Key
Provision

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 749 words


The Clinton administration yesterday asked Congress to overturn a key provision
of a tough new immigration law that threatens tens of thousands of longtime
immigrants from Central America with deportation. If lawmakers do not go along,
officials said they may use administrative measures to protect the Central
Americans.

As part of its effort to soften the law's impact, the administration also took
the unusual step of suspending an immigration court ruling that could have
forced as many as 40,000 Nicaraguan immigrants to leave the country.

"We want to ensure that the 1996 immigration law will not have an unduly harsh
effect on those individuals who have made vital contributions to their local
communities . . . while putting down deep roots in our nation," Attorney General
Janet Reno said yesterday.

Reno's announcement marked the administration's first challenge to a
comprehensive immigration law that Congress passed last year in an attempt to
crack down on illegal immigrants. Several Republican leaders praised the move to
assist the Nicaraguans, but they reacted far more cautiously to the broader
effort to rewrite portions of the law.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.), who had asked Reno to help the Nicaraguans,
called her action "a positive first step," but a spokesman said Gingrich would
not comment on the proposed changes to the law. Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.),
who heads a key immigration panel, said he hopes the administration can assist
the Central Americans through other, internal, actions rather than seeking to
retool the new law.

On the other hand, more than 120 members of Congress have joined in a campaign
to seek relief for as many as 180,000 Central American immigrants who entered
the country illegally, were given temporary legal amnesty to remain here while
civil conflicts raged in their countries, and put down roots. Now that those
amnesties have expired, many of the immigrants face possible deportation.

Yesterday, Central American immigrant groups and diplomats welcomed Reno's
announcement, but they warned that no final decision has been made on the
immigration court ruling and that it will be difficult to persuade lawmakers to
backtrack on legislation they supported overwhelmingly.

"We are thrilled, but we know that the struggle must continue," said Nora
Sandigo, an official of the Nicaraguan Fraternity in Miami, a group that sued
the government in March to stop the deportations.

"This news will be a tremendous joy to the community," said Saul Solorzano,
director of the nonprofit Central American Resource Center in the District's
Adams-Morgan neighborhood. "We have to be nervous about the final outcome, but
this is a chance for Congress to close a murky chapter in American foreign
policy."

Under the old immigration law, illegal immigrants could win relief from
deportation by proving they had lived in the United States for seven years, had
obeyed the law and would suffer hardship if deported. Under the new law, which
took effect April 1, such immigrants must prove they have lived here 10 years
and that being deported would cause "extreme and unusual" hardship to their U.S.
citizen spouse or children.

In addition, a February ruling by the Board of Immigration Appeals interpreted
the new law to mean that those new, harsher standards applied retroactively to
people who sought relief from deportation before April 1, and that immigrants
who received a deportation order in the past could not count any time since that
date toward their total time spent in the United States.

Reno announced that she has suspended the board's controversial ruling, under
which immigration agents had begun to deport Nicaraguan refugees who had been
allowed to live in the United States for years. Sources in the Justice
Department said she would probably reverse the ruling.

More broadly, the administration is asking Congress to change the 1996
immigration law so that all Central American immigrants now living here under
amnesty, and any other immigrants who applied for relief from deportation before
April 1, can have their deportation cases judged under the previous, more
lenient rules.

Reno stressed that neither the decision about the Nicaraguans nor the
legislative proposal to Congress would grant any illegal immigrants the
automatic right to remain in the United States.

Instead, they would allow such immigrants to have their cases judged by "more
humane" standards in some cases.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              135 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 17, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Md. to Continue Some Welfare for Legal Immigrants

Jon Jeter, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 724 words


Maryland Gov. Parris N. Glendening said yesterday that the state will pick up
the nearly $ 8 million tab and continue some welfare benefits for legal
immigrants who would be cut off Oct. 1 under legislation signed by President
Clinton last month.

Visiting Montgomery County, home to one-fourth of the state's immigrant
population, Glendening (D) said that he generally endorsed the radical welfare
overhaul, but he urged repeal of provisions in the law that would prohibit
states from using federal money to provide cash payments, food vouchers and
other welfare benefits to legal immigrants.

"I find this just outrageous," Glendening said yesterday, while surrounding
himself with the grandchildren of elderly residents of a Silver Spring nursing
home. "We do not intend to abandon any of Maryland's children."

The federal law ends the government's 61-year-old guarantee of aid to the poor,
limits cash assistance to five years and cuts spending by nearly $ 60 billion
over five years. But the law leaves states the option of paying for aid to poor
immigrants solely with state money, and that, Glendening said yesterday, is
exactly what he has decided to do.

Glendening said the state will be able to pay for some aid to legal immigrants
because Maryland's public assistance caseload has dropped 8 percent since last
year. The governor said the state will continue cash assistance, prenatal care
and medical assistance to Maryland's legal immigrants for the fiscal year that
ends June 30.

State cash assistance will continue for an estimated 2,155 legal immigrants,
while food stamps will be maintained for 2,217 children of legal immigrants.

But Glendening and his aides said the state cannot afford the nearly $ 13
million it would cost to continue giving food stamps to the 10,315 immigrants
now receiving them.

Consequently, he said, only immigrant children will continue to receive the
benefit.

Glendening said he had spoken with Clinton's chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta,
and the administration's secretary of Health and Human Services, Donna E.
Shalala, to urge the president to amend parts of the law affecting legal
immigrants. He said he also would discuss the matter with the state's delegation
in Congress.

Although generally supportive of the law, Glendening, in a letter to Clinton,
said: "There are a number of specific areas where I think corrective legislative
action is needed. To protect those who come to our shores legally, there must be
a repeal of the provisions that prohibit us from using the federal [money] . . .
to help legal immigrants who come into this country after the enactment of the
bill."

Beginning Oct. 1, federal funds no longer can be used for social services for
immigrants who were not already in the country on Aug. 22, the day President
Clinton signed the welfare bill.

Glendening is one of the first state or local elected officials to publicly
denounce the welfare law's effect on immigrants, according to Susan Kellam, a
spokeswoman for the American Public Welfare Association. Until yesterday, Kellam
said, the most emphatic opposition to the federal overhaul had come from New
York City Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani (R), who in August wrote a letter to Clinton
urging the president to veto the legislation winding its way through Congress at
the time. The overhaul, Giuliani contended, would overwhelm the city's ability
to care for its large immigrant population.

Officials in Virginia have not decided whether to continue to provide benefits
to legal immigrants. But Scott D. Oostdyk, deputy secretary for the state's
Department of Health and Human Services, said that the denial of benefits to
that population is in line with Republican Gov. George Allen's vision for
welfare overhaul.

Should Virginia decide to drop legal immigrants from the state's relief rolls,
that could be a thorny political issue for Washington area politicians. Will
Maryland become a magnet for Virginia's poor, particularly immigrants, who might
migrate across state lines to take advantage of more liberal social welfare
policies?

Glendening said yesterday that he did not believe that would happen. He said he
was optimistic that Congress would amend the provisions on immigrants as more
governors become aware of the adverse effect on their states' immigrant
populations.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, GOV. PARRIS N. GLENDENING

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              136 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 11, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

105-Year-Old Gets New Beginning -- as U.S. Citizen

Karl Vick, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1009 words


No one recalls the precise date, but it was sometime after Henriette Bolane
turned 100 years old that she started bothering her son-in-law for the
application that would let her become a U.S. citizen. But because it meant she'd
have to make a trip to Baltimore, and because his mother-in-law was so old that
the matter seemed academic, he put her off again and again.

Then, this summer, President Clinton signed welfare legislation that cuts off
benefits even to legal immigrants. And Roger Guelce finally found reason to make
the trip.

"After the law, if she's not a citizen, they're not going to give her her
Medicaid," said Guelce, explaining his understanding of the new welfare reform
act. "If she becomes a citizen, definitely they have to give that to her."

So it was that yesterday, 30 days shy of her 106th birthday, the cheerful, alert
and remarkably fit matriarch of the Bolane family became the oldest new American
in known history.

"We're proud to have you be a citizen," said Ben Ferro, director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's Maryland office, who traveled to
Bolane's Hyattsville home to personally administer the oath. Looking warmly at
brown eyes twinkling behind the thick glasses that betray the Haitian American's
only apparent infirmity, the career bureaucrat said he wanted to make one point
especially clear.

"Whether you're born here or whether you're a citizen like this, it's all the
same," Ferro said. "That's really the most important part. Everyone is equal
here now."

That point has never been more clear to immigrants than this year, in which the
INS has naturalized a record 1.2 million new citizens, three times the number of
a year ago. The rush was prompted by an array of circumstances. But most
pressing is the controversial welfare reform act that denies food stamps and
disability benefits to all noncitizens, even resident immigrants who are in the
country legally.

"I don't understand that law," said Clementine Guelce, a U.S. citizen. At 62,
she is the fourth of Bolane's six children -- four girls and two boys whose ages
now range from 55 to 74. "Because if I'm here and I pay my taxes, and I'm legal,
I don't get the benefits!

"They should have a law that the foreign people aren't supposed to pay taxes."

For her mother, remarkably, the issue was not yet crucial. Bolane has no health
problems except high blood pressure. With her Medicaid card, she fills her
prescription for $ 1 at the local drugstore.

Bolane was chasing her grandchildren around the yard in her nineties. The night
she turned 100, she danced until 4 in the morning. She goes to church each
Sunday, hears so well she picks up whispers from the far side of the couch, and
although the backs of her hands are a little papery, her satiny complexion could
pass for 80.

But no one expects fabulous health to hold forever.

"Ever since she hit 104, her body started slowing down," said grandson Roger
Guelce Jr., 31.

When Bolane was born in Haiti on Nov. 10, 1890, Benjamin Harrison was the U.S.
president, American Indians were gathering at Wounded Knee, S.D., and a new
immigration facility was about to open on Ellis Island. But Henriette Bolane did
not come to America until 1979.

She spent most of her life in the mountains, raising corn, avocados, rice and
other staples in a region called Petite Rivier de Nips. Although her memory has
grown spotty of late, grandchildren recall her telling stories from when she was
3 years old.

"My father's friends used to come over to our house and tell stories of how
someday there would be vehicles in the sky and vehicles rolling on the ground,"
Bolane said, speaking in soft Creole translated by her grandson. "I had just
finished serving them food, and they were talking about it.

"And years later, there were the first planes, and my father heard the noise in
the sky and thought it was thunder. I said, 'No, it's a plane. Oh, this time I
know better than you!' "

She giggles telling the story.

"It's not a secret I have to old age," Bolane said. "I've always respected my
elders, and they've always spoken blessings on me: to see my children, to see my
children's children."

The way it's worked out, she has lived to see her children's children's
children's children. Bolane oversees five generations, a situation all the more
notable considering how late in life she began her own family. She had her
youngest child when she was 54.

Bolane came to the United States from the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince,
where she lived with a daughter after her husband, Philogene, died in 1963.

"He caught pneumonia after a hurricane," said Roger Guelce Jr.

The first of her children, a daughter, came to this country when the dictator
Papa Doc Duvalier came to power. The daughter's husband had been an official in
the previous government and fled to the United States for political asylum. Over
the years, all but one of Bolane's children followed. Bolane's move to the
United States was sponsored by a daughter in 1979.

As a legal immigrant over age 55 who had called the country home for 15 years,
she became eligible for citizenship two years ago. When her son-in-law finally
took her to Baltimore to apply last month, the INS bent over backward to make
the process simple. The criminal background check was waived, as it routinely is
for applicants older than 79. Ditto the English language requirement.

Eventually, it became clear to INS officials that Bolane was the oldest
immigrant ever to apply for citizenship. Last year, a slightly younger
applicant, a 105-year-old Chinese woman, was naturalized in San Francisco.

Yesterday Bolane listened as her grandson translated into Creole the oath of
allegiance to the United States. She interrupted only once. It was at the
promise to "bear arms on behalf of the United States."

"I'm too old," Henriette Bolane said. "I can't do anything for anybody. People
have to do things for me now."

The man from the INS laughed. "That's the way it should be now," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, Ben Ferro, left, head of the INS's Maryland office,
administers the citizenship oath to Henriette Bolane, right, as her grandson
Roger Guelce Jr. watches.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              137 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 22, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 39 words


SENATE

Not in session.

Committees: Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration subc. Oversight hearing. INS
Citizenship USA program & naturalization policy. 226 Dirksen Office Bldg.

HOUSE

Not in session.

Committees: none.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              138 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 19, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Letting Immigrants Walk the Plank

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 549 words


THE WELFARE bill that President Clinton signed in August did the bulk of its
budget cutting in other programs for the poor having little or nothing to do
with welfare: food stamps and aid to legal immigrants. The president, at the
time of the signing, decried these large and gratuitous cuts as wrong, and left
the impression that in a second term he would seek their repeal.

In fact, as discussions since have shown, the administration will seek much less
than full repeal. The budget appears likely to contain, at most, enough money to
reverse about a fourth of the cuts, and perhaps not even that. The result is
that even if Congress grants the full request -- an unlikely prospect, based on
the congressional response thus far -- large numbers of unambiguously needy
people will lose federal support.

No group will be more affected than the legal immigrants. These are people who
are supposed to be here. We pride ourselves on having let them in. They work,
consume, contribute to the variety of the culture, pay taxes, live next door,
send their children to school and all the rest -- and we're glad of that. The
bill nonetheless makes them ineligible for almost all the principal forms of
federal aid to the poor. It is not just prospective recipients who are
disqualified, either, but the million such people who are already on the rolls.
Many are either disabled or elderly immigrants with no other readily apparent
means of support. What happens to them next? The legislation, having washed the
federal hands of responsibility, doesn't say.

The administration says it lacks the funds to restore past law and benefits
entirely. At one point it proposed instead a kind of freeze, not a repeal of the
massive cuts in the bill but a two-year deferral that would fit more easily into
the budget and buy everyone, the president included, some time. The immigrant
advocacy groups resisted. They see delay as a parking lot on the way to hell;
they think their problem can be solved if at all only in the context of a
broader budget agreement such as seems to be in prospect in the year ahead. Once
such an agreement is reached, there is likely two years from now to be even less
money available for the reversal of a decision which by then will in any case
have been partly forgotten and be much less a source of embarrassment than with
the welfare bill having just been signed. The president will also be that much
closer to lame duck status, and if history is any guide, the midterm elections
will not have produced a more sympathetic Congress.

In fact, it isn't clear there isn't money to restore these benefits. George Bush
once said he had more will than wallet, but wallet is a function of will. There
isn't money enough for full restoration because there are other things on which
the administration would rather spend the money first. The advocacy groups are
now down to deciding which groups of needy immigrants they think should be
helped first if funds aren't available for all. Women and children first? The
disabled at the elderly's expense? Which will it be? But these are terrible
questions. The president was right when he suggested that the immigrant
provisions were among the most repugnant in this bill. What does he now insist
that Congress do about it?

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              139 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  February 19, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Va. Spares Legal Immigrants From Benefits Cuts

Ellen Nakashima, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Feb. 18


Virginia will continue giving Medicaid and welfare benefits to about 12,000
legal immigrants and their children -- more than half of them in Northern
Virginia -- who otherwise might have been cut off under the federal government's
welfare overhaul.

The money -- about $ 12.6 million -- is part of a package of amendments included
in a state spending plan for next year being completed by Senate and House
budget writers.

Congress, as part of its welfare overhaul plan, voted last year to allow states
to stop providing Medicaid and welfare benefits to several categories of legal
immigrants, including many permanent residents.

Virginia officials in the administration of Gov. George Allen initially proposed
cutting cash and Medicaid benefits after June 30 for certain categories of
immigrants. But in December, Allen (R) decided the state should continue the
Medicaid benefits, although not the cash aid.

Lawmakers in the General Assembly, however, have pushed to maintain social
service benefits to all legal noncitizens and to keep Medicaid insurance for
immigrant children younger than 19. Administration officials had no comment on
these measures.

"The General Assembly will do what it has to do," said Scott D. Oostdyk, deputy
secretary of health and human resources. "That's their prerogative."

Said Sen. Joseph V. Gartlan Jr. (D-Fairfax), a Senate Finance Committee member:
"It's a fundamental issue of fairness. These people are here legally. Our
constitution requires equal treatment of people in this country even if they're
not citizens."

Gartlan warned that slashing health benefits for immigrants who are here legally
would have a ripple effect on the local economy, especially in tourism. "We
depend tremendously on immigrant services for a lot of our business," he said.
"If we created a disincentive for these people to be here, I can see a real
exodus of these people."

The budget negotiators also are expected to work out agreements on pay raises of
3 percent to 7 percent for state employees and teachers, on about $ 7 million to
hire 1,000 police officers and on a proposal to suspend the state's work
requirement for up to one year for welfare recipients who are going to school.

In all, about $ 60 million worth of programs is being negotiated as the
legislators make adjustments to the second year of the state's two-year, $ 35
billion budget.

Extending social service and welfare benefits is a move welcomed by Virginians
such as Ted L. Hicks, a community activist in Arlington's Arna Valley, where
about 80 percent of the 2,000 residents are low-income Latinos and many are
immigrants.

"Low-income communities like mine bear the burden of these cuts," said Hicks, an
executive member of Bilingual Outreach Citizens Alliance of Arna Valley. "We
went to the point of launching our own health clinic. We're extremely concerned
that health and welfare benefits be protected."

Sen. Janet D. Howell (D-Fairfax) warned that cutting benefits for 1,500 Northern
Virginia families would "swamp our volunteer organizations" that work with the
immigrant community.

Kim Cook, an activist who works with Asian immigrants in Northern Virginia, said
many of her clients would have been devastated by the benefit cuts.

"A lot of them are elderly or disabled," she said. "They have serious illnesses.
They wouldn't have been able to get treatment."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              140 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 27, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Civil Rights Groups, N.Y. Mayor Challenge Welfare Cutoff for Legal Immigrants

Judith Havemann, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 1003 words


Coalitions of civil rights groups and the mayor of New York yesterday filed
separate suits to block a key provision of the nation's new welfare law,
charging that it violates the constitutional rights of legal immigrants who will
lose federal disability and food stamp benefits because they are not citizens.

The suits charge that the law violates the equal protection clause of the
Constitution by specifically targeting a particular group and stripping them of
federal benefits that are provided to every other legal resident who meets the
basic criteria of the programs.

The three suits represent what many social policy analysts anticipate will be a
wave of attacks challenging the legal underpinnings of the historic welfare law.
The outcome of the immigrant suits is critical not only to states with large
populations of legal aliens but also to the entire law, because the cases
challenge a portion of the law that is responsible for more than a third of its
budget savings.

Many of the nation's governors, mayors and state legislators, civil rights and
immigrant rights groups, and President Clinton have asked Congress to restore
disability benefits to legal immigrants who were in the country when the law was
passed, particularly the elderly and infirm who are unable to become citizens,
and thus avoid the cutoff. The president also wants to restore benefits to
disabled children. His proposal would cost $ 13.4 billion between now and 2002.

Noncitizen immigrants will be among the first to feel the effects of the new
welfare law. About 500,000 immigrants nationally, including 110,000 in New York
City, face the loss of Supplemental Security Income aid beginning this summer.
Only those immigrants who can prove they have worked for 10 years, served in the
Armed Forces or have a family member who did, or are refugees or asylum-seekers
who have been in the country less than five years are exempt.

Because those affected by the cutoffs are elderly and disabled, the federal
benefits they receive are generally their only source of income. Generally, the
plaintiffs in the lawsuits have such severe physical or mental disabilities that
it is difficult or impossible for them to become citizens.

The lead plaintiff in the lawsuit filed by civil rights groups in New York is
Juan Tomas Abreu, a 41-year-old legal permanent resident from the Dominican
Republic, who either had a brain hemorrhage or a stroke after being in this
country for slightly less than two years. He has been comatose for five years
and living on $ 570 in monthly checks from the Supplemental Security Income
program. According to the suit, he is unable to take the language, history and
government examination or to swear the oath of allegiance that is required for
citizenship.

Another plaintiff in the New York case is Ekaterina Drubich, an 87-year-old
Holocaust survivor who fled Ukraine in 1980 to escape political persecution and
antisemitism. Drubich, a pediatrician for 48 years, has undergone a mastectomy,
is partially paralyzed after two strokes, has trouble hearing and seeing and
uses a wheelchair to get around, according to the suit. She does not speak
English. The suit says that she was "unaware of the naturalization process"
until recently, but intends to file an application in the near future. Because
of the backlog of naturalization petitions, she is unlikely to complete the
process by the time her benefits are cut off.

More than a million legal residents have applications pending for citizenship
but federal officials estimate it will take nine months to clear the backlog.

The New York groups asked the court for a temporary injunction against the
cutoff of both disability benefits and food stamps, pending a ruling on its
constitutionality.

"This lawsuit is the best hope that people will not be thrown off the rolls,"
said Josh Bernstein, a public policy analyst at the National Immigration Law
Center, one of the participants in a suit filed in California. "Most people
believe that even if there is a significant legislative turnaround -- which is
not a sure thing at all -- the chances of something being done in time are very
slight."

The California lawsuit challenges only the disability portions of the welfare
measure because of a quirk in state law. New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's
suit is similar to the New York civil rights groups suit.

The changes in immigrant eligibility for disability benefits were passed by
Congress last year to correct abuses in the programs that had led to a 500
percent increase in the number of noncitizens receiving SSI over the past
decade.

"This whole thing is out of whack," said E. Clay Shaw (R-Fla.), one of the
principal authors of the legislation.

Shaw said that he had proposed a block grant or lump sum payment to states of
between $ 1 billion and $ 3 billion to help ease the immediate problem for
governors and mayors.

But Giuliani, speaking at a news conference to announce his suit, said that the
"purported justification" for this policy by Congress is that it will encourage
self-sufficiency and discourage illegal immigration. "This justification makes
no sense." Disabled people are "by definition unable to attain
self-sufficiency."

David Cole, a professor of constitutional law at Georgetown University, said
that the issue of Congress's stated purpose in passing the law could prove an
important factor in whether these legal challenges prove successful.

"In general," he said, "it is very difficult to prevail before the Supreme Court
in an equal protection challenge to federal laws that discriminate on the basis
of immigration or citizenship status. The courts have been very deferential to
the federal government" in these cases.

However, he said, if the challengers argue that it is "totally irrational to
deny benefits to legal permanent residents who can't become citizens, and that
such a denial serves no rational purpose, [the provision] might well be struck
down by the courts."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              141 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 14, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

When Your Last Name Can Be a Liability

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 514 words


Cecelia Munoz ["Honest Mistake? No, Discrimination," op-ed, April 2] is exactly
right to criticize the White House for singling her out for verification of
citizenship because of her family name. She properly observed that it is
inappropriate to ask some people -- but not everyone -- for this sort of
verification. In the workplace, that is discrimination; it is illegal and it
shouldn't happen.

But unfortunately, by opposing testing of a universal verification system that
would apply to everyone, thereby eliminating the opportunities and excuses for
this kind of illegal discrimination, the National Council of La Raza, an
immigrants' rights group, and many others make precisely the same mistake the
White House did. Throughout the debate in the last Congress on how to deal with
the problems of discrimination against those with immigrant-sounding last names,
opponents of better verification (with every good intention) argued for singling
out only those considered likely to be illegal. Ms. Munoz herself criticized a
verification pilot program in an interview with the Philadelphia Inquirer by
arguing that it "would include data not just on noncitizens, but on citizens as
well." In other words: Ask some but not all.

Let me make a simple, conservative statement: The best way to fight
discrimination is to treat everyone exactly the same. That is why the bipartisan
U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform unanimously recommended in 1994 that we
test a better system for worksite verification based on electronic validation of
the Social Security number. Every new hire already has to provide his or her
Social Security number to an employer. Employers should be able to check that
number to verify that it belongs to a person who can legally work here. No one
would be exempt because he or she has an "American"-sounding name, and no one
would be singled out, as Ms. Munoz was, to provide more or different documents
as they are so often asked to do now. The commission also strongly recommended a
more active approach to fighting immigration-related discrimination in the
workplace, which is only possible through more reliable verification and a
beefed-up capacity to identify and combat abuses.

We want to relieve the burden on employers who now face the dilemma of accepting
documents that might be forged or discriminating against people, such as Munoz,
who are U.S. citizens or legal immigrants. We also want to remove the excuse for
dishonest employers who knowingly hire illegal workers, and then hide behind
their false documents saying: "How were we to know?"

If organizations such as La Raza worry -- correctly in my view -- that high
levels of illegal immigration undermine the rights of those who obey the law,
they should rethink their opposition to testing verification based on the Social
Security number. Ms. Munoz's own experience at the White House shows exactly why
systems that don't treat all equally make things worse.

ROBERT CHARLES HILL

Washington

The writer is a member of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              142 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 28, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

When Your Last Name Can Be a Liability (Cont'd)

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 587 words


In his April 14 letter "When Your Last Name Can Be a Liability" responding to my
April 2 op-ed article "Honest Mistake? No, Discrimination," Robert Charles Hill
mischaracterized the opposition of the National Council of La Raza to a national
verification system. As we testified before the Commission on Immigration
Reform, on which Mr. Hill serves, as well as before the Congress, we oppose
establishment of such a system because it will not alleviate -- and indeed will
exacerbate -- the kind of discrimination that I experienced at the White House
and that thousands more experience at the hands of employers every year.

When computerized verification systems were first proposed, La Raza demonstrated
through an exhaustively documented report that they are likely to be misused by
employers and abused in other contexts. Despite the commission's insistence that
such a system could be limited to the employment context, it is already in use
in the workplace, in the delivery of social services and as a method of
verifying voter records in California, all of this notwithstanding the fact that
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which runs the database, has a
dismal record when it comes to keeping accurate information. We understand that
private business, states, counties and cities also are clamoring for access to
the database for purposes never contemplated by the commission. Hispanic
Americans are the inevitable targets and victims of such efforts.

Mr. Hill is right that the best way to avoid discrimination is to treat everyone
the same. Indeed the 1986 immigration law, which requires that employers verify
all of their workers, also requires that employers treat all employees the same.
But practice frequently falls short of theoretical goals, and some employers are
not abiding by this requirement of the law. More than a dozen studies, including
one conducted by the General Accounting Office, have confirmed that employers
single out citizens and legal residents with last names like mine because they
suspect us of being immigrants -- exactly the behavior I experienced when
seeking to attend a briefing at the White House last month.

When the commission recommended the creation of a nationwide computerized
verification system, it naively assumed that such a policy would contain strong
civil rights protections. The pilot projects enacted by Congress last year
contain nothing of the kind; indeed the law dramatically weakened the civil
rights protections enacted in 1986. Even if adequate protections had been
included in the legislation, the existence of such protections under the 1986
law did little to prevent or remedy the widespread discrimination that resulted.
Moreover, none of these protections applies to non-employment uses of these
databases.

Finally, I must correct Mr. Hill's characterization of La Raza as an "immigrant
rights" group. We are a national Hispanic civil rights organization representing
a population two-thirds of whom are U.S. citizens. His mischaracterization says
a lot about his perspective: He is making the same mistake that is made by those
who misuse verification procedures; he assumes that we are all immigrants. In
theory, Mr. Hill surely understands that not all Latinos are immigrants; my
point is that in practice his own words and actions do not necessarily reflect
such an understanding.

CECILIA MUNOZ

Deputy Vice President

Office of Research Advocacy and Legislation

National Council of La Raza

Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              143 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 08, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Senate Acts on Road-Building, Immigrant Issues in Supplemental Funding Bill

Helen Dewar; Joby Warrick, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 732 words


The Senate voted yesterday to make it easier to build roads through federal
lands and agreed to delay cutoff of some welfare benefits to legal immigrants as
it struggled to resolve disputes holding up an "emergency" disaster relief bill.

It also struck a compromise enabling the Census Bureau to plan to use sampling
techniques for its national head count in 2000 while making it clear Congress
could block implementation of the plan at any point [Details, Page A25].

But senators reported little if any progress in resolving the main dispute
holding up action on a "must-pass" bill providing $ 5.5 billion in aid to
victims of floods and other disasters in 33 states and $ 1.8 billion for
peacekeeping operations in Bosnia and the Middle East.

This dispute centers on a Republican proposal to forestall government shutdowns
by funding agencies at reduced rates when spending bills have not been enacted
by the start of a new fiscal year. Democrats describe the proposal as a backdoor
ploy to slash spending, and President Clinton has threatened to veto the bill if
the proposal is included.

The debate over disaster relief threatened to turn into a disaster for
environmentalists. Conservation groups were stung by the Senate vote on the
road-building measure, which increases states' authority to build highways in
national parks and wilderness areas. Environmentalists also were braced for
defeat in the House, which debated a proposal to grant broad exemptions from the
Endangered Species Act for dams and other water-control projects.

Opponents of the House bill said it would have weakened protections for rare
animals in areas as vast as the Florida Everglades and the Columbia River basin.
But GOP leaders withdrew the bill late in the day after the House narrowly
approved an amendment that limited its impact to emergency situations.

The fight over the measure split conservative and moderate Republicans,
underscoring the GOP's internal rift on environmental matters. The author of the
compromise, Rep. Sherwood L. Boehlert (R-N.Y.), a moderate, accused his
conservative colleagues of trying to gut the Endangered Species Act. "This bill
has little to do with floods and everything to do with using them as political
cover," he said.

The Senate's approval of the highway proposal sets up a showdown with the White
House, although it was unclear whether Clinton would veto the relief package
because of that provision alone. Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.)
cautioned that a veto based only on the highway provision probably could not be
sustained.

The proposal, pushed by senators from Alaska, Utah and Idaho, would overturn a
policy announced last January by Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt that seeks to
regulate access to rights-of-way on federal lands, including national parks and
wilderness areas.

Critics of Babbitt's action argued that it jeopardized primary transportation
routes in sparsely populated states with large federal landholdings, while
Babbitt's allies argued that its repeal would leave the federal government
without power to keep states from converting long-abandoned trails and mule
paths into paved highways.

An effort by Sen. Dale Bumpers (D-Ark.) to save the Babbitt policy failed, 49 to
51. But Appropriations Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) raised the
possibility of reaching a compromise when the bill goes to conference with the
House, which has not yet acted on the measure.

The continuation of Supplemental Security Income benefits to legal immigrants
was approved after GOP Sens. John H. Chafee (R.I.) and Alfonse M. D'Amato (N.Y.)
mounted a bipartisan effort to delay a planned cutoff for two months, until a
new budget providing for SSI payments to disabled immigrants takes effect. "It
is a prudent way of handling what otherwise could be a disastrous problem" for a
half-million legal immigrants, D'Amato said.

The bill, as proposed by the Senate Appropriations Committee, would have created
a $ 125 million block grant to states for disabled immigrants. The
Chafee-D'Amato proposal dropped the block-grant approach and provided $ 240
million to continue existing benefits after they lapse in August.

By voice vote, the Senate served notice it opposes further funding for U.S.
ground troops in Bosnia after June 30, 1998, which is the administration's
target date for withdrawal.

LOAD-DATE: May 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              144 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 03, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 256 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees:

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 9:30 a.m. Communications subc. Universal
service requirements for Internet. 253 Russell Office Bldg.

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 2:30 p.m. Communications subc. FCC rulings
on universal service requirements. 253 ROB.

Finance -- 10 a.m. Renewal of Fast Track. 215 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Foreign Relations -- 10 a.m. U.S.-Hong Kong agreement for surrender of fugitive
offenders. 419 DOB.

Governmental Affairs -- 1:30 p.m. Oversight of government management,
restructuring & D.C. subc. Technology grant programs. 342 DOB.

HOUSE

Meets at 12:30 p.m.

Committees:

Appropriations -- 10 a.m. Labor, HHS & Education subc. FY98 approps. 2358
Rayburn House Office Bldg.

Banking & Financial Services -- 10 a.m. Financial service modernization.
Treasury Sec. Rubin. 2128 RHOB.

Government Reform & Oversight -- 9:30 a.m. Government management, information &
technology subc. Government Performance & Results Act. 2154 RHOB.

Government Reform & Oversight -- 2 p.m. Government management, information &
technology subc. Transfer of surplus federal property to state & local
governments. 2154 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 4 p.m. Immigration & claims subc. Mark up private immigration
legislation. 2237 RHOB.

Resources -- 2 p.m. Oversight hearing. Fisheries conservation, wildlife and
oceans subc. Endangered Species Treaty. 1334 Longworth House Office Bldg.

Rules -- 1 p.m. Consideration of rules for pending legislation. H-313 Capitol.

LOAD-DATE: June 03, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              145 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 05, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Woman Admits Smuggling Bolivian Children Into Area

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 195 words


A Bolivian woman has pleaded guilty to smuggling children into the Washington
area from her homeland in a case that highlighted the growing use of passport
fraud to bypass U.S. immigration controls.

In a plea bargain, Teresa Jacqueline Martinez, 34, admitted smuggling four
Bolivian children into the country on a commercial flight in January 1996. She
fraudulently obtained U.S. passports for them by using fake Maryland birth
certificates that she manufactured in her Gaithersburg home. She also pleaded
guilty to making false statements on applications for passports and a Social
Security card. Prosecutors said she made thousands of dollars from the scheme.

In return for her guilty pleas Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Washington, the
U.S. attorney's office agreed to drop other passport fraud and alien-smuggling
charges against her. According to the State Department's Diplomatic Security
Service, which arrested Martinez in April, she admitted involvement in
fraudulent applications for 22 passports, of which about 20 were issued.

Most of the children were found living with relatives in the Washington area,
and they may face deportation.

LOAD-DATE: June 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              146 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 05, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Disputes Flare on Hill Over Budget Deal Details

Judith Havemann; John F. Harris, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 807 words


Congressional lawmakers began a legislative sprint yesterday to transform the
balanced budget deal into law as new disputes flared up over whether the
Republicans were reneging on the deal.

The White House joined congressional Democrats in accusing the Republicans of
violating a portion of the balanced budget accord that protected certain legal
immigrants from losing federal benefits.

"The provisions affecting disabled legal immigrants were an important part of
the budget agreement, and the administration worked hard to secure them," Vice
President Gore said in a statement. "We expect both sides to adhere to them."

The Republicans touched off this latest skirmish by proposing to provide
disability benefits to all legal immigrants who were receiving them when the
welfare law was passed last August. They described this as a humane effort to
prevent the government from kicking "old, poor and unemployable people" off the
rolls.

Democrats protested that they had agreed during the crucial balanced budget
talks to end benefits to elderly, nondisabled immigrants in return for covering
immigrants who become disabled in the future.

In effect, the fight is not over covering more people -- it's over which people
to cover.

The Republicans' provisions, said White House domestic policy adviser Bruce
Reed, "are directly at odds" with the recent budget agreement and "are very
tough on severely disabled legal immigrants who deserve to get help."

The Republicans argue that they're willing to keep providing benefits for
elderly immigrants who are already on the Supplemental Security Income rolls,
but they want to send a message to others that the American taxpayers will not
support them unless they become citizens.

"SSI has become a pension plan for Third World countries," said E. Clay Shaw Jr.
(R-Fla.), chairman of the House welfare subcommittee who made the proposal and
said it remains with the "spirit of the agreement."

Democrats charged that Shaw was violating an agreement protecting noncitizens
who become disabled from losing federal assistance.

"This would not only break the budget agreement but break the backs of tens of
thousands of legal immigrants," said Rep. Sander M. Levin (D-Mich.). "We
hammered out these provisions . . . in ink, in black and white, and now they are
violating them."

The immigrant dispute is a lingering remnant of the social policy debate that
raged throughout the last Congress.

The new welfare law cut off federal benefits to almost all immigrants who are
not citizens. Nearly a million permanent legal residents have received notices
that they face a loss of disability benefits and food stamps in August.

Gore also criticized a Shaw proposal to deny disability benefits to noncitizens
who entered the country with sponsors who now have incomes higher than about $
24,000 a year. Immigrant groups protested that the Republicans are renewing
efforts to deport noncitizens who become public charges. A public charge is
defined as someone who has received welfare benefits for more than a year.

Shaw said Republicans were not trying to deport anyone, but aides said stronger
deportation language was likely to be added to the bill as it moved through the
House.

Within the broad outlines of the agreement worked out between GOP leaders and
the White House, the committees have considerable discretion about how to
proceed, and Shaw said he intends to address another welfare issue when his
subcommittee meets Friday.

In effect, he intends to reverse a presidential decision to require states to
pay the minimum wage to welfare recipients required to work in state jobs.

The issue is symbolic to both parties as they battle over who has a greater
claim on the federal treasury: elderly immigrants who are already on the rolls
or immigrants who don't need help now but could in the future.

He intends to allow states to count a number of federal benefits, including food
stamps, housing subsidies and health care, toward part of their salaries.

White House adviser Reed said the administration is upset by Shaw's proposal to
allow noncash benefits provided to welfare-to-work beneficiaries to be
considered part of their salary.

Meanwhile, the Ways and Means health subcommittee voted 13 to 0 last night to
cut $ 115 billion from the growth of the Medicare program, primarily by reducing
payments to hospitals and managed care companies.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) signaled strong support for the
House GOP Medicare reform plan yesterday. "It looks to me like they've done
really good work," Lott told reporters. "The Senate Finance Committee may not
want to go with exactly what they have come up with, but preliminarily I'm
impressed with what they have."

Staff writer Eric Pianin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              147 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 01, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Noncitizen Immigrants Retain Aid in Budget Bills; Disability Benefits Restored
by House, Senate

Judith Havemann, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 500 words


Nearly 500,000 noncitizens who faced the loss of their disability benefits next
month have been spared.

The fine print of the balanced budget legislation passed by both the House and
Senate last week restores benefits to virtually all the nation's legal
immigrants who had earlier been notified that they would be cut off under the
welfare law passed last August.

The eleventh-hour decision eliminates one of the most controversial elements of
the welfare reform law and the source of great anxiety in the nation's immigrant
communities.

As the law was originally written, most legal immigrants who are not citizens
were made ineligible for disability benefits. Although deep differences remain
over whether to extend these benefits to noncitizens who may become disabled in
the future, the decision to cover those who are already receiving benefits
appears assured.

"Congress understood that they went too far in the welfare bill by cutting off
disabled folks," said Joel Najar, a policy analyst for National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group.

"I think the battle for fairness will be won," said Rep. Sander M. Levin
(D-Mich.), who predicted that in the end, all noncitizens who were in the
country last August will be eligible for Supplemental Security Income payments
-- whether they are disabled now or become so in the future. "Congress has to
make sure that the laws are fair and humane and effective. It is wrong and
ineffective to throw elderly people, most of them elderly women, on the street."

Congressional aides from both parties expect Levin's view to prevail, but
Republicans say they won the larger battle: establishing a policy that future
immigrants will not be entitled to a retirement income at taxpayer expense.

A large portion of the budget savings in the welfare law passed in August were
achieved by cutting off disability and food stamp benefits to noncitizens. When
President Clinton signed the measure, he vowed to "fix" the benefit cutoff for
noncitizens, and he won agreement in his early negotiations with Congress to
restore Supplemental Security Income payments to the disabled.

Restoring the benefits will cost at least $ 9 billion over the next five years.
There is no provision in the balanced budget agreement to restore food stamps
for noncitizens, which would cost $ 3.7 billion more over five years.

The benefit cutoffs for noncitizens have been unpopular in many parts of the
country and have been linked to at least five reported suicides.

The first of these occurred in Stockton, Calif., where Ignacio Munoz, 75, shot
himself 15 days after receiving notice from the Social Security Administration
that he could lose his $ 440 monthly disability check.

"He came to our office and said 'What is going to happen? What can I do? I can't
go back to Mexico,' " said Jose Rodriguez, director of the Council for the
Spanish Speaking in Stockton.

Rodriguez said Munoz had worried how he would survive without his check.

LOAD-DATE: July 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              148 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 03, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Some Benefits For Immigrants Won't Lapse; Budget Deal Funds New Job Initiatives

Sue Kirchhoff, Reuter

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 405 words


Congressional Republicans yesterday agreed to partially restore federal benefits
to hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants who faced a cutoff of aid this
summer under a new welfare law.

A five-year balanced budget deal worked out between President Clinton and the
Republicans also pays for a package of new work initiatives and mitigates some
food stamp cuts contained in the welfare law.

Overall the budget includes $ 15 billion in new welfare spending, administration
officials said. Clinton had asked for about $ 22 billion.

Republicans had vowed to oppose Clinton's plan, which restores a large share of
the spending cuts made by the welfare law. Under pressure from governors and
advocates for immigrants, and eager to get a budget deal, they compromised.

In the most significant change, the budget continues Medicaid and Supplemental
Security Income disability aid to legal immigrants who were in the country
before the welfare law was signed on Aug. 22, 1996.

Nearly 500,000 legal immigrants were to be cut off the SSI rolls this summer.
Assuming Congress passes needed legislation to implement the deal, benefits
would continue.

Legal immigrants not now on the rolls could qualify for aid if they became
disabled, so long as they were in the country before Aug. 22, 1996, officials
said.

The budget deal does not continue food stamps, however. Federal officials
estimate nearly 1 million legal immigrants will lose these benefits in August
under the new law.

Republican leaders had vowed they would not reopen the welfare law. But in the
face of mounting pressure from governors and immigrant groups, including several
lawsuits seeking to overturn the measure, they backed down.

Clinton, who promised last year to "fix" key provisions of the welfare law,
originally had requested about $ 18 billion to restore cuts in aid and $ 4
billion in new spending for jobs.

Administration officials said the overall budget package included $ 2.5 billion
for tax credits to businesses that hire welfare recipients and grants for job
creation.

It softens a provision of the welfare law that limits able-bodied people ages 18
to 50 to three months of food stamp benefits in any three-year period, unless
they are working part time.

The budget would provide some money for states to create workfare slots and let
officials exempt a percentage of the caseload on a hardship basis, analysts
said.

LOAD-DATE: May 03, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              149 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 18, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Freeing Smuggled Aliens

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa.


He Dai He's four-year ordeal as a prisoner began in the spring of 1993 when he
left Asia for the United States on a smuggling ship called the Golden Venture
with 276 other Chinese men and women.

After the ship ran aground near New York, the men and women were found huddled
on the beach. Fearing a mass migration from China, U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials jailed the survivors.

For years, the immigrants languished in prisons across the country. Now just 53
Chinese nationals remain incarcerated -- 40 of them in York County.

But not for long. With an order Friday from President Clinton, all the detainees
will be released this week.

"I don't know why your government should put us in prison for so long," He said
Sunday. "We have been suffering for so long. I hope for freedom day after day."

A judge still must determine whether they qualify for asylum. The released
detainees will get work papers while awaiting the immigration court decision.

The prisoners fear they will be sent back to China and punished by their
government, which some fled because of the forced family planning policy. Others
say they left for religious persecution. And a few said they just wanted to see
if things were better in America.

Most of the detainees already have some plans for their still uncertain future
in the United States.

"Maybe I will go to school," said Chen Sherm Dee, who said he left China after
protesting its politics. "I think that I'd be jailed if they send me back home."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              150 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 04, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Names & Faces

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C03; NAMES & FACES

LENGTH: 551 words


Marlene Here to Stay

It's finally Independence Day for Marlene Ramallo Chalmers Cooke.

After a secret three-hour hearing, U.S. District Judge Charles R. Richey ruled
yesterday that the Immigration and Naturalization Service cannot throw Marlene
Cooke out of the United States because she served time for drug charges, reports
The Post's Toni Locy. Marlene, a native of Bolivia, is the high-profile wife of
Redskins owner Jack Kent Cooke.

Richey said he is convinced the government made a deal not to deport her in
exchange for her cooperation with Virginia prosecutors, which helped jail 30
Latin American drug dealers. Marlene Cooke's lawyers, Robert S. Bennett and
Richard Brusca, filed suit in September when the INS tried to deport her anyway.

Shoes and Shirt Required

Royalty is only an admission fee away.

Buckingham Palace, Queen Elizabeth's residence in London, will stay open every
summer for paying visitors.

The palace gates were first opened to visitors and tourists in 1994 to generate
money to restore Windsor Castle, which was damaged by a November 1992 fire.
National Heritage Secretary Virginia Bottomley told Parliament that the queen
has decided to allow commoners in for several weeks during the summer even after
the restoration of Windsor Castle is completed in 1998.

Last year more than 400,000 people trooped through the palace, generating more
than $ 4.6 million. Once the renovations are finished, the money will go toward
preserving the queen's art collection and maintaining the areas open to guests.

Mourners for Morrison

Among the hundreds of mourners at Jim Morrison's grave yesterday was singer
Patti Smith. Yesterday marked the 25th anniversary of the Doors singer's death
from a heart attack in his bathtub. Smith put a small bouquet of white lilies on
his grave in Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris. Other mourners ranged from old
fans to children who weren't even born when he died. Before and since the 1991
film "The Doors," rowdy fans have marked the anniversary by taking drugs,
drinking and even rioting at the gravesite. Police and video surveillance
monitored the area to ensure there wasn't a repeat performance.

End Notes

John Travolta may return to the set of "The Double," but only if the director,
Roman Polanski, is dropped. Travolta walked out on the movie June 2 after
"creative differences" with Polanski. Steve Martin was slated to replace
Travolta as the star. Now Travolta and Mandalay Entertainment are trying to
negotiate his return.

Two other stars, Isaballe Adjani and Jean Reno, already had to leave the picture
because of the delay in the production schedule.

If Mandalay doesn't watch out, Travolta may be the only one still working on the
picture . . .

The Duchess of York will not be appearing on a runway any time soon. A
spokeswoman for Sarah Ferguson said the duchess was invited to participate in a
Rome fashion show, but turned down the offer . . .

Roger Daltrey may have to undergo eye surgery because of his run-in with a
microphone stand. The lead singer of the Who was injured after 1970s glam king
Gary Glitter accidentally hit him with the stand. Daltrey fractured his eye
socket and concert organizers said he will have to be examined further before a
decision is made on surgery.


LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/michel lipchitz, A young fan visits Jim Morrison's grave on
the 25th anniversary of the rock icon's death.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              151 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 08, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Research Shows Latino Immigrants Lagging Others; Deficits in Education, Wages
Not Improving, Studies Say

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 687 words


A pair of studies examining immigrants' progress in two crucial arenas, schools
and the labor market, bear troubling news about Latino immigrants.

Latino immigrants arrive in the United States with fewer educational and
economic advantages than natives or other immigrants, deficits that do not
improve as time goes on, according to the reports released last week by Rand
Corp. researchers.

"We have an economy that increasingly is asking for more educated people, but we
are moving in opposite directions," said Georges Vernez, director of Rand
Corp.'s Center for Research on Immigration Policy in Santa Monica, Calif., and
one of the reports' authors. "That is not a good sign for the future."

The worrisome trends were especially true of immigrants from Mexico, who were
found to fare the worst in school enrollment and in wage parity with native-born
Americans.

The education study, based on U.S. census data and a nationwide survey of 21,000
high school sophomores and seniors, is the most comprehensive analysis so far of
immigrants' achievements from elementary school through college. It offers some
good news.

It found, for instance, that immigrants in general are as likely as native-born
Americans to graduate from high school and to aspire to and enroll in college.
In fact, immigrants are more likely than their native counterparts to stick with
college for four straight years, in large part because their immigrant parents
have higher educational expectations than native parents do.

But Latino immigrants -- principally from Mexico -- were found to lag in
educational attainment and aspirations. In 1990, for example, only 74 percent of
Mexican immigrants between the ages of 15 and 17 were in school, compared to 95
percent for natives and other immigrants. The problem, Vernez said, is not that
they drop out but that they never "drop in" or enroll in school in the first
place.

Vernez and co-author Allan Abrahamse say they do not know why this occurs but
speculate that schooling patterns in Mexico may be an important factor. The
average Mexican completes school through the seventh grade, they note, so an
immigrant who arrives in the United States at age 15 or older may have been out
of school for at least two years.

"They do not enroll in U.S. schools either by choice, because of inability to
catch up with others their age, or by economic necessity," Vernez and Abrahamse
write in the study, called "How Immigrants Fare in U.S. Education."

They said that encouraging more Latino parents to be involved in their
children's schooling and upgrading the education of the parents themselves could
help to lift young immigrants' educational status.

Like the education study, the Rand Corp. report on the labor market also found
differences among immigrant groups. Immigrants from Japan, Korea and China start
out with wages much lower than native workers, but catch up in seven to 12
years, while European newcomers arrive with earning power similar to natives and
maintain that parity over their working lives, the study said.

But the wage gap persists and sometimes increases over time for the Mexican
immigrants.

The study, based on an analysis of U.S. census data, concludes that the wage
differences are attributable in general to the Mexican immigrants' lower levels
of education and work skills. But even for those Mexican immigrants with
education or skill levels comparable to native workers, wages are lower and the
progress toward parity slower, the study found.

The researchers said some of the reasons could be differences in education
between the United States and the immigrants' native countries, poor
English-language skills, cultural differences, discrimination and the
immigrants' legal status.

Overall, the study finds that immigrants' wages have been falling steadily in
relation to natives' earnings over the past 20 years due to lower education and
skill levels.

For immigrants from Central America and Mexico, average wages were 25 percent to
40 percent lower than natives' in 1970; by 1990, the differential had grown to
50 percent.

LOAD-DATE: July 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              152 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 08, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Immigration Agency's Geographical Distinctions; Efficient Baltimore Contrasts
With Problematic D.C.

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 2201 words


The Baltimore office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is in a
gleaming high-rise overlooking the harbor. In the main waiting room, all
immigrants seeking information are given tickets -- like the ones at deli
counters -- and wait for their numbers to be called. A sign says, "Have a good
day."

In an aging building in Arlington is the Washington office of the INS. Old desks
and bookshelves are jumbled in hallway corners. In the main waiting room,
immigrants also hold tickets, but only 50 are given out daily, and they are gone
by about 9 a.m. A sign says: "Information Not Furnished at This Window. No
Questions -- No Change."

Both offices serve tens of thousands of immigrants a year in the Washington
area, deciding who can remain in the United States, who can work, who can become
a citizen. Almost by definition, the process is fraught with anxiety and
frustration because so much is at stake.

But Baltimore's office, which handles immigrants living in Maryland, has earned
a reputation as a responsive, smoothly run operation. The Washington office,
which handles those in the District and Virginia, is known as just the opposite.
That means area immigrants receive radically different treatment from the same
federal agency based simply on where they live.

"If you live on the Maryland side of Western Avenue, you're dealing with one of
the most efficient, professionally run INS offices in the country," said Michael
Maggio, a lawyer who has worked with both offices for 18 years. "If you live on
the other side, it can occasionally be as painful as being condemned to one of
Dante's rings of hell."

Bruce Marks knows that feeling. Marks, who owns the Last Tangle, a District hair
salon, was supposed to be sworn in as a U.S. citizen last year. He received his
notice a few days before the ceremony but could not attend because of a
long-planned business trip. He wrote to the Washington INS office asking to be
rescheduled.

It took 15 months for the British citizen to get a response to his letters,
telephone calls and visit. "It's frustrating because you want to finally belong
and have your apple pie and American citizenship," said Marks, who has lived in
the United States for 17 years and delayed applying for citizenship until a
financial planner warned him of the tax consequences for his American family
when he dies. He was sworn in Wednesday.

Then there is the Harvard-trained economist from Central America who was
notified recently by the Washington office that part of his application for a
"green card," which would certify him as a legal, permanent resident, had been
denied. In fact, he said, the same office had approved it several months ago.
The office also directed him to pick up his work permit, although he had one in
his pocket, issued a few weeks ago by the same office.

"It's like, 'Hello, you sent it to me already. How come you don't have a copy?'
" said the economist, who -- like many anxious immigrants -- did not want his
name used because he still must undergo an INS interview.

By contrast, Makiko Ueno, a think-tank researcher, became a permanent resident
ahead of schedule in Baltimore. The Japanese native and longtime Bethesda
resident was scheduled to be interviewed in late July. But because she wanted to
visit her husband -- on assignment in Mongolia -- in June, she went to Baltimore
two weeks ago for a travel document.

A few hours after she arrived, she got the unexpected good news: no need for the
travel document because her case officer had completed the background checks for
her green card. He stamped her passport, and she became a legal permanent
resident that afternoon, with freedom to travel. Her card will arrive later in
the mail.

"It's amazing; I'm so excited," she said.

There is no shortage of horror stories at the Baltimore INS office -- which is
stricter in its review of applications -- and no shortage of success stories at
the Washington office. But lawyers and others who have regular contact with both
offices said that they know what to expect from Baltimore and that
predictability is preferable to the inconsistency of Washington.

The size of the staffs of the Baltimore and Washington offices handling
immigrant benefits is about the same -- 51 and 48. Historically, their caseloads
have been comparable. But until February, when the Washington office installed a
computer system, all its green card applications were filed in boxes. Baltimore,
on the other hand, was chosen two years ago by headquarters to test a new
computer system that tracks files and provides instant case histories -- the
only one of 33 INS districts in the country with that capability.

Last year, after a 1994 law change that made permanent residency easier to
achieve for some illegal immigrants, applications flooded INS offices across the
country. The surge in the Washington office was dramatic, nearly double the
caseload in Baltimore. As a result, would-be permanent residents wait nine to 10
months for their required INS interviews, compared with about four months in
Baltimore.

Staff members at the Washington office have told immigrants that mail is not
opened promptly. Immigration lawyers say their telephone calls are not returned.
Applicants complain that it takes months to get a response to inquiries. William
Carroll, who has been district director for the Washington office for the last
eight years, acknowledges that the system "is stretched to its limits."

But those who deal with the office routinely say that the differences between
Washington and Baltimore are not a recent phenomenon and that those differences
are explained less by the workload than by the tone set at the top for many
years by successive managers.

"As long as I can remember, Baltimore seemed to do better," said Larry Weinig, a
senior INS official who used to oversee the agency's services to immigrants.
Even when he personally requested information from the Washington office, he
said, it often came "with a pound of attitude."

"The people, the chemistry, it just doesn't seem to click there," he said. Some
of the same complaints and comparisons being made now were evident when he was a
senior manager in Baltimore 20 years ago. "You can't get a yes or no answer.
Stuff just kind of languishes."

Over the same period, Weinig said, Baltimore's managers have had a reputation
"for always having their hands up" in volunteering to test a pilot program or
initiative, while Washington's managers "have always been less active."
Baltimore's productivity and efficiency were the main reasons the office got its
computer system, he said.

Carroll, 48, has worked for the INS since 1972 and came to Washington from the
Los Angeles district office, where he was deputy district director. He said he
is proud of the ties he has established with immigrant communities in the
Washington area and of his office's elaborate citizenship ceremonies, which he
compared to "putting on a state dinner."

His Baltimore counterpart, Benedict Ferro, 58, has worked for the agency since
1963 and headed the Rome district office before taking over in Baltimore about a
year ago. He is a hard-driving boss -- internal mail must be distributed in a
day, and public inquiries must be answered within five days -- and he has a
reputation among some immigration lawyers as being aloof.

"I have some particularly strong managers," said Ferro, who, like Carroll,
declined to be photographed for this article. "They're the ones on the hook -- I
like to give them the credit, but they're also the ones who get the blame. . . .
I only get involved when that breaks down, and in Baltimore, that hasn't broken
down often."

By contrast, Ferro said, "Billy Carroll has one of the most difficult management
positions in the INS."

To some extent, Washington is more typical of other INS districts, according to
INS officials, and reflects a broader problem: the agency's decades-long bias
emphasizing law enforcement over service to immigrants, who pay fees to the INS
for everything from work permits to citizenship applications.

During a 2 1/2-hour interview in his Arlington office, Carroll called any
comparison between the two offices "totally unfair," because Baltimore has less
work and more resources.

Before February, permanent residency files in Washington were placed in boxes
and "batched by month, and we trudged through month by month," said Phyllis
Howard, the manager in charge of immigrant services. Three clerks assigned to
process about 6,000 pending cases also were responsible for handling mail
inquiries, so lower priority was given to "hooking up a piece of mail with a
file," she said.

When Baltimore became the pilot for the computer system, Carroll noted, it also
became the only INS district in the country with a direct-mail system that sends
the labor-intensive green card applications to a regional INS service center,
freeing clerical staff members to focus on other tasks; the Washington office --
and those in the rest of the country -- still does all its own paperwork. The
INS is shifting some of the processing from the districts to regional service
centers.

"When [Baltimore] got that ability, they were freed up a stupendous amount, so
they can actually answer letters," said lawyer Mark Mancini, who deals with both
offices.

Last year, Washington received nearly twice as many green card applications as
Baltimore -- 11,961 vs. 6,490 -- and this month, 17 temporary employees will be
added to help handle the backlog.

Lawyers and INS officials say the Washington office has had other personnel
problems beyond being shorthanded.

Two years ago, eight employees of the Washington office pleaded guilty to
accepting bribes for more than 4,000 work permits and 1,000 green cards. In
1983, an INS examiner pleaded guilty to approving false documents for green
cards in return for bribes.

In addition, turnover is higher in Washington than Baltimore, lawyers and
officials said. At the same grade level, workers in the Washington area are able
to find other federal agencies that are more attractive places to work than the
INS district office, where they may have to stand for hours serving customers
who may have difficulty understanding them and sometimes are rude, lawyers said.

Even under those constraints, Carroll said, "our productivity is increasing, and
we put customer service number one. . . . We try to do the best we can."

The backlogs "will go away by the end of July," he said, predicting that waiting
times for green card interviews should be cut in half, to about four months.

To improve customer service, Carroll has reassigned some personnel and scheduled
additional green card interviews for Saturdays. Since the fall, the office has
conducted same-day citizenship interviews and oath-taking ceremonies.

Meanwhile, a University of Maryland researcher from the Middle East has been
trying to become a citizen since he moved to Washington a year ago.

Much of his work involves Pentagon contracts, and he must become a citizen to
receive the highest possible security clearance. When he moved to Washington
from Los Angeles, he had passed his citizenship interview and needed only to be
sworn in.

But for several months, the Washington office staff could not find his file, he
said, and after it did, he spent several more months calling, visiting and
leaving handwritten notes for supervisors. "I mentioned it was urgent, that my
job depends on it, but they didn't get back to me," he said.

In April, he asked the office of Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) for help.
He has been told that his case has been approved. But he still is waiting to be
sworn in.

Carroll said cases that slip through the cracks are a minority of the tens of
thousands of applications successfully approved each year. People who do not
attend scheduled interviews or ceremonies, such as Marks, the hair salon owner,
or who change their addresses "greatly increase the time required to process and
the opportunity for errors," he said.

Some lawyers have developed a strategy for dealing with the Washington office:
They hang around and catch officials on the way to the bathroom or in the
waiting rooms.

Some lawyers say they charge more upfront for handling an application in
Washington, because they know the procedures require more time and work than a
Baltimore case. For advance paroles -- the document that lets individuals leave
the country for emergencies while their green card applications are pending --
lawyer Miriam Freilicher can send her Maryland clients to Baltimore to do it
themselves. The approvals usually are issued the same day.

But for her District and Virginia clients, Freilicher usually sends a lawyer,
often more than once, to the Washington office "because it's too hard," she
said.

And some lawyers try to head off the problem, advising immigrants moving to the
Washington area to settle in Maryland.

"It's not a routine piece of advice that I give out," said Donna Becker, "but if
someone asks me, 'Is there any way I can make this faster?' I have said, 'Maybe
[moving to] Maryland would be faster.' "


LOAD-DATE: July 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, margaret thomas, Lucy Oakley, formerly of Colombia, asks for
forms at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in Arlington, which a
lawyer likens to "one of Dante's rings of hell." The same lawyer says that in
Baltimore, by contrast, "you're dealing with one of the most efficient,
professionally run INS offices in the country." Teresa de Jesus Perez, of Silver
Spring, has her picture taken for a work permit at the INS office in Baltimore.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              153 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 09, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Three Marielitos, Three Manifest Destinies; For Immigrants of Cuban Boatlift,
Freedom Rings -- in Distinctly Different Tones

Marie Arana-Ward, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 4269 words


Every year about now, the memories rush back. The knock at the door. The police.
The neighbors shrieking "Escoria! Gusano!" ("Scum! Worm!") and wielding rocks.
The bumpy bus ride through the Cuban countryside to the port of Mariel. The
regiments of rifle-toting guards. The fierce-faced dogs. The biblical mass of
humanity huddled beneath the hiss of a nearby electric plant. And then the
heart-stopping sight of thousands of American boats bobbing in the water,
waiting.

Sixteen years ago this summer, the Mariel boatlift brought 125,000 Cubans to the
United States in one of the most remarkable waves of immigration in recent U.S.
history. It began when a driver seeking asylum rammed his van through the gates
of the Peruvian Embassy in Havana on April 1, 1980. A fight broke out. A guard
was shot. When Fidel Castro pulled Cuban security out of the area, 10,000 Cubans
flooded the embassy grounds, clamoring to leave. Furious, Castro opened the
borders and announced that anyone could go. American adventurers took to their
boats, descending on Cuba by the thousands, eager to be saviors of the
oppressed.

The Freedom Flotilla, President Jimmy Carter called it, and it was an invitation
as clear and open as the one carved in stone: "Give me your tired, your poor . .
. the wretched refuse of your teeming shore." The new arrivals poured into
Florida, jamming immigration facilities, straining police and welfare services
and giving Americans one less reason to reelect their president.

The lives of Eduardo Barada, Pedro Santa Cruz and Carlos Buergos converged in
1980 when each boarded a boat bound for Florida with nothing but the clothes on
his back. Months later, fate brought them to the streets of Washington. They
were led to the same destination, given the same chance to reinvent themselves.
And yet, somewhere in the decade and a half between youth and middle age, they
took divergent paths. Barada today is a radiantly successful entrepreneur. Santa
Cruz has worked in dozens of jobs and found little reward. Buergos's drug-soaked
trajectory has led him to forfeit the very freedom he thought he had won in
coming to this country, a paradox he contemplates in prison now.

"America," George Santayana said, "is the greatest of opportunities and the
worst of influences." For many Marielitos, life has been good and work
rewarding, but for just as many, the road has been bewildering and hard.

By any measure of success -- money, love, status -- the three men chronicled
here occupy points far from one another on the grand American spectrum.
Together, they offer a window on the perils and possibilities of immigrant life
in the 1990s. Each has struggled, found love, encountered his weaknesses and
strengths and discovered that in undertaking to become an American -- a voyage
every bit as stormy as the 90 miles from Mariel -- he has traveled farther than
he ever dreamed.

The Convict

Although Castro implied that anyone who wanted to leave Cuba was either criminal
or insane, most Marielitos were law-abiding citizens who passed themselves off
as "antisocials" to qualify for the exodus. Of the 125,000 who came, according
to Tomas Curi of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the great majority
hailed from ordinary lives in Cuba and proceeded to ordinary lives in the United
States. A small fraction of them -- about 2,500 -- were criminals and mental
cases thrown into the mix by Castro.

One of those was Carlos Buergos, eldest son of a stevedore, a wiry, blue-eyed
descendant of Spaniards -- happy-go-lucky guy and convicted thief. He was hardly
25 when he clambered onto Florida soil but already had accumulated a history of
misadventure.

His family was hardly the reason. His parents had raised nine children, a
tightly knit, responsible group of siblings ("I was the only bad one"). But by
the time America got him, he had fought in the war in Angola, been put in prison
for stealing and butchering horses, and then, on his release, been imprisoned
again for attempting to escape Cuba. He was exactly the kind of Cuban that
Castro did not want.

On May 9, 1980 -- one year into his 12-year sentence -- Buergos's prison threw
open its doors, and he was taken to the port of Mariel. There, with very little
ado, his wildest dream came true: He was put on a cargo boat bound for Key West.
Forty-eight hours later -- sunburned, sun-blind and dehydrated -- he was whisked
through a processing center with thousands of other Marielitos and put on a bus
to Fort Chaffee, a military base in Arkansas. Five months later, he was in
Washington, free to go out into the October afternoon.

The Functionary

Pedro Santa Cruz, a 25-year-old accountant in Havana's transportation
department, got his first American break in the Krome detention camp at the edge
of the Everglades. There he was spotted by Penn Kemble, now deputy director of
the U.S. Information Agency, then doing research on Cuba's war in Angola. "I was
looking for Afro-Cubans. . . . There were not a lot of blacks in the Mariel
camps. Pedro was a real black. He stood out."

Kemble befriended him. "He was depressed and didn't think he'd ever get out. But
he was very smart. And well-educated, well-versed in world affairs."

In fact, Santa Cruz had graduated second in his high school class and had
garnered honors at Jose Marti University. The only child of a seamstress, he was
one of nine inhabitants in the two-room house of his mother's second husband, a
gas station attendant who adopted him as his own.

He held several government jobs, but he never made much headway because he
refused to join the Communist Party. "I was having trouble with 'the
revolution,' " he says in a lilting Cuban Spanish.

When the Mariel expulsion began, he got a call from an old professor. " 'You
haven't built a good political base, Pedro,' he told me. 'The best thing you can
do for yourself is go.' " He began soliciting letters from friendly officials
who were willing to lie on his behalf and say that he was antisocial, lazy and a
liability to Cuba. He presented the papers to the police; two days later, a bus
appeared at his door.

In another week, he found himself incarcerated at the Krome camp. As the weeks
dragged on, he tried to forget his anxieties by helping fellow Cubans with their
paperwork. When Kemble came to his tent asking about Angola, he decided to help
him, too.

Kemble didn't forget Pedro Santa Cruz. Months later, he offered to be his
sponsor. By September, Santa Cruz was in Kemble's home, scratching his head over
the electric can opener and wondering how he would ever learn which bus to
catch.

The Dreamer

Eduardo Barada crossed to Florida on a 50-foot shrimp boat as a storm whipped
the sea into a fury, sending streams of salt water across the deck. When he
looked down, there was little left of his well-worn shoes. "I took them off and
threw them overboard," he says. "The next day, I arrived in the United States
barefoot, walked onto my first airplane barefoot and stayed barefoot for the
full first two weeks of my American life.

"My great good luck was to have grown up in Cuba," he says. "It taught me
discipline." When he was 7, his mother died, and his father placed him in an
orphanage. For the next 10 years, he was a ward of the Cuban state. When he
graduated at 18, he got a clerical job and began dreaming about owning his own
business. "Many of us were frustrated by the communist system, but of course we
never said that out loud. And life went on. I got married; we had a baby. But
one Sunday when I was 23, I was out having lunch with friends and someone
mentioned that they were taking applications at Mariel. I said: 'That's it.
Let's go.' "

His young wife was unwilling. They were black, and she had heard things about
the way black people were treated in the United States. But she didn't try to
stop him, and he left, thinking that someday she would follow.

Barada convinced Cuban officials that he was a drug addict. They took him in one
of the first roundups.

As soon as he passed through Key West, he was transferred to Miami International
Airport and ushered shoeless onto a flight to Pennsylvania. They took him to
Indiantown Gap, a National Guard training center where 20,000 Marielitos were
held behind barbed wire.

In August, after several strikes in holding camps across the country, the INS
began processing Marielitos rapidly. They gave Barada $ 20 in pocket money and
asked him where he wanted to go. He pulled out a scrap of paper with an address
someone in Key West had scribbled down for him. It was in Washington.

The Slow Slide

When former convict Carlos Buergos walked out into the crisp October afternoon
in downtown Washington, INS staff members had done three things for him: They
found him a job as a busboy in American University's cafeteria at minimum wage,
no tips. They gave him a monthly stipend of $ 150 until he was settled into the
routine. And they rented a room for him in a Mount Pleasant boardinghouse.

After a few months, he landed another job with a caterer to augment his meager
salary. Coming home late one night from that second shift, he was robbed by
three street toughs and shot in the stomach. For two months, he nursed eight
perforations in his intestine. He underwent a colostomy and was unable to eat
normally.

He had survived a shooting before. In the Angolan jungle nine years earlier, a
well-aimed lead slug had pierced his skull, grazed his brain and exited the rear
of his cranium. It took three months in a Mozambique hospital cot to bring him
around. The scars are clearly visible on his forehead and crown.

When he recovered from the stomach wound, he started in on a carousel of
short-lived jobs -- waiting tables, tending bar, putting up drywall. But it was
with a difference now: He'd sniff a bit of cocaine when he was out with friends.
He had never taken illegal drugs before.

And he began collecting misdemeanors. INS correspondence shows arrests in 1982
and 1983 for carrying a concealed weapon. "I was with a group of Cubans both
times," he says, "and we were a little drunk in a 7-Eleven parking lot maybe.
The weapon was my drywall knife."

One day in 1984, he was offered several days' pay to deliver a packet of cocaine
across town. Before long, he was taking packages here and there for anyone who
asked. On Sept. 24, 1984, according to Buergos, he was sent off with a thick
stack of $ 100 bills to Springfield, Mass., but when he and his traveling
companion checked into their motel room, the other man pulled a pistol from his
belt, shot Buergos in the back and ran off with the money. Rushed to the
emergency room, he was hospitalized for two weeks. The bullet is still lodged in
his hip.

Within a few months of his release, he began buying cocaine regularly. By 1987,
he was doing errands for small-time dealers, keeping himself in gold chains and
designer clothes, feeding a spiraling habit. He robbed a store and a private
house in Ocean City, Md., and served 12 months in prison.

In 1988, he met a young Venezuelan woman who was cleaning houses in Bethesda.
Responsible and hard-working, she tried to instill some order in his life, and
for a while he was off drugs and working regularly as a drywall finisher. The
two were married and had a baby boy in May of the following year.

Buergos got his best job yet -- as a waiter at Rockville's Woodmont Country Club
-- but it didn't last long. He quit in a huff when the headwaiter complained
that he was too slow. To take the place of one job, he now found two: working
room service at a Bethesda area Marriott hotel and then heading out with his
best friend to work as a waiter in a Baltimore Holiday Inn. "I was getting
right," he says, "trying hard." But when that friend died of cancer in 1991,
Buergos stopped showing up at either job. Soon he was back on cocaine with a
vengeance and into the netherworld of freaks and thugs who traded in it.

When a big-time drug dealer moved into his apartment building on 16th Street NW,
he began running drugs for him. Before long, Buergos's wife and their 3-year-old
checked into a shelter for battered women, and then she moved into a separate
apartment altogether, resolving to do something for her sickly little boy, who
was exhibiting acute signs of attention deficit disorder and emotional
confusion.

On his own, Buergos surrendered completely to his habit. He was, he says,
pocketing no money, just getting from one snort to the next. By the time he
landed in Lorton prison for selling cocaine, he was a ghost of the young blond
boy who had marched off to Angola 20 years before -- a gaunt, twitching,
130-pound basket case.

Buergos's 6-year-old son died last summer of heart failure; his wife has drifted
away. He speaks now, in rapid-fire Spanish, from a meeting room in Lorton. "I
can't blame this country for my flaws," he says, his arms resting on a bare
table. "This place has given me nothing but opportunities." Dreaming about a
possible parole next year, he is hopeful about his future: "I'm ready now to be
responsible. I can do it, I'm sure of it, if God and this country will just give
me another chance."

Gridlock

Pedro Santa Cruz eventually figured out the bus schedule from Penn Kemble's
comfortable Northwest Washington home and began an English as a Second Language
program at Georgetown University. He had friends in high places: Frank Calzon,
for instance, director of an organization called Of Human Rights and a prominent
anti-Castro activist, had secured him the place at the university. He studied by
day and washed dishes in the school cafeteria by night.

Santa Cruz was among the best performers in his class, and when he finished,
Kemble offered him a job in his Institute of Religion and Democracy, a group
helping Latin Americans. But when Santa Cruz found himself stuffing envelopes
and being paid a pittance, he left.

He began a series of menial jobs -- running errands at a Rosslyn printing shop
for $ 3.50 an hour, making sandwiches in a L'Enfant Plaza deli, cutting grass at
Arlington National Cemetery, even flipping hamburgers at McDonald's. In those
jobs, he often was tossed in with other Marielitos, among them Carlos Buergos,
whom he still calls a friend. But unlike Buergos, he was never caught up in the
lure of the illegal.

"Pedro was always straight," says the woman he eventually married, Carolina
Santa Cruz, a white Honduran. "He was quiet and tranquil, a man with good
manners and a good nature. His problem was not any given temptation; it was that
he never understood what it takes to make it here."

Although he was constantly signing up for courses -- computer skills, insurance
sales, real estate and banking -- his career never seemed to take off. He found
employers became nervous when applicants identified themselves as Mariel Cubans,
something Santa Cruz always did openly, proudly.

When he and Carolina were married, he was still working construction, taking odd
jobs as a salesclerk in the evenings to augment his income. She was a university
graduate, but she cleaned houses in Potomac for a living. "That sort of thing
never bothered me," she says. "I was studying insurance on the side, and the
people I worked for were so nice to me."

By 1990, when their daughter, Mariel, was born, Carolina had landed a $
26,000-a-year job selling insurance for Allstate. Shortly thereafter, Pedro
became an $ 8.50-an-hour part-time accountant for a printing company in
Virginia. They moved into a three-bedroom town house in Arlington, acquired an
assortment of credit cards and sent for Pedro's mother in Havana to come live
with them and mind the baby.

Pedro's mother did come, but she balked at the baby-sitting responsibilities.
She felt hoodwinked and complained that she hadn't come to the United States to
be anybody's slave. She wanted to go out dancing, have some fun. And she
insisted on being paid. Within weeks of her arrival, there was all-out war
between the two women. Before long, Pedro was driving his mother to Miami in a
car he could barely afford, hoping the Cuban environment there would be more
welcoming for her.

The setting was definitely more Cuban but hardly more welcoming. Miami Cubans
were largely from pre-revolutionary Cuba's upper classes. And they were largely
white. "When I started looking for an apartment, it hit me how racist the
established Cuban community there was. I'd call and people would be pleasant on
the telephone. 'Yes, Mr. Santa Cruz, how nice, a Cuban from Washington. Please
come over, have a look.' And then we would show up, they would see that we were
black, and suddenly the apartment wasn't available anymore." Santa Cruz
eventually did find a Miami home for his mother, and after a rocky period of
adjustment, she settled down in the job she still has: ironing clothes in an
apparel factory.

By the time he returned to his wife and daughter in Arlington, however, his
world had changed. He began to miss Cuba, to resent the standoff between his
wife and mother, and to hop from job to job again.

Amid rampant credit card debt and day-care costs for the baby, he and Carolina
found themselves fighting about money, fighting about work and contemplating
separation. In February 1995, after years of unhappiness, they were divorced.

Today, Carolina is still at Allstate, making $ 44,000 a year. Pedro, after a
series of jobs, is a sales representative for First National Bank of Maryland,
making $ 21,000. He lives in a rent-controlled building in Arlington, where he
often spends time with 6-year-old Mariel. Life is simpler now, he says.

"He'll stay at that job for a while," his old friend Penn Kemble says, "and then
he'll start to wonder why he's not getting anywhere. He'll get angry and
discouraged, and he won't realize that he has to promote himself. That he has to
go out and do the middle-class American thing of hustling, doing favors, getting
in with the boss, getting noticed, pushing his way up the ladder."

"Maybe it's because I'm from a communist country," Santa Cruz says, "but I think
it's very difficult here. It's not the racism. There's racism in Cuba, too,
though everyone there is trained to deny it. What's hardest for me about the
United States is the lack of security. You can get the pink slip any time.
There's more to life than a job, but you'd never know it living here. This
stressed-out, work-obsessed, credit card culture is not for me. I can do it, but
I don't like it.  . . .

"Sometimes I think that if all 125,000 of us had stayed," says Pedro Santa Cruz,
leaning back in the mauve chair of his bank's tidy little conference room, "Cuba
might have been a different place today. All the unhappiest ones, all the
frustrated ones left. We could have been a force for change.

"No, I don't want to die here. Someday, when Fidel's gone, I'll take my mother
and go back to Cuba, have a little house on the beach, teach English and
business and be free of the tyranny of the almighty car and dollar. Jose Marti
said it long ago, but it has taken me 16 years to appreciate his words: 'Nuestro
vino es amargo pero es nuestro vino.' " Our wine is bitter, but it's ours.

The American Dream

Across the Potomac, a Marielito with a fraction of Santa Cruz's advantages was
thriving. Eduardo Barada arrived at the scrawled address, settled in with a
Cuban family and took a job with the garbage and floor-polishing detail at Blair
House, the U.S. government's guest house for visiting dignitaries. "You had to
be careful in those days. People would hire a Marielito, ask for his Social
Security number, then throw him out and use the number for somebody else. The
Latins especially treated us badly."

It didn't seem to matter. Barada was making his own opportunities. For a while,
he did menial jobs at the Four Seasons Hotel, the place he calls "my school." He
credits Omar Cardenas, a Peruvian waiter there, with teaching him everything he
knows about the business.

"I met Eduardo Barada in the hotel personnel manager's office one day," Cardenas
says. "He spoke no English, and the manager wanted me to explain to him that
there were no openings. He was just sitting there, understanding nothing. But
there was something about him. So honest." Cardenas persuaded the manager to
hire Barada as a kitchen boy, and then trained him up the ranks.

Three years later, pursuing his dream of owning his own business, Barada decided
that he needed to know how goods moved from wholesale to retail, and so he
offered to work at Potomac Wines in Georgetown for nothing. "I was more
interested in what they could teach me than in what they could pay me, but they
paid me anyway. Eventually the owners even trusted me with the store's money."
He worked there for two years.

In 1987, Barada opened Altagracia, a small shop in Adams-Morgan, selling herbs
associated with Santeria, an Afro-Cuban religion. Four years later, he had
raised enough money to open Habana Village, a scruffy little bar and dance spot
that would change his life.

On Thanksgiving 1995, when the nightclub was closed, a fire consumed the
premises. Barada had no fire insurance. But this apparent disaster turned to his
advantage when two investors came forward to help him rebuild.

Today, Barada is a legend among Cubans in this city, and in recent years, his
fame has reached back to Havana. Even the diplomats who represent Fidel Castro
in the Cuban Interest Section at the Swiss Embassy can be found raising a glass
or smoking a cigar at his new Columbia Road bar. Barada's nightclub is a
throbbing center of Latino culture, where classes and exhibits are held, where
you are likely to find a law partner dancing with a garage attendant, black with
white, rich with poor, young with old, where "at least one night at a time,"
Barada says, "we can all be equals."

Last year, when he returned to Cuba for the third time, Barada went through a
grueling week of ordainment into Santeria. He is a high priest, a babalao. Even
his management style verges on the inspirational. "The most important asset is
the human component," a recent memo to his staff says. "No pessimism or
negativity allowed."

At first, he says, he had problems with white and Latino police officers. "All
they could see was this" -- here he points to his cinnamon skin -- "my
exterior." His face breaks out into a wide, sunny smile. "And now that they see
this part of my exterior" -- he flings his arms about to indicate the pleasant
ambiance of Habana Village -- "they are my friends."

He and his wife divorced last year, but he continues to support his 16-year-old
daughter. He sends money to the Cuban school that helped raise him. And he wants
to help the Marielitos who keep appearing at his doorstep.

Someday Carlos Buergos may be among them. "Si si, Barada. I've heard all about
him," Buergos says, his blue eyes shining momentarily out of a haggard,
tic-tortured face. "When I get out of here next year, I'm going to go see him. I
hear he helps Marielitos like me. Maybe he'll let me work for him."

"If they come to me," Barada says, "I help them. But I have no sympathy for
people who waste the chance this country gives them. The addicts, the hoods.
They are incompetents, irresponsible. There are 9 million people sitting in Cuba
right now who can do exactly what I have done, if given the opportunity. I feel
sorry for the ones languishing on that island with no chance at all."

Someday, he says, he will marry Julia Aymerich, a serious young Spanish woman
who is finishing her doctorate in linguistics at Georgetown University. Barada
himself is almost entirely self-taught. His success in America is not a result
of any particular credential. It seems to be a direct result of his state of
mind. "Live with love and act from discipline, and life will treat you well," he
says.

"I feel sorry for my sad fellow immigrants who came to this country chasing the
almighty dollar. I want to shake them and tell them: 'Don't think so much about
the money. That's not what's important. Destiny's the thing. That's what you can
change in America. I've done it. I know.' "

1,400 Marielitos Detained in U.S. Official Says Crimes Here, Not in Cuba, Are
the Reason

Today 1,400 Marielitos remain in detention in the United States, 963 of them in
federal prisons, the rest scattered among Immigration and Naturalization Service
facilities and county jails. Keeping Marielitos in correctional facilities has
cost the federal government half a billion dollars since the 1980 boatlift.

"Nobody is being held based on their criminal records in Cuba," said Tomas Curi,
of the INS. "Everyone who came in 1980 was released at one time or another. If
they are being held now, it is because they have commited crimes in the United
States, some of them repeatedly. Five or six hundred of them are very violent,
with records of assault, murder or rape."

In 1984, the INS got Cuba to agree to repatriate 2,700 of those the service
categorized as "the worst offenders" -- Marielitos repeatedly found guilty of
serious crimes. But after 1,300 were returned, Cuba's Fidel Castro refused to
admit any more. In the last three years, the INS has managed to repatriate about
100 Cuban criminals a year.

Besides Carlos Buergos, five Marielitos are incarcerated in the Lorton
Correctional Complex. Until last year, 100 or so with serious mental problems
were being held at St. Elizabeths Hospital in the District. They have been
dispersed to halfway houses and federal prisons.

-- Marie Arana-Ward


NAME: Eduardo Barada, Pedro Santa Cruz and Carlos Buergos

LOAD-DATE: July 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias; Photo, joel richardson; Photo, margaret thomas;
Photo, frank johnston, Cubans crowd the deck of a boat in the Straits of Florida
during the Mariel boatlift of 1980, which brought 125,000 Cubans to the United
States.  Eduardo Barada relaxes in his Columbia Road nightclub, a center of
Latino culture that even attracts diplomats representing Fidel Castro.  Pedro
Santa Cruz, once an accountant in Havana, works in a bank office after a series
of menial jobs. He dislikes the "work-obsessed, credit card culture" here.
Carlos Buergos, a convict in Cuba, has ended up in prison in this country,
losing the freedom he had sought in coming here.  Carlos Buergos's drug habit
led to a prison term. He is hoping for parole next year: "I'm ready now to be
responsible." Pedro Santa Cruz's plans for a post-Castro Cuba: He'll teach "and
be free of the tyranny of the almighty car and dollar." During a visit to
Havana, Eduardo Barada pauses in the neighborhood where he was born. Word of his
success in the United States has reached his homeland.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              154 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 09, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

United by Ideas

E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The half-life of July Fourth speeches is no more than a week. To the extent that
we listen to them, we forget them fast. Often, we don't listen at all. Baseball
games are usually more fun to watch, and the beach beckons.

But it's a shame that we forget those speeches, even the most pedestrian ones,
when it comes to our talk about immigration.

Your average July Fourth speech has something to teach us because it is the rare
patriotic orator who emphasizes the bloodlines, backgrounds or ethnicity of the
Founders. They are celebrated -- and thus we celebrate ourselves -- for sharing
not blood but ideas: ideas about human freedom, self-government, individual
initiative and mutual assistance.

The lesson is that someone's "Americanism" is not measured by how long his or
her family has been here. The most American of Americans are not necessarily the
old-timers. Often, the newest Americans take our founding ideas more seriously
than the rest of us do. After all, they chose to come here.

That is why two of the standard arguments about immigrants are mistaken.

The first sees high rates of immigration as a threat to the "American idea" and
"American culture." All these new immigrants from such diverse places as China
and Korea, India and Pakistan, Mexico and El Salvador, Nigeria and Ghana, are
seen as somehow less "assimilable" to the American idea than those of us whose
forebears came from England, Ireland, Germany (or, in my case, Quebec). Stop
immigration, they say, before America stops being America.

The other position mirrors the first. It's a multicultural argument asserting
that by the year 2000-whatever a majority of Americans will be nonwhite. This
view celebrates that fact as the downfall of "European-American" hegemony. We
European-Americans had better get used to it.

What's wrong with both of these claims is what was wrong with similar
predictions that were made in the past. When Catholics started immigrating here
in large numbers, some Protestant Americans (fortunately, not most) argued that
they -- I should say we -- held "popish" views totally alien to the American
tradition. We'd foist papal despotism on the country and ruin it.

Those who made that argument would thus be shocked at what is obvious on the
streets of Queens, the vast middle-class and polyglot borough of New York City
where I spent my Fourth. If you want to find American flags at virtually every
house and street light, you don't have to go to the old family suburbs. Visit
the Irish, Italian or Polish neighborhoods here. Don't get into a fight with
these folks about who is truly patriotic.

Similar fears were expressed later when Jews and "dark-skinned" southern
Europeans came to our shores. Surely, said the fearful, those immigrants
couldn't become "true Americans." But they did. So there's a heavy burden on
those who claim that, somehow, our latest immigrants are all that different.

The multiculturalist argument is flawed because it assumes that all "people of
color" are broadly the same, which itself ignores the true meaning of
"diversity." It's also wrong because it claims that the American idea is so
deeply white and Protestant that the new immigrants will reject it.

Says who? The American idea itself has already been affected profoundly by
African Americans whose struggle for freedom gave meaning to the Founders'
radical assertion that "all men are created equal" and to the biblical
injunction to "let justice roll down like the waters." The universality of our
founding documents and ideas is precisely what allowed us to become a genuinely
and uniquely pluralist society.

True, we don't always live up to our claims, and we argue a lot about what they
mean in practice. But America would stop being America if we stopped arguing and
thinking about the tensions between universalism and pluralism. The very fact of
that argument -- it doesn't happen everywhere -- is why so many kinds of people
feel comfortable here.

None of this means that it is automatically "racist" for someone to assert that,
at a given moment, we should reduce the numbers of immigrants. Since we cannot
afford to let everybody in, we will necessarily argue about whom we will let in
and how we'll enforce our immigration laws. Nor is it wrong to consider the
impact of immigration on wage rates or the costs to local governments in areas
where immigration is high.

But these are practical questions, not arguments that attribute some peculiar
strangeness to outsiders. For my part, I'm grateful that we're a nation of
immigrants and hope we stay that way. If we had closed the borders a century or
so ago to my forebears, I wouldn't be writing this column. More important, I
would not be enjoying the privilege of being an American.

LOAD-DATE: July 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              155 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 10, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Not Frank in D.C.

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; IN THE LOOP; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 935 words


It was a classic example of "Gotcha 101," a required course for any of
Washington's many lobbying groups. There was retired Gen. Colin L. Powell
appearing Monday on the Derek McGinty radio chat show, pumping the paperback
version of his autobiography.

Then came call-in time.

Pro-immigration groups have long felt Powell opposed moves on the Hill, backed
by Robert J. Dole, to allow states to deny education to illegal immigrant
children. But the word from Powell was he just wouldn't talk about it publicly
and the groups couldn't figure out a way to smoke him out.

While Powell was taking calls, out of the blue, a caller just happened to ring
up and ask his views on educating the children. Powell said that Dole's view was
"shortsighted," and that the United States should give the kids "the wherewithal
to eventually become productive citizens." Bingo! It made news all over the
country.

What luck, huh? Well, maybe not. Sources say the caller was not a random
listener but rather someone from the pro-immigration National Immigration Forum.

"I can't imagine who might have called," said Frank Sharry, the group's
executive director. "There is a high level of interest in this issue" all over
the country, he said.

Right.

One Democrat's Going to Miss the Party

Some Florida Democrats are upset over the participation of a convicted tax
cheater in the planning of a large Clinton fund-raiser in Fort Lauderdale on
Aug. 18, part of a national Democratic plan to beam Clinton's big 50th birthday
bash at Radio City Music Hall in New York around the country.

The Fort Lauderdale crowd is unhappy that former Broward County Democratic Party
boss Russ Barakat is a key event planner, according to the Fort Lauderdale
Sun-Sentinel. He's been convicted of income tax fraud, they say, and some
Democrats are refusing to participate.

Not to worry. As the paper notes, Barakat may not be able to attend anyway: He's
being sentenced Aug. 5 and is looking at up to 18 months in prison.

Baker's Back at the Mongolia Desk

Veteran State Department reporters rolled their eyes last week as spokesman
Nicholas Burns praised once-communist Mongolia on its recent voting. Seems the
election's fairness was certified by none other than former secretary of state
James A. Baker III. The old-timers remembered Mongolia as Baker's favorite
country. A 1990 visit caused a flap over whether he would hunt the endangered
argali sheep. He had his gear along but the Gobi desert swing was canceled by
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Baker went back a year later and got to the Gobi but
only to sightsee.

This trip, paid for by the Asia Foundation, also didn't include hunting. Baker
is very popular in Mongolia -- his picture is still in lots of government
buildings, we're told -- and he readily accepted the invitation to co-chair the
election observer group with Sen. Charles S. Robb (D-Va.). But three trips in
six years to beautiful downtown Ulan Bator, some of which looks like East Berlin
in the old days? Maybe he just can't find good fermented mare's milk in this
country.

Chalk One Up for Tutwiler & Co.

Speaking of Baker, his former aide, Margaret Tutwiler, won one in federal court
yesterday. A special three-judge panel gave her -- or rather her lawyer,
Terrence O'Donnell -- $ 136,000 and change in legal fees. An independent counsel
investigation cleared her of wrongdoing in the search of President Clinton's
passport files by the Bush administration during the 1992 campaign. "Yes, there
is a Santa Claus," she says, "after close to four years of living hell . . . the
government apologized and the reimbursement issue came out right."

They're Bored and We're Broke

Republicans are upset that the Clintons' Whitewater, FBI files and other
troubles don't seem to interest the public. It's worse than they think. Even the
Democrats are bored. Back to Business: The "outside rapid response" group set up
to fight for the Clintons may be closing up shop soon. Rumor has it there's no
more money.

Mum Is the Breathless Spokesman

Waiting to Exhale? There's a paging service for the White House press corps to
alert them to when there's an important event to cover. The regulars often don't
bother. But there was one yesterday that got everyone excited: "Mike McCurry
will not breathe today," the page said. That's B-R-I-E-F.

Last Exit to Indianapolis

Federal Highway Administration boss Rodney E. Slater probably should have passed
up an Indianapolis stop during his 11-day national tour from San Francisco to
Washington to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Interstate highway system.

That was too close for Rep. David M. McIntosh (R-Ind.), who accused Slater of
taking a $ 20,000 "nationwide summer vacation" at taxpayers' expense.

McIntosh, who chairs a House Government Reform and Oversight subcommittee, says
he may call Slater to testify about his travel, which the Republican says
included trips with political functions thrown in, 14 trips to his home in
Little Rock and foreign travel.

FHA spokesman Andrew Paven says that everything is on the up-and-up and that
Slater has traveled about the same as his Republican predecessors. Fourteen
trips home in over three years is "certainly not excessive," Paven said, and
there have been only two trips that included political events and those were
done "absolutely by the book."

McIntosh questioned a stop in Utah, Paven said, but that was to help the state's
Republican governor get the roads ready for the Winter Olympics, in a state
Clinton couldn't win if Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) campaigned for him.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              156 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 10, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Importing Poverty

Robert J. Samuelson , Newsweek Inc.

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1021 words


As a nation, we are importing poverty. That is the clearest consequence of the
surge in immigration that began in the early 1970s. I do not say this to be
alarmist or to advocate any type of immigration legislation. I say it merely to
highlight an important truth that's usually overlooked in our political
discussions of other social issues, ranging from poverty to the lack of health
insurance. We deceive ourselves by discussing these matters as if immigration
has had little effect on them.

The silent assumption is that the population is static. If poverty hasn't
declined, then something must be making it harder for people to escape poverty.
If more people lack health insurance, then insurance must be much less
available. If income inequality has risen, then something must be widening the
gap between the "haves" and "have-nots." But the population isn't static. Many
people at the bottom are immigrants, and because they arrive poor, they
instantly aggravate all these problems. They take lousy jobs with low wages and
no insurance.

In any one year, new immigrants (about 800,000 of them legal and perhaps 300,000
illegal) don't much alter social conditions. But the cumulative impact is
significant. Between 1970 and 1994, immigrants rose from 4.8 percent to 8.7
percent of the population. Counting their American-born children amplifies the
effect. And the new immigrants come from different countries than the old. In
the 1950s, two-thirds of a much smaller number came from Europe and Canada. By
the 1980s, nearly half came from Mexico, other parts of Latin America and the
Caribbean; almost 40 percent came from Asia.

It is not simply that many new immigrants are desperately poor and don't speak
English. That's often been true. More important, many don't achieve the rapid
income gains of some earlier immigrants. Wages of many European immigrants
approached (or even exceeded) the levels of native-born Americans after 10 or 15
years. A new study by the Rand Corp., a research organization, shows that this
is still true for Europeans and also applies to many Asian immigrants. In 1990
wages for European immigrants who arrived in the late 1970s were 10 percent
above those of American-born workers; for Asians who arrived in the late 1970s,
wages were 15 percent higher in 1990.

But the picture for Mexican and many other Hispanic immigrants is much
different, reports Rand. Mexicans arriving in the late 1970s received wages half
the level of natives; by 1990 their wages were still about half. Simply as a
matter of arithmetic, all these poor workers worsen our poverty indicators.
Unfortunately, gauging the effect is hard, because the subject hasn't been
rigorously studied. Immigrants are examined in isolation: How fast do they
assimilate? Do economic benefits outweigh costs?

By contrast, I have tried -- from various government reports -- to estimate the
broader impacts. To do so, I used the classification "Hispanic" as a substitute
for "immigrants," because most reports don't identify immigrants separately.
Admittedly, this is crude. All Hispanics aren't immigrants, and all immigrants
aren't Hispanic. Still, immigration has propelled the rise of the Hispanic
population, and so the connection -- though loose -- is real. Here's what the
reports imply:

Poverty: Perhaps a quarter to a half of the increase in poverty since the early
1970s reflects immigration. Between 1973 and 1994, the number of people with
incomes below the government's official poverty line rose by 15 million. Of
those, 6 million were Hispanic.

No health insurance: The impact is similar. Between 1987 and 1994, the number of
Americans without health insurance rose by 8.7 million; of these, 3.3 million
(38 percent) were Hispanic. (The Census Bureau has data before 1987 but says
that it isn't exactly comparable with later figures.)

Economic inequality: Immigration has aggravated it, though by how much is hard
to say. In 1994 nearly one in eight households among the poorest fifth of
Americans was Hispanic. In 1974 the Hispanic share was only one in 20. And as
the Rand study shows, average wages for immigrants have fallen compared with
those of natives.

Don't misunderstand me. Immigration didn't cause these problems. It simply made
them worse -- as it has crime and student test scores. Nor am I saying that the
ill effects can easily be erased by legislation. Many poor immigrants arrive
illegally. If we could halt that, we would already have done so. Indeed, some
anti-immigration measures could backfire. For example, one proposal now before
Congress would allow states to deny schooling to children of illegal immigrants.
That's unwise. Thousands of children could be ejected. And because many might
stay in the United States, they could ultimately end up poorer.

Finally, I'm not predicting a new permanent underclass. Though that's a
possibility, it's only one of many. Just because people arrive poor does not
mean their families stay poor forever. Later generations of Mexican-Americans do
better than immigrants, reports a study by economist Stephen Trejo of the
University of California, Santa Barbara. Among men, average wages for second-
and third-generation Mexican-Americans rise to about 80 percent of those of
whites. That's the good news; the bad news is that the gap hasn't yet vanished
altogether.

America's powerful tides of assimilation may work as they have in the past -- or
they may not. No one can say, because the surge in immigrants is too recent to
permit sweeping conclusions. Absorbing them is clearly one of the great
challenges we now face. My aim here is more modest. It is not to predict the
outcome of this struggle but to contest the convention of viewing immigration
separately from many other social problems. My message is less about immigrants
than about how we judge our condition.

It's unreasonable to think that so many poor newcomers could be assimilated
instantly or effortlessly. Immigration inevitably depresses our indicators of
national well-being. If we ignore that, we'll wrongly conclude that we're doing
worse than we are.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              157 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 11, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

It's Ellis Isle's Turn to Show Its Pedigree; Tug of Ownership Arrives at High
Court

Joan Biskupic, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 788 words


On the opening day of a Supreme Court trial to determine the fate of Ellis
Island, assistant New York attorney general Judith T. Kramer invoked millions of
bygone immigrants to argue that the nation's historic gateway should belong to
New York rather than to its rival, New Jersey.

"As far as they were concerned, their new lives were beginning in New York
Harbor, in New York City, in New York State" -- and not, she said almost
shuddering -- in New Jersey.

But New Jersey assistant attorney general Joseph L. Yannotti declared in his
opening statement that some of New York's evidence of jurisdiction is so lame
that "to call [it] sparse would be an overstatement."

Beneath the legal formalities of a centuries-old dispute now at the nation's
highest court is a clash of two belligerent neighbors saying essentially, "it's
mine and you can't have it." At several points in yesterday's day-long session,
the legal jargon gave way to interstate derision as befitting the two grudge
partners.

More than 12 million people entered the country through Ellis Island during the
60 years it served as an immigration station, officially closing in 1954. Since
1976, part of the island has been open to the public as part of the Statue of
Liberty National Monument and restoration work continues.

More than anything else the states appear to be vying for the prestige
associated with the historical site. A relatively small amount of state sales
and income tax revenues is generated on the island although the future could
bring greater development and more tax opportunities. In urging the Supreme
Court to hear its claim that New York is usurping the Garden State's rightful
authority, New Jersey cited potential commercial and historic preservation
projects that could yield significant revenues to the state with jurisdiction
over the island.

This first phase of New Jersey v. New York, which the court accepted in 1994
under its "original jurisdiction," meaning the case did not need to arise from a
lower court, is being held in a chandeliered, gold-trimmed conference room at
the high court, the first such trial ever conducted in the building. As is
typical in interstate disputes, the justices have appointed a "special master,"
or mediator, to take the evidence.

The master, Paul R. Verkuil, who says he expects to hold hearings through early
August, eventually will present a report and recommendations to the justices,
who then will give both states a chance to lodge exceptions to the report. The
justices themselves will hold oral arguments, likely in 1997, then vote in the
case. Because of the complexity of the dispute and amount of evidence to be
collected from both sides, Verkuil sought to hold the trial at the court rather
than piecemeal in the states.

Although New Jersey and New York will be introducing a range of historical
documents, including some from pre-Revolution days, their arguments come down
largely to competing interpretations of a 1834 compact signed after an even-then
long-standing dispute over land and water boundaries in the New York Harbor.

New Jersey said it agreed that New York had authority over the roughly three
acres that was Ellis Island in 1834, but that New Jersey had jurisdiction over
the surrounding waters. In the late 1800s and early 1900s, the federal
government, which had taken over the island for an immigration center, began
artificially filling underwater land -- which New Jersey says was part of its
jurisdiction. The island is now 27.5 acres, and New Jersey claims all but the
original three acres.

"[T]he artificial filling of a submerged bed and channel . . . does not change
the location of a state's boundary," New Jersey asserted in a legal filing,
saying that at no time did it cede its territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction
over the approximately 24.5 acres of filled land surrounding the original
three-acre island.

New York claims that the whole of Ellis Island has long been part of the Empire
State. It says while the 1834 compact established a boundary line between the
states, New York's control of Ellis Island was not limited to a fixed geographic
dimension. It argues that New York state retained sovereignty and jurisdiction
over the entire Ellis Island, including whatever might be added by fill.

The federal government, for its part, had urged the high court not to take the
case, saying its authority over the island is exclusive. But New Jersey says
that while the federal government was deeded the filled portion in 1904, it
never retained full governmental jurisdiction. (New York says it conveyed the
property to the feds in the 1800s.)

Staff researcher Nathan Abse contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map, brad wye; Photo, sherman morris jr., More than 12 million people
entered the country through Ellis Island. The Main Building, above, has been
restored.  Special master of the dispute, Paul R. Verkuil, will report to the
justices.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              158 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 15, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Communism's Cranky 'Friendship' Border

Keith B. Richburg, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14; FOREIGN JOURNAL

LENGTH: 975 words

DATELINE: FRIENDSHIP PASS, On the Chinese-Vietnamese Border


The surly Vietnamese customs agent in the ill-fitting olive-green uniform was
taciturn as he inspected the two suitcases, unfolding each article of clothing,
flipping intently through the pages of every book and magazine as he searched
for illicit or suspect materials.

Finally, his eyes narrowed, and he could hardly suppress his glee as he came
across the evidence of subversion he had been seeking: a Vietnamese newspaper
with photographs of the new Communist Politburo members, a press release
announcing the results of a just concluded party congress, and -- most insidious
of all -- four computer disks.

"No," he said in English, as he scampered off to tell his superior in an
adjacent room. "Not allowed."

The confiscated materials were eventually returned, after a bit of haggling and
close to an hour of waiting. But the incident illustrates the high level of
suspicion that still prevails here on the frontier between Vietnam and China --
a level of distrust so high that even taking names and photographs of Vietnam's
new leaders across the border could be considered an act tantamount to
espionage.

The border crossing point called Friendship Pass may well be one of the most
inhospitable spots on the planet. Now it is the preserve of unfriendly
immigration and customs officials, but in early 1979, the entire area was
devastated when China sent tens of thousands of troops and artillery pouring
over the border to teach "a lesson" to the ungrateful Vietnamese who had dared
invade China's ally, Cambodia.

The Chinese attack was repelled, with heavy casualties on both sides, but the
conflict ushered in a long cold war, punctuated by almost daily artillery
exchanges.

A gradual thaw began at the close of the 1980s, as Vietnam embarked on a new
economic liberalization policy and the border was opened for trading. A
Vietnamese troop withdrawal from Cambodia in late 1989 and a visit to Beijing by
Hanoi's top-level Communist leaders seemed to put the ancient antagonists back
on the path to more normal relations.

Only a few months ago, direct train links were reestablished for the first time
since the 1979 war, connecting Hanoi, Vietnam's capital, to Nanning in China's
Guangxi Province.

The rail line from Nanning was extended to Vietnam in the 1950s and became a key
conduit for shipping Chinese arms and military supplies to Hanoi during the
Vietnam War, back when the two states were fraternal Communist allies united
against American "hegemonism." These days, the rail line mainly moves Chinese
traders bearing fruits, vegetables, beer, plastic products and electronics. On
the border, workers are busy putting the finishing touches on a mammoth new
immigration and customs hall as evidence of the new rapprochement.

The train journey from Vietnam to China begins at Hanoi's cavernous, rundown
train station -- once you've managed to obtain a ticket, that is. The only
window selling tickets to China seemed perpetually closed without explanation,
despite the daylong opening hours posted.

Two types of tickets are available: the first, for about $ 50, is good for a
journey all the way to Nanning. The second ticket -- the existence of which the
Vietnamese guard like a state secret -- is valid only for a trip to the border
town of Dong Dang and costs just $ 5. From Dong Dang, you are told you have to
make your own way across the border and then catch a local Chinese train.

The pricier tickets provide a "soft seat" in a compartment filled with
well-to-do Vietnamese and Chinese business travelers and a few backpackers from
Europe and Australia. The cheap compartment to Dong Dang is filled with
Vietnamese families who live in the border area and are returning home from
shopping and trading in Hanoi. The journey begins as a boisterous family outing,
with booze flowing, men gambling, women chattering, babies crying. Within a few
hours, all in the compartment are sound asleep.

The train leaves Hanoi at 11 p.m., and arrives at the border at 5 the next
morning. Even at that early hour, the Dong Dang station is abuzz with activity,
with traders unloading cartons and crates or loading them on for the trip back
to Hanoi.

From Dong Dang, you load yourself and all of your belongings onto the back of a
waiting Honda motorcycle, and, precariously balanced, take the two-mile, uphill
journey over a rocky path to a stifling hot, yellow-concrete border post.

Few foreigners take this path from Vietnam into China, judging from the startled
looks on the faces of the immigration officials and the intensity of their
interrogation. At one point, seemingly flummoxed by the paperwork required to
allow a foreigner across Friendship Pass, one immigration officer shouted out,
"Go back to Hanoi!"

Once past the border post, another motorcycle waits to perform the same delicate
balancing act on a journey a few hundred yards across the pass to the Chinese
side, where, after brief immigration formalities, an air-conditioned minivan
delivers travelers to the train station at Pingxiang.

The Chinese side of the border is everything the Vietnamese side is not:
bustling and filled with shops, restaurants and traffic. Nanning, the final stop
on the journey across the frontier, is a booming city of high-rise office
buildings, multistory hotels, department stores, a small but efficient airport
-- and an astonishing 2.5 million people.

With its 1979 invasion, China used its military might to teach Vietnam a lesson;
it didn't work. Now China is in the 17th year of Deng Xiaoping's economic
open-door policy, and once desolate border towns such as Nanning are a
demonstration of how reform brings wealth. Vietnam started its own economic
liberalization a decade later and is still rushing to catch up. That may be one
Chinese lesson that the Vietnamese are eager to embrace.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, keith richburg, At Dong Dang, on the Vietnamese side of the
border with China, in an area devastated by Chinese forces in fighting in 1979,
a trader waits next to his motorcycle for a shipment of supplies.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              159 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 18, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Officials Preparing For Athlete Defections; INS Increases Staff in Its Atlanta
Office

Athelia Knight, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D06

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


On the second floor of the Immigration and Naturalization Service office here, a
team of INS officials is set to handle any political asylum cases that may arise
during the Olympic Games.

No one knows how many of the more than 10,000 athletes from 197 territories and
nations who are expected to compete in the Games will try to seek political
asylum. Already three members of the Cuban Olympic team have asked for asylum
since leaving Cuba last month and before arriving in Atlanta.

On June 30, two Cuban boxers requested asylum after fleeing their training camp
in Mexico and crossing the border in California near San Diego. Joel Casamayor,
a 1992 Olympic gold medalist, and Ramon Garbey, a three-time world champion,
said they have asked to defect to the United States because "they would rather
die than fight for Fidel Castro," according to Al Rogers, a lawyer helping the
boxers.

Bela Karolyi and his wife, Martha, both of whom defected to the United States
from Romania in 1981, said that defections are difficult and that no one who
defects knows what will happen afterward.

"It was a decision that we did because of the conditions in Romania," said
Martha Karolyi, coach of the U.S. Olympic women's gymnastics team. "We feel very
good about the decision because we started over here in gymnastics and we became
successful. I think everybody has to analyze their own situation and make a
decision."

Bela Karolyi said he and his wife didn't know what to expect when they defected
at the end of a Romanian gymnastics team tour in New York. "I don't believe
anybody who makes the decision [to defect] knows [what will happen], but
whatever [happens] you better cope with it."

Jesse Ravelo, an assistant coach for the U.S. Olympic boxing team, is a former
Cuban boxer who defected to the United States at the Pan American Games in
Canada in 1967. At the time, he was 15 and his parents had legally moved to this
country a few months prior to his defection.

"I understand what the athletes are doing," Ravelo said. "They are doing what's
best for them. Like I did what was best for me."

Ravelo, who won the gold medal in the lightweight division at the Pan American
Games before defecting, said he didn't want to comment further about the recent
defections. "I don't want the Cubans to be reading all of this and believing
that I am putting things in the athletes' heads on how I did it and why I did
it," he said after a training session with the U.S. boxers.

Last week, Rolando Arrojo, a star pitcher on the Cuban baseball team, left his
team hotel in Albany, Ga., because he said he wants "to live in freedom" and
fulfill his lifelong dream to play baseball in the United States. Joe Cubas, a
sports agent who is representing Arrojo, said Arrojo is seeking asylum in the
Dominican Republic, though Cubas didn't rule out the possibility of Arrojo
applying for asylum in the United States.

In the past few years, dozens of Cuban athletes have defected after arriving in
North America to participate in sports events. The largest contingent of Cuban
defectors at one event occurred in 1993 at the Central American and Caribbean
Games in Puerto Rico. As many as 50 athletes, more than 10 percent of the 450
Cuban athletes who competed in Puerto Rico, defected over a 10-day period.
Several Cuban baseball players -- the most visible of the athletes because many
later play in the major leagues -- have defected during exhibition games and
competitions in the United States.

Castro last week called the three recent defectors traitors and urged the rest
of the 1996 Cuban Olympic team to remain loyal to Cuba. About 170 Cuban athletes
are expected to compete in Atlanta.

David E. Lewis, the lead officer for the INS asylum team here, has been detailed
from Arlington, where he generally works.

Like Lewis, Pat Trubiano, a deputy director in the INS office in New York, also
will be here through the Olympic Games. Trubiano said there are eight district
offices throughout the country that process asylum cases and district officers
frequently travel to various parts of the country to help with cases.

By federal law, asylum is granted "to qualified applicants who have suffered
persecution in the past and/or who face a reasonable possibility of suffering
persecution in the future if returned to their countries," according to a fact
sheet published by the INS, an agency of the U.S. Department of Justice. Asylum
requests can be decided by asylum officers and immigration judges.

Organizers of this summer's Games said their volunteers and staff are prepared
to help any foreign athletes who might ask for asylum.

"Our concern is always the well-being and rights of the athletes," said Martin
Duffy, a spokesman for the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games (ACOG).

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              160 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 19, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Bugging Out at the INS Headquarters

Maryann Haggerty

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 165 words


Bug spray used on plants in one employee's office shut down the Immigration and
Naturalization Service headquarters in the District yesterday.

About 1,900 employees were evacuated from the building at 425 I St. SW after a
common insecticide, Orthene, seeped into the building's air conditioning system,
according to Annie W. Everett, a spokeswoman for the General Services
Administration, which runs the seven-story building.

An INS employee, who the Associated Press identified as Deputy Immigration
Commissioner Chris Sale, brought the bug spray into work to treat her office
plants.

"The product is normally an outside product," Everett said.

"It's a safe product when used outside," she said. "They just happened to use it
inside, well, to spray the plants."

The INS staffers were sent home by early afternoon, and GSA spent the rest of
the day ventilating the building, Everett said.

Officials said they expected that the building would be open as usual today.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              161 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 20, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigrants Eager for D.C. Olympic Moment

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 914 words


When the referee's whistle opens a week of Olympic soccer this afternoon at
Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium with a match between Portugal and Tunisia,
the Barra Brava (the Wild Fans) -- a group of more than 150 Latinos from
Virginia who have bought every seat in Section 137 -- will be ready to wave
banners, sing chants, bang Brazilian drums and otherwise express their
passionate devotion to the sport.

Tomorrow, the stadium will be transformed into a sea of 3,000 tiny South Korean
flags and 2,500 hand fans, provided by Korean Air Lines and the Korean Embassy.
The ornaments will be cleared early through security X-ray machines and provided
to many of the 6,000 local fans and busloads of others coming from across the
country to cheer South Korea against Ghana.

For immigrant groups spanning four continents, and for representatives of the 11
foreign countries competing in Washington along with the United States in one of
four opening rounds of play, Olympic soccer will offer a rare opportunity to
express ebullient pride in being Tunisian or Norwegian, Japanese or Argentine,
while showing U.S. fans and viewers the best of foreign cultures and
aspirations.

"The Olympics unite people, especially immigrants, since soccer is so important
for a large part of the world," said Paulo Quintero, a painting contractor from
Falls Church who was born in Paraguay and who has tickets to every game at RFK
Stadium. "I have been to Redskins and Orioles games, and the feeling is very
different. This will be much more diverse."

Excitement is most intense among those whose native-country teams will be
competing. Several immigrant groups, from the Sons of Norway to the Korean
American Olympic Soccer Organization, have made large block-seat purchases,
reserved buses for far-away fans and planned receptions and parties during the
week.

Some countries less well known to average Americans, such as Tunisia, view
Olympic soccer as an important device for bridge-building and image-polishing.
Other longtime American allies, such as Norway, see it as a way to reinforce
ethnic pride without causing offense.

"Above and beyond the sport, this is a very important opportunity for Tunisia to
make itself known to Americans," said Samir Chebil, a Tunisian immigrant and
avid fan who recently received a doctorate in finance from George Washington
University. "We hope our team will win but also that they will present a very
good picture of Tunisia. Our main objective is to gain American fans."

In a few cases, the teams selected to play in Washington coincide with large
local immigrant populations from those countries. (The other opening rounds are
in Miami, Orlando and Birmingham.) The South Korean community is putting up a
"cheering party headquarters" tent outside RFK Stadium and providing kimchi, the
popular Korean pickled cabbage dish, to the Korean team's hotel.

But for the most part, immigrants here must content themselves with rooting for
a team that is close to or popular in their native countries. Thus, some
Salvadorans or Bolivians in the Washington area will either support Argentina
when it plays Monday in Washington or cheer in absentia for Brazil -- by far the
regional favorite -- which will compete in Miami and Birmingham.

"We want whatever Latin American team is playing to do well," said Alberto
Parada, 27, a pawnshop manager in Georgetown who comes from Uruguay and is a
charter member of the Barra Brava fan club. "Yes, Argentina is our rival in
soccer, but since Uruguay is not in this competition, one must stand up for the
neighboring team."

Similarly, although there are relatively few Ghanaians in the Washington area,
immigrants from Nigeria and the Ivory Coast have snapped up tickets to watch
Ghana's three games in Washington. Adu Gyamfi, an importer of African cloth in
Baileys Crossroads, said he had bought 1,250 tickets and sold them through West
African community groups.

"We won't have a cheering squad, but we are coming with drums. That's the
traditional thing to do," he said. "We have to come out massively on Sunday,"
when Ghana will play South Korea, he said. "That will give us the emotional
momentum and motivation and confidence to go after Italy" on Tuesday.

European immigrant groups are no less gung-ho about the coming week. And
supporters of the Norwegian women's team, which will play three games in a row
at RFK, seem as impassioned as any Brazilian barra.

"I am turned off by American football; it is so violent," said Liliane Willens,
a language teacher and member of the Sons of Norway. "But soccer is an elegant
game, and it's beautiful to see so many little girls going into it. Comes the
revolution, the women will be out there."

A vexing issue for longtime immigrants is divided loyalties between the U.S.
team, which will play against Portugal on Wednesday at RFK, and their
home-country favorites. Several Latino fans said they would have a hard time
deciding which to back if Brazil and the United States face off in later rounds.

"It's hard to leave your heart behind, but we consider ourselves American, too,"
said Orlando Murillo, director of the Bolivian Soccer League in Northern
Virginia. "We will unconditionally support whatever South American team is
playing, but we would love to see the U.S. reach the finals.

"If it comes down to the U.S. versus Brazil, our sentiments will be shared on
both sides."

Staff writer Lena Sun contributed to this story.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, frank johnston, At La Churraria de Madrid restaurant in
Adams-Morgan, Pablo Carriaga, left, Oscar Zambrana and Alberto Parada get ready
for Olympic soccer competition, which begins today at RFK Stadium. Athletes from
11 foreign countries and the United States are competing.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              162 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 21, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Portugal Wins Opener at RFK; Martins Scores Two, Tunisia Falls, 2-0

Steven Goff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D07

LENGTH: 603 words


As he walked off the field following his team's 2-0 victory over Tunisia
yesterday, Portuguese Olympic men's soccer team midfielder Afonso Martins looked
into the sun-drenched crowd at RFK Stadium and saw a lot of people like himself
- people with roots in another country who had sought a new life somewhere else.

Martins, the 23-year-old son of Portuguese immigrants in France, lived outside
of Paris for 14 years. He even played in France's Second Division for a few
seasons before being discovered by Sporting Lisbon, a Portuguese club. But
because of his family roots, he was eligible to represent Portugal at the
international level.

And yesterday he celebrated Portugal's first appearance in the Olympic soccer
tournament since 1928 by scoring a goal in each half before 34,796 spectators.

"I was an immigrant for 14 years and I realize a lot of people that were here
cheering the team were, in fact, also immigrants to this country," Martins said
through an interpreter. "I know how they feel. I was very happy to have them
here today."

Martins is not known for his scoring touch, but yesterday he converted from
close range in the 13th minute and from long distance in the 68th.

It was an important victory for Portugal, which must play Group A favorite
Argentina here Monday and the United States here Wednesday in its other
first-round matches.

"I must say that it was a good victory, but not a good game for our side,"
Portuguese Coach Nuno Vingada said. "It wasn't an easy victory. The most
important thing is the victory and we are happy to get the three points [for a
win] . . . but the beginning of the match was difficult for us."

Martins quickly changed that with his first strike. Midfielder Nuno Capucho
crossed the ball from near the end line on the right side toward the far post,
where forward Paulo Alves headed it back across the goal box. As goalkeeper
Chokri El Ouaer scrambled to cover the right side, Martins tucked the ball into
the net from three yards.

Tunisia, outplayed most of the afternoon, had a golden opportunity to tie in the
52nd minute. But after Portugal defender Jose Andrade tripped him about 12 yards
from the net, Tunisian forward Adel Sellimi blasted a penalty kick off the
crossbar.

"Missing that penalty kick was the turn of the game," said Henry Kasperczak,
Tunisia's Polish coach. "We could have come back and made it 1-1."

Said Vingada: "The key moment was the missed penalty kick, and after our second
goal, we could control the game."

If Sellimi had converted, Tunisia might have been able to build momentum and
pull the upset or even settle happily for a tie. But after that dramatic moment,
Tunisia created very few chances and Portugal controlled the rhythm of the
match.

Martins made the score 2-0 midway through the second half with a 22-yard rocket
that caught El Ouaer positioned too far to his left. Martins, beyond the top
left of the box, ripped a rising shot toward the near post that El Ouaer had no
chance of stopping. "The opportunities arose," Martins said, "and I took
advantage of them."

In addition to the loss, Tunisia received plenty more bad news. Forward Mehdi
Ben Slimane damaged knee ligaments and is out of the tournament, and midfielder
Riadh Bouazizi received a red card in the 62nd minute and must sit out Monday's
game against the United States in Birmingham. Yesterday's match was marred by
eight yellow cards and two red cards -- the ejection of Bouazizi and of Andrade
in the 80th minute. Andrade will miss the showdown with Argentina, depleting an
already shaky Portuguese defensive unit.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dudley m. brooks, Portugal's Paulo Alves, left, goes high over
Tunisia's Khaled Badra (No. 4) in the Olympic soccer opener at RFK Stadium
before 34,796 fans.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              163 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 21, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Should the United States Close Its Doors?

Peter Skerry

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X04

LENGTH: 1218 words


THE IMMIGRATION MYSTIQUE

America's False Conscience

By Chilton Williamson Jr.

Basic Books. 202 pp. $ 23

THE CASE AGAINST IMMIGRATIOND

The Moral, Economic, Social, and

Environmental Reasons for

Reducing U.S. Immigration

Back to Traditional Levels

By Roy Beck

Norton. 287 pp. $ 24

MORE THAN most issues, immigration is characterized by a wide gap between elite
and nonelite opinion. While poll after poll has for years demonstrated
overwhelming majority support for curtailing immigration, our political and
economic leaders have just as consistently held the opposite view. And the
elites have prevailed, at least in the sense that since the overhaul of our
immigration laws in the mid-1960s, legal immigration has steadily increased,
from about 297,000 in 1965 to over 720,000 in 1995. With a net annual addition
of 300,000 to 400,000 illegal immigrants, today's influx is equivalent (in
absolute numbers if not as a percentage of total population) to the historically
high levels immediately preceding World War I.

Does this mean that our immigration policy simply reflects the efforts of
manipulative and deceitful elites flouting majority opinion? Many Americans seem
to think this way. So do the authors of two new books that challenge this elite
pro-immigration consensus in two very different ways. One of these books is an
utter failure, the other an earnest but flawed effort. Yet both bring a message
from the heartland that deserves to be heard.

Chilton Williamson Jr., a former literary editor for National Review, is
currently the Wyoming-based senior editor for Chronicles, a monthly out of
Rockford, Ill., that has for years been articulating a cranky but provocative
homegrown conservatism. In The Immigration Mystique: America's False Conscience,
Williamson starts off with a resounding critique of the prevailing tendency to
reduce immigration to a question of economics. As he forcefully puts it, "Nearly
everyone recognizes immigration as a moral dilemma, too present to be ignored,
too significant to be fudged, yet because it is an issue of moral as well as of
practical complexity, too many people, having allowed themselves to become
paralyzed morally and therefore intellectually, fudge it anyway."

Unfortunately, Williamson engages in some fudging of his own. To be sure, he
scores some points against the pro-immigration bias of many journalists, who
seem incapable of writing about the issue in other than heart-wrenching,
human-interest terms. He also astutely identifies the relevant contradiction at
the heart of our political culture: Precisely because we idealize America as a
haven for those fleeing other nations, we constantly fear its being corrupted by
the rest of the world. Finally, Williamson usefully traces out the connections
between pro-immigration elites and their postwar view of America's world
leadership role -- though from his perspective that role is an ill-considered
temptation to empire that has undermined our republican traditions.

But aside from these insights, Williamson wanders aimlessly for 200 pages,
getting his facts wrong and making outrageous assertions. At one point, he
faults Americans during the 1920s for "responding automatically and
indiscriminately to novelties, among them hot dogs, spaghetti, pizza, and
oriental food." There's a good critique of an establishment pro-immigration
position to be made, but this book doesn't come close to making it.

Roy Beck's The Case Against Immigration comes closer but falls short. Where
Williamson is the disaffected literary intellectual, Beck is the policy-wonkish
journalist. Like Williamson, Beck self-consciously hails from the heartland and
is very much a populist who sees "the rich" benefiting from immigration at the
expense of ordinary working Americans. His 1994 Atlantic article about the
negative impacts of immigration on the small town of Wausau, Wis., was widely
cited. As an editor of the Social Contract, a quarterly journal linked with the
Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), Beck has direct ties with the
principal restrictionist lobby.

Yet despite such advocacy roots, Beck is a reasonably reliable guide through a
mounting body of evidence on the problems generated by immigration. For example,
he shrewdly identifies a connection between immigration and the emergence of
gated communities. He also marshals the latest research indicating that up to a
third of America's troubling economic inequality is traceable to immigration.
Moreover, Beck adroitly supplements such statistical findings with case studies
of how immigrants have transformed industries once dominated by native-born
Americans, such as meat packing and poultry processing.

Always balanced and never strident, Beck argues persuasively that immigration is
a relevant but not necessarily primary factor in many of our economic and social
problems. Perhaps most cogent is his discussion of the negative impacts
immigration has had, historically and contemporaneously, on black Americans.

Yet Beck goes astray when he attributes the breakdown of urban infrastructure,
including the need to replace Washington's Woodrow Wilson Bridge, to
immigration-induced population growth. Holding up Boulder, Colo.'s slow-growth
zoning as a model for the nation, Beck doesn't seem to recognize that such
upper-middle-class strategies collide with his populism, excluding less affluent
native-born Americans, never mind struggling immigrants. Such strained arguments
succeed only in reminding us that the environmental and population-control
movements (not organized labor or advocates for the poor) have been important
spawning grounds for anti-immigration activists.

Similarly, Beck goes too far when he argues for a drastic reduction in the
number of immigrants admitted (down to 250,000 annually) and asserts that "legal
immigration could be stopped with a simple majority vote of Congress and a
stroke of the president's pen." In fact, we have already had a test of this
proposition. In 1965 Congress terminated the Bracero Program, under which
thousands of contract laborers had been brought here from Mexico. Yet despite
that legislative action, Mexican laborers continued to pour across the border,
only illegally. The lesson is that immigration is an entrenched economic and
social process that cannot be so easily legislated out of existence.

Beck stumbles again when he observes that "high immigration almost always has
reflected the values and served the interests of a small elite at the expense of
the national interest." Yet the values he refers to pervade this society.
Americans esteem individual liberty, which in this context means that we have
consistently rejected policies that would provide the secure means of
identification necessary for employers as well as public officials to determine
an individual's immigration status.

Without such measures we will never get a handle on our immigration problems.
But our failure to do so cannot be blamed solely on elite opinion, however
reflexive and simple-minded its pro-immigration bias may be. When it comes to
immigration, there's plenty of blame to go around.

Peter Skerry, visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, is author of
"Mexican Americans: The Ambivalent Minority."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              164 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 01, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Official Helped Iraqis Enter Illegally, U.S. Says

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 148 words


A senior Immigration and Naturalization Service official was charged yesterday
with helping two Iraqis enter the United States illegally, the Justice
Department said.

John Lonergan, an INS assistant district director in New Jersey, was charged in
an indictment by a federal grand jury in Newark with accepting gifts, including
jewelry and cash to pay for a vacation, from a document broker who obtained INS
benefits for clients.

"Among INS benefits and privileges that Lonergan assisted the document broker in
obtaining for his clients were travel documents, called Advance Parole
Documents, which were used unlawfully as initial entry documents by aliens who
were not residents of the United States, including two Iraqi nationals," the
department said in a statement quoting the indictment.

Lonergan could be sentenced to up to 42 years in prison and fined $ 1.5 million.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              165 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 03, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Iraqi Weightlifter, Fearing for His Life, Is Granted Asylum By INS

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D09; OLYMPIC NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 529 words


Iraqi weightlifter Raed Ahmed, who fled from his teammates at the Olympics and
denounced his country's government, said yesterday he has been granted political
asylum in the United States.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service refused to confirm or deny the
claim.

A document with an INS letterhead, sent by fax to the Associated Press, said
that Ahmed's request for political asylum had been approved. The document was
given to the AP by an Atlanta spokesman for the London-based Iraqi National
Congress, an organization opposed to Saddam Hussein's regime.

"It has been determined you have established a well-founded fear of persecution
were you to return to your country," said the letter, which bore the signature
of Joseph P. Martin, director of the INS asylum office in Arlington.

The letter granted Ahmed asylum indefinitely and said the athlete could apply to
be a permanent resident in one year.

Ahmed, 29, said Thursday he surely would be executed if he returned to Iraq. He
met with the INS, then nervously waited for the decision, Ahmed said yesterday.

"I was very sensitive, like a person waiting for exam results," Ahmed said
through an interpreter.

Ahmed said he has heard nothing about the government's reaction to his
defection.

American Honor

Michael Matz, a three-time Olympic rider who survived a deadly jetliner crash
and was credited with helping save two children on the flight, was picked
yesterday to carry the American flag in the Closing Ceremonies.

Matz, 45, from Collegeville, Pa., was chosen in a vote of team captains on the
U.S. squad. He will march into Olympic Stadium Sunday night, holding the Stars
and Stripes in the parade of flags of the record 197 nations that participated
in the Atlanta Games.

Unlike the Opening Ceremonies, only the flag bearers and not the full teams
march at the close. The athletes are invited onto the field after the evening's
program.

A veteran of the 1976 and 1992 games, Matz won a silver medal Thursday as part
of the U.S. show-jumping team, riding Rhum IV. In individual jumping, he is tied
for 14th with 4.00 points after the first round. That event ends just hours
before the Closing Ceremonies.

Making Money

Once again, Kerri Strug came through for her teammates.

Her second vault on an injured left ankle highlighted the first gold medal for
the U.S. women's gymnastics team. Now her decision to give up a UCLA scholarship
means her teammates can cash in on that gold.

The women received a flood of commercial offers after they won the gold, but
there was one big catch: Most were for all seven gymnasts, and Strug didn't want
to take any money because it would end her chances of competing at UCLA. NCAA
rules forbid athletes from accepting money for their sport.

When decision time came for Strug, her teammates weren't shy with their
opinions. In the end, that made the difference.

"If the team had not all decided and pushed her to go with them, my own view is
that she would have just gone to college and done gymnastics," said Leigh
Steinberg, Strug's agent.

Strug "already could sign deals for over seven figures," Steinberg said.


LOAD-DATE: August 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, Raed Ahmed carries his country's flag in the Opening
Ceremonies. He has said he wanted to compete in the Atlanta Games to gain
asylum, which the INS reportedly granted yesterday.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              166 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 05, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Federal Prisons' Foreign Population Increases Sharply

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 167 words


The number of foreign prisoners in federal prisons quadrupled between 1984 and
1994, the Justice Department said yesterday.

The department reported that the number of noncitizens incarcerated in federal
prisons increased from 4,088 in 1984 to 18,929 in 1994, the latest year for
which data were available.

On a percentage basis, noncitizens made up 13 percent of the 31,000 federal
prisoners in 1984, compared with 22 percent of the 87,000 prisoners in 1994.

The report said most of the foreign prisoners were convicted of drug or
immigration offenses. Only 1.4 percent were prosecuted for violent crimes,
compared with 8.5 percent of the U.S. prisoners.

The study said more than 39,000 noncitizens were deported in 1994 and more than
1 million left the country voluntarily.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service can deport aliens for crimes such as
murder, rape, drug trafficking and offenses relating to national security, as
well as for entering the United States illegally.

LOAD-DATE: August 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              167 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 07, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

24 Lanes of Suspects, 24 Hours a Day; U.S. Border Inspectors Hunt Contraband
Amid Fuming Autos, Drivers

John Ward Anderson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1928 words

DATELINE:  SAN YSIDRO, Calif.


U.S. Customs Inspector Robert Bickers -- the "linebacker" who tackles drug
dealers trying to run back to Mexico when their cars are nabbed in surprise
inspections -- pointed to a white Honda Accord and ordered the driver to open
the trunk.

The well-dressed, middle-aged man stepped out of his car. That was his first
mistake.

"He has a latch inside that he could have used to open the trunk, but he got out
real slow, and you could tell he didn't want to do it," Bickers said.

The car, which was in a long line of vehicles waiting to clear U.S. customs, was
about two feet inside the United States, and as the man walked to the back of
the vehicle, Bickers planted his stocky frame on the border. The driver popped
the lid. There, neatly stacked to the brim, was 576 pounds of marijuana in
white, brick-sized packages.

The man tried to bolt, but Bickers quickly subdued him, in the process shoving
him down against his illegal cargo. "You can see his face imprint in the drugs,"
Bickers said.

Just a routine bust on a typical day at San Ysidro (pronounced ee-SEE-dro), the
world's busiest border crossing, where 4,500 people per hour -- or about 40
million per year -- test the nation's front-line defenses against drug
trafficking and illegal immigration.

A day at this massive, hectic, 24-lane border crossing illustrates the challenge
of opening the border to greater trade with a partner in the North American Free
Trade Agreement while closing it against the growing flood of illegal drugs and
immigrants.

"It's a balancing act between the free flow of commerce and the ability of the
government to interdict contraband -- aliens or narcotics," said Rudy M.
Camacho, head of the U.S. Customs Service's San Diego District, adding that the
dual goals need not collide. "Better targeting [of smugglers] gives better
traffic management. We don't want to shut the border down. We want to shut down
the willful violators."

These competing goals coexist along the entire 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border,
crossed by 84 million cars and 232 million people a year -- and by 70 percent of
the cocaine, 80 percent of the methamphetamine and foreign-grown marijuana and
30 percent of the heroin that winds up on American streets.

San Ysidro, operated jointly by the Customs Service and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, has attracted its share of controversy recently, with
allegations that customs employees have helped Mexicans smuggle drugs into the
United States. Customs officials deny the charges. The crossing point also
figures in a broader investigation of whether INS officials falsified arrest
reports to inflate the success of a program to stop illegal immigration.

San Ysidro is an intense microcosm of the border. A Washington Post reporter
spent an entire day at the site -- Friday, July 26 -- during which more than
35,000 vehicles and more than 100,000 people crossed into the United States,
while inspectors made eight drug busts and arrested 75 people trying to enter
the country illegally. No trucks are allowed to pass through San Ysidro.

Raising the Stakes

The day began early for Inspector Gus Reynoso. At about 7 a.m., while patrolling
the massive blacktop area where hundreds of cars line up and wait to enter the
United States, Reynoso noticed a light blue Volkswagen with a suspiciously
shallow well behind the back seat and ordered the car to undergo a second, more
detailed inspection. A drug-sniffing dog hopped into the car and scratched
furiously at the back well, where investigators found a hidden compartment
containing 18 pounds of marijuana.

About 60 percent of all drugs seized at San Ysidro are first detected in the
long lines of cars that stack up in the 120-foot area between the actual border
and the crescent-shaped U.S. inspection station that stretches across the
highway. Computers in customs booths spit out information about suspicious cars
while teams of inspectors, some accompanied by dogs, roam the lines of traffic,
arbitrarily asking motorists to open their trunks.

Fewer than 3 percent of the cars that use the crossing are inspected, so the
unpredictable trunk-pop is designed to raise the stakes on smugglers. And the
dogs' senses are so acute that even through the thick exhaust they can smell a
marijuana cigarette wrapped in plastic and hidden inside a dashboard.

The huge, congested area where cars line up is a center of activity 24 hours a
day, every day of the year. There are drug busts, car fires and fights between
motorists. Pregnant women run into the area to give birth, winning U.S.
citizenship for their babies. Drug-smugglers screech their cars into dangerous
U-turns to race back to Mexico.

Adjacent to the traffic lanes are a sidewalk and tunnel leading to an area where
pedestrians, mostly American tourists returning from a day or night in Tijuana,
reenter the United States.

Inspectors, who often seize other contraband, such as exotic birds and snakes,
fireworks and prohibited agricultural products, say there are tip-offs that
identify smugglers.

"I saw a gentleman walk up to the inspector, and the whole time he was sweating
and looking at the inspector with a smile plastered on his face," said Ron
Bergado, a 15-year veteran of the Customs Service. Officials took the man into a
back room and found 1.5 pounds of heroin -- worth about $ 45,000 -- in his
shoes.

"You can tell when a person is carrying drugs just by looking at them," said
Bickers, the linebacker. "You can mask anything on your body but your eyes. They
try to intimidate with their eyes, but after about 40 seconds, they give in."

Bickers said he doesn't have much use for border politics and the loosening
restrictions that NAFTA ushered in. "We've made a treaty with a country that's
so corrupt they can't even trust their police officers," he said just minutes
before his 576-pound marijuana bust.

Border workers play a cat-and-mouse game with "spotters" -- people who stand on
the Mexican side of the border and watch the inspectors search cars. The
spotters use cellular phones, beepers and lower-tech methods to direct
drug-carrying cars away from lanes staffed by particularly aggressive
inspectors. Often they are assisted by vendors, who jump in front of vehicles --
ostensibly to sell something -- allowing drug carriers to switch lanes.

Then there are the "port runners," who will suddenly swerve their cars into the
southbound lanes and race north, against the traffic, into the United States, or
hit the accelerator when they arrive at the gate to try to zoom through it. New
steel lane posts and cement barriers have reduced the number of port runners
significantly, from 359 in 1994 to only a few per month now. But inspectors had
four shootouts with them last year and fatally shot one man who tried to race
into the United States in a stolen Ford Mustang loaded with 300 pounds of
marijuana.

A New Set of Problems

Early in the evening, border crossing workers launched a special operation to
search for weapons, runaways, parole violators and cash in cars being driven
south from the United States into Mexico.

Mexican and U.S. officials say the most common way for Mexico's drug kingpins to
bring their illegal proceeds home is to load cars with cash and simply drive
across the border. Few cars are stopped by Mexican border police, and if bundles
of money are found, the poorly paid guards often can be bribed to look the other
way. The extent of the problem can be measured by a simple comparison: Mexican
officials value their country's illegal drug trade at $ 30 billion a year, but
in 1995 only $ 1.7 million in returning drug money was seized by Mexican
authorities along the entire 2,000-mile border.

As part of the operation, a combined force of local police and border inspectors
funneled all southbound traffic into a two-lane bottleneck, creating a
miles-long, one-hour backup. The operation was accompanied by a symphony of
angry, impatient drivers blaring horns in what workers jokingly call "the
Mexican anthem." Many drivers hollered obscenities and flashed rude gestures as
they exited the traffic jam.

Meanwhile, the lanes entering the United States were backed up for 45 minutes.
Between 4 p.m. and 10 p.m., inspectors popped 900 trunks -- the drug hauls of
the afternoon followed at night by arrests of undocumented aliens trying to
sneak into the United States in secret auto compartments.

When customs inspector Gina Martinez, 25, asked a driver for his identification,
he offered his Trojan condom discount card. Officials seized his car, and back
to Mexico he went. Another inspector turned away a woman and two small children
trying to walk into the United States with a suspicious birth certificate. Less
than five minutes later, when the officer switched to a traffic booth, the third
car through was a taxi carrying the same woman and children. This time, she went
to jail.

The night shift, especially on weekends, illustrates another set of problems
created by waves of young Americans returning drunk and belligerent from
Tijuana, where the legal drinking age is 18, three years younger than in
California.

At about 1:30 a.m., word of a bombing at the Olympic Games in Atlanta cast a
pall over the station, which is about 20 miles from San Diego, the site of the
Republican national convention beginning Aug. 12. Officials here say this could
be a terrorist target, and there also is concern that a terrorist could attempt
to enter the country by mingling in the daily crush of humanity through San
Ysidro.

After 90 minutes, a dreaded call crackled over the radio: "Officer needs help,
Lane 11." Every available person sprinted to the U.S.-bound lanes, where
Inspector Aida Vasquez was assaulted while attempting to break up a fight
between two impatient motorists. The attacker, who clearly was intoxicated, put
up a tremendous battle, and it took four inspectors to wrestle him into
handcuffs. "We call this the drunk shift," said supervisor Pat Wright, brushing
himself off. "You can see why."

Four San Diego Fire Department paramedics in bright yellow jackets and pants
lumbered into the crossing point at about 4 a.m., hauling emergency medical
equipment. There was a report of an injured woman in the pedestrian tunnel, and
they leaned on the gates, fatigued, gazing down the dark passage like soldiers
peering across a demilitarized zone, waiting for confirmation of the problem. It
came in the form of agonizing wails. "Oh God, she's a screamer," a rescuer
mumbled.

On the other side of the tunnel, just a few steps inside the United States, lay
a semiconscious woman in the throes of what workers call "tequila trauma,"
rolling on the ground and bellowing noises from the depths of a drunken
nightmare. A Marine who had met her that night at a bar in Tijuana stood at her
side, explaining that she had suddenly collapsed for no apparent reason.

Mexican Indians, who line the sidewalk hoping to sell touristy dolls and
gadgets, hoping for one last impulse buy, silently leaned against a wall with
blank stares. A young Indian girl, perhaps 5 years old, sat in the middle of the
sidewalk strumming a ukulele and singing as a steady stream of drunken Americans
stumbled past, occasionally dropping a coin next to her.

Five customs workers, seeing a reprieve from the exhaust and blaring horns of
the random inspections among waiting cars, sauntered over to watch. "Just
another Friday night," said K-9 officer Eric Nelson, scratching his dog behind
the ear. "Nothing special."


LOAD-DATE: August 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post; Photo, john ward anderson, SAN
YSIDRO A DAY AT A BORDER CROSSING Friday, July 26, was a typical day at the
world's busiest border crossing, San Ysidro, Calif., during which U.S.
authorities tabulated traffic while making a number of arrests and contraband
seizures. CROSSINGS BY VEHICLES AND PEDESTRIANS Number of vehicles 35,169
Vehicle passengers 77,372 Number of buses 234 Bus passengers 1,998 Number of
pedestrians 24,318 Total vehicles 35,403 Total people 103,688 SEIZURES OF
CONTRABAND TYPE SEIZURES AMOUNT Marijuana 8 999 pounds Heroin 1 1.5 pounds
Steroids 1 1,104 tabs* Freon N.A.  60 pounds *Plus 3,549 milliliters Other
seizures include clothes, fireworks, agricultural food items, knives, other
prohibited items.  INTERCEPTED ILLEGAL ENTRIES Apprehensions/arrests 75 Males 53
Females 22 Fraudulent documents seized 62 People detained for trial 29 Vehicles
seized 13 DRUGS SEIZED (in pounds) Seizures along California-Mexico border, 1995
Cocaine 31,726 Heroin 178 Marijuana 124,440 Methamphetamines 625 Seizures along
California-Mexico border, Jan.1 to March 31, 1996 Cocaine 8,549 Heroin 40
Marijuana 122,168 Methamphetamines 169 Total seizures along U.S.-Mexico border,
1995 Cocaine 71,929 Heroin 387 Marijuana 602,137 Methamphetamines 1,463 Total
seizures along U.S.-Mexico border, Jan. 1 to March 31, 1996 Cocaine 14,245
Heroin 154 Marijuana 327,674 Methamphetamines 174 SOURCES: Border authorities,
Drug Enfo

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              168 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 11, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

The New Americans

Lou Cannon

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA


On a bright Friday morning I saw history in the making at the historic Arlington
Theatre as 800 immigrants took the oath of citizenship to the United States of
America, then watched a patriotic video of Lee Greenwood singing "God Bless the
U.S.A."

While the new citizens came from 53 different lands, 576 -- or 72 percent -- of
them were from Mexico, part of a great stream of immigrants that may eventually
transform the political landscape of California.

A federal court official participating in the ceremony told me that 200,000 new
citizens, the large majority from Mexico, will be sworn in this year in the
Central District of California, which includes Los Angeles and six surrounding
counties.

This official confirmed what alert politicians have been saying, which is that
the anti-immigrant backlash represented in California by Proposition 187 and in
Washington by the new welfare bill denying benefits to legal aliens has created
its own backlash. "This is the answer to Pete Wilson," a Latino told me before
the ceremony.

If so, it is the right answer. The principal reason it has been easy for
demagogic California politicians to bash immigrants is that most Latinos in the
state, and most Asians as well, are part of the population but not part of the
electorate.

According to estimates by the California Department of Finance, Latinos are
nearly 30 percent of the state's population and Asians nearly 11 percent. But
many are not citizens or not registered to vote. Together, Latinos and Asians
usually account for only 10 to 12 percent of the electorate.

This lack of participation has consequences. In Texas, where the proportion of
Latinos is smaller in the population and higher in the electorate, powerful
politicians tend to be more tolerant. Wilson, for instance, recently clashed in
the editorial pages of the New York Times with fellow Republican Gov. George W.
Bush and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas over education of the children of
illegal immigrants.

Wilson believes that states cannot afford to educate these children. Bush and
Hutchison take the more enlightened view that states cannot afford not to
educate them.

Kevin de Leon, of One Stop Immigration in Santa Barbara, believes that much of
the anti-immigrant rhetoric in California will vanish if Latinos and Asians
increase their political participation. De Leon, whose nonprofit organization
expedites citizenship proceedings for immigrants, put voter registration cards
on the chairs of the new citizens at the Arlington Theatre ceremony.

U.S. District Judge John Davies, who administered the oath of citizenship in the
Arlington, then made a brief but forceful speech urging the new Americans to
"join the mainstream" and register and vote. "This is a land of opportunity
where one is truly free to do what one wishes," he said.

Davies, best known for his even-handed conduct of the federal trial of the Los
Angeles police officers accused of violating the civil rights of Rodney King,
was speaking from experience. He is an Australian immigrant and gold medal
swimmer for his native country in the 1952 Olympics who went to the University
of Michigan and UCLA Law School and stayed in the United States. For the record,
47 members of the 1996 U.S. Olympic team that offered us so many thrills were
naturalized citizens.

I don't know if future judges or Olympians are among the citizens to whom Davies
administered the oath. But the new Americans said the Pledge of Allegiance as
lustily as I have ever heard it and waved tiny American flags at the slightest
provocation.

The brown, yellow, black and white faces in the Arlington Theatre seemed to me
the rainbow-colored face of a California future that should be faced with hope,
not fear. By the year 2002, according to the demographers, California will
become the only U.S. state except Hawaii where no race or ethnic group will be a
majority of the population. By 2020, California will become the first state with
a Latino majority of the population.

California already leads the nation in trade with Mexico and the Pacific Rim
nations of Central and South America and Asia. The state's demographic change
will make California more resemble the nations with which the United States is
engaged in world commerce.

We ought to be comfortable with these new Americans, who are enriching the
nation as much as our own ancestors, who also were immigrants. I saw people cry
when Lee Greenwood sang that he was proud to be an American because he knew he
was free.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              169 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 17, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Citizenship Applications Strain Background Checks

William Branigin; Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 887 words


A Clinton administration program designed to streamline naturalization
procedures has cleared the way for record numbers of immigrants to take their
oaths as new U.S. citizens this year.

By the end of the fiscal year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
projects that more than 1 million immigrants will have been granted citizenship,
far surpassing the previous record of nearly 460,000 in fiscal 1995. Last year's
total was the largest number of naturalizations since 1944, when 442,000 people
became citizens.

While swearing in new citizens is a cherished American tradition, the surge in
applications for naturalization and the government's efforts to speed up the
process have raised concerns about the integrity of citizenship tests, the
motives of some applicants, and pressures on the FBI to meet the heavy demand
for criminal background checks.

The jump in citizenship applications from an annual average of about 300,000
before 1994 to more than 1 million last year caused the INS to fall behind in
its processing, and waiting times grew to a year or more in some cities. In
response to the problem, the INS last year created a program called Citizenship
USA, which has largely plowed through a backlog of 600,000 pending applications
and reduced waiting times to six months in most cases, INS officials said.

But in turning out unprecedented numbers of new citizens, the effort has aroused
fears within the INS and FBI that some applicants, possibly hundreds around the
country, are receiving citizenship before an FBI fingerprint check has verified
that they have no disqualifying criminal records.

Senior INS officials are "really concerned" that "some serious criminals" are
slipping through the fingerprint checks, one source said. He added that in the
agency's haste to speed up its procedures, "several hundred" ineligible
applicants across the country have been granted citizenship.

Louis D. Crocetti Jr., the INS associate commissioner for examinations, said
that estimate was much too high. While some glitches have crept into INS efforts
to improve its processing, the agency is quickly fixing them, and the number of
cases in which ineligible applicants may have received citizenship is
"minuscule," he said. In such cases, the INS can always revoke citizenship
later, he added.  Crocetti said the vast majority of "positive hits," in which a
fingerprint card submitted by the INS matches one in the FBI's files, are based
on records supplied as part of earlier immigration procedures.

For example, he said, after a misplaced box of 500 fingerprint cards was
discovered recently at the INS Arlington office, only one person who had been
granted citizenship was found ineligible -- because of an embezzlement charge.
In New York, the late arrival of another batch of fingerprint cards resulted in
grants of citizenship to 36 ineligible persons, he said.

Nevertheless, the FBI has decided to change how it notifies the INS of
fingerprint checks, said Dennis Kurre, deputy assistant director of the FBI's
criminal justice information services division. Currently, the agency informs
the INS only if the search triggers a hit. Starting Monday, the FBI will pass on
the result of the check regardless of the outcome, Kurre said.

He said the INS has been assuming that if it did not receive a notification
within 60 days, the check was negative. He said this was "not a very reliable
way" to proceed, although he did not know how many applications had been
approved without knowledge of the immigrant's criminal record.

"All I know is that we didn't feel comfortable having [problems] attributed to
us," Kurre said. "There was concern that people were slipping through the
cracks. We've had those concerns all along."

The FBI has been taking longer to check fingerprints lately because its workload
has increased, its staff has shrunk, and the fingerprint division is moving its
offices from Washington to Clarksburg, W. Va., Kurre said. The INS is the
bureau's "largest single fingerprint contributor," accounting for about 1
million of the 9.8 million fingerprint cards that the FBI received in fiscal
1995, he said. He said the bureau currently has a backlog of 1.64 million
fingerprints in various stages of processing.

INS officials attribute the surge in citizenship applications to a combination
of factors stemming largely from a 1986 amnesty that allowed 2.6 million illegal
immigrants to legalize their status. Many have become eligible for citizenship
only within the past couple of years. In addition, an INS program to replace old
alien registration documents known as "green cards" -- and immigrants' fears of
discrimination following the 1994 passage of California's Proposition 187 --
prompted thousands who were already eligible to apply for citizenship, officials
said.

Now officials expect the recent passage of a welfare reform law that restricts
benefits to legal immigrants to further swell the number of citizenship
applications, which already had been projected to reach 1.6 million in fiscal
1997.

Critics have expressed concern that standards for citizenship are being lowered,
particularly through a program in which the INS hires private contractors to
test applicants on their knowledge of English, civics and U.S. history.


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, A record-breaking number of immigrants will have been sworn in
as U.S. citizens by the end of the current fiscal year as a result of revamped
INS procedures.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              170 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 18, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

WHY CHICAGO IS . . . An Immigrant's Intro To a Fearful Paradise

Charles Simic

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1495 words


WE ALL came to America expecting to play a part in a Hollywood movie. Most of
the American films were made in Southern California, so if you were growing up
in Europe, watching those palm trees swaying in the wind with someone like Rita
Hayworth gliding underneath them in a white convertible, you got all kinds of
wonderfully wrong ideas about the place. Do people really live like that, I
wondered? What will they say about my bad teeth and my funny accent? For a
16-year-old coming from Yugoslavia, America was a fearful paradise.

It was reassuring to find that in Chicago, there were poor people. Trash-strewn
streets and laundry hanging from fire escapes. Old men swaying on the corner,
drinking out of brown paper bags. Kids pummeling each other in a school yard.
Even a few beggars. This I understood. I immediately felt at home.

Chicago in the '50s was still a town of factories. Its ugliness and squalor
brought to mind Dostoyevsky's descriptions of Moscow and St. Petersburg slums.
The people waiting for the North Avenue bus looked as if they had just arrived
from Ellis Island. Still, there was plenty of work. An immigrant would come to
Chicago, get a job in a factory and keep it for the rest of his life. He would
speak some English, some Polish, some Hungarian and Italian because these are
the because these are the people he worked with. Once, you could say, he knew
what he was, what culture he belonged to. Now he was no longer sure.

He worked all the time. The immigrants often had that gray, weary look of people
working long hours and on weekends, but they had no complaints about that. The
neighborhoods smelled of steaks and fried chicken where in the old country all
you could smell is turnips and cabbage.

The city had an air of prosperity with all the banks, office buildings and
modern apartment houses along the lake, and yet it didn't feel like a big city.
After 8 o'clock the Loop was dark except for a few movie houses and seedy bars.
Hardly anyone was to be found on the streets on weeknights. Perhaps a few farm
boys and drunken soldiers loitering outside the Greyhound bus station while the
el passed overhead with a face or two pressed to its window peeking into the
dark. In winter it was even worse. There could be a bone-chilling wind blowing
off the lake. At least working around the clock kept you warm.

Chicago gave me a better sense of what America was than some small town would
have. Its mixture of being, at the same time, very modern and progressive and
very provincial, is our national specialty. Add to that the realization that so
much of our prosperity depends on cheap labor. Immigrants and blacks kept
Chicago humming.

I liked the anarchy of the city. There were dives and strip-joints a few blocks
away from the monumental Art Institute and the ritzy hotels. Chicago was the
garage sale of all the contradictions America could contain. Some rusty
water-tower on the top of an old warehouse would look as beautiful as some
architectural wonder along the lake shore. Every notion one had of aesthetics
had to be revised if one were to appreciate the city. My greatest teachers, in
both art and literature, were the streets I roamed.

Everybody I knew all of a sudden wanted to get educated. If you had to work for
a living, as many did, it was night school, of course.

My father was an optimist. He always felt like the money would fall out of the
blue sky. He bought the American Dream. It just hadn't been delivered yet. So
when I realized soon enough that my parents didn't have the means to put me
through school, I attended the University of Chicago at night and worked during
the day at the Chicago Sun-Times.

Children of immigrants, sons and daughters of blue-collar workers all set out to
better themselves. The world of art, literature, philosophy and sciences opened
before us. I wanted to know everything instantly. Anytime I heard a name of a
writer or a new idea, I would think: "Oh, God, I'm completely ignorant! I better
run to the library and look it up."

The public library was the best place in town. Incredibly, they'd let you take
those thick art books home so you could sit in your kitchen, eat your hot dogs
and beans and study the paintings of Giotto and Rembrandt. I took full
opportunity of the library's beneficence. I read riding to work; I read while
pretending to shuffle papers on my desk; I read in bed and fell asleep with the
lights still on.

By the time I arrived for the night classes the next day, I was dead tired. The
classes were large, lively. There would always be one or two older students
arguing with the teacher, saying things like: "Just because it's written in the
book, it doesn't mean it's true." No matter how exhausted everybody happened to
be, we all perked up watching the professor squirm.

Older people remembered the Haymarket riots and other labor unrest. Today
everybody behaves as if it was the rich who decided on their own to give their
employees the 40-hour week with decent pay. Back then people knew how long it
took to make the greedy share a portion of their profits.

Weary or not, I was flying high. I found a small basement apartment on Dearborn,
between Goethe and Schiller, in a building now torn down. It had a fancy
address, but my place was a rat-infested dump in a crummy old tenement. However,
the Oak Street beach was only a few blocks away. I could go swimming any time I
wanted. In local bars, I met budding writers and poets. I even met the famous
novelist Nelson Algren at some party.

The second time I bumped into him, I was carrying a volume of Robert Lowell's
poetry. "Forget that," he told me. "A kid like you, just off the boat .  .  .  .
Go read Whitman, read Sandburg and Vachel Lindsey."

I took his advice. I wrote poems like this:

When I see a cockroach,

I do not grow violent like the others,

I stop as if a sign of recognition

Had passed between us .  .  .  .

The literary scene in Chicago was small. One met the same faces, it seems. We'd
be squeezed in a room, dark except for a couple of lit candles stuck in chianti
bottles. Charlie Parker and Stan Getz on the cheap portable record player. The
women were dressed in black. Their hair fell down to their shoulders and over
their eyes so they gave one the impression they were playing peekaboo all the
time. Parisian Existentialism had finally come to the Midwest. We were reading
Sartre and Camus and quoting them to each other between puffs of cigarette
smoke. There'd be a bottle of bad whiskey or rum that tasted like something
someone stole from their grandmother's medicine cabinet, but otherwise not much
to eat or drink since everybody was broke.

In the literary crowd, there were many socialists and even a few ex-communists.
In those days, much more so than today, radical intellectuals came from working
class backgrounds. They worked with their hands, or they were officials in some
union. Jewish, German, Irish fellows who all had plenty advice for a young poet
like me. Beware of the Eastern literary establishment, they told me. You'll end
up writing sonnets about Orpheus and Eurydice when you should be writing poems
about old ladies who sweep the downtown offices at night.

They had a point. When you're young, and even more so when you're an immigrant,
you are looking for role models. You want to blend in quickly. I was all ready
to put on English tweeds with elbow leather patches and smoke a pipe, but they
wouldn't let me: "Remember where you came from, kid," they kept reminding me
again and again.

There's no question they had me figured out. Thanks to them, I failed in my
natural impulse to become a phony.

One of the great temptations for an immigrant is to go native the whole way,
start eating canned soup, white bread and Jell-O, and hide one's passion for
sausages smothered in onions and peppers and crackling in fat. I read Emerson
and Thoreau and other New England writers and loved them, but I knew my identity
was different. I was already a concoction of Yugoslav, American, Jewish, Irish
and Italian ingredients -- and the stew wasn't ready yet. There were more things
to add to the pot. More identities. More images to cook.

Here I am on the midnight el riding to work or coming back after a long day.
It's winter. It's bitter cold. Every time the door opens, we shiver, our teeth
chatter. When it shuts, the heat turned on high, the closely pressed bodies,
make it even worse. It's hard to keep my eyes open. I'm asleep standing up. If I
don't watch it, I'll miss my stop and wake up at the end of the line. I'll be
halfway to Iowa. It'll be 2 o'clock in the morning and I'll be the only one on
the open platform pacing back and forth to keep warm, muttering to myself at
first, then shouting, shouting at the top of my lungs:

"What a life! What a city! What a country!" And I'm leaving out the cuss words.

Charles Simic won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              171 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 18, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

From Russia With Chutzpah; The U.S. government says Alexandre P. Konanykhine
stole millions from a Moscow bank.  But he says he is an honest businessman who
ran afoul of Russian mobsters and corrupt government officials. And that sending
him home means certain death. It's our call. Does he stay or go?

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 3869 words


This tale is going to get complicated. We will begin as simply as possible.

In a drab immigration courtroom in Arlington, a lanky young man is sitting
serenely at the defense table. He is 29 but looks a decade younger. He manages
to appear collegiate even in an olive prison jumpsuit. His ankles are held apart
by leg irons, yet he appears relaxed and confident, sipping Evian water and
scribbling notes as if he were studying for midterms.

His name is Alexandre P. Konanykhine (pronounced Koh-nen-EE-kin), and he is a
Russian national who had been living for the last three years in a $ 300,000
co-op at the Watergate with his wife, Elena, their exotic black cat, and
puzzlingly little furniture. Each morning he shuffles into court between two
guards, flashes an impish grin at his lawyer and leans over to kiss Elena, a
pale, nervous and Pringle-thin woman of 34 who arrives each day in a different
chic business suit.

Usually this room is the scene of far more mundane matters, the sort that
involve illegal dishwashers from Mexico or engineering students who have
neglected to return to Pakistan. But the Konanykhine case is truly exotic, and
for nearly two weeks it transformed Judge John Bryant's court into a
spellbinding seminar on international intrigue.

According to the U.S. government, the defendant is a brilliant international
wheeler-dealer who embezzled $ 8 million from the Moscow bank he runs and has
concocted a sinister plot to escape justice. His principal accuser is a slightly
mysterious prosecutor from Moscow who has been stalking him relentlessly for
three years, from Athens to Antigua to Arlington -- his personal Inspector
Javert.

According to the defense, Konanykhine is a shrewd but honest businessman who ran
afoul of greedy Russian mobsters backed by corrupt government officials. Having
already stolen his business empire, they are now intent on murdering him.

In this country, the defendant is charged with a rather plebeian crime: fibbing
about the details of his employment on an application to extend his American
visa. Ostensibly, this is what federal immigration agents were concerned about
when they knocked on his door at the Watergate on June 27 and took him off to
jail. A case of white-collar visa fraud, nothing more.

Yet the stakes in this extended deportation hearing seem suspiciously elevated.
Konanyhkine, a millionaire with offices two blocks from the White House, has
been held without bond for six weeks as a "flight risk." FBI agents have
testified by speaker phone from Moscow. Prosecutors from the U.S. Immigration
and Nationalization Service have obtained and translated thousands of pages of
Russian documents aimed at incriminating the defendant for everything from draft
dodging to tax evasion.

Testimony has ranged wildly far afield, exploring such matters as whether the
corrupt secret police have taken over the Russian banking industry, whether a
business executive was kidnapped from his hotel in Budapest, whether the United
States has become a dupe of international thugs, and whether Rudakov or Uryvaev
lied about Menchukov to Volevodz.

There has been hair-raising expert testimony about economic anarchy in
modern-day Russia, evidence of mafia threats and sham marriages and Swiss bank
accounts, exhibits including phony birth certificates and forged contracts and
doctored tax forms, questions about whether the CIA got the FBI to get the INS
to do the KGB's bidding.

Complicated, as we said.

Wealthy white-collar criminals often throw up smoke screens alleging diabolical
cabals. That could be the case here. Then again, it might not be. Konanykhine
has more than boyish elan and an expensive lawyer in his camp. He has produced
some interesting, if not definitive, corroborating evidence. He even has secured
testimony from FBI agents saying that the Russian mob took out a contract on his
life.

The hearing began July 19 and ended Aug. 2. Now it is up to Judge Bryant to sort
out the frankly unbelievable from the merely fantastic, and his decision could
take weeks. If Konanykhine wins his case, he can return to the Watergate. If he
loses, he will be deported back to Moscow where, he contends, he will be
immediately assassinated.

One Man's Word

Ultimately, this case rests on the credibility of one man, a very persuasive man
with a very impressive resume. By the end of this article, the reader may or may
not have decided whether Alexandre Konanykhine is a pawn or a puppeteer in this
twisted tale -- whether, as his lawyer puts it, he is the Bill Gates or the
Michael Milken of the new Russia.

At this moment, he is a prisoner in a baggy jumpsuit, seated across a scarred
table in the Prince William County adult detention center, explaining in
near-perfect English why he is being railroaded and why he should be allowed to
remain in the United States:

"Look, aside from trying to convince you I am a decent guy, a man of principles,
I simply had no need to be corrupt," he begins with a disarming smile. "I was
more powerful than the gangs or the government. I left Russia because the rules
of the game were becoming too dangerous. I like it much better here, because the
rules are fair. The FBI didn't use tricks against me, and they won't try to kill
me. The judge who decides my case will almost certainly not be bribed or
corrupt. Here I have a chance."

He has pale but penetrating blue eyes. His gaze is frank. Or is it frankly
calculating? He apologizes repeatedly for the inhospitable surroundings and
tries to offer you his chair. It is extremely tempting to believe him. That is
the thing about charmingly earnest people, and con men. It is often very, very
hard to tell them apart.

The Story So Far

Let's untangle what we can.

All parties will stipulate to a few facts. From 1983 to 1986, Konanykhine was a
top student at the prestigious Moscow Physics and Technical Institute. ("I was
supposed to become a rocket scientist," he explained on the stand.) But when the
Gorbachev era dawned and new forms of private enterprise were permitted,
Konanykhine abandoned his formal studies and became a young entrepreneur. First
he formed a student construction cooperative but soon branched into other
businesses, including banking, stocks and real estate.

According to his court affidavits and news articles from Moscow, Konanykhine
became phenomenally successful in the uncharted new world of post-Soviet
capitalism, using his head for numbers and an instinct for new markets. At the
age of 25, the high-tech whiz kid had built an empire of more than 100 firms,
including some of the first currency and commodity exchanges in Russia, anchored
by the All-Russian Exchange Bank. By 1992, Konanykhine claims, his companies
were worth about $ 300 million.

He had a country estate built in a secluded forest, complete with a private
gymnasium and 12-car garage. He traveled with multiple official passports and a
convoy of escorts from the Russian secret service. He hobnobbed with high
society and donated to cultural charities. He joined President Boris Yeltsin's
first delegation to Washington in the summer of 1992.

But the business climate in post-Soviet Russia was dirty and dangerous, and
organized crime groups emerged in the political and legal chaos. As Konanykhine
describes it -- and hereafter the facts are in heated dispute -- some of his
corporate aides at the bank, including three former KGB officers he had hired to
keep mobsters at bay, pressured him for more money and made ominous threats.
Uneasy about his safety, he moved to Hungary and continued to run his businesses
from there.

Then, on Sept. 2, 1992, while he and Elena were dining in their hotel in
Budapest, a group of armed men approached, identified themselves as Hungarian
security agents and took Konanykhine to an apartment building. There he was
confronted by several of his bank's senior employees, who demanded he sign over
most of his assets, and by thugs who threatened to burn him with an electric
iron unless he complied.

Remember, this is still Konanykhine's version.

Reminding his captors that banking hours were over in Moscow, Konanykhine said
he persuaded them to allow him to return to his hotel until morning. But once
there, he claimed, he retrieved hidden passports and money, then sneaked outside
with his wife to a friend's waiting car. They drove several hours to the Czech
Republic, crossed the border, and the next morning the couple flew to New York.

Within days of settling in a Manhattan hotel, Konanykhine began firing off
protests about the bank takeover and kidnapping to the press and senior
officials in Moscow. "I am addressing this letter to warn you of a serious
political danger -- the seizure of large commercial organizations by
mafia-opposition circles that will stop at nothing to achieve their ends," he
wrote to the minister of security on Sept. 6.

But there was no official response, so in 1993 Konanykhine sent a personal
appeal to Yeltsin. Within days, he received a notice from the military
prosecutor's office in Moscow, asking for more information. He responded in a
long memo that laid out his complex financial affairs, explained how he wired
bank funds to private accounts to prevent their being stolen, and portrayed his
former employees as part of a criminal conspiracy to oust him.

Partway through that official inquiry, however, everything suddenly changed. The
prosecutor stopped investigating Konanykhine's charges and started investigating
Konanykhine instead. In a series of formal requests to the U.S. attorney's
office in Washington in 1994, the prosecutor charged that the banker had
illegally wired $ 8.1 million from the All-Russian Exchange Bank to his personal
accounts overseas.

The prosecutor said members of the bank board had flown to Budapest for a
"peaceful" meeting with Konanykhine, but that he had slipped away. Konanykhine's
account of the kidnapping was "most likely invented," the prosecutor wrote, and
his "slander" of former employees was an effort to avoid prosecution for his own
crimes of theft for "personal enrichment." The official requested that U.S.
authorities assist in arresting and extraditing Konanykhine as a fugitive.

American prosecutors and FBI officials, who had just opened an office in Moscow
and were eager to build a relationship with law enforcement authorities there,
wrote back that they would do their best to assist. While noting that they could
not extradite Konanykhine, since there was no relevant treaty with Russia,
Justice Department officials added that perhaps he could be deported for
violating U.S. immigration laws. And that is precisely what the government is
now trying to do.

The Inspector

At this point we should introduce the other major actor in this transatlantic
drama, a man who declined to appear in Judge Bryant's courtroom but whose
motives, methods and character dominated the proceedings as much as
Konanykhine's. He is a slight, somewhat severe-looking Russian lawyer and army
colonel named Alexandre Volevodz. It remains unclear why a military prosecutor
would be pursuing a case of bank embezzlement, but for the past two years, this
one has spent most of his time and energy hunting down Konanykhine.

We know what Volevodz looks like because he made a cameo appearance in
Washington in late June, at the paid invitation of the FBI. He collaborated with
U.S. authorities in arresting Konanykhine and appeared briefly in the Arlington
INS office the next day, accompanied by a Russian-speaking U.S. Border Patrol
agent. Volevodz described Konanykhine as a "prominent leech," and said he had
been chasing him across the globe for many months.

Then the colonel vanished from public view until July, when he suddenly emerged
as the pivotal character, in absentia, in both Konanykhine's prosecution and
defense. If one believes the U.S. government, Volevodz is a strait-laced
professional policeman determined to bring a fugitive to justice. If one
believes Konanykhine, Volevodz is a corrupt bureaucrat who was paid off by the
mafia and KGB to discredit, hound and deliver him into their clutches.

"Incredibly, the victim became the accused," Konanykhine's lawyer, Michael
Maggio, wrote in a petition for political asylum submitted to Judge Bryant. The
explanation, he added, was simple: "Volevodz, like too many others, is a corrupt
prosecutor under the influence of Russian organized crime."

In many ways, keeping track of this court proceeding was like peering into a
kaleidoscope from both ends at once. First the team of prosecutors laid out a
dizzying array of documents, painting a portrait of a man with a history of
evading the law and swathing his business operations in secrecy.

There were statements from an ex-wife showing he never paid child support and
married her to avoid being drafted. There were business contracts with allegedly
forged signatures and supposedly falsified tax returns. There were letters from
Russian bankers saying Konanykhine had been fired for passing himself off as
their U.S. agent, and memos from his purported top aide saying he had never
worked for the firm he said he founded in Washington.

"He is a fugitive from justice, a draft dodger, a tax evader and a deadbeat
dad," charged prosecutor Eloise Rosas, who sat among towering stacks of
technical and legal papers, marked Exhibit A through Exhibit XXX. It would be a
"travesty of justice," she argued coolly, to allow Konanykhine to remain here,
safe from either Russian government prosecution or the extrajudicial welcome of
"his own criminal cohorts."

But here was the catch: In virtually every case, the information was provided to
U.S. authorities by Col. Volevodz, often translated and interpreted by him, and
generally accepted at face value. And in each instance, the defense argued that
Volevodz had fabricated or doctored the evidence, intimidated witnesses into
lying, or dissuaded U.S. officials from trying to verify his data.

In court testimony and affidavits, Konanykhine described himself as the victim
of a dark conspiracy: a wealthy man forced to take precautions that might appear
suspicious to foreigners. He said he had hired 150 former and part-time KGB
agents to protect his businesses from mob pressure, and had concealed company
information in order to outsmart mobsters and "the powerful conservative
communist wing in the U.S.S.R. leadership."

As for the role of U.S. officials, Konanykhine argued that they were so eager to
build a "quid pro quo" relationship with law enforcement agents in Moscow -- who
had recently supplied U.S. authorities with witnesses for the trial of a Russian
mobster in New York -- that it was easy for Volevodz to dupe them into believing
they were delivering an important criminal to their new allies in Moscow.

Judge Bryant was clearly intrigued by the tale being spun before him, even
though the lawyers kept stumbling over tricky Russian patronymics and a
confusing multitude of players. He often allowed witnesses to wander into
colloquies on organized crime, corruption and high-level law enforcement
"trades." But finally, he threw up his hands.

"These are hypotheticals within hypotheticals," he complained. "This is such a
stretch that it might be a novel by Tom Clancy. We've gone so far afield that
I've gotta say no."

'It's the Mafia'

Hypothetically, it was all quite plausible. According to experts, press accounts
and statements by U.S. and Russian officials, organized crime and former KGB
officers have taken over large portions of Russian private enterprise,
especially banks, and official corruption is so widespread that some experts
call it the most serious threat to Russian democracy.

In January a senior FBI official, James E. Moody, testified on Capitol Hill that
Russia's wide-open capitalism has created a "breeding ground for organized
crime," which has focused on banking as "the most vulnerable and lucrative
target." Since 1991, Moody said, 46 bankers had been murdered, and there was
such "rampant corruption" in law enforcement agencies that U.S. officials "must
take calculated risks in seeking assistance" from them in pursuing international
financial crimes.

Authorities in Moscow have also acknowledged the problem. Just last month the
minister of internal affairs -- Volevodz's highest superior -- told reporters
that more than 500 of his own officers had been brought up on charges of bribery
or "complicity in crime groups."

Indeed, even as INS prosecutors were pooh-poohing Konanykhine's novelistic
version of events, their own evidence at times supported him. One FBI agent
testified from Moscow that Volevodz seemed like a regular gumshoe and that
reports of corruption in Russia were exaggerated. Yet another FBI agent, flown
from Miami, testified that Russian mobsters in New York had taken out a
"contract" on Konanykhine's life, possibly on behalf of the same mafia group
that had threatened him in Budapest.

One key witness, a business associate of Konanykhine's named Nikolai Menchukov,
was so nervous on the stand that he forgot his own telephone number and made
basic business transactions appear suspiciously convoluted. On the other hand,
his stress was understandable. During the court proceeding, he said, he learned
that Volevodz had called on his mother-in-law at home, his office was in ruins
and his employees had become too afraid to report to work.

"In Russia today, it is the same terror system of the old days, just with
different people," said Menchukov, a disheveled, chain-smoking advertising
executive. "My grandfather was a general who was discredited and killed by
Stalin in 1937, so I know. Now it's not the communists, it's the mafia. But
everyone in Russia is extremely afraid of them, and they have all the power.
They don't even have to say they will kill you. You just know it."

INS and Outs

When seven U.S. immigration agents and D.C. police officers burst into the
Watergate and packed the young Russian couple off to jail (releasing Elena soon
afterward on bond), they were presumably not interested in corruption, mafia
plots, or even bank embezzlement. Their stated concern was a mundane technical
violation of U.S. visa laws. But what was extraordinary was the length to which
INS prosecutors went to prove their charges.

In essence, they set out to show that Konanykhine lied on his original business
visa applications when he claimed he was the U.S. representative for Menchukov's
firm, an ad agency called Greatis Russia (i.e., Great Is Russia). They produced
Russian government documents showing that Greatis had no foreign affiliates and
no fixed address. They presented evidence that Konanykhine's company here,
Greatis USA, had not employed him until after he claimed it had. They showed
that he had used numerous Washington addresses and phone numbers at the same
time.

There were also indications that Konanykhine was doing more here than seeking
advertising clients. In 1994, his efforts to establish an offshore bank in the
Bahamas led to an investigation by the Federal Reserve, and he launched a
separate scheme to purchase quantities of Uruguayan passports for Russian
investors. According to sources, several U.S. government agencies had been
keeping a suspicious eye on the jet-setting businessman for some time.

But Konanykhine, in turn, presented evidence that Greatis USA had been duly
incorporated in Delaware in 1992, with himself as president. His documents
showed he had been listed on the payroll, paid his U.S. income taxes and hired
prominent corporate lawyers. He repeatedly stated that he had broken no laws and
had nothing to hide from American authorities.

And for every apparent smoking gun, he had a convenient explanation. When
prosecutors produced a memo from one Mr. Rudakov, a purported deputy to
Menchukov, stating that Konanyhine had not worked for Greatis, Konanykhine
asserted that Rudakov was one of the conspirators against him. When the INS
failed to locate one Mr. Uryvaev, whom Menchukov swore was his real deputy, the
defense claimed Uryvaev was too terrified of the mob to come forward.

It is hard to believe the worst about this polite, somewhat nerdy young man who
appears so eager to explain himself. Konanykhine's colleagues at Greatis USA, a
small office two blocks from the White House, are smart, friendly young
professionals who appear to personify the new Russian yuppie.

His wife, Elena Gratcheva, is a gracious, talkative woman who eagerly welcomed a
reporter, unannounced, into their co-op. The walls were bare and the
refrigerator empty except for a few bottles of Evian water. Absently playing
with their black, longhaired kitten Dina, Elena fretted about whether her
husband was eating enough in prison and why authorities had not allowed him to
shave before testifying.

"I think they wanted him to look like a criminal," she said. "I brought him nice
clothes every day, but they wouldn't let him put them on. Do you think he looked
all right?"

Konanykhine himself is a more complex character, somewhat arrogant about his
youthful success and contemptuous of the case against him. He describes himself
as a workaholic who loved taking risks, finding new markets, living at the
cutting edge of a crazy new capitalist world. Yet he dismisses Volevodz's case
against him as a "clumsy" fabrication, and brushes off the charges of
embezzlement with a bemused shrug, as if it were all part of a game he knows how
to play and fully intends to win.

Sitting in that barren interview cubicle in Manassas, his long limbs sticking
out from rumpled blue overalls, he seems strangely calm and cocky, a man
accustomed to wild swings of fortune who at the moment happens to find himself
in a cinderblock cell instead of an opulent dacha. "I was trained to take
pressure and work with a knife at my back. My surroundings never affect me," he
explains.

Konanykhine expresses no resentment against the American authorities, and even
says he is grateful to the FBI for warning him that his life was in danger. And
no matter what the conditions, he says, as long as he can remain a guest of the
United States, at least he feels safe.

"I realize this is hard for average Americans to believe, or even an experienced
immigration judge. But this case is much bigger and more complicated than just
me," he says. "If they can successfully pursue and eliminate me, it will be a
major victory for the mafia. Then they will have a chance to secure real control
of Russia."

It's time to go. You don't know what to think. You wonder who might be listening
to the conversation through that little round grille in the wall. You wonder if
six months from now someone will send you a news clip about a lanky banker being
shot dead at the Moscow airport. Mostly, you wonder if things can get much
weirder than this.

But Konanykhine isn't quite done.

"Let me tell you about my cellmate," he offers with a broad grin. "He's an
elderly Eastern Orthodox bishop from the Bronx who was born in Romania. He says
he used to work for the CIA and the DEA and they're trying to deport him for
political reasons . . . ."


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, juana arias, "I left Russia because the rules of the game were
becoming too dangerous," says Konanykhine. "I like it much better here, because
the rules are fair. The FBI didn't use tricks against me, and they won't try to
kill me. The judge who decides my case will almost certainly not be bribed or
corrupt. Here I have a chance.  "Look, aside from trying to convince you I am a
decent guy, a man of principles, I simply had no need to be corrupt," syas
Konanykhine from a room at the Prince William County adult detention center.  "I
was more powerful than the gangs or the government." Elena Gratcheva, sitting in
the couple's sparsely furnished $300,000 Watergate co-op, visits her husband in
court every day.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              172 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 19, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Eager for Business From Law Enforcers, CACI Finds Its Man

Rajiv Chandrasekaran, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F10; NEWSMAKERS

LENGTH: 881 words


CACI International Inc. wants to get to know the FBI -- and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the Customs Service and the Drug Enforcement
Administration.

The Arlington-based information technology contractor, which thrived for years
by providing computer software and systems to the military, recently went
looking for business in other parts of the federal government, specifically the
law enforcement arena.

But this can be a difficult task. Law enforcement clients have different needs
from those of the military, and many federal law enforcement agencies already
have well-established relationships with other information-technology
contractors.

So CACI searched for someone who understands both technology and law enforcement
to help. They found him in David P. Clement, who joined the company last month
as director of business development for its automated document management
systems division.

A former Air Force pilot and military computer programmer, Clement had spent the
past decade hopscotching among several systems integration firms in Northern
Virginia that performed federal contract work.

Clement had built up an impressive client list, including the FBI, INS, the
Secret Service and Interpol. He also had established a reputation as a quick
thinker who could handle even seemingly insurmountable tasks.

When he worked at Management Systems Design in the mid-1980s on a project to
build a massive INS database, for example, he earned the moniker "Mr. Fix-It."

"Some of the small companies I've been at haven't had the capital to make a big
go of things," Clement said. "Here I've got a legacy to build on. . . . We've
got the resources and we've got the people with expertise."

Like many of the information technology companies based in the Washington
region, CACI provides myriad computer-related services to government and private
clients, including designing large database systems for departments and and
writing customized software for federal contractors that allows them to submit
bids on-line.

The company has about 3,200 employees worldwide. Last week it reported that
fiscal 1996 revenue had reached $ 244.6 million.

For the past 16 years, the company has provided support to the Justice
Department's civil litigation division, designing and setting up a complex
system that scans reams of paper documents into electronic images, which then
can be indexed and sorted by attorneys, significantly reducing case-preparation
time.

CACI thinks that system can be a boon to other parts of the law enforcement
community. And it's relying on Clement to reel in those clients.

"We think we can bring our expertise to new areas," said Harry Quast, an
executive vice president at CACI. "We want to give some of these agencies a way
to reduce the amount of paper they deal with, and to increase their
productivity."

Initially, Clement will approach the FBI, INS, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, the Customs Service and the DEA as potential CACI clients. He's not
expecting his new role to be an easy one; most of those agencies spend years
evaluating new systems before setting aside funds to buy one.

"But we've got a success story to share with them," he said. "We've shown we can
do it with part of the Justice Department."

Clement got his start in the world of computers with the Air Force. After flying
KC-135 tankers and surveillance planes during the Vietnam War, he enrolled at
the University of Washington and received a degree in physics. Soon after, the
Air Force started seeking out aspiring programmers.

When he expressed interest he was administered a 100-question test in logic
designed by International Business Machines Corp. A passing grade was 60;
Clement scored a 72 and was immediately sent to learn Fortran, a now-primitive
assembly language. He went on to work on a variety of projects, including Air
Force simulations that would take as long as four days to run on that era's most
sophisticated mainframes.

By 1972, the lure of a higher-paying job in the private sector was enough to end
his active duty days. For $ 15,000 a year -- it looked a lot higher back then --
he joined a Washington area firm called Optimum Systems, which designed computer
systems for the EPA, the General Accounting Office and the Internal Revenue
Service.

Optimum eventually was bought out by Ross Perot's Electronic Data Systems Inc.
and Clement left for positions with several other area systems integrators.

His challenges weren't always technical. At Fruit Growers Express, a shipping
firm, he inherited a computer center with a mainframe that had yet to be
started. He fired 11 people in one day before assembling a team to revamp the
company's technology systems.

In the late 1970s, he even worked with CACI, as a consultant in designing a
computer system for the Saudi Arabian navy.

Almost 20 years later, Clement says he's excited by this second association with
the company, despite the three-hour round-trip commute between CACI's Ballston
office and his home near Fredericksburg.

"I had three other offers before I came here," he said. "But I really believe in
the stuff they're doing here. I know this may sound trite, but I'd like to make
a difference for our clients."


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, tom allen; Chart, DAVID P. CLEMENT Age: 54 Birthplace: Lowell,
Mass.  Education: BS in physics, University of Washington, 1967.  Career: Air
Force, active duty, 1961-1972, reserves, 1972-1984; Optimum Systems Inc.,
1972-1974; Arthur D. Little Systems Inc., director of health-care systems,
1975-1980; Computer Network Corp., program manager, 1980-1981; Fruit Growers
Express, vice president, 1981-1984; Management Systems Designers Inc.,
principal, 1984-1986; Evaluation Research Corp., program director, 1986-1989;
Booz, Allen & Hamilton, senior associate, 1989-1990; Menemeonic Systems Inc.,
vice president of business development, 1990-1995; Premier Inc., vice president
of systems engineering, 1995-1996.  Family: Wife, Donna; Children: Kimberly, 34;
Michael, 32; Laura, 26; and Andrew, 18.  Hobbies: Golf; enjoys boating.  David
Clement, who knows both technology and law enforcement, aims to help CACI
attract business from such agencies as the FBI, Customs Service and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.  A test in logic put new CACI executive
Clement on his career path.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              173 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 25, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

D.C. Domestic Violence Group Targets Asian, Pacific Island Immigrants

Cheryl L. Tan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 775 words


She met her husband, a Korean American resident of Fairfax County, when he came
to Seoul in 1988 to look for a bride. After a short, long-distance courtship,
the woman arrived in the United States with a wedding band on her finger.

Although her new husband seemed kind-hearted and gentle, she said, his
alcoholism surfaced within weeks, and the beatings started soon after.

But the 44-year-old, who lives in Falls Church and asked not to be named, said
she endured abuse for almost six years before leaving her husband. She stayed,
she said, because she had no friends in the United States, spoke little English
and was afraid of being deported and losing her daughter. But most of all, she
feared the family would be ostracized by the Korean community here.

"Korean society is very narrow-minded," she said. "I didn't want my husband's
family or co-workers to know about these kinds of things."

Looking back, she said she might have left earlier if she had found a domestic
violence support group that was in tune with her culture and understood her
language.

Now a new domestic violence group in the District is trying to help women like
her. The Asian/Pacific Islander Domestic Violence Resource Project, a nonprofit
group formed in June 1995, seeks to educate local Asian immigrants and Asian
Americans about domestic violence and to reach out to abused women in those
communities. It also targets abused immigrant women who are not aware of their
legal rights.

It is the area's first such organization. A similar group, the Asian Women's
Self Help Association, targets only South Asian women from countries such as
India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

"There was a lack of services that specifically address the unique needs and
barriers faced by abused Asians and Pacific Islanders in the area," said Anne
Chang, the project's president. "We decided there needs to be a group to bridge
that gap."

So far, the 20-member group has been training volunteers, taking a few calls a
month on its information hot line and giving advice to people. It has been
referring battered Asian women to shelters and multilingual advocates. The group
met in January with local Asian and Pacific Islander community leaders to
discuss domestic violence and plans to hold seminars and give talks to various
community organizations.

Minty Chung, who is on the board of the project, said such talks are important
because many local Asian Americans aren't aware of domestic violence problems in
their communities.

"Once we start talking about it, people say, 'Oh yes, that's my sister,' or
'That's my friend,' " Chung said. "But before they hear it, they might sense
that there's something wrong, but they don't know how to name it or what action
to take."

In the Washington area, where Claritas, a market research company, estimated in
1994 that 6 percent of the population is Asian or Pacific Islander, shelters
report that only a small percentage of the battered women who come to them are
of those ethnicities.

At Fairfax County Women's Shelter, less than 10 percent of the 230 women it sees
each year are Asian. Wendy Patten, a staff lawyer at Ayuda, a District-based
group that provides legal services to immigrants, said only 6 of the 578 women
who went to the group for help last year were of Asian descent. She said
battered Asian immigrant women often fear deportation and don't seek help.

"So often, immigrants would not handle domestic violence in the same way that we
do here in the U.S.," Patten said. "There's a reluctance to call the police
because people feel, 'I'm illegal; my husband has always told me if I called the
police, I would get deported.' "

But a new Immigration and Naturalization Service rule that went into effect in
March allows domestic abuse victims to seek status as legal, permanent residents
of the United States on their own. To qualify, victims must provide evidence of
abuse such as police reports and medical records.

Some Asian social mores also make it especially hard for such women to seek
help. The importance that Asians place on social status often deters women from
talking about domestic abuse, especially with strangers, Chang said.

"You hear quite often that your honor is your family and to admit that there's a
problem with your family, you lose face," she said. "It adds to the inhibition
to seek help from other people."

Chang said she hopes the new group will help change that view.

"The fact that we're familiar with where they're coming from, we're friendly
faces," she said. "Hopefully that will help bring out a lot of women who were
afraid to come out before."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              174 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 02, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Latinos Celebrate Life in Delaware Town; Recent Immigration Arrests on Eastern
Shore Add Somber Note to Cultural Festival

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: GEORGETOWN, Del., Sept. 1


Isabela, 21, was trying hard to smile as the dancers danced and the singers
sang, trying hard not to think about her brother, who is facing deportation
after being arrested during an immigration raid last week at an Eastern Shore
poultry plant.

She, too, is working with false papers -- in the packing department at a
chicken-processing plant. And yesterday, she was one of a few thousand Latinos
who attempted to set aside their worries and celebrate at the second annual
Hispanic Festival in Georgetown, Del.

"He had just arrived from Mexico," Isabela said, talking about her brother. "It
was only his third day of work. He just wanted to make a living. I don't see
what's wrong with that. They need us to work."

Last week's raids, in which 124 workers suspected of being illegal immigrants
were arrested, dampened but did not extinguish the festival, one of the clear
reflections of the Latino community's growth here.

With a swirl of color and dance, Mexicans showed off their sombreros and
Guatemalans performed a traditional corn celebration to mark the harvest, with
incense and a Mayan Christian altar. And petitions were circulated for support
for those who had been jailed.

"I definitely think there would have been more people here if not for the raid,"
said Father Steven Giuliano, director of Latino and Migrant Ministry with the
Diocese of Wilmington.

Festival sponsors included Allen Family Foods, which owns the plants raided last
week, as well as the Delmarva Poultry Industry, Townsends Inc., Perdue Farms
Inc. and Mountaire Farms. In the afternoon, the governor of Delaware presented a
trophy to the winning team from the local Latino Football League.

Latinos, the majority of them Guatemalans, have transformed this small town of
about 5,000 people in southern Delaware. Some of them are in this country
legally; some are not.

The influx has put stress on everything from housing to health care in the last
five to six years, but the community has established itself. There now is a
Spanish-language cable television station, a Spanish-language newspaper, a
Spanish-language radio station. Stores and restaurants have opened for the
immigrants.

As they adjust to a new land, the workers struggle to maintain cultural
traditions. "They need to adapt here without losing their identity," said
Gonzalo Martinez, one of the event's organizers and a native of Chile.

The festival is an important part of that process, organizers said, giving
Latinos from different countries a chance to learn about their cultural
differences and similarities.

There were booths displaying Guatemalan handicrafts and Latin American foods,
performances of Mexican folk ballads, dancing of the Macarena, and games and
paints for children.

Juan Perez, an artist, fled Guatemala in 1983. He said he crossed the U.S.
border illegally at Nogales, Ariz., but later applied for and received political
asylum in the United States. He now works in a processing plant, hanging
chickens on a moving metal conveyor.

He displayed paintings depicting political unrest in his native country. One
showed children outside thatched huts in a village, with a large military tank
nearby. He calls it "Where There Is No School," because government officials
say, "There is no money for a school, but there is money for a tank." He also
displayed his drawing of a chicken-processing plant, a haunting portrayal in
which an employee's hand is cut off by one of the machines.

But there also was a lighter side of life for Perez yesterday: He traced the
outline of several children as they laid down on construction paper, then helped
them fill in pictures of themselves.


LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, bill o'leary , A Feast in the Sun Singer Martin Chavez helps
make sure that the second annual Hispanic Festival in the small town of
Georgetown, Del., is a happy affair despite a recent immigration raid on the
Eastern Shore.  Members of the Comunidad Guatemalteca de Georgetown perform a
corn celebration.  Stephanie Morales, 18 months old, clings to her father,
Antonio, as she watches the activities at the Hispanic Festival in Georgetown,
Del.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              175 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 17, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Newark Students Rough Quarterback Kemp on 'Reverse Play,' Other Issues

Paul Duggan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 16


Jack Kemp traveled to St. Benedict's Preparatory School in a gritty pocket of
this city today, his press secretary said, because the school's unlikely
success, under the direction of a determined Benedictine monk, illustrates what
"moral leadership" can accomplish.

To his surprise, and perhaps mild discomfort, the GOP vice presidential nominee
wound up learning exactly what such leadership can accomplish.

After weeks of fielding mostly slow-toss questions from partisan Republican
crowds across the country, Kemp got an earful from the high school students.
There were no softballs thrown here. The teenagers, many from low-income
families, challenged Kemp's positions on immigration, welfare, affirmative
action, crime and other issues.

"Mr. Kemp," said one of a dozen youngsters who questioned him in the school's
gymnasium, "as a former pro football player, you're familiar with the reverse
play. . . . Why did you reverse your opinion on Proposition 187?"

The question referred to a 1994 California ballot initiative to deny public
education and other services to the children of illegal immigrants. Kemp, once
an opponent of the measure, dropped his opposition when he became Robert J.
Dole's running mate.

Facing an audience of 550, many of them children of immigrants, Kemp said he
disliked the initiative because he "didn't want schoolteachers and public health
officials to become agents of the Border Patrol." He was referring to a
requirement that those workers report children suspected of being illegal
immigrants' offspring.

However, he said, he has been assured by California officials that the
requirement will not be overzealously enforced. "I'm very proud of the fact that
Bob Dole said he does not want . . . California or any other state to be turned
into a police state," Kemp said.

Another student cited what he called Kemp's "flip-flop" on affirmative action;
another asked why the GOP platform, on the subject of crime, "seems to focus on
punishment rather than educating the young . . . before they begin careers as
criminals"; another wanted to know if Kemp agreed with Dole's ridicule of first
lady Hillary Rodham Clinton's book title, drawn from the African proverb, "It
takes a village to raise a child."

"I'm proud of these kids," said the Rev. Edwin Leahy, the Benedictine monk who
rescued the 128-year-old Catholic school after riots in Newark in the late 1960s
threatened its existence. Many of its students moved with their families to
suburbia. In the years since, "Father Ed" has transformed the school into an
academically rigorous academy with a student body composed largely of inner-city
youngsters.

On the question of whether Republicans emphasize punishment too heavily over
crime prevention programs, Kemp replied that each is important.

"It is the responsibility of the government -- at the local, state and federal
level -- to prevent crime and also to punish crime," he replied.

"Why do you seem to flip-flop, particularly when it comes to affirmative
action?" asked one student, referring to Kemp's former support of government
programs that provide job opportunities to minorities. Kemp adjusted his
thinking on that issue when he joined Dole on the GOP ticket.

"The question about affirmative action has a false premise," Kemp told the
teenager. "I did not flip-flop. I have never supported affirmative action that
led to quotas." Then -- drawing from his stump speech -- he declared that all
people deserve an equal opportunity to better themselves financially and would
get that chance in a robust economy under a Dole administration.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              176 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 18, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

GOP Restores $2.3 Billion It Cut in Education Funds; Republicans Want to Avoid
Preelection Gridlock

Helen Dewar; Eric Pianin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1029 words


Republicans yesterday gave ground on education spending and struggled for a way
out of their impasse over immigration in a determined drive to give the 104th
Congress a strong finish -- rather than an embarrassing fizzle -- before it
faces the voters in November.

Bombarded by Democratic charges that they were shortchanging the country's
schoolchildren, Senate Republicans agreed to match President Clinton's proposed
spending for schools by restoring $ 2.3 billion that Republicans had cut from
education accounts for next year.

Their move came shortly after a House-Senate conference on legislation to curb
illegal immigration was abruptly postponed in hopes of resolving a bitter
conflict over a provision many Republicans and Democrats said would doom the
bill.

The provision would allow states to deny free public schooling to the children
of illegal immigrants. Opposed by Clinton and supported by GOP presidential
nominee Robert J. Dole, it has become caught up in congressional as well as
presidential politics. Some Republicans want to keep it to help Dole, while
others are willing to scuttle it to get a bill that will be signed into law and
provide bragging rights for them during their campaigns.

House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.) hinted that Re publicans might
be willing to drop the provision if Clinton would agree to sign the bill without
it. And Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (Miss.) said Republicans were trying
to put together a new version of the provision that might get it through the
Senate without being blocked by a bipartisan filibuster.

Even though Congress passed major bills dealing with welfare overhaul, health
insurance and a minimum wage increase before its summer recess, Republicans do
not want voters' final impression of Congress before the elections to be one of
drift or gridlock.

The GOP concession on education spending came only minutes before Democrats were
prepared to offer a proposal to add $ 3.1 billion for education and job training
to an Interior Department spending bill. Before they could offer their proposal,
Lott told reporters Republicans were prepared to add back $ 2.3 billion for
education alone.

Republicans said their proposal would restore funds the House and Senate
Appropriations committees recently cut from Clinton's education request, with
about $ 100 million to spare. Most of the restored funds would go for vocational
education, student financial aid and programs for disadvantaged children and
those with special learning needs.

Clinton repeatedly and successfully attacked Republicans over their attempts to
cut spending for education programs last year and Democrats planned a similar
attack during the fall campaign. Polls show that voters rank education as one of
their top concerns.

"We can either get our brains beat out politically or we can get in there and
mix it up with them, and that's what we are going to do," Lott said.

But Lott then enraged Democrats by blocking introduction of their larger $ 3.1
billion proposal. "They would like to bury this fight if they can. They don't
want an open debate on the Senate floor," complained Senate Minority Leader
Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.). "They're the ones who are always complaining about
stalling," said Sen. Tom Harkin (Iowa), ranking Democrat on the Appropriations
subcommittee for education.

Later, Lott shot back that the Democrats were more interested in scoring
political points than in completing work on the remaining spending bills.
Congress has until Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, to finish work on the
13 annual appropriations bills that fund government operations. Unless Democrats
limit their amendments and allow the unfinished bills to come to a vote, GOP
leaders will have no choice but to roll the bills into a giant interim spending
bill called a continuing resolution and adjourn for the year, he warned.

Of the 13 bills, only four have been signed into law. Clinton signed bills to
fund the legislative branch and military construction yesterday. Bills funding
the District of Columbia and agriculture programs were signed earlier.

"If they think I'm going to stand by and let them do their political agenda on
the appropriations bills . . . it's not going to happen that way," Lott said.

Earlier, Lott was even more acerbic, accusing Democrats of trying to dump "their
political garbage" on the spending bills and threatening to respond in kind with
GOP proposals, including ones to make English the nation's official language and
to deny a welfare waiver to the District of Columbia.

In an effort to ease passage of the continuing resolution without a repeat of
last year's governmental shutdowns, administration and congressional officials
began talks Monday to reach a compromise on the remaining spending bills. The
administration is seeking to increase domestic spending by $ 6.6 billion above
what Republicans have approved, including $ 1.1 billion for anti-terrorism
initiatives. It wants to offset the cost by auctioning broadcast frequencies and
dipping into defense funds.

While White House Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta said defense money must be part
of the mix, Armey said it would be difficult to win House approval for any
package that cut more than $ 500 million from defense.

House and Senate conferees completed work last week on a new $ 244 billion
defense spending bill for the coming year, but with the fate of that bill
hanging on the outcome of the talks on an overall spending package, House and
Senate GOP leaders have agreed to put it on hold. Lott told reporters yesterday
that Clinton "doesn't want us to send the defense bill down to the White House"
now because "he's scared to veto it."

Meanwhile, the Senate gave final approval to a $ 20 billion energy and water
spending bill and sent it to the White House, where officials indicated the
president would sign it. The fiscal 1997 measure provides for a relatively
modest $ 465 million increase over this year's spending level, about $ 200
million less than Clinton requested. The compromise passed the Senate, 92 to 8.
Last week it cleared the House, 383 to 29.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              177 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 19, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Firm Denies Blame After INS Raid

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 181 words


An official of a Maryland Eastern Shore tree nursery raided Tuesday by federal
immigration agents said yesterday that all its foreign-born employees appeared
to be properly documented, although some may have had phony papers.

"We are not experts in detecting fraudulent documents," said LaVerne C. Kohl,
president of Angelica Nurseries in Kennedyville, in a statement issued after
Immigration and Naturalization Service agents arrested 86 workers at the Kent
County nursery. He added, "We are therefore vulnerable to fraudulent documents
which appear genuine."

Kohl's remarks followed a raid that he said was "humiliating to the company and
its employees." The 2,000-acre tree and shrubbery wholesaler, one of the largest
in the state, had operated since 1957 with no previous run-ins with the INS,
Kohl said.

Benedict Ferro, district INS director in Baltimore, acknowledged that
counterfeit documents "can be a real problem to employers . . . and we don't
expect employers to be [experts like] INS agents."

The INS was still verifying the status of the workers.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              178 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 24, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Welfare Law Begins Taking Effect, With Some Confusion

Judith Havemann; William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 851 words


The first provisions of the complex new federal welfare law took effect
yesterday, requiring states to begin denying food stamps to non-U.S. citizens in
the initial phase of a process that will ultimately strip benefits from half a
million immigrants.

Efforts to enforce the new law came amid delays, confusion and, in at least one
state, administrative chaos, as caseworkers and others involved in the welfare
bureaucracy struggled first to decipher and then to implement the required
changes.

Officials in Virginia and the District said they started denying food stamps to
non-citizens yesterday but Maryland, like some other states around the country,
put it off until Oct. 1.

The food stamp provisions of the law, which have received far less attention
than other sections of the welfare changes, are key to the success of the entire
measure. They are expected to provide half of the expected $ 54 billion in
savings from the bill over the next six years. Cuts in other benefits to
immigrants account for most of the rest.

States could lose millions of dollars if they fail to implement the provisions
accurately and on time. The Agriculture Department imposes strict financial
penalties on states that pass out food stamps to people who are ineligible, so
accuracy is critical. But under the new law, figuring out who qualifies becomes
much more complicated: Non-citizen legal immigrants can receive food stamps, for
example, if they are new refugees, veterans or legal residents who have worked
10 years in the United States without receiving any federal means-tested
benefits.

Sorting through these changes seemed to be proving the most difficult in
California, which has 40 percent of the nation's immigrants. Officials in
several California counties described their efforts to meet the new requirements
as chaotic, proclaiming the level of confusion the worst mess in 25 years of
social welfare reform.

California announced last week that it would begin cutting off non-citizens, but
by week's end had backed off in the face of a new federal directive suggesting
its efforts may have been premature.

Early yesterday, county officials began stacking new food stamp applications
from non-citizens in separate piles, awaiting word from their superiors on how
to handle them.

Susan Miller, assistant district manager of the Orange County social services
agency, said, "We take the application . . . except we don't approve any of the
new applications until further training sessions. We don't have any idea of what
the changes are."

The confusion was trickling down to immigrants who had come to apply for
benefits yesterday.

Mima Michel, 18, a non-citizen immigrant from Mexico, sat bewildered at the
Santa Ana welfare office as she tried to apply for food stamps and other
assistance for herself and her 21-day-old baby.

"Someone told me they can give you this, or they can give you that, and I want
to find out for myself," she said. She said she knew "just a little bit from the
news" about the new welfare rules, but didn't know whether she would get help or
not. After welfare officials put her through the entire application process
yesterday and she was given another appointment, she said she still hadn't been
told anything about eligibility.

The new law officially went into effect Aug. 22, when the president signed the
welfare bill. But on Aug. 26, the Agriculture Department gave states a 30-day
"grace period" to prepare for the changes. That grace period ended Sunday.

New York, in a press release sent out Friday, announced that its counties would
begin imposing the new requirements starting Saturday.

New York, which like California has a Republican governor, blamed any snafus and
confusion on President Clinton.

"This is either total incompetence on the part of the federal government or,
more likely, political games being played out in an election year by the Clinton
administration," said California Gov. Pete Wilson, referring to correspondence
between his state and the administration over when the food stamp provision
should take effect.

Agriculture Department officials said they had sent out three notices informing
states that they needed to cut off food stamps to new applicants starting
yesterday, but had considerable leeway in cutting off immigrants who were
already on the rolls.

In Virginia, Fairfax County officials estimated that 4,000 legal immigrant
families now receiving food stamps could lose those benefits as their cases are
reviewed in the coming months. They said they will start notifying the families
this week. Alexandria officials said about 700 recipients in their city might be
affected.

Nationwide, about 850,000 non-citizens are receiving federal benefits.
Immigrants who are already on the food stamp rolls will have as long as a year
in some states before they are cut off. Eventually about 500,000 non-citizens
are expected to be ineligible for federal assistance.

Staff writers Louie Estrada, Peter Finn and Tara Mack, and special correspondent
Cassandra Stern contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              179 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 26, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

In a Rush, New Citizens Register Their Political Interest; As More Immigrants
Become Naturalized, First Tendency Is Toward Democratic Party

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1532 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


There are so many immigrants becoming U.S. citizens that the mass swearing-in
ceremonies here are now being doubled up, mornings and afternoons -- thousands
of people each week, more than 130,000 naturalized Americans in Florida alone
this year.

And after the new citizens have solemnly raised their right hands and pledged
allegiance to the United States of America, they leave the cavernous convention
hall here and immediately register to vote in the November elections.

An elderly woman from Colombia fills out her registration card on a upturned
trash can; a young Haitian couple fill in their cards on each other's backs; and
all the while former Cubans, Canadians, Jamaicans, Swedes, Nicaraguans and
Chinese are literally clamoring for the voter cards at tables set up outside the
hall.

Nationally, a total of 1.2 million immigrants will become new citizens this
year, shattering a record set in 1944. In the Washington area, the pace of new
citizenship is also expected to reach an unprecedented high this year, according
to immigration officials. Whatever the new citizens' eventual voting patterns,
their numbers are historic -- and their political clout, while still up for
grabs, will be profound.

No one knows for sure which political party will win the spoils, but the odds-on
favorite is the Democratic Party -- at least in the short run -- because of
anxiety and anger generated by anti-immigrant measures such as the welfare
reform act, English-only proposals and provisions that would deny public
education to the children of illegal aliens, all policies associated more with
the political right.

"I will vote, of course," said Cesar Rodriguez, almost offended by the question,
asked of a man born in the Dominican Republic but now a middle-aged mechanic and
newly minted citizen. "I will exercise my rights and let my voice be heard."

But whom will he vote for? "That is private," Rodriguez said. "But right now, I
like the president, I think he is the man for me."

Rosa Kasse, president of the Hispanic Coalition, one of several nonpartisan
groups in Miami registering the new citizens to vote after the ceremonies,
grabbed a pile of registration cards on Sunday and started flipping through
them, like a deck of oversized playing cards, reading aloud, "Democrat,
Democrat, Democrat . . . "

Kasse estimates that she and her colleagues register five Democrats for every
one Republican or independent. "When you ask for party affiliation," Kasse said,
"some of them just say 'Clinton.' "

Firm statistics are impossible to come by, but political observers in the big
immigrant states of Florida, California, Texas and New York say the immigrant
vote is trending Democratic, based on early signs of new voter registrations.

They caution, however, that party affiliation may not directly translate into
straight ticket voting or party loyalty.

In South Florida, for example, many of the new Hispanic voters may choose
President Clinton, but also vote for Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen or Rep. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart -- both Republicans, both Cuban Americans with strong support among
immigrants and both vocal opponents of new anti-immigrant legislation, including
the welfare reform act passed this summer that denies certain benefits to legal
immigrants who are not citizens.

Moreover, the Cuban Americans here remain overwhelmingly Republican and
supportive of GOP presidential nominee Robert J. Dole. But contrary to popular
perception, the Cuban Americans make up only 35 percent of the new citizens in
Miami, and they are barely visible in the other states.

"It depends on the predominant flavor," said Karl Rove, a Republican consultant
in Texas and an adviser to Texas Gov. George W. Bush (R). "In South Florida, it
[the immigrant vote] will go Republican. In Texas it's a jump ball -- whichever
party makes the more concerted effort. In California it may help the Democrats.
It depends on where they came from and the assimilation of the immigrant group
already there."

Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials in Los Angeles, agrees that not all new citizens will
vote for Democrats -- but he believes they do traditionally tend to tilt that
way.

Vargas said GOP stands on business regulations, tax cuts, abortion and personal
responsibility should appeal to many new citizens. But he and others said that
the anti-immigrant messages generated by Republicans, such as those by
presidential primary candidate Patrick J. Buchanan, dampen the attraction.
Buchanan spoke of building a wall along the Mexican border and defending it with
U.S. troops. He also referred to Mexican crossers dismissively as "Jose."

"People are really scared and very angry. Immigrants were described as the
source of all evil in American society," Vargas said. "And the recent welfare
reform act confirmed it wasn't illegal immigrants who are exposed. It was legal
immigrants too."

Whomever they end up voting for, it is clear that immigrants' votes could play
an unprecedented role in the November elections. Last year, 445,853 immigrants
were sworn in across the country. This year, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service estimates the number will be almost three times that. Moreover, INS
officials predict that the rush to become naturalized will continue next year,
with an additional million or more new citizens.

The reasons for the growing numbers of new citizens are procedural and political
-- and emotional, say the immigrants themselves and those who work with them.
One reason for the surge in applications arises from the amnesty program of the
late 1980s, which allowed more than a million illegal aliens to become legal
residents. Those legal residents, who must wait five years to apply for
citizenship, are now becoming naturalized.

The rush toward citizenship is also being stoked by a new INS program called
Citizenship USA, in which the Clinton administration has attempted to reduce the
backlog of applications and streamline the process, reducing waits of two years
or more to, in many cases, 90 days.

But changes in the new welfare law, which seeks to deny food stamps and
disability benefits to all non-citizens, are also having a big impact. In
Florida, for example, 10,000 persons applied each month of this year for
naturalization. In August, when the welfare bill was signed into law, the number
jumped to 15,000.

And clearly, the anti-immigrant mood of the country is pushing many to become
citizens.

"I love this country," said Alfredo Alvarez, an elderly businessman originally
from Honduras, who began the naturalization process here last week. "But I feel
unwanted. I feel like unless I am a true American, the government could one day
knock on my door and tell me, 'Alfredo, go back to Honduras!' "

"They see the writing on the wall," said Mark Yoshida, citizen project director
of the Asian Pacific American Legal Center in Los Angeles. "I think things are
going to go for the worst here. That's the impression I get. It's not going to
be very rosy for permanent residents here."

Several other immigrants at a recent citizenship class agreed. "They don't give
a damn about the new people. They blame immigrants for everything. Schools.
Crime. Drugs. But I tell you, we're not the ones doing drugs. It's the
Americans," said Sylvia Vazquez, a young hotel worker from Nicaragua who hopes
to soon apply for citizenship. "I know because I see them. I go home to my
family."

The new rush toward citizenship has led some Republicans to cry foul, and to see
the INS's Citizenship USA program as a cynical -- but smart -- effort by the
Clinton administration to register new supporters.

The rush also has led to charges and congressional hearings that suggest some of
the new citizens cannot answer basic questions about the country ("Who said,
'Give me liberty or give me death?' " or "Who helped the Pilgrims?") and do not
speak English proficiently. And there are charges that immigrants are becoming
citizens not so much out of love of the country, but fear that their welfare
benefits will be yanked.

Many of the new citizens at the Miami swearing-in ceremonies do not seem all
that comfortable with English. One INS worker at the event said she is
frustrated that even many of the younger citizens -- who must speak proficient
English, versus those who are over 50 and have been in the country 20 years, who
are exempt from the requirement -- do not understand her when she asks them to
"please take their seats."

INS officials have responded that the application process is not lax and that
any problems stemming from the record number of new applications are being
addressed.

Regardless of whom the new citizens vote for in November, Rep. Ros-Lehtinen said
Congress and the American taxpayer should be aware of one fact. With all these
legal immigrants becoming U.S. citizens, she said, the hoped-for savings of $ 26
billion over five years -- money to be saved by denying welfare benefits to
non-citizens -- may evaporate.

"The savings are not there," Ros-Lehtinen said, "when all these people become
citizens."


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, arizona daily star/david sanders; Photo, el nuevo herald/roberto
koltun, Wave of enthusiasm is apparent among group of 2,068 awaiting citizenship
ceremony in Tucson on Tuesday.  At a special ceremony in Miami's Little Havana,
new citizens include elderly people who had been victims of fraud.  Maria
Gandulfe is sworn in as a naturalized American at Little Havana event.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              180 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 27, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Cartel Used INS Buses, Trial Told

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A former insider in a Mexican drug cartel said it used U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) buses to ship thousands of pounds of cocaine north
from the U.S.-Mexico border.

Juan Antonio Ortiz, testifying in the trial of alleged cartel leader Juan Garcia
Abrego, said the cartel began using INS buses to ship drugs in 1986 and kept it
up until 1990 when one of the INS staffers working with the drug dealers was
caught. The drugs were stashed on buses used to transport illegal immigrants
captured in southern Texas to Houston, 300 miles to the northeast, for flights
back to their homelands, he said.

The beauty of the scheme, he testified, was that the INS buses were never
checked at U.S. government checkpoints inside Texas where agents searched all
vehicles for drugs.

Garcia Abrego, a former cookie factory worker from Texas, was captured in
Monterrey, Mexico, in January and flown to Houston for trial. He faces up to
life in prison if convicted on 22 drug-related counts and has pleaded not
guilty. Prosecutors charge that he was the leader of the Gulf Cartel, which once
shipped up to one-third of the cocaine consumed in the United States. His
lawyers say he was not.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              181 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 28, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Clinton, Hill Near Budget Deal; Immigration Measure Continues to Hold Up Final
Compromise

Eric Pianin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1123 words


Congressional Republicans and White House negotiators early this morning
finished the bulk of a compromise spending bill to keep the government operating
beyond midnight Monday. But a feud over White House efforts to further alter a
House-passed immigration bill continued to frustrate an agreement.

White House Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta and House Appropriations Committee
Chairman Bob Livingston (R-La.) emerged from a late-night bargaining session to
say negotiators had made good progress and would press on to complete their
talks. GOP leaders said it was still possible the giant spending measure could
be sent to the House floor for action this afternoon.

"We've more or less resolved most issues," Livingston told reporters shortly
before 1 a.m. today. "We have an agreement in principle, but not all the
details."

The bill includes $ 6.5 billion of fiscal 1997 spending for education, other
domestic programs and anti-terrorism measures above what Congress previously
approved.

But President Clinton's decision late this week to predicate his approval of the
spending package to further GOP concessions on a bill to thwart illegal
immigration drew bitter complaints from GOP negotiators and from other
Republicans and some Democrats whose states have been severely impacted by a
large influx of immigrants.

After forcing House Republicans on Wednesday to drop a provision from the bill
that would have allowed states to end free public education to future illegal
immigrant children, the administration now is demanding Republicans also drop a
section that would cut public benefits for legal immigrants.

House and Senate Republican and Democratic negotiators, including Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Rep. Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.), tried to craft a
compromise late Thursday that would satisfy the president while preserving
important portions of the disputed section. Part of the offer was to delete a
provision denying publicly funded AIDS treatment to both legal and undocumented
immigrants.

But the White House rejected the offer early yesterday and is holding out for
more radical surgery. "This has been a very disappointing turn of events for all
of us," House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.) said.

Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.), a leader in the fight for tough immigration
reforms and one of the four negotiators, charged that the administration was
trying to "blackmail Congress" by continually "moving the goal post" and raising
the specter of a repeat of last year's government shutdowns.

Earlier, a group of angry GOP House members from California told reporters that
Clinton could not be trusted to keep his word, and that the president's efforts
to gut the legislation would backfire and damage his prospects for carrying
California in November.

Rep. David Dreier (R-Calif.) described the president's efforts as "the most
blatant anti-Californian action imaginable."

The administration said Clinton was justified in raising other concerns about
the bill and that he had never asserted the free schooling issue for illegal
immigrant children was his only concern.

A senior administration official described the immigration legislation dispute
as "one of the pieces of sand in the gears right now," but added he was
optimistic "we're going to get to a deal very quickly that we can all live
with."

The marathon bargaining over scores of thorny spending and policy issues apart
from immigration has taken a physical toll on Republican and Democratic
negotiators and staff. Bargainers met until 4 a.m. yesterday, slept a bit and
then resumed their talks. Some GOP leaders complained that the process was
complicated by White House insistence on reopening spending issues that had been
settled.

The GOP-controlled Congress has sent the president seven of the 13 spending
bills required to finance government operations in fiscal 1997. Negotiators are
wrapping the remaining six bills -- totaling roughly $ 200 billion in domestic
spending and $ 245 billion for the military -- into the omnibus spending
package. It would provide funds for foreign aid, federal courts and the Defense,
Treasury, Labor, Health and Human Services, Interior, Commerce, Justice and
State departments.

The negotiators haggled over issues from U.S. aid to international family
planning agencies to patient counseling guidelines for doctors working for
managed health care programs to a proposed ban on gun ownership or possession by
people convicted of domestic violence.

The two sides also split over a federal parks bill that the administration
complains contains dozens of anti-park provisions, including the expansion of
corporate sponsorship of national parks. The administration is refusing to
accept the bill, and Republicans are declining to attach a stripped down version
to the spending measure.

Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) was pushing to have the Senate
vote on some delayed Clinton judicial appointments. But he denied Democrats
trying to squeeze concessions from Republicans.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) and Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott
(R-Miss.) had hoped to wrap up the work of the 104th Congress by the weekend and
send their members home to campaign, but that appeared unlikely as the
negotiations continued to grind on. Lott dismissed pessimistic Democratic
forecasts that Congress would be forced to pass a short-term resolution to keep
the government operating beyond the start of the new fiscal year before a final
deal was struck. But he said the Senate likely would have to put off a vote on
the spending deal until Monday.

While members impatiently awaited a final deal on the spending bill, Congress
continued to complete legislation:

The House voted 218 to 198 to grant the Federal Aviation Administration greater
autonomy and new tasks for improving safety as part of legislation authorizing
FAA programs for the coming two years. The Senate was to vote on the $ 19
billion authorization bill and send it to the president.

The House also approved a measure, 384 to 30, to protect the nation's declining
fisheries, clearing the legislation for Clinton's signature. Although the White
House has indicated its support for the legislation, some Democrats complained
they were forced to accept the Senate's somewhat weaker version of the bill
intended to clamp down on wasteful fishing practices and protect fish habitat.

The Senate unanimously approved a $ 4.6 billion bill for four years of water and
flood control projects, sending it to the White House. Seven environmental and
conservation groups dropped their opposition to the measure after some projects
were eliminated and others were revised.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ray lustig, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) briefs
reporters on status of negotiations with White House on remainder of fiscal 1997
spending bill.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              182 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 28, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Bill Attracts Broader Range of Opponents

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 964 words


As the White House and congressional Republicans dicker over the fate of a
landmark immigration bill in the Senate, interest groups ranging from
environmentalists to AIDS sufferers are joining immigrants rights advocates in
an all-out effort to defeat the legislation.

Most of the opposition is focused on a section of the bill, Title 5, that
restricts federal benefits to legal immigrants and requires higher income levels
for sponsors of immigrant relatives. The White House has demanded that the
section containing these restrictions be dropped. But a battery of interest
groups and some Democrats are also taking aim at other provisions, including
ones that mandate the construction of a 14-mile triple-tier fence along a
section of the U.S.-Mexican border, new restrictions on people seeking asylum
and a more difficult standard for proving employer discrimination against
foreign-looking job applicants.

The immigration bill passed the House decisively Tuesday, 305 to 123, after its
most controversial amendment was deleted. That provision, allowing states to end
free public education for illegal immigrant children, had drawn threats of a
Democratic filibuster in the Senate and a presidential veto. Republicans
redrafted it as a separate bill, and it passed the House 254 to 175, with
support from 41 Democrats.

Republicans said they had expected the deletion of the education amendment to
clear the way for the immigration bill in the Senate. But with these new
complaints holding up passage, Republicans are expressing outrage, charging that
the White House was "moving the goal posts" at the last minute as Congress
scrambles to wrap up business and end its session.

Democrats retorted that the Republicans were grappling with divisions in their
own ranks after Sen. Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) appeared to have
reached an agreement with While House Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta to fold the
immigration bill into a continuing resolution and drop key elements of Title 5.
Other Senate Republicans were adamant that the bill be voted on intact on the
Senate floor next week.

Among the issues that have fired up groups not previously embroiled in
immigration reform is a provision that would deny legal immigrants access to
treatment for HIV infections under Medicaid. The provision was inserted by
Republicans in a House-Senate conference report reconciling two versions of the
immigration bill and was never debated in either chamber, Democrats complained.

Under a new welfare law, most new immigrants arriving after the law takes effect
are barred from many federal safety net programs for their first five years in
the country. Exceptions are made for refugees, veterans and their immediate
family.

The immigration bill stipulates that after five years, a legal immigrant can
qualify for Medicaid and the other programs only if his income, combined with
that of his sponsor, falls below a certain level. This addition of the sponsor's
income to the immigrant's for determining eligibility for benefits is called
"deeming."

The immigration bill specifically applies "deeming" to the treatment of HIV, a
move that critics say will hinder efforts to control AIDS and could help spread
the virus that causes it.

The AIDS Action Council, which lobbies on behalf of HIV-infected Americans,
denounced the provision as "blatantly discriminatory, mean-spirited and
shameful." It said the measure would "eliminate all publicly funded HIV
treatment services for legal immigrants and undocumented individuals." Gay
rights organizations also joined immigration advocates in opposing the
provision.

A Republican congressional staffer said the measure was intended to avoid
"inadvertently making the United States a beacon for would-be immigrants who are
desperately seeking some kind of treatment for HIV." Immigrants can get
federally funded treatment for HIV, he said, even though the United States
cannot afford to offer treatment to all the HIV-positive Americans who seek it.

The aim of this and other benefits provisions is to shift the cost of government
services used by immigrants from the taxpayers to the sponsors who brought them
into the country and agreed to support them in the first place, the staffer
said.

Wildlife advocates joined the fray over a provision that would allow the
attorney general to waive environmental protection and endangered species laws
for the construction of fences, roads, bridges and other structures along the
U.S.-Mexican border to help control illegal immigration. The National Audubon
Society said such a waiver could harm many endangered species, including the
"ocelot, Sonoran pronghorn antelope and masked bobwhite quail," which range
across the border.

The Washington-based group, Defenders of Wildlife, charged that a Republican
House staffer instigated the provision after being told during a border field
trip that the government could not mow a grassy area near a fence, in which
illegal aliens could hide, because it was home to "an endangered gray field
mouse." The group said the only endangered mouse in the area, the Pacific Pocket
mouse, lives far from the border and actually benefits from brush clearing. One
of the most controversial provisions under Title 5 permits the deportation of
immigrants who receive federal means-tested benefits for more than 12 months
during their first seven years in the country. The measure exempts such benefits
as emergency medical services and disaster relief, immunizations, student loans,
school lunches, Head Start, veterans benefits and job-training and English
language programs.

However, the Head Start and job-training programs are covered by deeming, which
would bar access to them by many legal immigrants, advocates say.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              183 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 29, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Clinton Spends Day on Friendly Turf; President Claims Fiscal Agreement as
Victory for His Agenda

Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: FALL RIVER, Mass., Sept. 28


For a man who loves to campaign as much as President Clinton does, today was
easy duty. A day after barnstorming through a state that has grown increasingly
Republican, Clinton campaigned in two of the nation's most Democratic states,
claiming the new fiscal agreement in Congress is a victory for the priorities he
has championed the past two years.

Clinton left Texas early this morning for New England, stopping first in
Providence, R.I., and following that with two events in Massachusetts. Neither
Rhode Island nor Massachusetts poses a major challenge for the Democratic
ticket, and the president used his rallies to promote Democratic candidates for
the House and Senate and tout his record.

At the top of his agenda was the agreement on a measure to fund the government
for the new fiscal year. "We have restored a measure of bipartisanship and
working together in Washington," Clinton said. "Look what happens when you
abandon extremism in favor of working together."

The president took credit for heading off punitive measures on immigration and
for expanding controls on handguns after Republicans had once boasted of trying
to repeal the ban on assault weapons that he initiated earlier in his term.

On immigration, Clinton said Congress had found the right balance in attempting
to reduce illegal immigration. The agreement, he said, "recognizes that we are
both a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. . . . But it does so without
hurting innocent children or punishing legal immigrants."

On gun control, the president praised the Republican-controlled Congress for
agreeing to expand the provisions of the Brady Act to cover anyone convicted in
a domestic abuse case. The new measure, he said, sends a message that "you
shouldn't get a handgun if you beat up your spouse or your child either."

The Dole-Kemp campaign criticized Clinton for "claiming credit for some of the
very initiatives he obstructed earlier in the session. Hypocrisy and gridlock
are the two pillars on which Bill Clinton has built his administration,"
spokeswoman Christina Martin said in a statement. "In January, Bob Dole will
knock those pillars down once and for all."

Joe Lockhart, Clinton's campaign press secretary, was asked by reporters why the
president was spending time in states like Rhode Island and Massachusetts, where
Clinton is running far ahead. Lockhart said, "If we only went to places where we
were behind in the polls, we wouldn't have many places to go."

In a CNN/USA Today poll released today, Dole had narrowed the gap with Clinton
to single digits. The poll found Dole with 39 percent, 9 points behind Clinton's
48 percent, CNN said.  Ross Perot had 6 percent in the poll, which had a margin
of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.

Dole spent the weekend preparing in Florida for the first debate with Clinton
next Sunday in Hartford. Anticipating that Clinton will try to highlight the
economy during the debates, Dole used his radio address to try to undermine any
presidential bragging.

"The president will try to paint a rosy picture of America's economy," Dole
said. But "he won't tell you that wages for men and women have been stagnant,
and that has forced more spouses into the work force just to make ends meet. And
he won't tell you that bankruptcies last year were higher than ever before --
and so was consumer debt as people struggle to make ends meet."

As Clinton discussed deadbeat dads in his radio speech, Vice President Gore
warned men who abuse or beat women that "the law is getting tougher, enforcement
is getting stricter. You will be punished."

In a speech kicking off the "Second Annual Walk to End Domestic Violence" in
Nashville, Gore said: "Each year, about 5 million women feel the sting of
violence in America. . . . Those are dramatic numbers; they represent real
people, real victims, real tragedies. . . . They represent real criminals
responsible for this violence who deserve real punishment."

After conducting a panel discussion on crime, child abuse and foster parenting
at the Children's Home and Chambliss Emergency Center in Chattanooga, Tenn.,
Gore carried the microphone over to Jory Adair, a 7-year-old boy seated near the
front who was desperate to ask a question.

"Are you really the vice president?" the boy intently asked Gore, who twice
declared, "Yes, I am!" -- perhaps to assure everyone listening. Then, back fully
in command, Gore said, "And I would like to continue to be."

Staff writers Thomas B. Edsall with Gore and Edward Walsh with Dole contributed
to this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/doug mills; Photo, afp/j. david ake, President Clinton
addresses crowd during campaign rally at Station Park in Providence, R.I.
Robert J. Dole talks with patrons at Miami Beach restaurant.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              184 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 06, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

The Issue Is Wages, Not Citizenship

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C06; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 145 words


Marriott (and others) can't or won't pay employees, many of whom are immigrants,
wages they can live on ["New Welfare Law Worries Employers in Low-Wage
Businesses," Business, Sept. 24]. So Marriott is conducting citizenship classes
so that its foreign-born employees will not lose their eligibility for welfare
as they otherwise would under the new welfare law. In this way, Marriott can
continue to avoid paying a living wage to these employees, shifting
responsibility instead to the U.S. taxpayer.

This is an outright government subsidy of a supposedly free enterprise. It seems
to me that Marriott should be encouraged to operate its business without relying
on the largess of the taxpaying public. And immigrants should be encouraged to
find some reason other than eligibility for welfare to become American citizens.

MARJORIE WILKINSON

Greenbelt

LOAD-DATE: October 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              185 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 11, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Latinos Coming From Across U.S. Hope March Will Foster Respect

Anna Borgman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 942 words


New Yorker Belgica Garcia, a native of the Dominican Republic who recently was
sworn in as a U.S. citizen, will never forget the day her son Carlos, now 11,
came home from school in the Bronx and asked her if she had papers.

Martha VonEllenreider, of San Antonio, recalls returning to this country after a
trip to Canada. Her husband, whose Nordic features belied his recent immigration
from Argentina, drew scant attention from U.S. customs agents. She, a U.S.
citizen, had to put her passport through a scanner to prove it was legitimate.

Ana Gonzalez, a Salvadoran immigrant who lives in Wheaton, has vivid memories of
the night she spent in a Baltimore jail after she was picked up at a bus stop by
immigration officials.

Each of these women will march in Washington tomorrow as part of what is being
billed as the largest political gathering of Latinos ever held in the United
States. Despite the differences in their histories, experiences and perceptions,
all three women and their families hope the event will be a defining moment for
the often-divided Latino community -- and a catalyst for a greater role in the
national political arena.

These are their stories:

Belgica Garcia, 41 and mother of two, has lived in the Bronx for 13 years and
even with her new citizenship does not feel secure.

"We have friends. We hear the news. My sister and I cried when we saw the video"
of undocumented Mexican immigrants being beaten after a freeway chase and crash
in Southern California this summer, Garcia said. "I feel as if I'm a citizen of
the lowest category, because I'm not Belgica Smith or Belgica Richardson."

Garcia said that when her son asked whether she had papers, she explained what
proper documentation is and that he and his sister, Bernadette, now 9, were born
in the United States and are citizens. But she told Carlos that some of his
friends' parents did not have papers. It was as if she was telling him the truth
about Santa Claus, Garcia said.

Garcia's husband, also named Carlos, came to the United States 16 years ago
under a special program for Dominicans. He has a green card but has not become a
citizen. He says he cannot afford the $ 98 fee.

Before he left the Dominican Republic, Carlos Garcia, now 43, was paid $ 40 to $
50 a month. After arriving in the United States, he took a job at a New Jersey
plastics factory and soon was making that much a day. Now he is paid $ 7.25 an
hour, but it is not enough for his family to move from their one-bedroom
apartment.

The family still is wary of strangers, and teenage neighbors stand guard when
they are expecting visitors. "You know how it is," Carlos Garcia said. "New
faces in the neighborhood. You have to be careful."

The Garcias heard about tomorrow's gathering from Belgica Garcia's sister, who
is organizing three buses of marchers. "I hope that [even if] we don't
accomplish [all the stated goals of the march], that at the least they realize
there are many of us," Belgica Garcia said. "We're being used as the excuse for
all the bad things happening in this country."

Martha VonEllenreider's mother was a maid, and her grandparents worked as
migrant workers. But as a fourth-generation Mexican American, she lived among
San Antonio's middle class and was active in the civil rights movement in the
1960s.

VonEllenreider, 57 and now retired, worked in Christian education, and her
husband is a systems analyst. One son is pursuing a PhD at Stanford University,
another works at a television station, and the third is in college studying
computer graphics.

She said she is personally insulted when some people say Latino students are
less qualified than others. She is dismayed by the militarization of the
U.S.-Mexico border and wonders why she never hears of similar plans for the
Canadian border. "It's racism," she said.

When an old friend called to tell her about the Latino march, VonEllenreider
quickly volunteered. "My concern is that we are in a crisis," she said. "What's
going on among the politicians goes beyond immigration. It touches our entire
community, and yet we have not been consulted."

Gonzalez, 34, paid a smuggler $ 2,600 in 1987 to get her to Washington.
Guerrillas had killed her brother, and she wanted out of El Salvador. To get to
this country, she crossed the Rio Grande on an inner tube, hid in a landfill,
walked around an immigration checkpoint and then boarded an airplane in Houston
bound for National Airport.

Her second day in the District, Gonzalez said, she started working with false
documents cleaning houses for $ 100 a week. After she was picked up by
immigration officials in 1989, she applied for and was granted temporary
protected status afforded refugees from El Salvador. Today she is in legal
limbo; her protected status expires next year.

She said she has not seen her two daughters, now 12 and 16, in nine years.
Gonzalez said a smuggler told her he could get them to the United States for $
8,000, but she is afraid they might not survive the trip. They live with their
grandmother, and she sends $ 250 every month to her.

Her husband, Juan Antonio Gonzalez, 29, fled El Salvador in 1989 and now works
as a mechanic in Rockville for $ 11 an hour. The couple lives in a duplex in
Wheaton.

Ana Gonzalez worries about changes in immigration law and is focused primarily
on one of the march's demands -- an extension of amnesty that would allow her to
become a legal resident and bring her daughters to this country. But she also
embraces a larger vision.

"We're just trying to better ourselves," she said. "We just want them to take us
into consideration."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              186 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 18, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

'Wedge' Tack May Not Find An Opening; Administration Has Defenses in Place

Thomas B. Edsall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A32; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 803 words


Robert J. Dole is turning to a "wedge issue" attack on the Clinton
administration, using California as a testing ground to see whether the divisive
issues of affirmative action and immigration can revive his campaign. But
President Clinton's reelection organization has worked for two years to protect
the president from just such an attack.

The Dole campaign is exploring what has been a successful GOP strategy.
California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) used immigration and crime to move from underdog
status in 1994 to landslide victor. And George Bush erased Democrat Michael S.
Dukakis's 17-point lead in the 1988 presidential race by using the prison
furlough of murderer-rapist Willie Horton and Dukakis's membership in the ACLU
to make the Massachusetts governor unacceptable to many center-conservative
voters.

But unlike Dukakis, who left himself wide open for attacks from the right, the
Clinton team has worked to build what amounts to a conservative barricade around
the White House.

"If you look across at what for the past 20 years have been wedge issues --
crime, welfare and, recently, immigration -- I think on all those fronts we have
developed a very thorough and tough policy that from a political standpoint
makes those policies unassailable," said Rahm Emanuel, White House assistant for
special projects and one of the architects of the immunization strategy.

Clinton swallowed his own deep misgivings and signed welfare overhaul
legislation as well as the Defense of Marriage Act; he has beefed up tough
immigration controls along the porous border with Mexico near San Diego,
substantially moderated federal affirmative action policy and built an
anti-crime record that has turned the ACLU, a traditional Democratic ally, into
an adversary in the courts and on Capitol Hill.

The Clinton strategy benefited from not having to accommodate the liberal wing
of the Democratic Party, because he had no primary challenge. Among the major
weapons in Clinton's arsenal against a wedge-issue assault:

Immigration. The number of Border Patrol agents on the California border with
Mexico has more than doubled from 980 in 1994 to 1,987, with more on the way;
the number of high-tech underground sensors has been boosted from 448 to 1,045;
and the number of patrol vehicles has increased from 739 to 1,256.

Clinton officials tout laudatory editorials from the conservative San Diego
Union-Tribune -- "So far Operation Gateway in San Diego County has been a major
success for the Clinton administration" -- and note that Rep. Elton Gallegly
(R-Calif.), a leading advocate of tougher immigration policy and a Clinton
critic, views Clinton's Immigration and Naturalization Service chief, Doris M.
Meissner, as head and shoulders above Bush's appointee to the post.

Affirmative Action. Clinton remains opposed to the anti-affirmative action
California Civil Rights Initiative, which has strong backing in public opinion
surveys. But the administration's "mend it, don't end it" policy has forced a
major retrenchment of federal affirmative action programs. "Set-aside"
provisions for minority contractors are being eliminated, replaced with programs
for the "socially and economically" disadvantaged with no guarantee for any
racial or ethnic group. Hiring goals face much tougher restrictions, and even
tighter rules apply to firing and promotion policies.

Crime. Backed by a sea of blue uniforms, Clinton has the endorsement of the
Fraternal Order of Police and the National Association of Police Organizations.
Aides point to administration defiance of civil liberties groups opposed to the
"Megan's Law" requirement of public notification of the residence of released
sex offenders, the "one strike and you're out" regulation for public housing
residents with drug and felony convictions, and new capital offenses.

At campaign stops, when boasting of passage of the assault weapon ban and the
Brady law restrictions on handguns, Clinton has defended the measures from
conservative criticism, contending that "two hunting seasons have come and gone"
since the bills were enacted, and no sportsman has lost a gun or the right to
hunt.

On other social and community issues, the Clinton administration has supported
local efforts for school uniforms and the establishment of curfews for juveniles
and mandatory V-chips covering television content, affirmed the benefits of the
two-parent family, and endorsed the right of students as individuals to pray and
express their religious views in schools.

Clinton's careful positioning of himself on these issues has made it difficult
for Dole to succeed in labeling him a "liberal" and prevented the GOP from
turning the contest into the ideological confrontation that helped keep the
White House in Republican hands through the 1980s.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              187 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 23, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Sharper Drop in D.C. Population Foreseen; Census Bureau, Revising Two-Year-Old
Estimate, Predicts Decrease of 31,000 by Year 2000

D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 747 words


The District's population will drop more sharply than previously forecast
because a growing influx of new immigrants will fail to offset an increasing
flow of people out of the city, according to new census projections released
yesterday.

The city's population, now 554,000, will drop to 523,000 by 2000, according to
the new forecast. That figure is 14,000 lower than a census projection published
two years ago. In their new forecast, officials increased their estimates both
for immigration and outmigration, resulting in a larger net loss than previously
projected.

The continuing population hemorrhage -- of blacks and whites alike, if current
trends continue -- is likely to shrink the city's already eroding tax base and
further reduce its ability to provide basic services. At the same time, the
District will be confronted with an expanding population of low-income
immigrants.

As it predicted two years ago, the U.S. Census Bureau forecasts that the
District's population will rebound after 2000 because of immigration, but at a
slower pace than previously forecast: It will be in 2020, not 2015, that the
city's population will surpass the 1990 Census count of 606,900.

The change in the District's forecast is driven to some extent by national
trends that also will affect suburban jurisdictions. For Maryland and Virginia,
the new census predictions show more immigrants moving in and fewer people
moving from other states than previously forecast. Over the next three decades,
Virginia is predicted to rank eighth among states in the number of new
immigrants; Maryland is predicted to rank ninth.

Both Maryland and Virginia will grow steadily, according to projections.
Maryland, which has 5 million people, is predicted to have 5.3 million by 2000.
Virginia, which has 6.6 million people, is expected to have 7 million by 2000.

Demographers and economists said the census prediction for the next few years
appears reasonable, although the pace of immigration could be slower than
anticipated because of a crackdown on benefits to non-citizens in the new
federal welfare reform law. They said the region's growth increasingly will be
driven by immigration and births, not -- as in the booming 1980s -- by a flood
of new residents from other states.

"This is probably the pattern we're going to be looking at for quite a long
time," said economist Stephen Fuller, of George Mason University.

One reason is that U.S. residents are less willing to move because of tighter
job markets, slow housing markets and the difficulty of moving a two-career
family. Immigrants tend to be young, mobile and ready to relocate to a better
economy than the one they left, he said.

"Capital cities tend to be attractive to immigrants," Fuller said. "In almost
every other country . . . the capital city is the most important city. The
capital city here -- even though not the most important city in the country --
is an attractive city" despite the problems that are driving middle-class
residents away.

Overall, Fuller sees immigration as a plus for the local economy. Immigrants
often "will do any kind of work" and are less likely than the population overall
to claim welfare. He said immigrants often are entrepreneurial; this region
ranks among the top cities nationally in Hispanic-owned businesses, for example.

But Robert Manning, a sociologist at American University, said the immigrants
feeding the District's population growth are more likely to need help than those
who move to the suburbs. They are less likely to speak English and are more
likely to be poor, single, without relatives or other social ties. He's also
concerned about "the next crisis: Nobody talks about the second-generation
Latinos who don't speak English and who have a high dropout rate."

The growing number of immigrants in the area has fueled complaints from blacks
about Asian-owned businesses in the city and protests from some suburban parents
about the growing cost of services to foreign-speaking children.

But immigration is not a widely perceived crisis here, as it is in California.
When Ken Billingsley, a demographer with the Northern Virginia Planning District
Commission, was in San Diego recently, many people said immigration was the
area's biggest problem.

One reason for Washington's popularity with immigrants, he said, is "the word
may be getting back that you're not going to run into the same kind of
hostility, and the jobs are still there."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              188 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 25, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

GOP Intensifies Action On Citizenship Inquiry

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 835 words


Has the Clinton administration given U.S. citizenship to as many as 100,000
immigrant criminals in the past year to get their votes in next month's
elections?

As they enter their final two weeks of frenzied campaigning, Republican leaders
are raising this charge as part of a broadside against the administration's
Citizenship USA program, a drive begun last year to naturalize record numbers of
immigrants applying to become American citizens.

Administration officials say the charge is a gross distortion of a process that
involves checking the fingerprints of citizenship applicants against an FBI
database. Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and the
FBI say these fingerprint checks often produce positive matches for reasons
unrelated to criminality, much less to felony convictions that would disqualify
applicants for citizenship.

The sudden emergence of citizenship-for-criminals as a campaign issue stems from
an investigation by the national security subcommittee of the House Committee on
Government Reform and Oversight, which has demanded tens of thousands of records
from the INS and the FBI.

In its latest action, the subcommittee yesterday sent subpoenas to FBI Director
Louis J. Freeh and INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner for the raw "rap sheets"
of immigrants who have been naturalized since last year. The agencies say they
will provide the relevant information that the subcommittee wants, but not raw
individual data on new U.S. citizens.

The INS also responded to the furor yesterday by issuing new regulations,
effective immediately, that allow it to revoke the citizenship of people found
to have been improperly naturalized. Up to now, such revocation could be
accomplished only through prosecution by a U.S. attorney.

Among the documents amassed is an Oct. 21 letter from Charles W. Archer,
assistant director of the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division.
"Historically, 8 to 10 percent of the INS submissions are identified with an
existing criminal record in our files," the letter says. It says the FBI's
search of the records of more than 1 million immigrants thus "could identify
approximately 100,000 criminal history records" in response to the
subcommittee's request for the rap sheets of everyone naturalized between Aug.
31, 1995 and Sept. 30, 1996.

California's Republican governor, Pete Wilson, seized on the letter to charge
that "dangerous sex offenders" and other "felons" have been naturalized in what
amounts to a program of "drive-through citizenship for dangerous criminals" as
part of the administration's push to get "more than 1 million new citizens on
the voter roles before November 5th."

House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) said the list of new citizens includes "drug
dealers, rapists, murderers, armed robbers."

In an angry letter to Meissner on Oct. 16, Rep. Bill Zeliff (R-N.H.), chairman
of the national security subcommittee that is investigating Citizenship USA,
charged that "the country has suffered the introduction of up to 100,000
potentially dangerous criminals" and that the INS is engaged in "a deliberate
cover-up."

In a letter to Zeliff on Wednesday, however, the FBI's Archer said that a
computer search of 924,083 new citizens' files so far had produced "38,246
matches against our records." He cautioned that "a 'match' only means we have a
record on file. It does not imply that the person to whom the record pertains
has a criminal conviction." The letter added, "Moreover, the record may contain
noncriminal, administrative actions, which do not contain a final disposition."

In other words, INS officials say, the newly naturalized citizens with "criminal
records" may include people who entered the country as illegal aliens and later
obtained legal status, those who were placed in deportation proceedings before
being granted asylum and people who were charged with a misdemeanor. Among them
may also be persons arrested on felony charges, but never convicted.

The challenge for the Zeliff subcommittee is to find evidence of people who
slipped through the naturalization system despite having criminal records --
that is, felony convictions -- that should have disqualified them, or who lied
about their pasts. At this point, no one knows how many such immigrants were
improperly naturalized, and Zeliff aides now say it may be nowhere near 100,000.

The congressman's staff argues, however, that the matches in FBI files all
relate to "criminal histories," rather than administrative actions, and that
more than 60,000 "duplicate" records mentioned in Archer's latest letter may
reflect a deliberate INS attempt at concealment.

The INS says that of the 1.3 million immigrants who applied for U.S. citizenship
in fiscal 1996, about 17 percent were rejected on various grounds, including
criminal records. The agency says many of the people in Archer's initial
estimate of 100,000 may be among the 221,000 who were denied citizenship by INS
examiners.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              189 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 26, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

A Seething Dole Intensifies Attack; Candidate Lobs FBI Files Accusations

Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01; CAMPAIGN '96

LENGTH: 1458 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 25 -


A glowering Robert J. Dole -- shouting "Where's the outrage in America? Where's
the outrage?" -- today accused President Clinton of perusing FBI files and
allowing ineligible immigrants to become citizens so they can vote.

Continuing an angry attack he began yesterday, Dole also blamed the news media
for protecting Democrats and trying to "steal" the presidential election for
Clinton.

Lagging well behind in the polls, the Republican nominee painted a dark and
unsubstantiated picture of Clinton himself sifting through FBI files. Dole at
times seemed to be seething on a stage in downtown Houston, at a rally also
attended by Sens. Phil Gramm and Kay Bailey Hutchison as well as Gov. George W.
Bush, all Republicans.

"And then we have the president of the United States sitting down there with 900
FBI files. Might be yours. Might be yours," Dole said.

This vague reference to last summer's FBI files scandal, in which White House
security officials obtained access to FBI background files on former Republican
officials, was the first time Dole has lobbed such an allegation at Clinton. The
president has said he first heard about the FBI files when the story broke in
the news media.

Dole's charge about immigrant naturalization was equally vague.

"And then we have all these new people coming into America, rushing through the
immigration process and they find out that maybe as high as 10 percent are
criminals. They want to get them ready for Election Day," Dole said.

Dole apparently was referring to a near-tripling in the past year in
applications for citizenship by immigrants already living in the country --
seemingly because of an attempt to clear up a large backlog of immigrants
eligible under the 1986 immigration act and immigrant concerns about provisions
in this year's act, which eliminates certain social benefits for noncitizens --
as well as to a letter from the head of the FBI fingerprint lab saying that as
many as 10 percent find positive matches in FBI criminal archives. Republicans
have seized on this number, although INS and FBI officials have said the actual
percentage of immigrants convicted of felonies is a far smaller number and many
matches are because of reasons other than criminality.

But Dole saved his harshest language for the news media. Elaborating on angry
charges he made Thursday in Florida, Dole said the news media is giving a free
"transfusion" to the president every day, refusing to investigate scandals
involving foreign campaign donations or to press Clinton on his refusal to rule
out a pardon "for somebody who did business with him" in the Whitewater scandal.

"We are not going to let the media steal this election. We are going to win this
election. The country belongs to the people, not the New York Times," Dole said.
"I don't want to be partisan or anything, but this is serious business."

Dole recited his now familiar list of assorted individuals with Asian surnames
who have appeared in news reports for giving large campaign donations to the
Democratic National Committee and accused reporters of not diligently tracking
down these people to get to the bottom of the story.

"But nobody seems to care in the media, nobody seems to care," Dole said.
Referring to the Clinton administration, Dole said that "if they weren't getting
propped up by the media every day, this election would have been over two weeks
ago."

At a stop in Dallas, Dole said that the only way voters can escape "liberal
bias" in the news media is to forsake it altogether.

"Don't read that stuff. Don't watch television. You make up your own mind. Don't
let them make up your mind for you," Dole said.

In Arizona tonight, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), a close friend and adviser to
Dole, rolled his eyes when informed that Dole had accused the press of trying to
"steal" the election. "I know it is not productive to beat up on the press,"
said McCain.

Dole also commented in Dallas on the third-party candidacy of the city's most
famous billionaire, Ross Perot, for the first time since he dispatched his
campaign manager Scott Reed early this week to ask Perot to quit the race and
back the Republican ticket. Perot, calling the request "weird," said Thursday
that he was in the race to stay.

"I don't like having to run against two people because every vote for Perot is a
vote for Bill Clinton, and Bill Clinton knows it. I think Ross Perot would know
it. If he doesn't want Clinton, he ought to say he would vote for Bob Dole,"
Dole said.

Dole's two-city swing through Texas is his first visit since June to this
normally Republican state. Like his campaign stop Thursday in Alabama and a stop
later today in Arizona, the visit was another signal of the trouble Dole's
campaign is having in holding on to states that in recent presidential elections
have voted Republican.

Recent polls in Texas have given Dole a narrow lead over Clinton although the
gap may be narrowing. The most recent Texas poll, conducted Oct. 7 to Oct. 19,
shows Dole leading Clinton 42 percent to 39 percent, which is within the poll's
margin of error.

Dole's apparent pique in Houston may have been triggered by a question shouted
at him as he left a Houston hotel for his motorcade this morning. He was asked
about a report in the New York Daily News today saying he had had a long-term,
extramarital affair with a Washington woman that began in 1968, nearly four
years before the end of his first marriage.

Dole looked disbelievingly at the questioner, waved his arms dismissively and
said: "You're worse than they are."

Later, campaign spokesman Nelson Warfield released this statement on the report,
which is also to be published next week in the National Enquirer:

"Last week the National Enquirer published stories on deep sea-diving monkeys
and a cross-dressing school teacher. Next week, they will trash Bob Dole. Maybe
there were no UFO sightings to occupy their attention. By publishing trashing
gossip from over two decades ago just days before the election, the National
Enquirer failed to meet even the low standards it sets for itself. If your news
organization wants to follow the National Enquirer's lead, you may do so without
the Dole campaign's help."

After extensive inquiries beginning in August, Washington Post reporters
confirmed Dole's relationship with the woman, who still lives in the Washington
area. Dole campaign officials would neither confirm nor deny any relationship.

Executive Editor Leonard Downie Jr. decided early this month not to publish a
story on the subject.

"After completion of our reporting and extensive discussion with senior editors
and reporters," Downie said today, "I decided that the information we had about
this personal relationship 28 years ago was not relevant to Robert J. Dole's
current candidacy for president and did not meet our standards for the
publication of information about the private lives of public officials."

Downie added that "we recognized that our initial decision about publication
could be overtaken by events if another news organization published a story that
created wide public interest."

In apparent reaction to the shouted question about the woman, the Dole campaign
today began preventing print reporters from getting close enough to Dole to ask
him questions or hear his remarks to supporters as he works the rope line after
speeches. Reporters who refuse to obey this new dictum, the campaign said, will
lose their privilege to rotate into the pool, which allows members of Dole's
large press contingent to have periodic close access to the candidate.

In his Houston speech, Dole also lambasted the president for shifting federal
immigration agents from Texas to the California border. "And now we're having
Texas state troopers rushed to some other state to stop the flow of whatever,"
Dole said.

He apparently was referring to the transfer this fall of nearly 100 Immigration
and Naturalization Service agents to California. The shift occurred after Bush
had moved Texas state troopers to the border near Eagle Pass to help federal
agents control the border.

Dole and his wife, Elizabeth Hanford Dole, shared a stage in Dallas with former
Dallas Cowboy quarterback Roger Staubach. In introducing Dole to a large and
boisterous crowd in the basketball auditorium at Southern Methodist University,
the legendary football star said: "This White House has developed a pattern of
behavior that is wrong politically, that is wrong personally."

But later, as Dole repeated many of the harsh remarks he had made earlier in
Houston, Staubach smiled thinly, applauded politely and watched out of the
corner of his eye to see if Elizabeth Dole was applauding. She was.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              190 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 26, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

The Flags They Waved (Cont'd)

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 227 words


So Yvette Wooley was dismayed at the number of participants at the recent march
for Latino and immigrant rights who carried flags of foreign countries [letters,
Oct. 20]?

It is her belief that carrying a foreign flag indicated an allegiance to another
country and not the United States. Great, then I hope she writes another letter
next time she sees a Saint Patrick's Day parade or attends an Oktoberfest event,
or even goes to a Columbus Day event. Clearly, people who attend these events
are saying loud and clear that their allegiance is to a foreign country and not
the United States.

Maybe Ms. Wooley should look at the big picture. While the flags indicate that
the United States is made up of individuals from many countries, the
participants firmly believe in the traditions and rights granted to them by the
U.S. Constitution. After all, what better indicator of support for a country and
its system than to use that system to promote change from within.

The flags represent where we may have come from, not where we want to go. In
reality, most of us who are viewed as immigrants are actually U.S.-born
citizens, but because of stereotypes, many think we must have come from a
foreign country. Clearly, immigrant rights affect all citizens. After all,
today's majority may well be tomorrow's minority.

MATTHEW MURGUIA

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              191 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 29, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

FBI Gives House Panel Files on New Citizens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 869 words


The FBI yesterday delivered to a House subcommittee the criminal background
checks on more than 50,000 new U.S. citizens as part of an intensifying
political skirmish over whether the Clinton administration improperly granted
citizenship to immigrants with criminal pasts.

The documents, weighing about a ton, were trucked over after the
Republican-controlled House subcommittee subpoenaed the records as part of its
inquiry into a record number of naturalizations this year.

The question of whether criminals have been granted U.S. citizenship in a "rush"
to naturalize hundreds of thousands of immigrants before Election Day has turned
into a volatile campaign issue, with Republicans charging that the
administration is minting new Democratic voters. GOP presidential nominee Robert
J. Dole and a number of Republican governors, including Pete Wilson of
California and George W. Bush of Texas, have demanded that the administration
disclose the number of "criminals" it has given citizenship.

The Republicans charge that as many as 100,000 criminals have been naturalized
since August 1995 under the Clinton administration's Citizenship USA program.
The administration says the allegation reflects a distortion of an FBI letter on
its processing of fingerprint checks for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The FBI agreed to turn over what it calls "criminal history records" of all new
U.S. citizens who were naturalized between Aug. 31, 1995, and Sept. 30, 1996,
but insisted on deleting their identities. The national security, international
affairs and criminal justice subcommittee of the House Government Reform and
Oversight Committee rejected an additional Justice Department demand that the
records not be released to the press.

The documents "are among the most sensitive law enforcement records in
existence," FBI Director Louis J. Freeh cautioned in a letter Friday, and "the
mere existence of such a record does not mean the person at issue has a criminal
conviction."

According to the Justice Department, the records include people who were never
arrested on criminal charges, but may be in the files because of
"administrative" actions on their cases by the INS, such as deportation
proceedings. The records also include people who were arrested but not
convicted, who were convicted for offenses that do not preclude their being
granted citizenship, and whose convictions for disqualifying offenses were later
overturned.

In short, the records demanded by the subcommittee "do not indicate whether or
not individuals were eligible for citizenship," the Justice Department said in a
letter Friday.

After running through its computers the names of 986,000 people who were
naturalized during the period in question, the FBI found records on 50,692 of
them, or 5.1 percent, said Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman. "We
expect the majority of those to be administrative," she said. Inevitably, she
added, further checking will be required to determine whether anyone was
improperly naturalized. If so, the INS will move quickly to revoke citizenship,
she said.

She said that an INS review of the first 21,000 records found that about 11,000
involved "purely administrative" matters, and more than 7,500 concerned
misdemeanors. Of the remainder, she said, analysts found no disqualifying felony
convictions for 1,200 new citizens and were still checking 1,300.

Unconvinced, the subcommittee, chaired by Rep. Bill Zeliff (R-N.H.), plans to
have as many as 20 staff members work through the night to sort through the
records in an effort to determine whether citizenship is being improperly
conferred.

In principle, the INS is supposed to weed out applicants with disqualifying
criminal records after receiving the FBI background checks. Under current law,
applicants are ineligible for citizenship if previously convicted of murder, an
aggravated felony or a crime of "moral turpitude," such as rape, prostitution,
bigamy, robbery, embezzlement, counterfeiting, fraud, drug trafficking,
alien-smuggling or the use of a weapon during a crime. But applicants also can
be rejected if found lacking in "good moral character" in the previous five
years. Historically, this has included offenses such as gambling and being a
"habitual drunkard."

In fiscal 1996, the INS received a record 1.3 million applications for U.S.
citizenship and rejected more than 220,000 of them, naturalizing slightly more
than 1 million immigrants, the INS says. That was more than double the 460,000
naturalizations last year, which slightly surpassed the previous record set in
1944.

The surge in citizenship applications in the past two years stems largely from
the granting of legal status to 2.6 million illegal aliens under a 1986
immigration law. Many have only recently become eligible to apply for
citizenship. They have done so in record numbers because of several factors,
officials and immigrants say, including a desire to vote in next month's
elections, fears of a perceived anti-immigrant mood and apprehension that new
welfare reform and other laws will deny federal and state benefits to
noncitizens, even though they may be legal permanent residents.


LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, khue bui, House staff members begin examining more than 50,000
criminal background checks on new citizens that were subpoenaed as part of a
GOP-backed inquiry.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              192 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 30, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Citizenship Allegations Called 'Reckless' by INS; Record Number of Criminal
Expulsions Claimed

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 539 words


Under attack from Republicans over its effort to grant citizenship to new
immigrants, the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday denounced as
"reckless and divisive" allegations that it is naturalizing criminals and
pointed to a record number of expulsions of criminal aliens in the fiscal year
just ended.

In a letter to the governors of all 50 states, INS Commissioner Doris M.
Meissner said the service "deports criminals, it doesn't naturalize them." She
said the INS "removed a record 100,000 criminals in the last three years," as
well as more than 60,000 illegal aliens and hundreds of thousands of others who
agreed to leave without going through formal INS proceedings.

The letter was sent a day after the national security, international affairs and
criminal justice subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Oversight and
Reform began examining the FBI criminal background records of more than 50,000
new U.S. citizens. The panel is trying to determine whether any had felony
convictions that should have disqualified them for naturalization. The 50,000 --
out of 986,000 people who were naturalized between Aug. 31, 1995, and Sept. 30,
1996 -- represent those new citizens for whom the FBI has a record on file.

Republicans have accused the Clinton administration of rushing thousands of
immigrants through the citizenship process in order to produce new voters for
the Democratic Party. The administration argues that it has stepped up efforts
to naturalize new immigrants in order to reduce a huge backlog of citizenship
applications.

The FBI and INS also caution that the mere fact that the FBI has a file on a
newly naturalized citizen does not necessarily indicate the person is a
criminal, much less a convicted felon who should have been deemed ineligible for
citizenship.

But the subcommittee insists that it is finding evidence of improper
naturalizations. Of the first 6,600 "rap sheets" examined, 6.4 percent showed
convictions for "felonies which would automatically disqualify [the applicants]
from citizenship," the subcommittee said in a preliminary report released
yesterday. An additional 25.6 percent of the new Americans had been "convicted
of crimes of a serious nature which might have precluded them from citizenship,"
the report said. Of the remainder, 21 percent were charged with serious crimes,
but the records do not show whether the persons were convicted, the subcommittee
said.

According to the INS, the FBI records subpoenaed by the subcommittee do not
necessarily show the final disposition of a case -- such as whether a conviction
was overturned on appeal -- and cannot by themselves prove that someone was
improperly naturalized. Such a determination requires a review of the entire INS
naturalization file, of which the FBI record is a part, it says. The INS is
conducting such a review.

In her letter to the governors, Meissner said the INS processed a record 1.3
million citizenship applications in fiscal 1996 and rejected 240,000 of them for
various reasons, including disqualifying criminal convictions.

"There is no evidence that significant numbers of unqualified individuals have
been or are being granted citizenship," she wrote.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              193 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 02, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Republicans Seek Probe Of Immigration Program; Accelerated Naturalization
Process Criticized

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 716 words


Congressional Republicans yesterday called for the appointment of an independent
counsel to investigate what they called "criminal fraud and abuse" in a Clinton
administration program to accelerate the naturalization of immigrants as
American citizens.

A letter to Attorney General Janet Reno from five GOP members of Congress
asserted that the Citizenship USA program, which naturalized a record 1 million
citizens in the past year, has been "corrupted by a reckless drive for political
gain" in next week's elections. It charged that the process has been plagued by
fraud and that large numbers of "violent criminals" have been sworn in as
citizens by an administration hopeful to increase the ranks of people they
thought would vote Democratic.

The accusations are based on an investigation by members of a subcommittee of
the House Government Oversight and Reform Committee, which has amassed tens of
thousands of documents, including 50,000 FBI criminal history records on newly
naturalized citizens. In a review of 20,300 of these "rap sheets" so far,
Republican staffers claim that at least 5 percent -- more than 1,000 -- show
convictions for "crimes which should have automatically disqualified [the
applicants] from citizenship."

An examination of dozens of the rap sheets, which also were released to the
media, raises questions about why some applicants were granted citizenship. But
a number of others billed as "egregious" examples by the Republican staffers
appear not to contain grounds for automatic rejection. Many of the rap sheets
are for crimes committed before a series of laws since 1990 expanded the
offenses that are grounds for denial, and others contain no indication of how a
case was resolved.

In an intensely partisan dispute, the subcommittee's Republicans, led by Rep.
Bill Zeliff (N.H.), are accusing the White House of having minted hordes of
potential new Democratic voters without putting them through the proper testing
or background checks. The administration counters that the investigation risks
violating the privacy of tens of thousands of new citizens.

When the dispute erupted last month, Republican politicians were accusing the
administration of having naturalized as many as 100,000 "criminals" since August
1995. That figure has since evaporated. But the FBI subsequently delivered
50,000 rap sheets to the committee, cautioning that they did not necessarily
mean the person was a criminal, much less convicted of a crime that would
preclude naturalization.

In letters to the governors of six states, Zeliff and oversight committee
chairman William F. Clinger, Jr. (Pa.) this week said the FBI records confirmed
their worst fears. They sent each governor rap sheets that they said "reflect
the most egregious examples we have found to date."

Of five rap sheets sent to Texas Gov. George W. Bush (R), however, four involved
misdemeanors and one was for a felony sexual assault committed 10 years ago, a
Bush spokeswoman said. None of these crimes, however, is considered grounds for
denying the applicants citizenship.

Among other cases cited as egregious by subcommittee staffers were those of a
man from Trinidad and Tobago who was convicted of manslaughter in 1980, a Cuban
man who served four years in jail for a 1974 homicide and a Turk convicted of
dealing drugs in 1987. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) officials
say the offenses were not grounds for automatic denial.

More recent examples cited by Republican staffers as pointing to improper
naturalizations include a 1991 case of welfare fraud, a 1992 sexual assault in
Florida and a 1992 aggravated assault in New Jersey.

In Pennsylvania, the FBI this week arrested a restaurant owner from Ecuador who
obtained citizenship last month under an alias despite being wanted on a murder
charge for a killing in Chicago in the 1980s. Also among those recently
naturalized under puzzling circumstances was a German woman who was released
from prison in New York in December 1995 after serving a sentence for a 1982
charge of attempted murder.

INS officials caution that only by checking the person's entire file, of which
the rap sheet is but a part, can a conclusion be reached on whether approval of
a naturalization application was justified.

LOAD-DATE: November 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              194 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 07, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

POPULATION TRENDS

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V06

LENGTH: 396 words


New projections from the U.S. Census for the next three decades conclude that
Virginia will gain population steadily -- from international immigration, people
moving in from other states, and births.

Here are some highlights of that report:

Virginia's 1995 population is estimated at: 6,618,000

Projected population in 2000: 6,997,000

2005: 7,324,000

2015: 7,921,000

2025: 8,466,000

* Virginia is predicted to remain the 12th most populous state.

Virginia is expected to gain 605,000 people through international immigration
between 1995 and 2025, the eighth largest gain among the 50 states and the
District of Columbia.

* Virginia also will have a net gain of 299,000 people through migration from
other states from 1995 to 2025. That means 299,000 more people will move to
Virginia from other states than move out of Virginia for other states. (Both
Maryland and the District, however, are predicted to lose people to other
states)

* From 1995 to 2025, Virginia is projected to have 2.8 million births and 2.1
million deaths, the eighth largest natural increase among the states.

As is true in other states, the proportion of young people in Virginia's
population is expected to decline and the proportion of older people is expected
to grow.

* People under 20, who accounted for 27 percent of the population in 1995, are
predicted to decline to 24.6 percent in 2025.

Percentage of population under 20:

1995 27% (1.78 million pop.)

20252 4.6 (2 million pop.)

* People over 65, who made up 11.1 percent of Virginia's population in 1995, are
expected to grow to 17.9 percent in 2025.

Percentage of population older than 65:

1995 11.1% (726,000 pop.)

2025 17.9% (1.5 million pop.)

Virginia's population will become more racially and ethnically diverse, as
minority groups increase their numbers faster than whites do.

* Non-Hispanic whites:

1995 74.2% (4.9 million pop.)

2025 64.7% (5.47 million pop.)

* Non-Hispanic African Americans:

1995 19.4% (1.28 million pop.)

2025 22.8% (1.93 million pop.)

(Fifth largest numerical gain among the states).

* Non-Hispanic Asians:

1995 3.1% (205,000 pop.)

2025 5.9% (499,500 pop.)

* Hispanics:

1995 3.2% (211,800 pop.)

2025 6.4% (541,800 pop.)

(Hispanics can be of any race).

SOURCE: U.S. Census Bureau


LOAD-DATE: November 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              195 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 07, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

POPULATION TRENDS

SECTION: WEEKLY - MD; Pg. M01

LENGTH: 385 words


New projections from the U.S. Census Bureau show that Maryland's population will
increase over the next three decades, primarily as a result of international
immigration and births.

Here are some highlights of that report:

Maryland's 1995 population is estimated at: 5,042,000

Projected population in 2000: 5,275,000

2005: 5,467,000

2015: 5,862,000

2025: 6,274,000

-- Maryland likely will remain the 19th most populous state.

-- Maryland is expected to gain 593,000 people through international immigration
between 1995 and 2025, the ninth largest numerical gain among the 50 states and
District of Columbia.

-- Maryland likely will have a net loss of 251,000 people through migration to
other states from 1995 to 2025 (that is, 251,000 more people will move out of
Maryland to other states than move in from other states). During the same time,
the District also will have a net loss, and Virginia will have a net gain.

-- From 1995 to 2025, Maryland will have 2.3 million births and 1.5 million
deaths, ranking 14th among the states in natural increase.

As is true in other states, the proportion of young people in Maryland's
population will decline and the proportion of the elderly will increase.

-- People younger than 20, who accounted for 28 percent of the 1995 population
in Maryland, will make up 26 percent of the population in 2025.

Population younger than 20:

1995 1.4 million

2025 1.6 million

-- People older than 65, who made up 11 percent of the population in 1995, will
account for 16 percent of the state's population in 2025.

Population older than 65:

1995 565,000

2025 1 million

Maryland will become more ethnically and racially diverse, because minority
groups will increase their numbers while the number of whites remains the same.

-- Non-Hispanic whites:

1995 67% (3.4 million pop.)

2025 54% (3.4 million pop.)

-- Non-Hispanic African Americans:

1995 26% (1.3 million pop.)

2025 32% (2 million pop.)

(Fourth largest numerical gain among the states).

-- Non-Hispanic Asians:

1995 3.5% (175,000 pop.)

2025 6% (395,000 pop.)

-- Hispanics:

1995 3.4% (170,000 pop.)

2025 7% (439,000 pop.)

(Hispanics can be of any race).

SOURCE: U.S. Census Bureau


LOAD-DATE: November 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, tobey

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              196 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 09, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

The Problem With Immigration: Same as It Ever Was

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A25; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 668 words


Stephen Rosenfeld's column "Getting a Grip on Immigration" [op-ed, Oct. 18]
might better be headlined "Putting the Screws on Aliens." It is studded with
generalities. His view of the "romance of immigration" in the 1930s and '40s --
with "productive and easily . . . assimilated foreigners" -- is belied by the
facts regarding those two decades as well as by the struggle over immigration
throughout U.S. history. The first of the two decades recalled by Rosenfeld
brought the Depression; the second saw the disruption resulting from World War
II. In each, immigration was sharply reduced.

The idea that the "reality of immigration today" has social and economic costs
that make "some immigrants" and "illegals" grating competitors of citizens,
including working-class blacks, and that it "has created an ambiguous attitude
toward previously unquestioned notions of the cultural and civic obligations of
American citizenship" is no different from the realities of previous yesterdays.
Rosenfeld's reference to the effect on working-class blacks is antedated by the
post-Civil War industrialization, when European immigrants were favored to work
in our mines and factories in place of recently emancipated southern slaves, a
sore that still festers.

The "clean cut" that Rosenfeld says "Congress attempted to make between legals
and illegals" is not so clean. It ignores the vast use of Mexican farm workers
by California agribusiness. It was a policy countenanced by the California
delegation in Congress and by Gov. Pete Wilson. Mexican farm labor was
"invited," if not into our houses, then onto our ranches. However, we have
invited into our houses domestic servants, child- and elder-care attendants,
without whom American female citizens in cities throughout the country could not
have taken up employment.

El Salvador is a country in point. Thousands fled that country as a result of a
wasted war financed by the U.S. government. Today, they are "illegals" in an
ambiguous status: El Salvador doesn't want them, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service doesn't have the money to deport them. They remain in
this country performing useful and needed work, many with two and three jobs;
they require federal funds for schooling for their children and for emergency
medical costs, but they pay their share of taxes.

Rosenfeld's claim that legals and illegals are different because the legals
"respected the rules and waited in line," while the illegals "jumped the queue"
is uninformed. Legals also have had the benefit of so-called queue-jumping by
being able to enter the United States and to remain here through the same
methods used by illegals -- meeting prospective spouses who are American
citizens, finding employers who could claim they filled shortage occupations, or
obtaining asylum because political conditions had changed in their home
countries.

Rosenfeld's solution that the United States must "gain control of its borders
with Mexico" is more hortatory than realistic. No country, including the United
Kingdom -- which is surrounded by water, has borders so controlled that the
migration of human beings, like that of birds and animals, can be prevented. The
Chinese Wall did not work nor did the Berlin Wall. A 2,000-mile wall to seal off
the ages-old impulses of human beings to migrate would be a waste of money and
an ugly image of a "fortress America."

Rosenfeld's insight would be more applicable and beneficial if used to analyze
the current low rate of unemployment and shortages of workers in many states,
the current demand for workers in most occupations, the changing technology that
needs both skilled and unskilled workers, and the increasing proportion of the
aging population. An immigration policy that reflects the future demands will
serve the U.S. interest more than taking away the benefits acquired by legal
immigrants and demonizing so-called illegals.

-- David Carliner

The writer is an attorney specializing in immigration law.

LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              197 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 09, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

This Landmark Event Is Child's Play; At Zoo, Naturalization Ceremony for
Adoptees Includes Emotion, Entertainment

Scott Bowles, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 591 words


It was a very big day for Rita Preciadom, though no doubt the 2-year-old eyed
the festivities from a different perspective than her proud mother, Kathy.

On one hand, the toddler from China was sworn in officially yesterday as a U.S.
citizen. Then again, the naturalization ceremony was held at the National Zoo --
and Rita was about to be among the first group of children to see Himal, the
rare one-horned Asian rhinoceros born on Halloween.

"Baby rhino, baby rhino!" she started chanting excitedly midway through the
program, all the while shaking a small American flag.

Rita and about 60 other adopted children from 14 countries were recognized
formally as U.S. citizens at a special ceremony the Immigration and
Naturalization Service holds for children here twice a year. Although the
swearing-in is not a legal requirement for the youngsters, who became U.S.
citizens when their adoption was completed, INS officials said they go through
the ceremony as much for the adults. More than 300 parents, grandparents and
friends attended yesterday's event.

"This is to reward the parents with a little ceremony," INS spokeswoman
Ernestine Fobbs said. "It's a way to tell them that all the paperwork and
bureaucracy is over."

The hard work, of course, is not really over for parents, some of whose young
charges marked the occasion of their citizenship by giggling, crawling down the
aisles, wailing or running from relatives trying to record the historic moment
on film.

"This is a citizenship ceremony unlike any other," said William J. Carroll, INS
district director.

The swearing-in ceremony is part of Citizenship USA, an INS program formed in
1995 to help expedite the legalization process. Last year, according to the
agency, 9,384 adopted children became U.S. citizens.

At yesterday's zoo gathering, Tamara Talbert grew impatient to join this year's
crop of new citizens. Every time the name of a child was called to receive a
citizenship certificate, the 6-year-old adoptee from Russia raised her hand and
waved. Finally her moment came, though her attention was quickly diverted by a
bag of animal crackers given to each child.

There was no diverting parents, however, some of whom became very emotional as
their child's name was called.

"I got choked up watching her get welcomed to the country like this," said Rhoda
Brown, an Annandale High School math teacher who adopted Heather, 2, from Russia
in 1994. "There's no putting a price on what this is worth to me."

Despite the bureaucracy and expense -- some adoptions cost more than $ 25,000 --
Brown said she began the paperwork this week to adopt a second Russian child.

The home countries with the largest representation of children yesterday were
Russia, with 16; China, with 11; and Korea, with 9. There also were children
born in the Ukraine, Georgia, Latvia, India, Colombia, Nepal, Guatemala,
Paraguay, Romania, El Salvador and Jamaica.

After the ceremony, the children rushed off to the Elephant House enclosure,
where they watched four elephants stomp, crush and eat pumpkins, an annual rite
at the zoo after Halloween.

And then, they got to meet Himal, the 8-day-old rhino calf. The baby rhino, the
second one born at the zoo, weighed 156 pounds at birth and has been gaining
roughly five pounds a day.

"Mother and baby are doing very well," zoo spokesman Bob Hoage said. "It was a
great coincidence that we could open the rhino exhibit on the same day these
kids became citizens. We hope it's something they'll always remember."


LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, bill o'leary , Michael Labelle beams as his son, Jeffrey, 6, and
daughter, Julie, 3, wave U.S. flags.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              198 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 14, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

POPULATION TRENDS

SECTION: WEEKLY - DC; Pg. J01

LENGTH: 426 words


New projections from the U.S. Census Bureau conclude that the District will lose
popu-lation until the turn of the century, when the city will begin to gain
again, because of international immigration and births.

Here are some highlights of that report:

D.C.'s 1995 population is estimated at: 554,000

Projected population in 2000: 523,000

2005: 529,000

2015: 594,000

2020: 625,000

2025: 655,000

* The District is expected to gain 135,000 people from international immigration
between 1995 and 2025, the 21st-largest gain among the 50 states and itself.

* The District likely will have a net loss of 156,000 people through migration
to other parts of the United States (that is, 156,000 more people will move out
of D.C. to other communities than move in from those communities). During the
same time, Maryland also will have a net loss, and Virginia will have a net
gain.

* From 1995 to 2025, the District will have 334,000 births and 213,000 deaths,
ranking 48th among the states and itself in natural increase.

Unlike the 50 states, the proportion of youth in the District is expected to
increase. Like the 50 states, its elderly population also will rise.

* People younger than 20, who accounted for 22.6 percent of the 1995 population
in the District, will make up 29.3 percent of the population in 2025.

Population younger than 20:

1995 125,200

2025 191,900

* People older than 65, who made up 13.9 percent of the city's 1995 population,
will increase slightly to 14.1 percent of the population in 2025.

Population older than 65:

1995 77,000

2025 92,400

The District will become more ethnically and racially diverse, because the black
population will grow more slowly than other groups. African Americans will
remain a substantial majority.

* Non-Hispanic African Americans:

1995 62.3% (345,100 pop.)

2025 57.5% (376,600 pop.)

* Non-Hispanic whites:

1995 28.2% (156,200 pop.)

2025 26.1% (171,000 pop.)

* Non-Hispanic Asians:

1995 2.3% (12,700 pop.)

2025 4.1% (26,900 pop.)

* Hispanics:

1995 7.0% (38,800 pop.)

2025 12.2% (79,900 pop.)

(Hispanics can be of any race.)

SOURCE: U.S. Census Bureau

NOTE: Projections are available at the Census Web site: http://www.census.gov


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, tobey

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              199 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 17, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

A Look At . . . The U.S. Citizenship Test: Learning, And Earning, Their Stripes;
The 100 Questions That Open the Door to America

William Booth

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 922 words


A RECORD NUMBER of immigrants, more than 1 million, will become U.S. citizens
this year.

To do so, they must pay $ 95 and meet certain standards: They need to have lived
in the country for five years (or three, if they are married to a U.S. citizen),
be of good moral character (meaning no felony convictions), be of sound mind (a
judgment call) and speak and understand English (unless they are elderly or
disabled). Finally, they must pass what is generally referred to, in many
different languages, as the Test -- a quiz on the basics of U.S. history and
government. For many, the Test looms large in their minds, the ultimate Double
Jeopardy.

Some new citizens have spoken to me of nightmares, before and even after the
Test, in which a grand inquisitor from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) demands "Who wrote The Star-Spangled Banner?" And they freeze,
like stunned gerbils. They absolutely know that Woody Guthrie wrote The
Star-Spangled . . . .

BZZZZT! Wrong. Francis Scott Key is the correct answer. Go to the back of the
line, or so the nightmare goes.

INS officials, of course, wince when they hear this kind of thing. They don't
intend the nightmare to be real. For one thing, there is no official Test. It is
up to each of the 33 district offices, and individual INS interviewers, to
determine whether the aspiring American knows enough about the governing
principles and history of the United States. Most district offices give
applicants a list of 100 sample questions -- and the answers -- which the INS
was happy to let us publish here (the answers are on Page C4).

When it comes time for their interview, said Jack Bolger, head of INS's
"Citizenship USA" program in Florida, applicants typically will be asked about a
dozen questions -- sometimes more, sometimes fewer. The would-be citizen can
make a couple of mistakes, but cannot be completely clueless, Bolger said. The
whole process takes about 10 minutes.

David Rosenberg, director of program initiatives at INS headquarters in
Washington, knows the Test produces "a lot of unfounded anxiety, which we are
trying to overcome . . . . It's not an impossible or difficult thing. We're not
trying to trick people. On the other hand, you can't come in and grunt two words
and we rubber stamp you."

So how tough are the questions?

More than a few are so easy as to be almost meaningless, such as "What are the
colors of our flag?" That's a pitch anyone should be able to hit.

There are a few real puzzlers, though. To wit: "How many changes or amendments
are there to the Constitution?" I confess that the correct answer (27) was not
on the tip of my tongue.

Many are almost like Zen koans, such as "What is Congress?" Hmmmm. A lot of U.S.
citizens might have trouble answering that one. Others suggest inappropriate
responses. "What special group advises the President?" The answer is not
"pollsters." It is, of course, "the Cabinet."

Others are ambiguous; even INS officials are not sure that "What is the most
important right granted to United States citizens?" has just one correct answer
(INS answer: "the right to vote"). What about freedom of speech? Religion?

You may feel different when you read the list, but I found a few too many of the
sample questions fixated on the Pilgrims.

I asked a popular critic of American history instruction what he thought.

"The questions are typical of the ones you would find at the end of the chapters
in a typical high school American history textbook," says James Loewen, a
University of Vermont sociology professor and author of "Lies My Teacher Told
Me."

"There's kind of an emphasis on factoids, which are smaller than facts, the
stuff that no one can remember and probably shouldn't, such as what state was
the 49th, Alaska or Hawaii?" Loewen says.

Loewen points to the question, "Who helped the Pilgrims?" (INS answer: the
American Indians.) "It asks for a simple rote response, but lurking behind the
question is a context, a whole missing story," the professor said. The American
Indians did help the Pilgrims, but they were not "haplessly hospitable, as our
origin myths have it," Loewen explains. The Indians who assisted the Pilgrims
did so for specific reasons: They wanted a strategic alliance, a buffer against
other tribes. They also were less likely to be inhospitable because a plague of
uncertain origin wiped out many Indians a few years before the Pilgrims arrived
-- a disease that Loewen and others suspect was bubonic plague, brought to the
New World by British fishermen.

Well, that's very thorough, professor. But this is a citizenship test, not a
master's thesis.

John Fonte, a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington, says he has no problem with the nuts-and-bolts questions about
government, but he is disappointed that the INS does not ask more "substantial"
questions about the meaning of being an American. He suggests that "What is the
White House?" does not really get to the meat of our experiment in democracy.

Touche. INS officials believe there's room for improvement, and so they are
developing a new, standardized test. "We would invite readers to give us ideas
on this," said Rosenberg of the INS, who asks that ideas be mailed to the
following address and not left on his home answering machine.

Suggestions may be sent to: Citizenship USA, 425 I St. NW, Washington, D.C.
20536.

William Booth is The Post bureau chief covering the Southeast United States,
based in Miami.


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, james yang for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              200 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 20, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigrants Who Shaped America

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 188 words


Congratulations on the long-overdue tribute to "The Non-Citizen Soldier" [Metro,
Nov. 8], which embraces the immigrants who became citizens through military
service.

My father's father and two brothers, immigrants from Norway, volunteered for the
Union Army and became combat veterans. They and hundreds of thousands of their
foreign-born comrades may have meant the margin between victory and defeat for
the Union and for the end of slavery. These immigrants may have constituted
one-fourth of the Union armed forces.

Many of them contributed a passion for freedom for all that was as valuable as
their courage. Sgt. Michael Simonson and his wife, Elvira Virginia Steidley
Simonson, a country schoolteacher, were so thrilled by the establishment of the
first Spanish Republic in the 1870s that they named their next son for President
Castelar. Michael Castellar Si monson came of age in time to volunteer for the
war to end the Spanish Empire in the New World. And so that name has been passed
down among rural families in Illinois and Canada to the fourth gen eration.

R. CASTELLAR SIMONSON

Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              201 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 23, 1996, Saturday, Final Edition

Jobs for Legal Residents

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 202 words


I don't often agree with Gov. George Allen or his policies, but I think Virginia
has discovered a creative way to find jobs for welfare recipients by filling
positions vacated by INS raids, thereby discouraging, albeit slightly, the flow
of illegal immigrants ["Va. to Turn INS Raids Into Welfare Job Leads," Metro,
Nov. 1]. This policy also might help legal immigrants find employment if they're
cut off from public assistance. This program will have its problems, but,
overall, I think Virginia is moving in the right direction.

I strongly disagree with its critics who maintain it will foment conflict
between lower-income groups and pit ethnic groups against each another. Maryland
and the District have cited this reason for not attempting the same type of
program. The concerned bureaucrats seem to be forgetting that the people who are
being deported are in the United States illegally and have no right to work
here. This program doesn't pit welfare recipients against other citizens or
legally admitted immigrants; it will provide jobs for people who are being told
that their welfare benefits are ending or for those who aren't eligible in the
first place.

JOHN M. EVANS

Bethesda

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              202 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 02, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

Inflating Immigration Figures

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 331 words


The Nov. 18 front-page article "Immigration Issues Await New Congress" leaves
the inaccurate impression that immigration will rise into the future, when
actually the numbers will drop after a temporary, artificial increase, primarily
caused by the 1986 amnesty.

Since 1986, the spouses and children of many immigrants legalized by the amnesty
have been living with their sponsors in the United States awaiting visas. Now
that those formerly illegal immigrants are becoming citizens, under the law they
can gain visas immediately for their spouses and children. This shows up as an
"increase" in the immigration numbers even though these people have physically
been in the country for years, many on underprotected status.

The article also failed to note that unused employment-based visas from 1995
were by law added on a one-time basis to the 1996 family visa allotment, thus
further artificially inflating the numbers. In 1997, family preference visas
will fall from 311,000 to 226,000, a 27 percent decline.

Because our system already is restricted almost exclusively to refugees, close
family members -- spouses, children, siblings, parents -- and those with company
sponsors, further restrictions would hit people hard and for little reason.

The projected 1996 immigration total is actually below the level for 1993. Legal
immigration has fallen 20 percent the past few years and is projected to fall to
previous levels by 1998 or 1999. In other words, by the time any new law would
take effect, the numbers already would have declined. Therefore, it makes little
sense to cite a temporary, artificial increase in immigration to justify
permanent cutbacks in our already highly regulated and limited legal immigration
system.

Since both houses of Congress rejected cuts in legal immigration in 1996,
members are unlikely to revisit this contentious issue again next year.

STUART ANDERSON

Director, Trade and Immigration Studies

Cato Institute

Washington

LOAD-DATE: December 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              203 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 05, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Independent Counsel Probe of INS Rejected; Justice Dept. Turns Down Hill GOP
Request

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 650 words


The Justice Department yesterday rejected a congressional request for an
independent counsel to look into a controversial naturalization program, saying
there was no credible evidence that the president, vice president or other
high-ranking officials participated in possible federal offenses connected to
it.

At the same time, the department said it would tighten the process by which
immigrants become naturalized U.S. citizens and continue its own investigation
of the program.

It said the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) would make an "expanded
effort" to ensure that no one is naturalized without a completed FBI fingerprint
check, hire a private company to oversee an INS audit of naturalization cases
and undertake a "comprehensive reengineering" of the citizenship program with an
outside consultant.

Under a policy implemented last week, the INS is requiring verification from the
FBI that criminal background checks have been concluded before an applicant can
receive citizenship.

Under the previous policy, the citizenship process could go ahead if the INS had
not received word from the FBI within 60 days, a waiting period doubled to 120
days this summer.

The request for an independent counsel was made Nov. 1 by Rep. Bill Zeliff
(R-N.H.), chairman of the national security, international affairs, and criminal
justice subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Reform and Oversight,
and four GOP colleagues.

They charged that the Citizenship USA program, which naturalized a record 1
million immigrants during fiscal 1996, had been "corrupted by a reckless drive
for political gain" in the Nov. 5 elections and that large numbers of "violent
criminals" had been sworn in as new citizens.

In a reply yesterday, the Justice Department said it had found "no specific and
credible evidence" that any officials covered by the independent counsel statute
had committed crimes in connection with Citizenship USA.

The letter acknowledged that "the information does suggest the possibility of
federal offenses by other persons, some of which have already been prosecuted by
the department." But it said the allegations of wrongdoing "relate only to
low-ranking officials and private companies" and do not create a conflict of
interest for the Justice Department in pursuing them. The letter noted that the
department has already prosecuted a company in Hawaii on charges of fraud in
administering a citizenship testing program.

Zeliff said he was "disappointed" by the response. "We strongly believe that
laws have been broken," he said. He charged that the staff of Vice President
Gore was "very actively involved" in promoting the accelerated citizenship
program and that "an independent counsel would find that the president and vice
president worked together on this project." He said the subcommittee had "no
alternative" but to continue its investigation when Congress convenes early next
year.

The subcommittee's Republicans said they have found evidence in subpoenaed FBI
rap sheets that "thousands" of criminals were improperly naturalized as part of
an administration drive to produce new voters for the Democratic Party. INS
officials said the subcommittee has distorted the records, failing to take into
account that the rap sheets are not definitive and that many offenses listed on
them were committed well before Congress expanded the categories of
disqualifying crimes.

Asked for examples of new citizens who should have been rejected, a Zeliff aide
produced the rap sheets of what he said were "two convicted murderers." However,
one was of a man who had been convicted of first-degree manslaughter in 1981 and
the other involved a 1975 conviction for a nonfelony "homicide" -- not murder --
that resulted in a four-year jail term.

Under the law, neither conviction was disqualifying at the time both men were
naturalized.

LOAD-DATE: December 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              204 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 06, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

Field Managers Accuse INS Operations Director of Cronyism, Seek His Ouster

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A29; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 929 words


Senior field managers of the Immigration and Naturalization Service are seeking
the ouster of the agency's powerful operations director amid allegations of
cronyism and malfeasance within the service.

William S. Slattery, the third-ranking official in the INS, has been accused by
subordinates of improper associations with Korean garment shop owners, trying to
shield a protege who was charged with bribe-taking and giving bonuses and
promotions to a female employee whom he later married.

Slattery, 49, acknowledged a need to "improve communication" with INS field
managers, but strongly denied any wrongdoing and said he has been cleared by a
series of Justice Department investigations into his role in the matters under
question.

While the latest INS internal audit "did not sustain the allegations," according
to a Nov. 29 letter to Slattery, the controversy appears to reflect a malaise
inside the 26,000-member agency, which has come under attack lately from
Congress and the Justice Department's inspector general over a variety of
issues. Whether the allegations are true or not, Slattery appears to have become
the lightning rod within the agency for some of its latest problems.

Congressional Republicans have charged that the INS has naturalized criminals in
an accelerated citizenship program and that senior officials deliberately misled
a congressional fact-finding mission about conditions at INS facilities in
Miami. The inspector general complained recently that the service had failed to
take action against beneficiaries of immigration document fraud, and a top INS
official in New Jersey was convicted last month on corruption charges.

Among the latest allegations against Slattery is that he curtailed INS raids on
Korean garment factories in New York in 1993 after he was invited to social
events with factory owners, including a golf outing and a trip to a sauna, at
the behest of his friend Yung-Soo Yoo, a Korean American businessman and
Republican fund-raiser who formerly spied for South Korea and was convicted in
1984 on bank fraud charges.

The field managers' complaints about Slattery and his connection to Yoo were
first reported this week by the New York Daily News.

Slattery said he has golfed with Yoo, with whom he has maintained a friendship,
but he denied accepting any favors from Korean businessmen or visiting a sauna
with them. He said he "delayed opening new cases" against the Korean shops for
only about 30 days while his office looked into the Koreans' charges that INS
agents were discriminating against them in raiding the factories to look for
illegal aliens.

Slattery said he first met with Yoo in 1990 at the instigation of then-Attorney
General Richard Thornburgh. Reached at his Washington office, Thornburgh denied
encouraging any such meeting and said he did not know either Slattery or Yoo.

Yoo, 60, testified before Congress in 1977 that he had worked for the Korean
Central Intelligence Agency and had sought to prevent witnesses from testifying
about the 1970s bribery scandal known as "Koreagate." In 1984, he was convicted
of defrauding banks of $ 4 million in a Pennsylvania scam involving the sale of
substandard coal for fuel.

Last month, Yoo was identified as a fund-raiser who had solicited questionable
campaign contributions to Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato (R-N.Y.) and New York Gov.
George E. Pataki (R). Both subsequently announced they were returning the
contributions.

The internal complaints about Slattery came to a head at a meeting in San
Antonio last month between INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner and managers of
the agency's 57 field offices across the nation, participants said. The district
directors generally blamed Slattery for low morale in the agency and a lack of
communication between the INS Washington headquarters and its field offices, the
sources said.

In San Antonio, "the criticism was focused on Slattery and the way he does
business," one participant said. Some of the directors "felt they couldn't work
for him anymore."

The most common grievance was that the directors "wanted access to Doris
Meissner and felt that they didn't have it because of Slattery," the official
said. Communications between the field managers and the commissioner about such
matters as the need to modify procedures for processing new citizens, the
subject of congressional complaints, have "ended in Slattery's office," the
source said.

The revolt against Slattery has been brewing for some time, INS officials said.
When he served as INS district director in New York from 1990 to 1994, staffers
complained of favoritism toward Rosemary LaGuardia, a trainee special agent whom
Slattery began dating. The two were married last month.

Slattery denied giving her any preferential treatment, saying that she has been
in the same pay grade, GS-12, since coming to the INS five years ago. He said
she is now an instructor at an INS training facility in Georgia.

Slattery also disputed a whistleblower's complaint, filed by an INS employee in
September, that he had ousted the INS district director in Newark, Warren Lewis,
for having exposed corruption by a Slattery protege, John F. Lonergan. Slattery
said he was subpoenaed to testify as a character witness for Longergan and was
not involved in the removal of Lewis. Lonergan was convicted of bribery and
immigration fraud last month for having accepted about $ 10,000 worth of gifts
from document brokers in exchange for providing papers that allowed illegal
aliens to enter and work in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: December 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              205 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 15, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Staking Their Claim

Edward Countryman

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X05

LENGTH: 1622 words


AMERICANS NO MORE

By Georgie Anne Geyer

Atlantic Monthly Press. 352 pp. $ 23

THE COMING WHITE MINORITY

California's Eruptions and the

Nation's Future

By Dale Maharidge

Times Books. 331 pp. $ 25

IMMIGRANTS OUT

The New Nativism and the

Anti-Immigrant Impulse in the

United States

Edited by Juan F. Perea

New York University Press. 342 pp. $ 55; Paperback, $ 19.95

ASSIMILATION, AMERICAN STYLE

By Peter D. Salins (Forthcoming in January)

Basic Books. $ 26

STILL THE PROMISED CITY?

African-Americans and New

Immigrants in Postindustrial

New York

By Roger Waldinger

Harvard University Press. 374 pp. $ 35

THE AUTHORS of and contributors to these five books all agree on only one point:
Once again in our history, immigration is a subject in need of serious
discussion.

The main reasons are clear. This "nation of immigrants" (as we like to call
ourselves, forgetting both natives who were here first and Africans who had no
choice about coming) is receiving as many new entrants as ever. But for them
there will be no Ellis Island -- no single, iconic reminder of their arrival.

Dale Maharidge and Georgie Anne Geyer define both the terms of immigration
debate and its extremes of quality. The Coming White Minority's title is
factual, not alarmist. California will cease to be a white-majority state very
shortly, joining Hawaii and New Mexico in a change that will characterize the
entire republic by the middle of the new century. For Maharidge the change
offers the next great historic challenge to Americans as a people. There is no
choice about whether to meet it. The question is how.

The reason is strictly secular. As Joe R. Feagin notes in one of the many useful
essays that make up the ironically titled Immigrants Out, our globalized,
corporate economy generates both displacement and opportunities virtually
everywhere. But continuing population growth in the developing world means there
are too many people to be satisfied. Where the means exist, people migrate to
the United States and the rest of the advanced capitalist sector. The same
dynamics drove 19th- and early 20th-century emigrants from Europe, both hither
and to Canada, Australia, New Zealand and parts of Africa. Eventually population
will level off, and the pressure that drives inter-regional migration will ease.
But it will take a long time.

Against this systemic change, Maharidge presents a vivid drama of possibility,
limitation and choice. Five years of observation have led him deep into the
lives and worlds of a Latina politician from southeast Los Angeles, a white
community activist in Orange County, an African-American community policeman in
Sacramento, and an Asian-American student at Berkeley. They are remote from one
another, but Maharidge shows them all dealing with the same fundamental problem:
On what terms shall a California (and, by extension, an America) that is ceasing
to be majority-white be shared?

Maharidge's hopes for a future of intertwined diversity rather than a new,
jagged-edged segregation are clear, but he demonizes none of his immediate
subjects. They all appear to be wrestling honestly with problems far larger than
themselves. Dismissing self-publicizing campus activists as irrelevant, he saves
his scorn for Gov. Pete Wilson, who appears as inconsistent, opportunistic, and
one of the prime instigators of a "white riot" that has achieved nothing but the
poisoning of public discourse on a problem that must be faced. The book offers
no easy answers, but it does suggest questions that we all have to face.

Americans No More is another matter. Georgie Anne Geyer would resist any
accusations of prejudice, and I intend no challenge to her personal good will.
Nonetheless, she has written a thoroughly bad book.

The writing is overblown. ("That hot summer, whipped by the monsoon winds, I
found that . . . India was a dervish whirling ever faster, with its peripheries
spinning off into other nights as the dervish nation sped out of control.") The
book abounds in errors that cast doubt on everything it asserts. It cites
"Pastor" John Winthrop of early Massachusetts. (He was governor.) It has John
Jay at the Constitutional Convention of 1787 persuading "George Washington . . .
to add the clause [to the Constitution] barring a foreigner from becoming leader
of the nation." (Jay wasn't at the convention; its proceedings were secret;
Washington merely presided.) Closer to her own subject, Geyer blames the 1965
immigration law on post-Vietnam "multiculturalists, feminists, radical
homosexuals, new historicists, Marxists, and extreme environmentalists."
Maharidge presents no demons, except perhaps Wilson. Geyer finds them
everywhere.

Geyer's central argument is that present-day migrants are often unassimilable
and that demagogic leaders might use them to shred American society. Even on
this, she manages to contradict herself. She writes with great outrage about the
possibility of non-citizen voting in state and local elections. Yet she admits
that in heavily immigrant Los Angeles the mayoral vote declined by nearly 80,000
between 1973 and 1993. In one of her more purple passages, Geyer describes
illegal immigrants at the Tijuana-San Diego crossing "marching right down the
unclosed median lanes [of Interstate 5, while] smugglers along with both female
prostitutes and male transvestites were becoming even more brazen." The image
has great possibilities for a film treatment. As analysis it fails.

Geyer's best point is that civisme -- a sense of civic responsibility -- does
count, and we lose it at our peril. (Maharidge agrees and shows its development
against difficult odds among the very people Geyer regards as dangerous.) In
Assimilation American Style (due out next month), Peter D. Salins makes the
conservative argument in favor of univalent citizenship and one-direction
assimilation in strong terms without being sensationalist and without denying
complexity. Hostile to both centrifugal multiculturalism and sour nativism,
Salins suggests that immigration has worked in our past because immigrants have
willingly conformed to American norms. These have included the acceptance of
English, the "American Idea" of civic participation and personal freedom, and
the Protestant ethic of individualistic self-responsibility. These are the
characteristics of "assimilation, American style," which he believes to be
failing now.

That our history has made us a people rather than a mass of individuals is
undeniable. But we have achieved our national sense of profound belonging as
much through torment and strife as through an "Anglo base" and "unifying myths."
Even for stigmatized European groups (the Irish in the 1840s, Germans during
World War I, southern and eastern Europeans during the last nativist upsurge in
the 1920s), it has been difficult enough. Juan Perea's essay in his own
anthology demonstrates that the Statue of Liberty has been invested with many
meanings, including guarding the gate against the "huddled masses" whom Emma
Lazarus hymned. For Native Americans and African Americans, establishing a claim
to full membership in American society has been far more difficult, despite the
deep involvement of both since that society's moment of founding.

The cases of Hawaii and New Mexico (and perhaps Mississippi) suggest that in
modern America skin color is not necessarily the problem. Salins rightly
understands that the issue now is group identity, the plures from which American
unum continually emerges. But he misses the extent to which that has always been
the case. Several of the essays Perea has collected (most notably by Feagin, Leo
Chavez, Raymond Tatalovich, Kevin Johnson, and Dorothy Roberts) speak to that
issue. But Roger Waldinger addresses it best.

ALONE AMONG these authors, Waldinger focuses on the East Coast. Alone again, his
prime concern is African Americans. Waldinger avoids facile generalizations
about immigrants taking jobs that poor Americans (read African Americans)
"ought" to have. Black people have been American long enough to have a felt
claim on something more. Nor does he think that sheer individualism is the way
to get ahead. In his late-20th-century New York, group membership counts, just
as it always has. There is opportunity at many levels. But entering an "ethnic
niche" in the job market is the best way to find it. Old ethnic groups (Jews,
Irish, Italians) have always understood that point. New ones (Anglophone West
Indians, Dominicans, Koreans, Chinese, even newly arrived Irish, and Russian
Jews) have learned it fast.

So have African Americans. For skilled and educated black people the city has
provided real improvement in the quality of life. But for African Americans
without skills or education, the picture is different. There are low-skill jobs
that offer good conditions and high rewards. But for reasons of historical
accident and outright prejudice, these are classic ethnic niches, closed to any
outsiders, including blacks.

Maharidge writes highly accessible prose. Waldringer offers tough (though not
jargon-ridden) sociological analysis. They agree that the situations they study
are bleak and could become much worse, but they see neither California nor New
York City as hopeless. They would agree as well that for mere hope to become an
American future that is worth having, both creative thought and the will to
implement the conclusions it leads to are required. But that is precisely the
civisme that all these writers agree we need.

Edward Countryman is a professor in the Clements Department of History at
Southern Methodist University and the author of "Americans: a Collision of
Histories."


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, united press international, Anti-immigration cartoon, ca.
1940

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              206 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 17, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Gays' Cases Help to Expand Immigration Rights; More Than 60 Homosexuals Claiming
Persecution Have Been Granted Asylum in U.S.

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1775 words


Ciprian Cucu says he was jailed as a teenager in his native Romania and
repeatedly raped. Jose Zambrano, by his account, was disowned by his parents,
raped by a soldier at 13, assaulted by paramilitary thugs and threatened with
death in El Salvador. Sergey Fedetov recounts being harassed, beaten and
repeatedly interrogated by police in Russia.

All three were granted asylum in the United States recently after claiming
persecution for their sexual orientation. All are avowedly gay.

They are among more than 60 foreigners who have been given U.S. asylum after
claiming persecution because of their homosexuality since 1994, when Attorney
General Janet Reno ruled that such claims could be grounds for approval. In
addition, at least two heterosexuals have received asylum after arguing they
suffered persecution in their homelands because they tested positive for HIV,
the virus that causes AIDS.

Their cases have carved out a new area of immigration law, helping to expand the
definition of who is eligible to seek refuge in the United States. Besides
homosexuals, advocates from liberal feminists to conservative Republicans and
antiabortion groups have lobbied to extend asylum eligibility to such applicants
as females anxious to leave male-dominated Islamic cultures and to Chinese men
and women who oppose their government's one-child-per-family policy.

Gay rights activists say the asylum decisions in favor of homosexuals in the
last two years represent a long-overdue recognition that the plight of gay men
and lesbians in some countries meets the legal standard for refugee status: a
person fleeing "persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of
race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or
political opinion."

Those who have received asylum on such grounds represent only a tiny fraction of
the more than 33,000 asylum applications granted in the last two years, these
activists say.

"This is simply an appropriate and fair application of existing U.S. immigration
law," said Sidney Levy, asylum project coordinator for the International Gay and
Lesbian Human Rights Commission in San Francisco.

Advocates of reduced immigration levels contend, however, that asylum is being
abused in ways that may ultimately erode public support for it. Unlike refugees,
who are screened by U.S. officials abroad and whose admissions are limited by
annual quotas, asylum seekers are a "self-selected" group not subject to any
numerical limits. Since the United States grants asylum only to people who are
already on U.S. soil, an applicant's first challenge is to get into the country
by any means available -- legally or illegally.

The expansion of the process to allow sexual and HIV-related claims is "a
complete corruption of the original intent of political asylum," said K.C.
McAlpin, deputy director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. The
original concept was to give temporary refuge to people who were in the United
States when political changes or conflicts in their homelands made it dangerous
for them to return, he said.

"Now people are using asylum to gain permanent residence in the United States
because they would otherwise not qualify," McAlpin said. "Membership in a
particular social group is being defined by liberal judges and government
bureaucrats in a way that was never intended by Congress, and certainly not by
the American people."

No aspect of current asylum policy is more controversial than the Clinton
administration's decision, in response to a recommendation in January by the
Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS, to consider HIV infection as a
possible basis for asylum.

In a 1993 law, however, Congress specifically barred aliens with HIV or AIDS
from entering the United States.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, charges that granting asylum based on homosexuality "is stretching
the law" and that doing so based on HIV infection "is a violation of the law."
The policy eventually "could bring thousands of HIV-infected people from around
the world here for free treatment," he said.

"We're telling HIV-positive people that you're not allowed to come to the U.S.,
but if you manage to sneak in, we'll give you asylum based on the characteristic
that would have made you excludable," said Mark Krikorian, director of the
Center for Immigration Studies. "It just doesn't make sense."

Even before the administration's decision, an immigration judge in New York
granted asylum to a heterosexual man from the West African state of Togo on
grounds of his HIV infection and AIDS-related illnesses. The claimant, a
30-year-old computer engineer, entered the United States in April 1991. After
his application for political asylum was rejected and INS moved to deport him,
he filed a new application claiming persecution as a member of a "particular
social group" consisting of HIV-infected persons in Togo and the Ivory Coast.

The man testified that drugs to treat his illness were scarce or nonexistent in
the two countries, that HIV sufferers were turned away from hospitals and
isolated, and that his family would ostracize him if he went home. In an October
1995 decision, Judge George Chew found the man "credible," noting that he seemed
"truly remorseful" about "misrepresentations" in his original asylum request.
The INS appealed the decision but dropped the appeal in April.

The man's representative, Ron Cerreta of New York's Gay Men's Health Crisis
Inc., said his client is too "flipped out" by a backlash over the case to talk
about it. He said the man lives with his wife and is too sick to work.

In a second such case, an HIV-positive man from Brazil was granted asylum by an
immigration judge in San Francisco last August.

By law, asylum applications and proceedings are kept confidential unless the
applicant agrees to release them. This serves to protect the individual's
privacy and safeguard relatives and associates in the country of origin. But it
also can effectively preclude any public scrutiny of a case's merits.

Besides the two heterosexuals with HIV, at least six gay men with the virus have
received asylum since June 1995, gay rights advocates say. In some cases, their
infections were cited to support their persecution claims, which were based
primarily on their homosexuality.

Among the latest to receive asylum based on a finding of persecution for sexual
orientation were two gays who fled Russia in 1990, spent two weeks in France and
arrived in Washington on tourist visas. In an interview, they said they were
harassed in the 1980s by the KGB and local police, who maintained a "pink list"
of homosexuals. They were granted asylum by an immigration judge in Arlington
last month.

In a highly publicized case earlier this year, Russia's only openly gay
journalist, Yaroslav Mogutin, was granted asylum in New York after having fled
Moscow with his American partner, artist Robert Filippini, in March 1995.
Mogutin, now 23, had faced criminal charges of "malicious hooliganism with
exceptional cynicism and extreme insolence." He reported receiving anonymous
death threats and was branded by a presidential commission as a "corrupter of
public morals."

In San Francisco, a federal appeals court is currently considering the asylum
case of a Russian lesbian, Alla Pitcherskaia, 34, who entered the United States
in 1992. She says she faces forced psychiatric institutionalization, including
electroshock therapy, to "cure" her of her sexual orientation if forced to
return to her homeland. The Justice Department is contesting her claim.

Among more than 30 homosexuals who have been granted asylum so far this year is
another Russian, the 23-year-old Fedetov. He flew to Mexico in December 1995,
walked across the California border and was arrested by INS agents while en
route to Los Angeles. He said he was repeatedly harassed and beaten by police in
his home town of Yoshkar-Ola for being gay and half Armenian.

"I knew I could not survive as an Armenian gay in Yoshkar-Ola," he said in an
affidavit. He said police in Moscow also detained him and extorted money after
he moved there without a permit to earn enough cash to flee to the United
States. He received asylum in May and now works part time at a Kentucky Fried
Chicken outlet in Los Angeles.

In Romania, Cucu was 17 when he met a 22-year-old man who became his lover in
1992. "We admired each other at first sight," Cucu said in an affidavit. "He was
my ideal."

Two months later, however, they were arrested under a Romanian law that
criminalizes all homosexual acts. Turned in by his own family and incriminated
by his diary, Cucu was thrown into a cell with up to 16 other men. There he was
immediately raped by a "supervising inmate," who also forced him to have sex
with other prisoners during his two-month incarceration, the affidavit said. At
one point, Cucu said, he was beaten by the warden for complaining about the
rapes in court. He said his lover later told him that he also had been beaten
and repeatedly raped. Last year, he said, his lover committed suicide.

Cucu, now 21, came to the United States last year to speak at an international
tribunal on homosexual persecution. He applied for asylum, which was granted in
July. He now works as an office clerk in New York. "It was unarguable that he
was the victim of incredible state-sponsored persecution," said his lawyer, Lavi
Soloway.

In El Salvador, Zambrano suffered the first of a series of brutal sexual
assaults when he was raped at the age of 13 by a soldier in his home town. "From
an early age, I was effeminate," he wrote in an affidavit. The result was "a
horrible childhood" filled with abuse by his parents, teachers and classmates.

Describing his experiences in graphic detail, Zambrano said his mother tried to
"make me a man" by dispatching him to a local brothel when he was 15. In San
Salvador, where his parents subsequently sent him, he was sexually assaulted by
police, soldiers and members of a "death squad" on several occasions, he wrote.

In a telephone interview from suburban New York, where he now works nights
cleaning offices, Zambrano, 30, said he crossed the U.S.-Mexican border
illegally in 1988, hidden in a mobile home. He applied for asylum this year and
received it late last month. He said he now hopes to get a beautician's license
and work as a hair stylist.

"In El Salvador, being a homosexual is the lowest thing in society," Zambrano
said. "Here, I feel much better. I feel good spiritually. I feel protected."


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap; Illustration, dave cook, ASYLUM FOR HOMOSEXUALS Where the
U.S. refugees came from, March 18, 1994 to Oct. 15, 1996: LATIN AMERICA Mexico
Guatemala Honduras El Salvador Nicaragua Colombia Venezuela Brazil Peru Chile
EUROPE Russia Romania Albania AFRICA Mauritania Togo Eritrea Ethiopia ASIA Iran
Pakistan Turkey Singapore Lebanon Jordan China Yemen Hong Kong Countries that
granted asylum based on sexual orientation include: Australia, Canada, Germany,
Ireland, New Zealand, Belgium, Finland, Great Britain, Netherlands, United
States SOURCE: International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission Asylum
Project American Robert Filippini, left, and Russian Yaroslav Mogutin show
affection after a marriage license was denied them at Moscow's wedding palace.
Granted asylum and now living in a Hempstead, N.Y., apartment, Jose Cruz says he
fled El Salvador after receiving death threats because he is gay.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              207 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 18, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Good Neighbors' Bad Luck Stirs Ire Over Canadian Immigration Policy

Howard Schneider, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 883 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, B.C. --


Residents around Bayview Community School say they took on faith Canada's
openness to the world's hard-luck stories and believed their country's immigrant
past made it serious about helping as many newcomers as possible.

That was before the Baharonas. That was before the Ovdaks. That was before the
rallies and the signs and the candlelight vigils and the e-mail protests to
Canada's immigration minister. The faith of some people here in Vancouver's
Kitsilano neighborhood has been shattered as they fight the deportation of two
families they consider models of what Canada's immigration policy ought to be.

The Ovdaks, from Russia, have been in the community for six years, their two
children are fixtures at the Bayview school and the parents, Gennady and
Natalia, are dependable volunteers in middle-class Kitsilano. Their application
for refugee status was denied last summer, and they are to be deported as soon
as their papers are cleared with the Russian government.

Maria Baharona and her five children have been living for a year in the basement
of the Trinity United Church of Canada, where they have sought sanctuary to
avoid being deported to El Salvador. After a nearly 10-year odyssey through
Canada and the United States, they also were denied permission to stay.

"A year has gone by and I have not seen any change," Baharona said at a ceremony
marking a year in the church basement. "I don't know what they plan."

In Canada "the mood has really shifted," said Linda Ervine, the minister at
Trinity United. "We have an image of being compassionate and open, and it is
really being deteriorated" by stricter immigration rules and concern over
allowing too many immigrants into the country.

Neighborhood resident Phil Le Good said that when his daughter told him the
government of Canada was sending a classmate -- 11-year-old Elena Ovdak -- back
to Russia, his first reaction was to tell her that "there are rules" for such
situations and the government applies them fairly. The more he learned of the
Ovdaks' time in the community, however, the more he questioned whether the
system is fair.

"We have been a compassionate nation and want to spread that image, and yet look
what is happening," said Le Good. The Ovdaks have proved, through years of
living here, that they can fit into Canadian society, he said, but they aren't
being allowed to because neither parent qualifies as a refugee and neither has
the money to qualify as an "independent" immigrant. Ovdak was working as an
electrician before his immigration troubles forced him to stop, Le Good said.

Immigration has been a touchy topic in Canada. The country historically has
accepted more new residents on a per capita basis than other industrialized
nations. However, in recent years even the usually pro-immigration Liberal Party
recognized the limits of what Canadians would tolerate.

One way the Liberal Party government sought to increase government revenue in
recent years was to impose a $ 975 landing fee for immigrants, despite concern
that many would be unable to pay it. After saying during the last campaign that
immigration should equal roughly 1 percent of the population each year, the
government has kept the level far lower.

In October, Citizenship and Immigration Minister Lucienne Robillard announced
that Canada's 1997 immigration targets would remain unchanged from 1996: The
country of nearly 30 million planned to allow about 220,000 newcomers. Any more,
Robillard announced, would tax Canada's "capacity to settle and absorb" new
arrivals.

Of those, more than half are "independent" immigrants -- those with either
skills and job offers or money to invest. As in the United States, immigrants
who can immediately contribute to the economy find it easier to gain entrance.
Although Canada once welcomed largely unskilled East Europeans with an eye
toward populating and cultivating the prairies, today's policy has attracted
thousands of businessmen and investors from Hong Kong, Taiwan and India.

"We are clearly attracting the economic immigrants we need to strengthen our
economy," Robillard said recently in the House of Commons as she released the
immigration targets for next year.

Le Good, Ervine and others in the Kitsilano neighborhood say success in
attracting economically successful immigrants masks the struggle that families
such as the Baharonas and the Ovdaks face in navigating Canada's immigration
bureaucracy.

Baharona, they say, probably lost an opportunity for refugee status here because
she was in the United States when the 12-year civil war ended in her native El
Salvador and came to Canada only afterward. The Ovdaks, meanwhile, left Russia
when it was still part of the Soviet Union but now could safely return and
therefore did not qualify for refugee status, Rob Johnston, head of immigration
enforcement for the Vancouver area, told the Vancouver Sun.

Canadian immigration officials have sent word that, despite protests and local
political and community support, rules are rules. Nevertheless, Johnston said,
Canada's system is "the most generous refugee determination progress in the
world."

"You have to remove people who don't meet your qualifications," Johnston said.
"Otherwise, what would you have, I ask you?"


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post, NO LONGER A HAVEN? (This graphic was
not available)

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              208 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 04, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Asylum for Gays: A Fundamental Human Right

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 360 words


Your paper has shown an unfair bias against immigrants in its recent reporting.
The Dec. 17 front-page story "Gays' Cases Help to Expand Immigration Rights" was
accurate only so far as it reports that homosexuals, some of them HIV-positive,
have been granted asylum in the United States because they were found to be in
danger of persecution in their home countries. But this has been happening for
several years. The subjects of immigrant and of homosexual rights are emotional
hot buttons -- particularly when presented together with the mention of AIDS and
tabloid-like photos. Aside from vilifying immigrants, there is no reason to have
framed the story in this way.

Furthermore, the article misrepresents the way that the asylum system operates
in the United States. First of all, asylum is not a form of immigration. It is a
refugee-protection process created pursuant to obligations that the United
States maintains under treaty and international law. Second, asylum is not a
legal benefit or a privilege, like family or business-sponsored immigration that
can or should be limited by Congress. It is a fundamental human right that is
protected by the U.S. Constitution, the 1951 U.N. Convention on the Status of
Refugees and the 1967 U.N. Protocol. Additional treaty commitments bind the
United States to protect refugees from specific human rights abuses such as
torture and genocide.

K. C. McAlpin of the Federation for American Immigration Reform is utterly wrong
in his contention that asylum rights are created by "liberal judges and
government bureaucrats." The right to asylum is vested in treaties, customary
international law, and refugee resettlement regimes that have their modern
genesis in the ovens of Dachau and Auschwitz.

The extension of asylum protection to groups such as HIV-positive gays who are
hunted down and killed for "sport" in Brazil is not a "complete corruption of
the original intent" of asylum, as McAlpin claims. Instead, it does honor to
America's historical commitment to protecting victims of persecution and hatred,
no matter their race, religion, political opinion or social group.

-- Mark Levey

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              209 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 09, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

FROM MANY, ONE NATION; America Must Again Assimilate Its Immigrants

Peter D. Salins

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1731 words


My parents immigrated to the United States from Germany as young adults in 1938.
We spoke German at home and ate German foods. My parents socialized with other
German immigrants and joined German organizations. But not for one second did
any of us doubt our American-ness. My national ancestors were not Otto von
Bismarck or Frederick the Great but George Washington and Thomas Jefferson. I
thought "Father Knows Best" was about my family.

The town in central New Jersey where I grew up could have served as the model
for Norman Rockwell paintings. But actually, most of my classmates' parents were
foreign born, having come mainly from Italy and Poland. Did the kids I went to
school with feel any less American? Did they have conflicted ethnic loyalties?
Absolutely not.

The story of my childhood may well seem banal, because we Americans take for
granted that the immigrants of yesterday produced the Americans of today. And
yet, assimilation, American style, is more than just a historical artifact; it
is nothing less than a miracle. It has forged a culturally unified nation at
peace with itself -- from people drawn, literally, from every corner of the
earth.

But a funny thing has happened to assimilation over the past several decades:
America's opinion elites have turned against it, a development with potential
for harm that we are only now beginning to see. At a time when the United States
is admitting a million legal immigrants a year, assimilation should be more
important than ever.

To maintain and deepen a sense of national cultural unity amid ethnic diversity
has not been a simple task nor one that other nations have easily accomplished.
Even Canada, for example, has never been able to resolve the terms of
coexistence between its English- and French- speaking groups. In most respects,
an agreeable, prosperous, freedom-loving country, Canada teeters on the edge of
dissolution.

Elsewhere, things are much worse. Eastern Europe is a cauldron of ethnic
hatreds, and even Western Europe harbors festering ethnic discord. In India, Sri
Lanka and many nations of Africa, ethnic conflict gives rise to unimaginable
human suffering, year after year.

Thus, America's success as a multiethnic society is not simply a happy accident.
As a country built on perpetual immigration, the United States has been
struggling with this mission since colonial times. Throughout the 19th and early
20th centuries, both the elites and the rank and file of "native" Americans
aggressively and self-consciously promoted the idea of assimilation or, as they
called it in the early years of this century, "Americanization." Immigrants
would be welcome as full members of the American family if they agreed to abide
by three simple precepts:

* They had to accept English as the national language.

* They were expected to take pride in their American identity and believe in
America's liberal democratic and egalitarian principles.

* They were expected to live by what is commonly referred to as the Protestant
ethic -- to be self-reliant, hardworking and morally upright.

This basic framework proved highly effective. A common language was a powerful
force for cultural unity. Faith in the American Idea, a unique, idealistic and
politically advanced set of principles and institutions, promoted civic unity
and national pride. The Protestant ethic, a belief system that judges
individuals by their achievements, rather than by the circumstances of their
birth, made ethnicity less relevant and united all Americans in a framework of
shared values.

To seal the assimilation contract, immigrants were not only permitted but
encouraged to become citizens with full rights. The offer of citizenship was an
advanced and radical idea in the 18th century; even today, most countries, if
they accept immigrants at all, merely allow them to be residents.

Most immigrant children were enrolled in free state-supported public schools.
The public school movement was driven by the egalitarian desire to instill
knowledge and civic virtue in all Americans, regardless of wealth or class. But,
as the educational reformer Horace Mann persuasively argued, public schools were
necessary, above all, to ensure the assimilation of immigrants.

At the same time, there was nothing especially coercive about assimilation. All
immigrants were free to be as ethnic as they pleased -- the Amish riding through
Pennsylvania in their horses and buggies, the Hasidim strolling through
Brooklyn's Borough Park on a Saturday morning in their long black coats, the
Chinese observing the Year of the Rat in San Francisco's Chinatown.

Beginning in the 1960s, three things changed:

* Bilingualism eroded English's monopoly as the only language of school
instruction and government.

* Historical revisionism discredited the American idea as a hypocritical myth.

* The welfare state superseded the Protestant ethic.

Assimilation, both as a social process and societal goal, came to be seen as
anachronistic, irrelevant and largely inapplicable to contemporary American
social realities.

The rejection of assimilation as a concept was founded on a radical
misconception of what it entails. Assimilation was viewed by its antagonists as
a means of imposing cultural conformity on America's minority groups, even
though, as I have suggested, it is about national unity.

But, then, national unity did not fare so well either after the 1960s.
Disillusionment prompted some of America's most influential intellectual leaders
to scoff at the nation's past. Revisionists contended that American wars were
fought for territorial and economic gain, rather than for lofty principle. The
Vietnam War was viewed as definitive evidence that the United States was not the
world's idealistic beacon but one of its most predatory states.

The assimilation contract was struck its fatal blow in the 1970s and 1980s by an
emerging view of American ethnic relations that goes under the general heading
of multiculturalism. Now the United States was to be viewed as a vast
multiethnic confederacy, Canada's Anglo-French arrangement raised to the nth
power. Ethnic federalism is, at all times and in all places, an ideology of
ethnic grievances and invariably leads to and justifies ethnic conflict.

It is a great irony that the United States entered its post-assimilationist era,
beginning about 1965, precisely when it was also entering an era of renewed
large-scale immigration with a far more ethnically varied mix of immigrants than
the country had seen before. Just when it might have been put to effective use
again, the old assimilation contract was turned on its head. The terms of this
new contract are as follows:

* Public schools should be crucibles of ethnic consciousness-raising and must
accommodate ethnic diversity, not assimilation.

* English is a linguistic option. Although it may still be a desirable
objective, it should not be forced on the foreign born or their children.

* Taking pride in being American is not possible, because the American idea is a
hypocritical myth.

* The Protestant ethic is dead.

* It no longer matters whether immigrants become U.S. citizens.

Now is the time to revive assimilation, American style. With the desirability of
immigration being questioned, an assimilationist perspective is needed more than
ever to convince opponents that the new arrivals are no less likely than their
predecessors to become Americans.

A recurrent theme today among immigration opponents is that America's new
immigrants are more "alien" than those of the past, as reflected by the fact
that they are Asians or Latin Americans instead of Europeans. Those who make
this argument are in crowded historical company. Even someone as committed to
universalist values as Benjamin Franklin could not abide the "alien" Germans who
were overrunning Pennsylvania.

Equally misguided is the argument that the net economic contributions of recent
immigrants have been negative, that they cost more in governmental services than
they contribute in taxes and, besides, take jobs away from the native-born poor.
A comparison of five cities with the largest proportion of recent immigrants
with the five that have the smallest share reveals that the cities in the former
group have markedly lower unemployment rates, lower welfare rates, and more
rapid employment growth. The employment rates of blacks have also risen
substantially more in high-immigration cities than in those bypassed by
immigration.

Given its desirability, what should be the building blocks of an assimilationist
immigration policy?

First, the United States should admit a large but stable number of immigrants
each year. With rates sometimes swinging widely from year to year, immigration
is a wild card in America's demographic deck. We need to set a single,
sustainable quota based on a percentage of our population.

Second, efforts should be redoubled to reduce illegal immigration. Illegal
immigration makes natives contemptuous and fearful of immigrants.

Third, we ought to greatly increase the number of immigration openings awarded
by lottery, while limiting family preferences to spouses and children and
dispensing with skill-based allotments entirely. The historic mission of
American immigration would be better served by allowing more of the world's most
motivated immigrants -- not just those who are lucky enough to have American
relatives or to have received a good education -- to realize the American Dream.

Fourth, immigrants should be encouraged to become citizens. There may be merit
in making citizenship, rather than mere legal residence, a condition for
receiving a wide array of social welfare benefits.

Fifth, Americans must restore public schools to their historic role as training
grounds of national civic unity.

As the nation's citizens and politicians continue to debate immigration policy
in the days ahead, they must keep faith with America's two most powerful
bulwarks of immigration: the Statute of Liberty, which declares that immigrants
are always welcome, and assimilation, American style which makes that welcome
possible.

Peter Salins is provost of the State University of New York and a senior fellow
at the Manhattan Institute. This article is excerpted from his new book
"Assimilation, American Style" (Basic Books).


LOAD-DATE: February 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, christophe vorlet for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              210 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 16, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Reaping Abuse for What They Sew; Sweatshops Once Again Commonplace in U.S.
Garment Industry

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3148 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


After an arduous trek across the border from her native Mexico, Aurora Blancas
made her way to New York City and took the first job she could find: sweeping
floors and packaging clothes sewn by other illegal immigrants at a sweatshop in
the garment district.

No experience -- or documents -- necessary.

"I started working the same day I asked for the job," she said. "The boss asked
me my name and how old I was. Nothing more."

But unlike her fellow workers, Blancas, 28, did not accept quietly the
exploitation and abuse that followed when she was hired last summer to work in
the dilapidated Eighth Avenue building.

Although her willingness to speak out makes Blancas unusual, the place that
employed her and the conditions she found there are not.

Despite a ledger of laws against them and periodic pledges by government and
business leaders to crack down, sweatshops have made a remarkable comeback in
America, evolving from a relative anomaly into a commonplace, even
indispensable, part of the U.S. garment industry.

They have also evolved almost entirely into a phenomenon of immigrants.
According to federal investigators and union officials, most such factories are
owned by newcomers from Asia, who often exploit other immigrants, many of them
illegal, either from Asia or Latin America. Typically, both the workers and the
employers see themselves as victims of a system dominated by increasingly
powerful major retailers.

In Blancas's case, the owner of the 14th-floor shop in which she worked is a
South Korean immigrant whose clothes were sold to suppliers of such stores as
Wal-Mart and Kmart. According to Blancas and another former worker, he refused
to pay the minimum wage or overtime to his three dozen, mostly female employees.
The workers typically toiled at their sewing machines and presses for up to 60
hours a week in a room with wires hanging from the ceiling, three small fans
that served as the only source of ventilation and no fire exits. Wages, usually
paid in cash to avoid taxes, often were arbitrarily cut or delayed if the owner
ran short of funds. Employees who missed a day would be illegally "fined" $ 30,
on top of losing a day's pay.

When workers made mistakes, the owner's wife would scream at them, throw
garments in their faces and sometimes pull their hair or hit them. One newly
arrived young woman was summarily fired for yawning on the job.

Last July, after Blancas demanded higher wages and brought the sweatshop to the
attention of a garment workers union, she was fired.

Whether operating openly in decrepit buildings in New York or Los Angeles or
hidden away illegally in people's homes in Dallas, sweatshops violate labor and
tax laws amid cutthroat competition for orders that filter down from the
retailers.

Underground Economy

The return of the kind of sweatshops that flourished early this century -- and
were thought to have been largely eliminated -- reflects fundamental changes in
the garment industry and, more broadly, in American society. The shops have
become part of a vast underground economy, shielded by an overlay of
laissez-faire practices and tacit accommodations.

Clothing designers and retailers depend on the sweatshops for fast delivery and
big profit margins. Unions, hopeful of eventually organizing these workers,
appear to be more interested in preserving manufacturing jobs than driving them
out of business. Large pools of illegal immigrants are so anxious for work that
they accept the shops' meager wages and are often too fearful to complain.
Consumers keep gravitating toward the lowest prices they can find. And
government agencies do not field enough investigators or cooperate sufficiently
with each other to pursue the shops effectively and enforce the laws that would
eradicate them.

Helping sweatshops to thrive have been technological advances that allow
retailers to determine instantly what is selling and to order more of it. This
allows stores to limit inventory and avoid getting stuck with large volumes of
unpopular apparel. But it also requires quick turnaround, which favors domestic
manufacturers. The pressures on these manufacturers to produce garments quickly
and still compete with cheap foreign imports have tended to drive down wages and
working conditions among the sewing shops that lie at the bottom of the
industry.

Yet, there is no shortage of workers for these jobs because of a broader change
in American society: increasing waves of legal and illegal immigration since the
1970s and growing concentrations of immigrants in cities such as Los Angeles and
New York.

The sweatshops' revival also reflects a weakening of unions in the garment
industry in recent years, in part because of their difficulties in trying to
organize workers who are here illegally in the first place. For them, even a
sub-minimum wage in the United States generally beats what they could earn in
their homelands.

Although the clandestine nature of much of the industry has made it hard to
track, recent federal studies point to a rise in the number of U.S. sweatshops
and a worsening of their conditions.

Union and Labor Department officials estimate that minimum wage and overtime
violations, two of the basic parameters that define a sweatshop, prevail in more
than half the 22,000 U.S. sewing businesses. Many also pay their workers "off
the books" to avoid various local, state and federal taxes.

The sweatshop conditions described by Blancas are "typical of the bottom of the
industry," said Jeff Hermanson, director of the Garment Workers' Justice Center,
a branch of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees.

"Physical abuse is unfortunately quite common, and there's always the yelling,"
he said. The long hours, low wages and lack of benefits often found in
Korean-owned sweatshops are also routine in shops run by Chinese and Latino
owners, he said.

In New York, a garment center where much of the industry's changing dynamics
play out, Koreans own up to 40 percent of the city's roughly 4,000 contract
sewing shops. Chinese immigrants own almost all the rest. Yet, the Korean-owned
shops have attracted relatively more attention from labor investigators, mostly
because they tend to hire Latino workers, who are less reluctant to complain
than Asian employees.

Intimidation

Chinese-owned shops tend to hire only other Chinese, said Maria Echaveste,
administrator of the Labor Department's wage and hour division. In some cases,
she said, workers have expressed fear for their lives if they reveal labor
violations. Many Chinese sweatshop workers are believed to be indentured
servants toiling under a form of debt bondage to pay off the heavy cost of being
smuggled into the United States.

"The workers lie to us," one investigator said. "In Chinese shops, the
falsification of records is absolutely down to a science. It's almost impossible
to break unless the shop goes out of business. It's only then that workers tell
you those were not the hours and rates they worked."

In the Korean-owned shops, poor working conditions are often exacerbated by the
lack of a common language between the Koreans and their mostly young, female
Latino employees.

"They [the Korean owners] think they can make themselves understood by yelling,"
said Hermanson of the Garment Workers' Justice Center, which tries to organize
workers and defends them in disputes with shop owners. The result, especially
when owners hit their workers, is an "atmosphere of terror and intimidation," he
said.

The Korean Apparel Manufacturers Association says it has been trying to get its
400 member companies in New York to pay at least the minimum wage. Most now do
so, the group says. But these owners are themselves victims of punishing market
forces, the group argues.

"The problem for the sewing companies is that the minimum wage goes higher and
higher, and the price from manufacturers stays the same or goes down," said a
spokeswoman for the association who gave her name only as Hung.

She acknowledged that some owners treat their workers harshly but said most do
not. As for the illegal aliens among them, she conceded, "That's a problem."

For Blancas, trouble started almost immediately after she was hired by a shop
called New Young Fashions. The owner, Kim Young Han, paid her less than the $
160 a week she said she was promised. She worked six days a week, starting at
7:30 a.m. and finishing at 6 p.m. each weekday. Her pay averaged $ 2.54 an hour,
according to figures compiled by the workers' center.

When she found out what the minimum wage was and told her co-workers they should
be getting at least $ 4.25 an hour, "they were astonished," but refused to back
her in a confrontation with the owner and his Korean wife, Blancas said.

"They were robbing us," she said. "I was very angry. . . . I said, 'Talk, compan
eros, talk,' but they were terrified. The [owner's wife] told me to shut up and
leave, and the others just kept quiet."

Her co-workers, most of them fellow Mexicans and Ecuadorans, feared being
deported as illegal aliens if they complained, Blancas said.

Interviewed at his factory, Kim said he had resolved all of his employees'
complaints and that he is now complying with labor laws.

After Blancas was fired from New Young Fashions, the workers' center helped her
recover some of her back wages. She later found work in another garment shop
that pays more, though still not the minimum wage. She took a second job in a
store.

Blancas said she left her home in Mexico City to seek work in the United States
because her husband had died in a car accident a year earlier and she needed to
support her young son. She crossed the border with an uncle, who also works in a
sweatshop, and trekked all night over hills to reach a road that would set them
on their way to New York.

Bertha Morales, a 25-year-old Ecuadoran who worked in another Korean-owned
sweatshop, said she was sent by her boss to help out at New Young Fashions one
day and was shocked by what she saw. At one point, she said in an interview, the
owner's wife struck a worker on the back for sewing buttons incorrectly. Other
workers described similar punishment, and one told of an incident in which the
boss grabbed her hair and pulled on it.

One new employee, a 19-year-old woman from Nicaragua, was summarily fired by the
owner's wife for yawning and left the shop in tears, Morales said.

The Food Chain

Sweatshops such as Kim's lie at the bottom of what the Labor Department
describes as a garment industry "food chain" beneath layers of suppliers,
designers and middlemen, who compete fiercely for orders from the big retailers
at the top.

It is a system that regulators and union officials say effectively insulates the
big-name stores and fashion labels, allowing them to profess shock and ignorance
of sweatshop conditions in which their clothes were sewn.

Major retailers, such as J.C. Penney, Sears and Wal-Mart, have quality-control
inspectors who regularly visit work sites, and they know how much it costs to
produce a garment at the minimum wage, a Labor Department official said. But
under a 60-year-old law, the retailers can be held liable only if they had
"direct knowledge" of labor violations involved in producing their goods.

The system also adds markups far in excess of the actual cost of the labor and
material that went into the garments.

Retailers say too many variables go into the final price of a garment to
generalize about any of them, but Labor Department and union officials estimate
that labor typically accounts for less than 3 percent of the U.S. retail price
of clothing made in domestic sweatshops and as little as one-half of 1 percent
for garments sewn abroad.

Because of the pressures weighing on those at the low end of the industry, shop
owners such as Kim Young Han believe that they, too, are victims of the system.

Sitting at his worn desk in a corner of the shop floor, Kim blamed his problems
on creditors, saying he was owed thousands of dollars by garment manufacturers
who had subcontracted several large jobs to him. He produced letters to them
demanding payment and threatening "legal action." All were written in longhand;
he does not have a typewriter.

Wearing jeans and a denim shirt, the lean, craggy-faced Kim, 61, said he had
been a lecturer at a junior college in Seoul before coming to the United States
years ago to study for a doctoral degree in linguistics under Noam Chomsky.
Although that alone makes him a rarity among sweatshop owners, union officials
said his violations of labor laws were all too familiar.

Asked about the specific allegations against him by the garment workers union,
Kim became visibly upset and pleaded for understanding.

"Help me, please," he begged. "I'm in trouble."

Seemingly on the verge of tears, Kim complained of having to compete with cheap
imports and denied making any windfall profits. "I want to close my factory," he
lamented over the din of sewing machines and a radio blaring Spanish songs. "The
market's no good. . . . No hope at my age."

The National Retail Federation, which represents 2,000 major U.S. retailers, in
turn blames sweatshop conditions on subcontractors such as Kim.

"The retailers don't employ these workers," said Pamela Rucker, a spokeswoman
for the federation. "The retailers many times are at least two or three steps
removed from the problem." She asserted, "It's not the retailers who are reaping
the benefits from these criminal activities. It's the greedy subcontractors."

Enforcement

Shops at the bottom of the industry often go out of business, relocate and open
under new names. Some fail altogether, never to reappear. But despite decades of
lawmaking against them -- and a public campaign by the Clinton administration
following the 1995 exposure of a virtual slave-labor garment factory in Los
Angeles -- the system designed to eradicate the sweatshops has largely failed,
union activists say.

Local, state and federal agencies charged with enforcing labor, immigration and
tax laws have often failed to work together, allowing shop owners and workers to
slip through the cracks of the system. Under a directive renewed by Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani, a strong supporter of immigration, New York authorities are
prohibited from sharing information with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

At the direction of the administration and Congress, the INS has thrown the bulk
of its resources at the southwestern border to prevent illegal immigrants from
crossing into the United States from Mexico. Nationwide, only about 1,700 INS
investigators are assigned to the interior of the country, and they spend less
than 20 percent of their time enforcing immigration law at work sites of all
kinds, according to the agency.

In a special effort in New York last year, INS agents arrested 1,824 illegal
aliens during inspections of 150 work sites, most of them garment shops.
However, because of a lack of detention space, almost all were released on their
own recognizance and told to return for court hearings.

"The percentage that shows up is minute," said Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman.
Most simply find another job in the underground economy, and many return to work
at the same shops where they were arrested.

Ironically, labor groups such as the Garment Workers' Justice Center also play a
part in keeping the sweatshops in business. Among the literature the center
distributes, for example, are fliers in English, Spanish and Korean that advise
shop owners how to fend off searches by INS and Labor Department agents.

The fliers encourage employers to challenge inspections on grounds of
discrimination and use legal stalling tactics that the INS says often enable
them to fabricate employment eligibility records. Fliers in Spanish urge workers
to "remain silent" when asked about their nationality, birthplace or entry into
the United States.

The union says its main aim is to protect workers and preserve their jobs,
regardless of their immigration status. When faced with labor violations, the
justice center usually tries to work out a solution with the employer without
government involvement.

Critics call the policy misguided. "If you're trying to defend a living
standard, the minimum wage and Social Security and deal with legitimate
companies," one independent labor activist argued, "helping these sweatshops
exist would seem to be counterproductive."

Retribution

For some garment workers, the punishment for exposing sweatshop conditions comes
from their employers. After complaining about what she saw at New Young Fashions
while filling in there last year, Bertha Morales was fired by her own Korean
boss, who was a friend of Kim's.

Others, including two illegal immigrant sisters from Mexico, said workers do not
tell authorities about labor violations and physical abuse out of fear that
their shops will then be raided by immigration agents.

In the case of another outspoken worker, the consequences of going public -- or
at least the perception of those effects -- became evident after she appeared at
a forum on sweatshops in Arlington last summer. The worker, Nancy Penaloza, 29,
said she has labored in Korean-owned sweatshops in New York for nine years,
working up to 66 hours a week in filthy conditions. In her current job, she
said, she sews high-quality women's suits, earning $ 6 apiece for garments that
usually sell for $ 120 or more at stores such as J.C. Penney and Ann Taylor.

"I get paid off the books," Penaloza told the forum. "Even though I am working
legally, my boss doesn't pay any taxes or Social Security. . . . I never get a
vacation. I never even get a whole weekend off." She said she works in constant
fear, not only of her temperamental boss but of the "big rats and mice" that
continually crawl over her feet.

A day after she spoke, INS agents raided her factory and arrested most of her
co-workers, who were illegal immigrants, Penaloza said. Three days after that, a
Labor Department wage inspector showed up. Although she is sure the INS raid was
a coincidence, because she did not name her employer at the forum, her
co-workers blamed it on her.

A former secretary in Mexico, she said she originally crossed the border as an
illegal alien herself, then "became legal" a couple of years ago.

She said her Korean boss routinely smacks his workers in the head when they make
mistakes. He also orders them to tell the Labor Department that they are
receiving their proper wages and overtime, she said, and that is what they did
during the latest inspection.

"The workers are afraid," Penaloza said. "They don't want to lose their jobs."

And so, she said, "they lied to the inspector," thus perpetuating a cycle that
helps the industry to survive.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy; Photo, ap, HOW THE INDUSTRY WORKS Long before a
blouse ever reaches the sales rack, it passes through several layers. At the
bottom are workers in sewing shops, many of whom toil in sweatshops working 60
hours a week for low pay in unsafe, abusive conditions. Here is the path
garments take in this country to get from the assembler to the store.  Retailers
Sell to the public garments received from manufacturers. As fewer retailers
control a larger share of the market, they have more power to demand low prices
and fast delivery from their suppliers.  Manufacturers The 1,000 U.S.
manufacturers design garments, sometimes marketed under their own labels, and
sell them to the retailers. They generally use contractors to make the garments.
Contractors and subcontractors There are about 22,000 such contracting shops,
whose workers cut and sew materials. Many shops employ illegal aliens, and half
violate minimum wage and overtime laws, according to one government estimate.
They are often transient -- closing, moving or reopening under new names.  A
worker sorts through clothing in a midtown New York garment factory.  Aurora
Blancas, left, and Bertha Morales from the Garment Workers' Justice Center
protest sweatshops in New York last year. Blancas and Morales lost their jobs at
Korean-owned garment factories after speaking up about working conditions. At
top left is one of the Justice Center's protest signs.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              211 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 24, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Years Later, Immigrants Pursued by Their Pasts; Even Minor Offenses Now Mean
Deportation

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1131 words


In many ways, he is the ideal immigrant: a 26-year-old refugee from Vietnam who
is studying computer science in college while working two part-time jobs as a
computer technician and a grocery clerk.

But there is one blemish. Eight years ago, when he was in high school in
suburban Virginia, he got into a fight and broke the nose of a classmate who he
says was bullying him. He was arrested, found guilty of "unlawful wounding" and
given a two-year suspended sentence.

Now that incident has come back to haunt him. As a result of tough new
immigration and anti-terrorism laws that Congress passed last year, the Fairfax
man and thousands of other immigrants face deportation because they were
convicted, often years ago, of relatively minor crimes.

"I'm not saying I'm a perfect person, but I'm not like a drug dealer or a
murderer," said the young man, who asked that his name not be used. "I have
worked very hard, and there are many people counting on me. I want to move on
with my life, but now this could destroy it."

The United States has long deported "criminal aliens," noncitizens who are
convicted of violent or serious crimes. In recent years, the government has
expanded the list of deportable crimes -- called "aggravated felonies" -- to
include some nonviolent offenses, such as drug trafficking and money laundering.

Last year, at a time of public outcry over illegal immigration, Congress went
further. It declared that noncitizens should be deported for a variety of
relatively lesser offenses, including fraud, theft and assault, if the
convictions resulted in a sentence of at least a year in prison.

It doesn't matter if the sentence was suspended or how long ago the crime was
committed. And the new laws make it much more difficult for such immigrants to
stave off deportation, unless they can prove that it would cause extreme
hardship on their families, such as a seriously ill child or parent.

"There is no reason to go easy on immigrants who commit crimes when there are
millions of people brimming with potential who want to come here," said Allen
Kay, a spokesman for Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), who sponsored the new
immigration legislation. "Some may say these are minor crimes, but what if it
was your purse snatched or your credit card used? Would you want to reward the
person who did it?"

But immigration rights advocates say the new laws are unfair to immigrants who
have broken minor laws and paid their dues. The measures, they contend, harm
longtime legal residents who suddenly are being threatened with deportation long
after they paid their debt to society and forged successful lives here.

"This is outrageous, and it's devastating to families," said Clare Cherkasky, a
lawyer with a nonprofit legal service in Arlington. "I obviously don't think
people should come to this country and commit crimes, but there has to be some
forgiveness in the system, especially when something happened so long ago."

Cherkasky is representing a 54-year-old Annandale woman who came to this country
from Spain 34 years ago and was convicted in 1987 of stealing perfume to sell at
a flea market. She was sentenced to four years in prison but was paroled after
eight months. Now, a decade later, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has taken her to court to deport her.

At an immigration court hearing in Arlington last week, Judge John Milo Bryant
reminded Cherkasky of the new, tougher laws and urged her to thoroughly prepare
a defense brief.

"If the court finds she is an aggravated felon," Bryant warned, "she is
virtually bereft of any form of relief."

Like the Annandale woman, who also did not want her name published, thousands of
immigrant ex-of fenders across the country have received letters in recent
months ordering them to appear in court and "show cause" why they should not be
deported. Immigration agents have appeared at their doors to take some of them
into custody while they await deportation proceedings.

The new laws also make it harder for "criminal aliens" to remain in the United
States on humanitarian grounds. The anti-terrorism law passed in April
eliminated the right to such an exception for almost anyone convicted of a
crime. The immigration reform law passed in September restored that right but
not for immigrants who commit aggravated felonies. It also required any
ex-offender to prove that deportation would cause extreme hardship to an
immediate relative who is a legal resident.

"Congress is saying that those granted the privilege of coming here should be
held to a higher standard than in the past," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for
the INS. "Now the standard has been raised to a point where it could be
considered 'one strike and you're out.' "

Immigrant rights advocates express little sympathy for those who commit crimes
that are violent or drug-related, but they worry about those who may face
deportation for past offenses so minor that in many instances they still are
considered misdemeanors in criminal law.

Alan Rivas, 22, a Bolivian immigrant who lives in Arlington, was convicted when
he was a teenager of two such crimes: using a phony credit card to buy some
clothes and trying to steal the tires off a car. Now that he has settled down,
raising a small son and working as an electrician, the government wants to
deport him.

"Maybe I deserved this a few years back, but I've matured now. I've turned my
head in the right direction, and I've got my son's future to think about," Rivas
said. "I thought all this was in the past."

Many such ex-offenders don't even come to the attention of immigration
authorities until they decide to seek U.S. citizenship and their criminal
records pop up on government computers. In the last year, hundreds of thousands
of immigrants have sought to become citizens to protect themselves from
restrictive immigration legislation. But their attempts to put down permanent
legal roots are backfiring if they have criminal records.

That's what happened to the Vietnamese man in Fairfax, who arrived here 11 years
ago, at age 15, from a refugee camp in Thailand. He recently decided to apply
for citizenship. Filling out the application form, he truthfully answered yes to
the question about any past arrests, never imagining that it would hurt his
case.

But instead of sending him a notice to appear for his citizenship test, the
immigration service sent two armed agents to his house to arrest him. He is now
out on bond.

"This man was welcomed into our country as a refugee fleeing persecution, and
now, for a high school fight, he can be deported, " said his attorney, Thomas
Elliot. "I'm sure the judge who sentenced him back then never dreamed that, all
these years later, this would be happening."


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, frank johnston, "It's devastating to families," said immigration
lawyer Clare Cherkasky.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              212 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 25, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Missed Thousands In Background Checks; Republicans Fault 'Rush' Citizenship
Program

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 656 words


In a "rush" to naturalize more than 1 million immigrants as new citizens last
year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service failed to carry out required
criminal background checks on 180,000 people, two Republican congressmen said
yesterday.

Citing figures disclosed to their respective House subcommittees by the Justice
Department, Reps. Lamar S. Smith (Tex.) and J. Dennis Hastert (Ill.) charged
that the administration may have granted citizenship to "dangerous criminals"
under a program that naturalized a record number of immigrants last year.

In addition, more than 71,500 applicants who did undergo background checks
before receiving citizenship were found to have some type of arrest or other
record, according to the congressmen. It was not immediately known how many of
the people sworn in as citizens had criminal convictions that should have
disqualified them.

The congressmen's statement, in advance of a hearing on the issue next week, was
the latest salvo in a political skirmish between Republicans and the Clinton
administration over Citizenship USA, an INS program designed to reduce a huge
backlog of people waiting to become citizens and cope with record numbers of new
applicants. Republicans charged that the program was primarily motivated by a
political desire to churn out large numbers of new voters, many of them thought
likely to be sympathetic to the Democrats, in time for last year's elections.

"The problem is far greater than ever acknowledged by the INS or the vice
president's office," which promoted Citizenship USA as part of its "reinventing
government" programs, said Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee. Although the administration had initially estimated that fewer
than 100 people were improperly naturalized, it now seems "highly likely" that
at least a few thousand had criminal records that should have disqualified them,
Smith said.

Hastert, chairman of the House Government Reform and Oversight subcommittee on
national security, international affairs and criminal justice, charged that the
"unprecedented push" to produce new citizens "may have allowed dangerous
criminals onto our streets."

"Obviously there were mistakes made," said Carole Florman, a Justice Department
spokeswoman. "We're still in the process of determining what those mistakes were
and how they were made."

The numbers cited by the congressmen were provided by Assistant Attorney General
Stephen Colgate based on an audit of naturalization cases by the INS and the
KPMG Peat Marwick accounting firm.

Florman said the audit has not yet established how many people were improperly
naturalized, but that "we're still confident it's going to be a small number
when all is said and done."

Of the 71,500 new citizens who had arrest or similar records on file with the
FBI, she said, fewer than 11,000 were accused of felonies and the rest were
charged with "administrative" offenses or misdemeanors. She said she had no
information on the number of people who were convicted of a crime.

Among those immigrants alleged by critics of the INS to have been naturalized
improperly was Julio Inamagua, an Ecuadoran wanted for the murder of a young
woman in Chicago 13 years ago. He applied for U.S. citizenship in Pennsylvania
under an alias and was granted it last year before the INS had received the
results of an FBI fingerprint check, which revealed his true identity.

In California, a Vietnamese immigrant, Lui Truong, was naturalized last year
despite a criminal record -- including two 1989 felony convictions and a recent
parole violation -- that appeared to disqualify him under an INS requirement
that citizenship applicants demonstrate "good moral character."

Florman said the INS would revoke the citizenship of anyone found to have been
naturalized improperly, but Republicans have expressed skepticism. "That's
easier said than done," Smith said.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              213 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 28, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Is Asked to Recognize Colombia's Anti-Drug Steps

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 664 words


Under normal circumstances, Colombian Americans in the Washington area would be
the last immigrant group to protest U.S. foreign policy. Most of the region's
12,000 Colombian immigrants are low-profile professionals and business owners
who avoid both politics and publicity.

But with the Clinton administration expected to announce today that it will
renew sanctions against Colombia for drug corruption, Colombian Americans have
made a rare, organized public plea for leniency, arguing that the penalties
would hurt honest commerce while doing little to abate the drug trade.

"We try to live our lives, and we don't get involved. But this problem affects
us all," said Victor Pinzon, 57, an entrepreneur who lives in Northwest
Washington. He said a forestry project he proposed in Colombia was denied funds
after President Clinton declared last March that Colombia was not adequately
cooperating in the war against drugs.

"There are 37 million Colombians, and not all of them are involved in illicit
business," said Alberto Gomez, 48, a District building contractor who brought
together about 40 other Colombian Americans to meet with journalists this week.
"We are American citizens, but the sacrifice this is causing our country is
still close to our hearts."

A year ago, with Colombian President Ernesto Samper embroiled in allegations
that cocaine cartels had contributed to his campaign, the administration decided
to "decertify" Colombia as cooperating in anti-drug efforts. This action
threatened the country's access to U.S. aid, low tariffs and multilateral loans.

Now, Washington has signaled it will again decertify Colombia, despite some
cooperation by its police and military against drug traffickers. Colombians say
that is unfair, especially since the administration seems likely to certify
Mexico for its anti-drug cooperation despite reports linking top officials there
to traffickers.

"It is like a joke that Mexico will be certified, when there is no more corrupt
system in the entire world," said Gloria Dorothy Orduz, 30, a Colombian American
who works at the World Bank and lives in Arlington.

On Capitol Hill this week, administration officials expressed concern about both
countries. But they said Mexico is an important ally in the drug war, while
Colombia, a smaller country with fewer economic ties to the United States, has
been less cooperative.

Colombian drug cartels have been described as supplying 85 percent of the
cocaine that enters the United States. Samper was nearly forced to resign last
year after senior aides said his campaign had accepted money from one cartel.

Last week, while some congressional leaders asked Clinton to take a tougher
stance on Mexico, Rep. Benjamin A. Gilman (R-N.Y.), chairman of the House
Committee on International Relations, and several other members of Congress
wrote the president, asking him to go easier on Colombia.

"Colombia's security forces are on the front lines of a deadly war" against
drugs, they said in the letter that asked Clinton to "bear in mind the
sacrifices being made by honest Colombians . . . allied with us in this fight."

Colombian Americans in the Washington area have been circulating a petition
urging the president to certify their homeland and not to lump Colombia with
such "hostile" countries as Iran, Syria and Burma, which Washington repeatedly
has decertified for failing to cooperate with anti-drug efforts.

Immigrants in the Washington area also are working with a larger Miami group,
the Coalition to Certify Colombia, which has published newspaper advertisements
listing Colombia's efforts to seize cocaine shipments, cocaine-processing
laboratories and coca plantations.

"I've grown tired of saying, 'I'm Colombian,' and the first thing that pops into
people's minds is drugs," said Mauricio Martinez, 36, a U.S. naval commander who
lives in the District. "I challenge all of us to get involved and tell the other
side of the story."


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, gerald martineau, Mauricio Martinez and Gloria Dorothy Orduz are
among Colombian Americans asking that their homeland be certified as an ally in
the fight against drugs.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              214 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 04, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Accused Of Giving In To Politics; White House Pressure Tied to Citizen Push

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1951 words


A program to streamline the process for granting U.S. citizenship to immigrants
came under heavy White House pressure to speed up its procedures and wound up
naturalizing 180,000 people without required criminal background checks,
according to documents and officials familiar with the program.

As part of a push by the White House to produce at least 1 million new citizens
in time for last year's elections, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
also naturalized thousands of other immigrants who received criminal background
checks but whose eligibility for citizenship is now being questioned because of
felony arrests on their records.

The INS program is coming under renewed congressional scrutiny, including two
House hearings this week, following the disclosure last Monday of a government
audit that found severe problems with the citizenship process. The failings of
the program, called Citizenship USA, have triggered one of the most damning
indictments ever leveled at the immigration service: that it has cheapened U.S.
citizenship.

Internal reports on Citizenship USA and interviews with officials on both sides
of the controversy indicate that the White House -- prodded by Democratic
community activists and Latino groups -- became deeply involved in trying to
accelerate the program. Spearheading that effort was Vice President Gore's
National Performance Review, the office charged with "reinventing government."
The stated aim was to increase efficiency, but the documents also point to hopes
of creating a potent new bloc of Democratic voters in what critics have called a
political takeover of the citizenship drive.

At the same time, however, congressional Republicans also played politics with
the program, exaggerating the extent to which "criminals" were receiving
citizenship and widely disseminating new citizens' highly confidential FBI
records that were obtained under a subpoena last year for a House probe.

Committed to the American tradition of assimilating immigrants, INS Commissioner
Doris M. Meissner made naturalization one of her top priorities after she was
appointed to the post four years ago. Her goal, as she described it then, was to
put the "N" back in INS.

To make it happen, Meissner launched Citizenship USA in August of 1995 primarily
to reduce a backlog of 800,000 applications and cut processing times that often
exceeded two years. But what started out as a program with lofty aims and
bipartisan support has since become mired in intensely political mud-wrestling.

Now, with the INS facing a record number of citizenship applications for the
third year in a row -- about 1.8 million are expected this year, up 50 percent
from 1996 -- the backlog and waiting times are again on the rise.

It is not clear how many of the 180,000 immigrants whose criminal backgrounds
were not checked had criminal records that would have disqualified them from
being sworn in as U.S. citizens, but at least some felons have slipped through.
Among them were an Ecuadoran wanted for murder and a Vietnamese immigrant who
faced deportation for two felony convictions and a recent parole violation.

The auditors also found that another 71,000 immigrants were granted citizenship
despite having criminal histories on file with the FBI. Of them, about 10,800
were charged with felonies. Such records alone do not mean these applicants were
ineligible for naturalization. While murder has always disqualified an applicant
no matter when it was committed, other serious crimes such as robbery or assault
could make someone ineligible if they were committed within five years of the
application. The INS is reexamining its files to see if any new citizens should
have been disqualified and says it will revoke the citizenship of those found
ineligible.

White House and INS officials involved with Citizenship USA say the problems
were simply attributable to bureaucratic snarls and not driven by politics. But
memos, e-mail messages and other documents amassed by the House Committee on
Government Reform and Oversight suggest that, at least in the White House, the
elections became a factor in pushing the process to mint new citizens.

"There was tremendous pressure from the White House . . . to really speed up the
program," said Rosemary Jenks, a senior policy analyst at the Washington-based
Center for Immigration Studies, which favors reducing immigration levels. The
program began with the legitimate aim of addressing a huge surge in citizenship
applications, which stemmed largely from an amnesty for illegal aliens and, more
recently, welfare law changes that cut benefits to noncitizens. Citizenship USA
was "essentially hijacked by people with very questionable goals," said Jenks,
who has studied the program and testified on it before Congress.

White House interest in the program appears to have been aroused as early as
September 1995, when the head of a Democratic activist group in Chicago, the
United Neighborhood Organization, wrote to first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton to
alert her to an "opportunity" presented by the new INS program to reduce the
naturalization backlog. "The people stuck in Chicago's naturalization bottleneck
represent thousands of potential voters," wrote Daniel Solis, adding that
"similar backlogs exist in politically important states" such as California and
Texas.

In February last year, a Latino group in Southern California warned the White
House that INS "inaction will prevent 300,000 Latinos from participating in the
1996 presidential election" and could "create the impression that the Clinton
administration is anti-Latino."

Anxious to deal with the problem, the White House turned to the vice president's
office, where staff members began attacking what they saw as bureaucratic red
tape and needless impediments to the granting of citizenship.

"The president is sick of this and wants action," wrote Elaine Kamarck, a senior
adviser to Gore, in a March 1996 e-mail to Doug Farbrother, a Gore aide assigned
to help "reinvent" Citizenship USA.

Farbrother, in a subsequent e-mail to Gore and Kamarck, reported that the INS
had agreed to speed up hiring adjudicators, who interview applicants and decide
who should be naturalized. But he complained that the agency had rebuffed his
suggestion to use "temporary service agencies" for these jobs. In a later
message to Gore, he said the INS was not doing enough to "produce a million new
citizens before election day." He concluded that "unless we blast INS
headquarters loose from their grip on the frontline managers, we are going to
have way too many people still waiting for citizenship in November."

Farbrother also drafted, on behalf of Gore, a memo to President Clinton
requesting guidance on the citizenship program. In it, he noted INS warnings
"that if we are too aggressive at removing the roadblocks to success, we might
be publicly criticized for running a pro-Democrat voter mill and even risk
having Congress stop us." The original draft listed "several controversial
actions" that could be taken, including one headed, "Lower the standards for
citizenship." He suggested a "more liberal" interpretation of the basic
standards, which include general knowledge of English and U.S. civics and "good
moral character" in addition to five years of U.S. residency. Administration
officials said this was deleted from a later draft because of INS objections.
Ultimately, the memo was never sent, but other documents indicated that Clinton
was briefed orally.

In a memo to Gore on her "assignment from the President to look into the
citizenship backlog," Kamarck said that only if the INS processed citizenship
applicants seven days a week for up to 12 hours a day "can we hope to make a
significant enough dent in the backlog that it will show up when it matters."

In a telephone interview, Kamarck denied that White House involvement was
politically motivated, but acknowledged that Latino and other groups were
pressing for faster processing so their constituents could vote. She said the
White House had nothing to do with the problems that led to the naturalization
of 180,000 people without FBI checks.

Gore staff member Farbrother, who described himself as a "career civil servant"
on loan from the Defense Department, said his aim was to "improve customer
service" to people who had paid fees but were "waiting and waiting" to become
citizens.

"The reason people apply for citizenship is so they can vote," he said in
defending his references to an Election-Day deadline. "It's no use giving them
their right to vote after the election." That would be "like lining up for
tickets to a rock concert, and we say we'll give you the tickets after the
concert is over." Besides, he said, "who knows how people are going to vote?"

A former top INS official who oversaw the program, T. Alexander Aleinikoff,
stressed that "there was no change in standards" for granting citizenship and
that the INS rejected nearly 200,000 applicants, about the same percentage that
has been denied in the past.

Yet, the memo traffic also shows that the INS was resisting the White House's
more ambitious proposals, including some that appeared political.

In one such proposal last summer, the INS was asked for the names and addresses
of newly naturalized citizens so that Clinton could send them personal letters
of congratulations instead of the general "Dear Fellow American" letters that
have been handed out at naturalization ceremonies for years. After the agency
rebuffed the idea on privacy grounds and because it "might be criticized as
campaign politics," the White House repeatedly insisted that the INS at least
give the generic letter to "each new citizen" as a matter of "priority," INS
memos said.

Politics also appeared to drive the Republicans as they began investigating
Citizenship USA last year. As the elections approached, Republicans repeatedly
asserted that "100,000 criminals" had been naturalized, a charge that never was
substantiated.

After receiving 50,000 highly confidential FBI rap sheets on newly naturalized
citizens, Republican leaders on the House oversight committee assigned
inexperienced staff members, and at least one unauthorized outsider, to cull the
documents rapidly for evidence of criminality. Despite FBI and INS warnings that
the rap sheets by themselves could not prove someone was improperly naturalized,
thousands of copies were sent with press releases to officials and news media in
key states shortly before the elections.

Since the outcry over Citizenship USA, background checks have been tightened.
The FBI now must respond to an INS request for a fingerprint check whether or
not a criminal record is found, and the INS must wait for that response before a
citizenship application can proceed.

The result has been to slow down the entire process. After reducing the backlog
to 700,000 and the processing times to six months last year, the INS now has
about 1 million naturalization cases pending, and waiting periods have risen to
nine months or more, said David Rosenberg, director of Citizenship USA.

Because of the tightened procedures, many applicants who were about to be sworn
in have been told to wait, and a number of mass naturalization ceremonies have
been postponed entirely.

While the INS says the problems have been corrected and that the program will
continue, critics argue that irreparable damage has already been done. One
Republican supporter of Citizenship USA, Cuban-born Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of
Florida, said she sees "little chance to reinvigorate it because the mood in
Congress is that it has been a fraud and a sham."


LOAD-DATE: March 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post, When Doris Meissner was appointed
Immigration and Naturalization Service chief four years ago, she said her goal
was to put the "N" back in INS.  APPLYING TO BE AMERICAN (This chart was not
available)

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              215 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 05, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Moves to Tighten Rules On Noncitizens' Gun Buying; Shootings at Empire
State Building Spur Change

Pierre Thomas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 650 words


Responding to a recent deadly shooting spree at the Empire State Building by a
deranged foreign national who had been in the United States only since Christmas
Eve, the Clinton administration plans to change the rules governing firearms
purchases to make it more difficult for noncitizens to buy guns, senior
officials confirmed yesterday.

The purchase form completed annually by tens of thousands of gun buyers will not
only require a would-be gun buyer to specify whether he or she is a legal alien
but also to state whether he or she has been a resident in the state where the
transaction is taking place for at least 90 days. Currently, the federal
firearms form simply asks: "Are you an alien illegally in the United States?"

The new requirements, which are expected to be announced today along with a
number of other gun measures, would require federal firearms dealers to more
vigorously question legal alien handgun purchasers about their state residency
before making a sale. Under the proposal developed by the Treasury Department
federal gun dealers will be required to ask legal aliens to produce
documentation to show their length of residency. For example, legal nonresident
or resident aliens may be required to show dealers utility or telephone bills
before any sale can be consummated. The newly required documentation would be in
addition to any photographic identification requested by the dealer.

The Treasury Department quietly began working on the changes after last month's
attack by Palestinian English teacher Ali Hassan Abu Kamal, who shot seven
tourists, one fatally, at the Empire State Building's 86th-floor observation
deck before killing himself. Some police officials have since criticized the
ease with which the man was able to purchase a 14-shot Beretta semiautomatic
handgun in Florida after staying just three weeks in a motel there. Abu Kamal,
69, wrote that he wanted to murder "my bitter enemies" in a highly visible
location. He listed four groups of enemies -- Americans, Britons, French and
Zionists -- who had to be "annihilated and exterminated" for carrying out
"savage aggression" against the Palestinian people.

Closer study found that federal law prohibits the sale of firearms to aliens who
have not lived continuously for 90 days in the state where they are trying to
buy a gun. The problem was that the firearm-purchase form did not spell out the
specifics of the law, which makes it a felony punishable by a maximum 10-year
prison term to make false claims on the form.

"These are constructive steps to make it harder for people who are currently
barred from purchasing firearms from doing so," a senior administration official
said yesterday.

Gun rights proponents expressed general support for residency requirements, but
were highly skeptical of the Clinton admin istration's ability to effectively
and fairly enforce existing statutes governing firearms purchases.

"We need better identification," said Andrew Molchan, director of the National
Association of Federally Licensed Firearms Dealers. "There is a need to find out
who is out there. But the onus is still on the gun dealer to ask these
questions. And the onus is still on law-abiding residents to produce this
information. This is cynical window-dressing. It may play well on the nightly
news. But it's not going to do much. If you are planning to kill people, you
probably would just lie anyway."

The new guidelines will apply to the more than 124,000 federally licensed gun
dealers in operation nationally.

National Rifle Association spokesman Tom Wyld said his organization "has no
objection to 90-day residency requirements" that have already been part of
federal law "and we have no problem with proof of residency requirements. But
gun owners are wise to read the fine print before endorsing any proposal brought
forth by this administration."

LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              216 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 08, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Who Says the Administration Needed Votes?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A21; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 443 words


The headline of William Branigin's Feb. 25 news story -- "INS Missed Thousands
in Background Checks" -- implies that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
conducts background checks. The story implies that the administration encouraged
the oversight to promote new Democratic voters. Neither is true.

The facts are as follows:

Since 1993 the INS has had tremendous backlogs in its naturalization
applications. In 1995 it experienced a 95 percent increase in filings. The
average processing times for backlogged applications in 1995 was 17 months, and
in some districts it was well over three years.

Qualified immigrants eligible to become U.S. citizens were distressed and
frustrated at the length of time it was taking to become a U.S. citizen.

The "Citizenship U.S.A." program was created to address administrative
deficiencies at the INS and to promote and encourage lawful permanent residents
to become full-fledged citizens of the United States.

Background checks for permanent residence and citizenship have routinely been
run through FBI databases for verification of information presented by the
government.

The FBI has experienced increasing backlogs and delays in performing routine
background checks -- so much so that the INS and FBI agreed that after the
passage of a fixed number of days, clearances should be deemed to have been
conducted. If the INS heard nothing after a designated period, the clearances
were presumed to have been made.

The INS is now taking the blame for the inadequacies of the FBI, an organization
whose duty is enforcement of federal laws. Background checks are a matter of
scanning fingerprint cards and running a person's name through a database. The
entire background check is a computerized process that should be performed in a
matter of minutes. The INS should not be a scapegoat for these administrative
problems. Congress should focus on righting the FBI clearance process for
immigration and other purposes.

Certainly, there are people who should not be naturalized. Those few who have
been wrongly naturalized should be stripped of their citizenship, but Congress
and Branigin should focus on the real reason for Citizenship U.S.A. -- clearing
up delays in naturalization, including background checks -- not on some
off-the-wall theory that the administration needed votes. Couching serious
bureaucratic inefficiencies in terms of an administration conspiracy to recruit
new voters is misleading at best and, at worst, downright ugly partisan
politics.

-- Laura Foote Reiff

The writer is president of the D.C. Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.


LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, margaret scott

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              217 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 13, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Seizes 5 Men at National Airport

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D06; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 91 words


Five Guatemalan men were taken into custody Tuesday at National Airport and
charged with being in the United States illegally, Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials said.

The action came after an investigation into an effort to bring illegal
immigrants to the Washington area from Los Angeles by airplane, officials said.

Four of the five men were on the flight, and one was waiting for the flight at
the airport, said INS spokeswoman Kathryn Joyce. She said two people on the same
flight have agreed to return to Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              218 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 15, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

16 Immigrants Arrested in Fairfax

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D08; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 114 words


Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested 16 workers
employed by subcontractors at a construction site in the Fair Lakes section of
Fairfax County on Thursday. The INS later released one of the workers, a
Salvadoran, after he showed proof that he was a legal resident. Deportation
proceedings have begun against the 15 others, four of whom were held without
bond.

Among those facing deportation were 11 from El Salvador, three from Mexico and
one from Guatemala. An INS spokeswoman would not say what prompted the raid, nor
would she identify the subcontractors, saying an investigation was ongoing into
whether they knowingly hired illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              219 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 19, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

New INS Rules Could Waive Civics Tests for Thousands; 300,000 Facing Aid Cutoff
May Be Helped

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 411 words


The federal government unveiled long-awaited guidelines yesterday that could
allow tens of thousands of physically and mentally disabled immigrants to become
U.S. citizens without passing English and U.S. civics tests.

The new rules, more than two years in the making, come as 500,000 elderly and
disabled noncitizens nationwide face a cutoff this summer of federal
Supplemental Security Income benefits.

Last year's federal welfare overhaul made most noncitizens ineligible for both
food stamp vouchers, in some cases as early as next month, and SSI checks, which
range up to about $ 650 monthly.

Facing a loss of what is for many their only income, aged and disabled
noncitizens have been hastening to apply for naturalization and enrolling in
citizenship classes. The new rules could remove a barrier for many.

However, naturalization backlogs -- almost 1 million applicants are in the
pipeline nationwide, make it extremely unlikely those applying now will attain
citizenship in time to avoid the August termination date for benefits. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service now takes at least nine months to process
applications and delays are growing.

Until now, virtually all citizenship applicants had been tested on basic English
skills and asked such civic questions as the number of states, the name of the
president and the colors of the flag.

While that requirement has been waived, the agency, as expected, refused to
modify its mandate that applicants -- including Alzheimer's patients --
demonstrate the ability to take a "meaningful oath" of allegiance to the United
States, the clinching act of citizenship. While the oath is typically
administered in a mass swearing-in ceremony, INS examiners will continue to quiz
applicants about it during the preceremony personal interviews.

The INS has estimated that 300,000 disabled immigrants could apply for
exemptions to current requirements that virtually all applicants demonstrate
knowledge of English and U.S. history and government. Since 1995, the INS has
granted a small number of exemptions on a case-by-case basis.

Disabled rights groups and immigrant advocates have harshly criticized the INS
for taking more than two years to develop the new rules, which formally go into
effect Wednesday.

In one major change, the INS broadened its definition of mental and physical
disabilities from that outlined in its earlier proposal, widely criticized as
too restrictive.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              220 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 23, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Contributions of Legal Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C06; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 231 words


Rep. Lamar Smith's contention that "non-citizens collect $ 26 billion in welfare
benefits annually from hard-working American taxpayers" is a gross distortion
["Immigration Line-Jumpers," letters, March 1].

Rep. Smith makes no distinction between legal immigrants and illegal immigrants.
That lack of clarity does an injustice to every hard-working family that has
come to America for a better life.

I am a natural-born American, but my parents immigrated from India and went on
to become U.S. citizens. To me, being an American is not simply an accident of
birth or the mere possession of a passport. It is about people coming together
as one nation and embracing the ideals of hope, opportunity, freedom and fair
play.

If an immigrant comes here legally, works hard and gets hit by a truck, is it
right to cut off disability payments to his children? Of course not. Immigrants
do not come to America to get on welfare. They come to the land of opportunity
to go as far as their hard work, merit and talent will take them.

Immigrant families work, pay taxes, raise families and bear the sons and
daughters that have helped build this nation. A great example is Colin Powell's
parents. Immigrants bring their desire to succeed, along with their emphasis on
family, merit and education to America's shore and make all Americans richer.

MANJU KARUR

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              221 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 28, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Addenda

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 429 words


A former aide at a nursing home drew eight to 25 years in prison for raping and
impregnating a patient while she was in a comalike state. John Horace, 53, was
convicted last month in Rochester, N.Y., in the rape of the 30-year-old woman,
who died March 18, a few days before her son's first birthday. She had been
injured in a 1985 car wreck.

An 18-foot-long piece of a wing flap fell from an airborne Delta jetliner and
landed in an empty field near Carrollton, Tex., but the plane, Delta Flight 691
from Orlando, landed safely at its destination, Dallas/Fort Worth International
Airport, with no injuries to the 189 passengers.

The Santa Monica, Calif., judge in the O.J. Simpson civil case agreed to order
Simpson to turn over more than 100 of his belongings, including his Heisman
Trophy, his golf clubs and an Andy Warhol silkscreen of himself. The nearly $
500,000 inventory was culled from insurance records by the plaintiffs who won a
$ 33.5 million verdict holding Simpson responsible for the slayings of Nicole
Brown Simpson and Ronald L. Goldman.

Sixty-seven illegal immigrants employed as maids have been arrested in three
days of raids on hotels and motels in Albuquerque, officials said. The maids,
all of them Mexican citizens, were arrested at 20 hotels and motels by U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service agents as part of a crackdown on
undocumented workers. Last month, several mariachi musicians were arrested in
the Texas border town of El Paso and sent back to Mexico.

The Justice Department sued a West Virginia nightclub for allegedly turning away
black customers. In a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Wheeling, W.Va.,
the government said Images nightclub of Kearneysville discriminated against
blacks. The club's means of denying entry to blacks included telling them
falsely that it was a private club open only to members, even though white
people were routinely admitted without regard to any membership, the department
said.

Barry Lyn Stoller, a drywaller who disappeared more than three years ago after
cashing a mistaken $ 98,002 refund check for a $ 1.99 box of Ex-Lax, was caught
after allegedly trying to steal two packs of cigarettes from a grocery store in
the Seattle area. Stoller, 40, pleaded not guilty to first-degree theft on the
Ex-Lax charge.

A window washer survived a 90-foot fall from a Nashville building by landing on
his feet on a thick layer of mud, authorities said. Maxium Maldano, 23, was in
critical but stable condition with a broken pelvis and several broken bones in
his legs.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              222 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 29, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

French City Girds for Right-Wing Conclave -- and Its Opponents

Charles Trueheart, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 914 words

DATELINE: STRASBOURG, France, March 28


The surging fortunes of France's anti-immigrant National Front party have put
mainstream politicians and journalists on the defensive. Arguing about how to
handle the menace of intolerance represented by the extreme-right party, they
appear tempted to answer it with their own high-minded version of the same
thing.

The predicament -- is hate speech compatible with free speech? -- is fully
exposed this weekend as the National Front gathers in Strasbourg for a major
convention. Along with the convention, tens of thousands of people are
converging from across France and Western Europe to denounce the National Front
in marches and demonstrations. Fearing civil disorder, the mayor asked the
French government for a heavy police presence, reportedly 2,000 strong.

Catherine Trautmann, the Socialist mayor of this eastern French city on the
border with Germany, embodies the dilemma of French leaders. She granted
permission to the National Front to meet in a municipal facility here rather
than stand accused of prohibiting a legal party's right to assemble -- as she
was five years ago when she did just that. At the same time it is Trautmann who
organized and will lead Saturday's main anti-National Front march in front of
the facility.

Francois Miclo, the young head of an old Strasbourg publishing house, is among
those on the right and the left who think Trautmann made the wrong decision. "If
you rent them the hall, that makes the FN a party like any other," he said,
using the party's French-language initials.

French politicians of the right and left veer daily between condemning the ideas
of the National Front and condemning the strategies and blunders of one another
in dealing with the threat. But they have done little to stop the spread of the
party's appeal from negligible in the early 1980s to potent percentages today:
15 percent in the presidential elections two years ago, and four mayoral
victories, the most recent last month by an outright majority.

The National Front has attracted support from older people and disaffected
younger ones, from workers and the unemployed. It blames crime and unemployment
on immigration from North and Sub-Saharan Africa and links France's economic
stagnation to the European Union, globalization and the United States. Its
strongest support in the last national elections was 25 percent of the vote here
in the Alsace region.

Legislative elections a year from now give the National Front its best shot yet
at gaining a stronger status as an opposition party in the National Assembly,
and a more visible soapbox to promulgate its message. Even now, as a legal
political entity with a delegation in the European Parliament, the National
Front receives $ 7 million in state subsidies.

Provoked by the situation, a few isolated but prominent French political figures
have proposed banning the National Front altogether, or taking party leader
Jean-Marie Le Pen and his deputies to court for making racist comments. This
approach produces seemingly contradictory formulations like those of Socialist
politician Henri Emmanuelli, who said he wanted to prohibit the party "in the
name of human rights and of democracy."

That paradox, and the tension surrounding the demonstrations planned here, was
reflected two weeks ago at the Paris book fair, where a National Front booth
distributing nativist literature was sacked by anti-racism activists and its
keepers were chased from the premises.

By default of politicians fearful of alienating voters drawn to the National
Front, or actively seeking to win them over, the burden of managing Le Pen's
message of France-firstism, xenophobia and racism has fallen to the French
media.

They are in a quandary too. Their self-doubt is evident in the boiling
controversy about how to present Le Pen and his ideas to the public -- or
whether to give them a place in public discourse at all. A prominent politician
this week called for a "wall of silence" to be erected around the National
Front, suggesting that coverage is incitement.

Such arguments from opinion leaders, even if only a minority of them, are
striking in this nation proud of its role in developing democratic freedoms and
human rights.

France's most prominent serious television personality, Anne Sinclair, for nine
years has refused to interview Le Pen. She and other television journalists
argue that he should be banned from live interviews because he either emerges
victorious -- Le Pen is a nimble polemicist -- or appears victimized by his
questioners, proving his contention that the National Front is subject to a vast
"totalitarian" conspiracy of elites.

France's troubled past of Nazi collaboration and acquiescence during World War
II is invoked often in this debate. Some find the Nazi comparison useful in
reminding French people of what Le Pen stands for. One television documentary
producer noted that a Nazi slogan in the late 1930s -- "500,000 jobless, 500,000
Jews" -- bore an uncanny resemblance to one the National Front has used -- "3
million jobless, 3 million immigrants too many."

Another television interviewer, Paul Amar, was criticized recently for giving
air time to Maurice Papon, a high-ranking official of the Nazi-collaborationist
Vichy wartime government in France who will go on trial this fall for ordering
the deportation of nearly 1,700 Jews to Nazi death camps. Giving him a chance to
deny the crimes, the critics said, made Papon "banal."


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, reuter, Standing behind the motto "French First," Le Pen
celebrated a party victory in June.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              223 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 02, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Taiwan Agrees To Let Chinese Dissident Stay

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: TAIPEI, April 1


Taiwan has granted permanent residency to Chinese dissident Wuer Kaixi, who shot
to fame in Beijing's 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy protests and fled into
exile after they were crushed, a cabinet official said today.

The official said Wuer was not the first Chinese dissident granted Taiwan
residency, but he would not name others.

The United Evening News said Wuer's case had been approved because Taiwan
recognized his "outstanding achievement in leading the pro-democracy movement"
and because he may face unspecified imminent danger.

An ethnic Uighur student from China's far western Xinjiang Province, Wuer was
one of the most outspoken leaders of the demonstrations for democracy that swept
China in the spring of 1989.

After China's army crushed the demonstrations that June, Wuer fled into exile
and was granted political asylum in the United States. He married a Taiwanese
woman in August 1994 and recently has been hosting a television interview show.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              224 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 08, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. to Pursue Corruption In Hong Kong

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11; AROUND THE WORLD

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


The U.S. consul general here vowed yesterday to root out corruption from his
diplomatic mission after the launching of an investigation into the consulate's
visa and immigration chief.

Richard Boucher said it is important that the public sees the visa process as
fair and impartial at the world's largest U.S. consulate. "It's very important
to us that our services be clean and be seen as clean," he told reporters at a
signing ceremony for a Hong Kong-U.S. air services agreement.

The comments came after concern in Hong Kong that hundreds of illegal
immigrants, many of them from China, may have entered the United States on
documents obtained through the consulate in this British colony.

The consulate's head of immigration and naturalization services, James DeBates,
has been placed on leave while Hong Kong's Independent Commission Against
Corruption and U.S. authorities investigate.

With more than 300 staff, the mission plays a key role in Washington's
intelligence analysis of events in China and in day-to-day handling of U.S.
relations with the "Greater China" area of the mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Macao. It also plays a major role in trade.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              225 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 09, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Nearly 1 in 10 in U.S. Is Foreign-Born, Census Says; 24.5 Million Total in 1996
Reflects Increase of 2 Million Since Last Survey in 1994

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 773 words


The great American melting pot is becoming more like a stew, and an increasingly
exotic and complicated one at that.

In its latest report on population trends, the Census Bureau said yesterday that
nearly one in 10 people in the United States is foreign-born, the highest rate
in more than 50 years.

At 24.5 million, the number of foreign-born inhabitants stands at the highest
level in U.S. history and is about 2 million more than reported in the previous
such survey in 1994. In proportional terms, the foreign-born accounted for 9.3
percent of the total U.S. population, well below the high mark this century of
14.7 percent in 1910 but nearly double the rate since the low point in 1970 and
continuing an upward trend since then.

The Census Bureau report -- based on a March 1996 survey that included legal and
illegal immigrants, naturalized citizens, students and temporary workers --
appeared to provide ammunition for both camps in the ideological debate over
immigration. The bureau reported that the foreign-born, especially the more
recent arrivals, are more likely than natives to live in poverty, to be
unemployed, to use welfare and to have less than a high school education.

On the other hand, the report said, the longer the immigrants stay here, the
better they fare. Those who have lived in the United States for more than six
years "seem to have recovered from their initial economic hardship," it said,
and those who arrived during the 1970s generally are now earning as much as
natives.

Given the economic conditions immigrants must overcome, on the whole, "it's a
pretty dark picture," said Mark Krikorian, who heads the Center for Immigration
studies and favors reducing immigration. "The problems that we have with
immigration are only becoming sharper," reducing the ability of the United
States to unify "the various strands of our people." In any case, he said, this
"melting pot" tradition "is no longer considered politically correct."

Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
leading immigrants' rights group, prefers the image of a "salad bowl" or a
"mosaic," with lots of different colors and tiles that together create a
"beautiful" and "vibrant" picture. "What's amazing about this country is that
we're always in a state of transformation," she said. "And that is our essence
as a nation."

Since immigration began to rise in the 1970s, the racial and ethnic makeup of
the foreign-born population has changed markedly. While nearly 85.8 percent of
the foreign-born who arrived before 1970s were whites, that proportion dropped
to 62.1 percent for the first six years of the 1990s. During the same time, the
percentage of blacks more than doubled to 8.7 percent and the proportion of
Asians and Pacific islanders tripled to 28.6 percent.

Hispanics, who may be of any race, accounted for 43 percent of newcomers since
1990 and 32.2 percent before 1970. By comparison, the bureau lists the current
U.S.-born population as 84.2 percent white, 13.3 percent black and 1.6 percent
Asian-Pacific islander, with 7.4 percent classified as Hispanic.

Mexico continues to be the leading source of immigrants here, accounting for
27.2 percent of the 1996 foreign-born population. Next on the list are the
Philippines, China, Cuba and India and Vietnam. Before 1970, the countries
immediately behind Mexico included Germany, Italy, Canada and Britain.

Among the most controversial findings in the latest survey are numbers that
suggest a growing influx of poor, uneducated and vulnerable immigrants at a time
when the government is trying to move people from welfare to work and restrict
immigrants' access to federal benefits.

A third of the latest arrivals are living in poverty and 6.8 percent are
jobless. Among natives, the poverty and unemployment rates are 12.9 percent and
3.8 percent. Of the population age 16 and older, 6 percent of natives had no
income, compared with 14.8 percent of the foreign-born and 27.2 percent of
newcomers this decade.

The survey also found that 5.8 percent of foreign-born inhabitants receive
means-tested cash welfare benefits, compared with 4.5 percent of natives. For
the most recent arrivals, the usage rate is 6.1 percent.

In education, there is greater disparity among the foreign-born than natives.
About 16 percent of native-born inhabitants did not finish high school, compared
with 35.6 percent of the foreign-born. However, 7.7 percent of natives have a
graduate or professional degree, a lower rate than for all the foreign-born (8.6
percent) and those who arrived this decade (11.6 percent).


LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post, MELTING POT The share of the U.S.
population that is foreign-born has climbed since 1970. (This chart was not
available) In 1996, about half were born in Latin America . . .  Mexico 27.2%
Asia 26.7 Europe 16.9 Caribbean 10.5 Central America 7.0 South America 4.9
Other/Not known 6.9 . . . and just under one-third were citizens.  Naturalized
citizen 32% Not a citizen 68% NOTE: Numbers may not add to 100 percent because
of rounding.  SOURCE: Census Bureau

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              226 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 09, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Unworthy Of a Nation of Immigrants

David S. Broder

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M.


Last week, Republican Gov. Gary Johnson vetoed a welfare reform bill passed by
the Democratic legislature that would, among other things, have allowed legal
aliens to receive benefits for up to another five years.

His veto was denounced by the Albuquerque and Santa Fe newspapers and by many
Democrats, including Attorney General Tom Udall, who hopes to challenge him for
governor next year. Udall, the son of former secretary of interior Stewart
Udall, previously had ingratiated himself with the state's large Hispanic
population by filing a brief in the U.S. Supreme Court opposing statutes enacted
in other states making English the official language of government.

There is nothing unusual about immigration becoming the center of hot political
debate. All this past week, the Justice Department has been in court defending
regulations derived from the tough new immigration law passed by the last
Congress against challenges from civil libertarians and groups representing
Latino and other ethnic groups.

But there is a special irony in hearing the emotionally charged immigration
debate here in this state, where Spaniards arrived long before Anglos and where
the place names and historic sites all bear names testifying to their legacy.

That is not the only irony in this situation. In this state, as in Arizona,
Florida and California, President Clinton significantly increased his share of
the Latino vote last November by depicting the Republicans as enemies of
immigrants. Particularly in California, where Republican Gov. Pete Wilson had
championed Proposition 187, which sought to end medical and education benefits
for children of undocumented aliens, the Democrats had great success. But now it
is the Clinton Justice Department that is defending the provisions of the
restrictive federal immigration law.

As for the welfare bill provisions ending benefits for legal aliens, Vice
President Gore told the California legislature last month that it was "harsh and
unfair . . . to tell 4 million people in California who work here, pay taxes
here, maybe even serve in the military here . . . that you are not going to
receive the helping hand that everyone else who is legally living here is
entitled to."

Gore said the cutoff of benefits to legal aliens was "un-American" and "unworthy
of a nation of immigrants." He did not explain why Clinton had signed the
welfare bill containing these provisions at a ceremony last summer where Gore
led the applause. According to an account in the March Atlantic Monthly by Peter
Edelman, a longtime friend of Clinton's who quit a senior post in the Department
of Health and Human Services in protest of Clinton's decision, everyone in the
White House was fully aware of the impact of the legal immigrant provisions when
the bill came to the president's desk.

Among other things, the bill ends Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits
this summer for some half a million elderly noncitizens with serious mental or
physical disabilities. For many of these longtime legal residents, SSI is their
only source of income. Immigration regulations announced last month make it
slightly easier for some of them with severe disabilities to be exempted from
answering the examination questions necessary to become a citizen. But as
Patrick J. McDonnell, a Los Angeles Times reporter, noted in a story last month,
"bulging naturalization backlogs -- almost 1 million applicants are in the
pipeline nationwide -- make it extremely unlikely that those applying now will
attain citizenship in time to avoid the August termination date for benefits.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service now takes at least nine months to
process applications, and delays are growing."

As Wendell Primus, a colleague of Edelman's who also handed in a protest
resignation, points out in Focus, a publication of the University of
Wisconsin-Madison Institute for Research on Poverty, the cutoff of benefits to
legal immigrants was fueled by a desire for budgetary savings (an estimated $ 22
billion in six years) and by the belief that many were abusing the system by
claiming benefits soon after arriving.

That belief is wrong. Only one in five legal aliens receiving SSI went on the
rolls in their first two years of residency. Two of five had lived here (and
paid taxes) for more than six years before filing claims.

When the federal government washed its hands of the problem of providing a
safety net for legal aliens, it left it to the states -- which in many cases, as
in New Mexico, placed the fate of these people in the hands of a single official
like Gov. Johnson.

It ought to weigh on the consciences of those who knew what they were doing was
wrong.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              227 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 10, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Group Criticizes INS For Detaining Minors; Human Rights Watch Says Children Lack
Access to Information, Counsel

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 515 words


A human rights group charged yesterday that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service violates the rights of hundreds of detained children each year and
called for the shifting of its detention functions to "appropriate child welfare
authorities."

The charges, contained in a 120-page report by the Human Rights Watch Children's
Rights Project, were disputed by the INS, which took reporters on tours
yesterday of facilities in which it detains juveniles who entered the United
States illegally. An INS official said the report "paints a very distorted
picture."

The report accuses the INS of detaining some minors for months at a time in
"prison-like conditions," failing to inform detained children of their rights,
interfering with their attempts to obtain lawyers and failing to facilitate
contact with relatives.

At any given time, more than 200 "children," defined as anyone under 18, are in
"longer-term INS custody," meaning they are held for more than 72 hours, usually
in juvenile detention centers or in "shelter care" facilities run privately
under INS contracts, the report said. Most are teenagers from China and Latin
America facing deportation as illegal aliens. Some were originally charged by
police with misdemeanors before being turned over to the INS.

"The worst problem in all these facilities . . . is that kids are not getting
access to information about their cases that they need," said Rosa Ehrenreich,
the author of the report. "You have situations where these kids are just
languishing there and don't have the faintest idea what's happening to them."
Among those she encountered, she said, were "a couple of Chinese kids who didn't
even know what an attorney was."

Some of the "worst rights violations" were found at a contract shelter-care
facility in a "remote town" in Arizona, where staff members "actively
obstructed" the detainees' legal access rights, said Ehrenreich, a lawyer by
training who teaches writing at Harvard University.

The report recommended that the INS stop detaining "unaccompanied children
awaiting determination of their status" and shift its "care-taking"
responsibility for illegal alien minors to another agency to avoid "conflicts of
interest" with INS enforcement duties.

The INS is "required by law to take into custody unaccompanied juveniles who are
in the United States illegally," replied Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman. He
said any shift of detention responsibility to another agency would require new
legislation.

INS policy is to detain minors in jails, even juvenile jails, for no more than
72 hours, he said. Within that time, they are normally moved to foster care
facilities or foster homes if no family member can be found. In some "highly
unusual" cases, minors have been held longer, sometimes up to a year, in
juvenile care facilities because of "safety issues" or difficulties in placing
them. These minors include Chinese youths who, if released, risk being kidnapped
by alien-smugglers seeking to collect large fees for having brought them to the
United States, Bergeron said.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              228 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 14, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Legal Immigrants Pulling Together to Protest Threat to Their Benefits

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 895 words


Moises Sapiro, 85, lost an eye and most of his hearing fighting the Nazis in his
native Russia. He later taught literature but said he endured constant hounding
as a Jew. In 1989, he finally was able to immigrate to the United States as a
refugee.

Today, Sapiro lives in a small apartment in Rockville, paying his doctor bills
with Medicaid and living on $ 484 a month in supplemental Social Security (SSI).
But this fall, he could lose those benefits because of a 1996 welfare reform law
that bars most legal immigrants from receiving such benefits unless they become
citizens or can prove they have worked here at least 10 years.

"They say that those who are sick and weak will no longer be protected. My heart
is crying about it," said Sapiro, speaking in Russian at the Jewish Community
Center in Rockville while a staff member translated. "I have close friends,
veterans like me. They cannot sleep, and their legs shake. They are terrified."

Sapiro and other aging Russian refugees are not alone. The threatened loss of
SSI and other benefits affects an estimated half-million poor, disabled and
elderly legal immigrants, including tens of thousands in the Washington area --
from Vietnamese in Arlington and Koreans in Vienna to Filipinos in Oxon Hill and
Bolivians in Gaithersburg.

This week, in a display of growing political unity, legal immigrants from the
region and across the country will hold two events on Capitol Hill aimed at
highlighting the law's effect on people like Sapiro and at persuading Congress
to cancel or amend the benefit cuts.

At 12:30 p.m. today, national groups, including the Union of Councils for Soviet
Jews, the National Asian-Pacific Legal Consortium and organizations representing
Kurdish and Bosnian refugees, will hold a protest rally at the U.S. Capitol.
Organizers said they expect more than 6,000 people to attend.

And Wednesday night, 23 Washington area groups, representing legal immigrants
from Asia, Europe and Latin America, will sponsor a reception for members of
Congress with elderly immigrants as the featured speakers. The groups support
proposed legislation to soften the welfare law.

"We all find ourselves in the same boat," said David Bernstein, Washington area
director of the American Jewish Committee. "Not all of these communities have
been politically active in the past, but they're discovering that there really
is strength in numbers and that our interests on these issues are virtually
identical."

Other local leaders say the benefit cuts have accelerated cooperation among
diverse legal immigrants who joined forces several years ago to fight
anti-immigrant legislation in Virginia and Congress. Since then, Jewish and
Asian American groups, joined later by Latino groups, have been lobbying and
organizing citizenship drives.

"This is a very important step for us, finding that common ground and getting
people to participate," said Luz Diago, who heads a Fairfax group called Latinos
for Citizenship, Leadership & Civic Duty. "We all have elderly relatives. They
are our treasure, and these laws are forcing us all to choose whether we can
have them with us or not."

The Clinton administration, which opposed the cuts, has proposed restoring about
$ 15 billion in benefits to certain refugees and disabled immigrants. In
addition, a dozen bills have been introduced in Congress that would put back
some or all of the estimated $ 23.7 billion in benefits, or would exempt
immigrants such as those who are mentally disabled or who have applied for
citizenship.

Proponents of the law, however, have balked at restoring the benefits. Instead,
they propose providing as much as $ 2 billion in block grants to states with
large numbers of legal immigrants. Many Republicans in Congress feel that with
immigrants accounting for nearly one-sixth of all SSI recipients, their numbers
must be reduced, and family members who sponsor them as residents must do more
to support them.

"The ink isn't even dry on the welfare reform package," said Rep. Bill Archer
(R-Tex.), chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, shortly after
immigrants began receiving their benefit cutoff notices in February. "We ought
to see how it's working before we open the doors to spend a lot more taxpayers'
money on aliens."

Local immigrant leaders say they expect strong resistance in Congress, so they
have been trying to help as many foreign-born residents as possible become
citizens. The Jewish Community Center provides English and citizenship classes,
some taught by bedside tutors, at apartment complexes for seniors. But for many
elderly immigrants, taking the citizenship test is simply too arduous.

Sarra Konne, 88, a frail Russian Jewish woman who lost most of her family in
World War II, came to the United States in 1992 and lives in Rockville with her
daughter, Ella Vereta. Konne suffers from a heart ailment, has trouble walking
and has been able to learn only a few phrases of English. If she doesn't become
a citizen, she could lose her $ 484 a month Social Security check.

"For us, coming here was a dream. I never imagined America would leave old
people without any help," said a tearful Vereta, who hasn't told her mother that
she might be losing her benefits. "I try to protect her, I don't tell her what
could happen. Even now, I do not want to believe it."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              229 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 17, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

No. 3 Aide Leaves INS; Reorganization Planned; Slattery Was Target of Probes,
Complaints

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 526 words


The immigration service's powerful operations chief, who has been the target of
internal investigations and complaints from subordinates, has left the agency,
opening the way for a major reorganization.

William S. Slattery, 49, the No. 3 official in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, vacated his post Friday and went on leave in advance of
his June retirement after 26 years in the service, INS officials said. He was
replaced by his deputy, J. Scott Blackman, who assumes the title of acting
executive associate commissioner for field operations.

INS officials denied the move was prompted by complaints about Slattery from
field managers, notably at a meeting in San Antonio last November with INS
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, or by a series of internal investigations, which
have cleared him of various allegations of malfeasance.

The officials said Slattery has been planning to retire and he effectively moved
up the date of his departure by taking accrued leave.

However, insiders said, his leave-taking came two days after a deposition last
week in which he repeatedly refused to answer questions, invoking his Fifth
Amendment right against self-incrimination.

In that case, he is accused of retaliating against an INS official who helped
convict a Slattery protege of corruption last year. Slattery has denied
retaliating against the official, Warren Lewis, formerly the INS district
director in Newark.

The deposition was taken for a hearing of the Merit Systems Protection Board,
which is to consider Lewis's complaint of retaliation against a whistle-blower.

Slattery, who served as INS district director in New York for four years before
becoming the agency's operations chief in 1994, also had been accused of
fostering cronyism in the service, improper dealings with South Korean garment
manufacturers and showing favoritism toward a female employee whom he later
married.

In a telephone interview in December, he denied any wrongdoing and said he had
been cleared by Justice Department and INS probes, including an internal audit
in November.

Nevertheless, complaints about his management style persisted, and he
acknowledged a need to "improve communication" with the 57 field offices under
his command.

The Justice Department declined to comment on whether he is still under
investigation.

The career INS official, who started out as a Border Patrol agent and has held a
variety of senior posts in the agency, appeared to have become a lightning rod
within the agency for some of its recent problems.

Republicans in Congress have charged that the INS naturalized thousands of
criminals as part of a program, Citizenship USA, that sought to streamline
procedures and reduce a growing backlog of applicants.

The INS has acknowledged deficiencies in the program, blaming them on problems
that stemmed in part from a lack of coordination among Slattery's division, INS
field offices and the department that formulates programs.

Besides replacing Slattery, the INS is planning a series of management changes
as part of a reorganization program to be submitted to Congress, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              230 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 18, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Children Race Hong Kong's Deadline; 'Snakehead' Smugglers Profit by Dangerous
Dashes From China

Keith B. Richburg, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1441 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 17


Kok Man-sing is only 8 years old but has already experienced a lifetime's worth
of trauma -- separation, flight, refuge and now the constant fear of
apprehension followed by certain deportation. He is a pint-size fugitive, an
illegal immigrant from China, brought here on a motorboat in the dead of night
by "snakeheads," or local smugglers. And he is on the run.

"I was scared the policemen would come," Man-sing said, describing his flight
here with his 7-year-old sister, Kok Man-kok, crammed on a motorized sampan with
about 50 other illegal immigrants. "We came at nighttime, but I don't know what
time it was." When they arrived, sometime near dawn, he and Man-kok, armed with
only an address scrawled on a piece of paper, found their way to their parents'
house, and the family was reunited after nearly two years.

"I'm afraid to go back to China," said Man-sing, sporting a new Chicago Bulls
baseball cap and a gray warm-up suit. "I like Hong Kong a lot. I want to get my
identity card so I can stay longer. I like the television, and I like playing.
Even though I don't have any friends, if I stay longer I'll be happier. I never
want to go back to China."

As he spoke, a boy next to him quickly nodded agreement. "The Chinese government
is rotten," said Yong Dong-chuen, 12, who also is facing repatriation. "I'm not
afraid. I won't go back, even if they make me."

These boys are part of a wave of hundreds of illegal immigrant children who have
been flooding over the border from southern China in record numbers in recent
weeks, sparking a budding humanitarian crisis and prompting social workers to
warn of an even larger human swarm to come. So far this year, about 1,500
children are believed to have crossed the border illegally, about double the
number who crossed in all of 1996. The influx is straining the resources of
local welfare agencies.

The human flood is also raising fears for the safety of the children, most of
whom arrive at night on overcrowded high-speed boats without lights, to avoid
detection by police. Last week, the crew of a snakehead boat being pursued by
Hong Kong police threw two bundles overboard that police feared may have been
child passengers. A search of the murky waters turned up only a bundle of straw,
which police said may have been tossed into the water as a diversion.

Almost all the migrant children are from Guangdong Province, born to Hong Kong
men who went back to China to marry and start families. In most cases, the men
returned to Hong Kong but the children were forced to vie for places on a
lengthy waiting list for the right to move here.

When Hong Kong reverts to Chinese control on July 1, these Chinese children of
Hong Kong parents are guaranteed the right to reside here under the Basic Law,
the mini-constitution that will govern this territory's affairs. Many feel their
best chance is to come in now, before July 1, because they fear the border will
become even more tightly controlled once China takes charge.

The Guangdong public security bureau and Hong Kong social workers estimate that
130,000 children are waiting to be reunited with their families here. Under a
quota system, Hong Kong currently allows only 150 permits for one-way border
crossings each day, with 66 of those slots set aside for children reuniting with
parents.

"This is a very critical moment," said Ho Hei-wah, director of the Society for
Community Organization, which is assisting the families. "If they can stay in
Hong Kong until the first of July, they automatically have the right of abode"
because of the Basic Law.

The incoming government of Tung Chee-hwa, China's future chief executive for
Hong Kong, recognizes that the influx of children, and the 130,000 more waiting
to cross, is one of the most pressing issues it will face.

"It lands squarely on our shoulders; we've got to tackle it," said Antony K.
Leung, the managing director of Chase Manhattan Bank here and one of Tung's
executive counselors. "The question is how to get them to Hong Kong on an
orderly basis. We have to see if we can find ways to stop them from coming [all]
at once." Among other problems, Leung said, a sudden influx of 130,000 new
children after July would overburden the already crowded school system.

Most of the parents, though, are not interested in waiting. Many say they have
waited long enough and have had to endure not only the grinding bureaucracy in
China, but also corrupt local officials who demand huge bribes to give children
higher places on the waiting lists.

A 40-year-old construction worker, who asked not to be named, said he was asked
by a Guangdong official to pay a bribe of about $ 25,000 for a one-way permit
for his daughter, 13. He and his wife, married for 20 years, had been allowed to
bring only one child to Hong Kong, and the daughter has been waiting several
years to rejoin her parents.

"The fee kept getting more each year," the construction worker said. "How can I
even begin to think about getting that kind of money? It's hard enough just to
survive."

The daughter grew tired of waiting; relatives paid a smaller fee to a snakehead
who slipped her into Hong Kong by boat, and she found her way to her parents'
home. Now she is threatened with repatriation to China, although the family is
fighting the order.

"She's very clever; she came down on her own, thinking she'd have a chance," the
construction worker said. "The Hong Kong government hasn't been very helpful.
They don't see the importance of trying to help reunite families." He added,
angrily: "What I don't understand is why she isn't qualified. I've lived here
for 20 years! We've got one child here already! I just don't understand."

As he spoke, his wife dabbed tears away. "My daughter is very unhappy," the
woman said. "She can't go to school. She just cries all day. Sometimes I think
my daughter would be better off dead. She can't stay here, but if she is sent
back to China, there is no one in the village to take care of her."

The government here has announced that those children entering illegally will be
sent back to China and forced to wait their turn through established channels.
To allow them to stay, officials have said, would lead to a rush of illegal
immigrants, which would cause a hazard because of the risky sea voyage. A
general amnesty also would be unfair to those who have waited their turn to come
legally, officials say.

Other illegal immigrants here have told of corrupt Guangdong officials demanding
bribes in exchange for favorable places on the waiting list. "They want your
money; they want your possessions -- everything," said Man-sing. He said he
waited five years to come here legally before his cousins in the village decided
it was time to put their trust, and their money, in the snakeheads.

"The Chinese government doesn't have enough control over its local officials,"
said Yun Shat-man, who chairs a support group for illegal immigrants that has
been demonstrating against the repatriations. "There is corruption. There are
double standards. There are a lot of obstacles to overcome."

While the officials charge applicants the equivalent of $ 25,000 for favorable
treatment, the snakeheads offer more immediate passage to Hong Kong at cut-rate
prices. One young woman said she paid a snakehead $ 12,500 for three persons --
herself, a sister and her 6-year-old brother.

The little boy remembers little of the trip, except that they left late at
night. "I came by boat with my two older sisters," he said, twisting his blue
Power Rangers baseball cap. "We had dinner, then we went on the boat. I wasn't
scared, because my sisters were with me." He remembers that "on the boat, there
were lots and lots of people."

"When we got to Hong Kong, it was light already, and nobody heard us!" he said.
He said his father was waiting. And he said he has no fear of Hong Kong police
sending him back because if they come for him, "I'll tell my daddy."

But some parents here say they would rather wait than put their children's lives
in the hands of the snakeheads. "The children are coming over illegally because
of the pressure from the parents," said Choi Wai-kwan, a Hong Kong wholesaler
who married in Guangdong in 1985 and has been waiting ever since to bring his
wife and four children here. "The parents are too impatient, and too anxious."

"It's dangerous," he said of the smugglers' nighttime runs. "The parents who
encourage their children to come over this way are not being responsible. They
may be thinking of the children's future, their education. But they aren't
considering the danger."


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, jenni meili lau for The Washington Post; Map, larry fogel, A
young couple seeks counsel on obtaining Hong Kong residency for the baby they
brought in illegally.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              231 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 19, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Audit Faults INS Practices; Criminals May Still Be Getting Citizenship

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 950 words


Despite measures aimed at correcting a flawed citizenship process, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has failed to straighten out sloppy
procedures and still may be granting citizenship to criminals, according to an
independent audit released yesterday.

The report, commissioned by the Justice Department and conducted by the KPMG
Peat Marwick Co., was the latest blow to a controversial program, called
Citizenship USA, that has come under concerted political attack from Republicans
for naturalizing 180,000 immigrants last year without proper criminal background
checks.

The firm's 140-page report appeared to belie repeated assurances from top
administration officials that problems in processing a record 1.3 million
citizenship applications had been identified and resolved.

The continuing problems have opened the INS to charges it has mismanaged one of
its central functions and cast a cloud of suspicion over thousands of new
Americans. The problems also have shown that the agency continues to be
overwhelmed by the record applications and have led to congressional grilling of
Attorney General Janet Reno and other top Justice Department officials at two
hearings last month.

At those hearings, officials assured Congress that changes to the system had
been made. But Peat Marwick found that only one of 23 regional and district INS
offices surveyed was in in full compliance with new regulations designed to
solve the politically explosive problem. Of the rest of the offices, seven were
found to be in "marginal compliance," and 15, including three of the four
regional INS service centers, were judged "noncompliant."

Because of persisting problems in checking fingerprints of citizenship
applicants against FBI criminal history records, the report said, "we cannot
provide assurance that INS is not continuing to incorrectly naturalize aliens
with disqualifying conditions."

The report did not address how many immigrants whose FBI records were never
checked had criminal records that should have disqualified them from
citizenship. That is the subject of an INS audit being overseen by Peat Marwick.

Instead, the report released yesterday focused on INS procedures designed to fix
the problems, and the findings appeared to reflect a management breakdown and
widespread disorganization.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner called the report "extremely troubling" and
said she had "immediately ordered significant changes to correct the problems"
and to "improve the integrity of the nation's naturalization process." She said
she would seek congressional approval to "fundamentally restructure" the INS and
strengthen management of the citizenship program.

Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee, indicated she may be in for a tough time.

"This is a complete breach of faith with the American people," he said, noting
Meissner's assurances that the problems had been fixed. He said the INS has been
"devaluing the greatest honor we can bestow on anyone -- citizenship."

Smith said he plans to convene hearings within two weeks and then introduce
legislation aimed at "fixing the system once and for all."

Republicans charged last year that the Clinton administration had recklessly
streamlined the citizenship process to naturalize at least 1 million immigrants
before Election Day in hopes they would vote Democratic. The INS denied the
Citizenship USA program, launched in August 1995, was politically motivated, but
conceded there were "systemic weaknesses" in implementing it, notably a
breakdown in checking for criminal records.

An internal INS audit last February found that of the 1.05 million people
granted citizenship August 1995 to September 1996, nearly 180,000 did not
receive complete FBI background checks and 71,000 others had criminal records,
including 10,800 charged with felonies. However, since felony arrests are not
necessarily disqualifying, the INS said it had discovered only 168 applicants
apparently ineligible, with another 2,800 "problematic" cases requiring further
review.

In its audit, Peat Marwick found "the INS continues to have the most significant
control problems with the fingerprint process and the identification of
statutorily-barred applicants." A new requirement that fingerprints be taken
only by "designated services," including police stations and private entities,
was meant to close a major loophole that allowed people with criminal records to
hand in someone else's prints and thus avoid triggering a match in the FBI
database. However, the requirement has achieved little, the firm said, in part
because of inadequate training and dissemination of the new procedures.

At the Nebraska Service Center, one of two regional INS facilities in the
central United States, 95 percent of the fingerprint cards received during the
period under review were rejected because of errors in filling them out, Peat
Marwick said. In addition, the center and two others like it were found to be
sending fingerprint cards to a "wrong FBI address." Nevertheless, the Nebraska
center was rated in "marginal compliance" with the new regulations, while others
in California, Texas and Vermont were deemed "noncompliant."

Of the 23 sites evaluated, only the INS district office in Boston was found
"compliant."

Rosemary Jenks, a leading critic of the agency, said monitoring of private
entities involved in the citizenship process continues to be inadequate. She
cited reports that "clean" fingerprints have been sold to applicants at some
INS-approved fingerprinting sites. Among the sites designated by the INS, she
said, is a Baltimore liquor store


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              232 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 24, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Vancouver's Boom Has A Dark Side; New Business Brings Drug Trafficking

Howard Schneider, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 1155 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, B.C.


In many ways, Canada's trading boom with the United States and the rest of the
world has been a boon to this coastal city, as business expanded and immigrants
from within and outside the country flocked to its comparatively temperate
climate.

But when social service workers like John Turvey walk the streets of the city's
lower east side, they see another aspect of what the increasing flow of goods
and people has meant. Along the sidewalks of Hastings Street, drug dealers
cluster in groups in front of their favorite hangouts, trading cash for the
small plastic packets they slip into the hands of customers.

Those on the fringes of the trade -- the junkies, the runners, and others --
mill around the alleys and storefronts of pawnshops that have become prominent
in the neighborhood's economy. Before recent neighborhood patrol efforts,
addicts openly fixed on the street.

It is a scene not lost on law enforcement officials in both countries, who see
in it the same thing as Turvey: evidence of Vancouver's emergence as a center of
North American drug trafficking. With a major port, a relatively unpatrolled
border with the United States, and now established criminal gangs of every
stripe, the city often portrayed as Canada's Pacific paradise has also become
the country's drug and crime capital.

"The availability is phenomenal," said Turvey, executive director of the
Downtown Eastside Youth Activities Society, which offers addiction services,
counseling and a needle exchange in one of Canada's poorest neighborhoods. "We
are in real trouble."

U.S. officials familiar with the situation say Vancouver has become a favored
point for Asian-based gangs to import heroin destined for distribution
throughout Canada and the United States. Heavy immigration from Hong Kong and
elsewhere has brought with it members of criminal organizations who have
established a presence here, and, law enforcement officials say, started
coordinating their work with groups in eastern Canada and the eastern United
States.

"With the good comes the bad," said a U.S. official familiar with the drug trade
evolving between Canada and the United States. "They are bringing their
organizations with them."

That the market for illegal drugs would evolve in parallel with overall trade in
the two countries was made apparent, unintentionally, in the recent meeting
between President Clinton and Prime Minister Jean Chretien. Asked at a news
conference about drug traffic between the two countries, Chretien misunderstood
and thought the question was about truck traffic, and answered that an increase
was likely and welcome under trade agreements.

Chretien quickly corrected himself, but law enforcement and diplomatic officials
acknowledge the difficulty of easing the movement of trucks, planes and trains
between the two countries without also easing the path for smugglers.

Drug trafficking between Canada and the United States has not historically been
an important issue for U.S. authorities, who have concentrated on narcotics
coming from the south, or through U.S. seaports. But now, they say it is no
longer possible to ignore America's northern border.

In one example of how the market is developing, an otherwise legitimate shipment
of 600 boxes of noodles from China arrived in Seattle in 1994 with 10 extra
crates attached, all of them destined for a warehouse in Vancouver. The 10 extra
boxes contained 156 pounds of heroin, and were supposed to be retrieved in
Vancouver by suspected associates of a drug gang. It was only through a lucky
tip that authorities did not simply wave the shipment on to its final
destination, but instead seized it in what became one of Canada's largest drug
busts.

In another, officials with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said a New York
dealer began basing his operations in Toronto because, they suspect, he knew
that an arrest in Canada would likely draw a lighter sentence than in the United
States. Canada does not have the same stiff mandatory minimum sentences or
sentencing guidelines as the United States.

It is uncertain how heavily such concerns factor into the calculations of drug
traffickers, but law enforcement officials say it is one more reason Canada is
an attractive spot to import drugs headed for America.

Authorities in Vancouver say they are concerned the problem will get worse,
particularly after a recent federal government decision to disband the local
harbor patrol to save money. Policing of the port is being turned over to the
city, but local officials say they have no funds to keep the 30-person force.

"Organized crime operates very successfully in or through the port," said
Constable Anne Drennan, spokeswoman for the Vancouver police. "We will do our
job as best we can but it is not a rosy picture."

The volume of narcotics moving through Vancouver is evident in downtown
neighborhoods like the one served by Turvey's group.

The city has experienced an epidemic of overdose deaths in recent years as the
quantity of drugs on the market increased, the price dropped, and the level of
purity rose. In addition, the city began seeing a surge in the use of injected
cocaine -- a peculiarity in the local market that officials attribute to a rash
of dealers swapping British Columbia's high-quality domestic marijuana for
cocaine, which was then marketed among city addicts with a preference for
needles.

On Hastings Avenue, a network of pawnshops and all-night stores developed around
the drug trade, and property crime soared. Between 1990 and 1996, thefts from
autos increased from 20,000 to more than 38,000.

The situation led the city of 450,000 to what British Columbia coroner Larry
Campbell said is likely one of the highest overdose death rates in North
America. "It's staggering," he said. "There is a tremendous amount of heroin out
there. It is coming from all over the place -- all over the world."

Law enforcement officials feel there is a justified perception that Vancouver is
the easiest city in the country in which to be an addict. Benefits and services,
they say, are better than in provinces that have been cutting social programs,
and the judges, apparently, are more lenient.

Small-scale dealing rarely draws more than a 30-day sentence, according to
Drennan and others in the Vancouver police, and possession crimes typically end
with no sentence, if they are prosecuted at all.

Town, law enforcement and social services officials are in agreement that the
social aspects of drug addiction are more important to solving the problem in
the long run than the brute force of law enforcement, but the area's reputation
is not helping matters in the meantime.

"The message to people throughout Canada is that it is easier to get away with a
drug offense" in British Columbia, Drennan said, "so if you are going to be
involved in the trade or do drugs, it is better to do it here."


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, dave cook , OPUIM'S ORIGINS (This graphic was not
available)

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              233 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 26, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

Refugees With A Hunger for Justice; Protesters Seek Residency for Immigrants

Alona Wartofsky, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. H01

LENGTH: 943 words


Maria Bishop Williams has come to Washington for a singular vacation. Every
morning she gets up, carefully applies her makeup and then rides in a van to
Lafayette Square, where she fasts, waiting for the van to return at sunset.

"I got a camera to take pictures of the people I meet," she says. "Maybe also a
picture of the White House."

Bishop is one of seven protesters on a hunger strike across from the White
House. They want the government to grant permanent residency to an estimated
260,000 Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees whose temporary protected status in
this country has expired and who must apply for political asylum.

Bishop, 57, the only member of the group who is a U.S. citizen, came here from
Peru when she was 20. Now she's a cosmetologist in Long Beach, Calif. Several
weeks ago, a neighbor told her about the planned hunger strike.

When she got home, she told her husband she wanted to go. "I said, 'Honey, you
know what? I want to go to Washington. I'm tired of working day after day on
hair.' He said, 'Okay, but what about your customers?' I said, 'I want to take a
vacation.' "

The weather here has been colder than she expected. She has started to get
headaches in the morning, and her back hurts. As of last Sunday, the seventh day
of the strike, she had lost 13 pounds. "Honey, my stomach goes like this," she
says, and then makes a noise that sounds like Donald Duck.

Bishop laughs a lot. She's the oldest in the group and also the cheeriest.
"Maybe this is no vacation," she says with a chuckle.

She has never attended any kind of political demonstration before, but she gets
upset when people she knows get in trouble with the authorities. "Immigration
picks up Spanish people, and they punish them like they are criminals. I see
that many times in California," she says. "People are prejudiced about black
people, prejudiced about Spanish people."

And so she is starving herself. Bishop is drinking water, and when the headaches
get too unbearable, she'll have coffee. She's not sure when, but she'll go home
soon.

"I don't want to die because I have a family. My family needs me, too," she
says. Her son is in the Army, stationed in North Carolina.

"We all work hard," she says. "We never get welfare or food stamps, never in my
life. I love America. I give America all my heart."

Luis Hernandez, the strike organizer who heads the Association of Salvadorans in
Los Angeles, says that their permit dictates that the protesters should stand,
not sit. They take turns sitting for 20-minute intervals. They hold up a banner
that reads "FAST FOR JUSTICE." Today will be the 13th day.

Every afternoon, a nurse from Clinica del Pueblo in Adams-Morgan comes by to
check on the group. Other people visit, too. One of them, Oscar Munoz, a
Guatemalan living in Adelphi, joined them April 18.

Hernandez hovers protectively around the group. He's not fasting. He's got to
remain clearheaded to organize various meetings and send out press releases.
Because he's so busy, he doesn't really have time to eat -- but he doesn't feel
much like it, anyway. "I can't really eat in front of them," he says.

Carlos Estrada, 32, leans forward on a bench, his head in his hands. He says he
feels all right -- just a little weak, a little sleepy.

He's wearing Brut after-shave, but his mind is so hazy he can't quite remember
putting it on. "It smells nice, doesn't it?"

Back home in Los Angeles, he has three kids and two part-time jobs. He delivers
pizza and translates for people who have interviews with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Estrada came here from El Salvador when he was 19. Not long after he got here,
he applied for political asylum. His status is still pending.

Just before he left L.A., his girlfriend, who is a U.S. citizen, begged him not
to go to Washington. "She said if I married her, I don't have to beg for a green
card," he says. "But I had already made a decision that I would come."

After spending the day together, the fasters hold nightly meetings before going
to sleep at the National Institute for Latino Development, in a residential area
off Georgia Avenue. Hernandez tells the group that he doesn't want any martyrs.
Estrada replies that he is willing to starve himself to death. "I think this is
a great reason to die," he says.

Estrada says he has fasted before for health reasons, but this time is much
harder. He must stand for hours at a time, and the days are frequently boring.
"You're looking at the same guys all day long," he says. "Mostly, we talk about
food."

Sometimes the tedium is interrupted by sympathetic visitors. Other passersby
aren't so compassionate. "One guy walked by and said, 'Go to hell.' Another
said, 'You piece of [expletive] wetbacks, go back to your own country,' "
Estrada says, and then shrugs.

"People come out of their offices to eat their lunch in this park. They come out
here and eat and they're looking at us. They probably don't know we are
fasting," he says.

He's drinking water and also Pedialyte, a rehydration fluid for infants with
severe diarrhea. It was bubble-gum flavored.

It reminds him of his kids. If he is deported, he's not sure what would happen
to them -- they are American citizens. He calls them frequently, but is never
sure what to say. "I just told them I'm just gonna be here for a while, and that
I bought them presents," he says.

One of Lafayette Square's more assertive squirrels approaches. It is alarmingly
close, just inches from his feet. Estrada looks down and smiles sympathetically.
"He's hungry," he says. And then he puts his head back in his hands.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, james a. parcell, Maria Bishop Williams, Jorge Angel, Fernando
Andrade and Pedro Mateo, at Lafayette Square protesting on behalf of Salvadoran
and Guatemalan refugees.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              234 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 29, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Inspector General to Probe 'Citizenship USA' Program; Accountability for INS
Problems at Issue

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 609 words


The inspector general of the Justice Department yesterday announced a
wide-ranging special investigation by his office into allegations of
"mismanagement, misconduct and illegality" in a controversial Immigration and
Naturalization Service program to speed up the citizenship process.

The probe will delve into charges that the program, called Citizenship USA, was
misused for political purposes and ended up naturalizing criminals in a "rush"
to create as many new citizens as possible in time for last year's elections,
said Inspector General Michael R. Bromwich. He said the investigation will cover
allegations that the office of Vice President Gore played a key role in
promoting the program in hopes of reaping a Democratic electoral windfall.

"We will be investigating allegations that an initiative that was designed for
the commendable purpose of cutting down the backlog of naturalization
applications became something different along the way," Bromwich said. "The
investigation will go wherever the facts lead us."

The announcement was the latest blow to the INS, which has been rocked by a
recent series of scandals and damaging reports. In a 140-page report this month,
the private KPMG Peat Marwick LLP accounting firm found that the INS has failed
to implement previously announced measures to fix Citizenship USA and may still
be naturalizing criminals.

Earlier, an INS internal audit found that of the 1.05 million immigrants granted
citizenship between August 1995 and September 1996, nearly 180,000 had not
undergone the required FBI criminal background checks and 71,000 others had been
charged with criminal or INS administrative offenses. Of the 71,000, 10,800 had
been charged with felonies. The INS is still trying to determine how many may
have been granted citizenship improperly. The agency insists that the final
number is likely to be small and vows to revoke the citizenship of those found
ineligible.

Bromwich said his office already has been conducting "a number of specific and
discreet criminal investigations" in connection with Citizenship USA. Some of
these reportedly have focused on independent entities designated by the INS to
administer citizenship tests to immigrants. Several for-profit testing sites are
alleged to have helped applicants cheat on the tests.

The investigation announced yesterday "is a more global effort" aimed at getting
to "the root of what happened" with Citizenship USA and examining the
institutional and other pressures that affected its implementation, Bromwich
said.

He said that "in a way" the probe constitutes a response to Republican calls for
an independent counsel investigation and to "the interest of the attorney
general and Congress in finding out who is accountable for whatever serious
problems existed."

Attorney General Janet Reno has turned down GOP requests for an independent
counsel, arguing that no credible evidence has emerged to warrant such a course.

Bromwich said the investigation will be led by Alan W. Tieger, a veteran
prosecutor who has served as a trial attorney in the criminal section of the
Justice Department's civil rights division. Tieger helped prosecute the Los
Angeles police officers who assaulted Rodney G. King and for the past 2 1/2
years has worked at the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia, which was formed to try suspected war criminals.

Bromwich said that about 20 investigators from across the country will be
assigned to the Citizenship USA probe, which will focus on INS headquarters in
Washington and field offices in Miami, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and San
Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              235 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 09, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Clinton Bars Amnesty For Latin Immigrants; President Rebuffs Central American
Leaders

Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 967 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Costa Rica, May 8


President Clinton today rebuffed pleas from Central American leaders seeking
amnesty for immigrants who fled their region during the civil wars of the 1980s,
but he tried to assuage their concerns by vowing humane enforcement of a tough
new U.S. immigration law.

During a summit meeting with fellow heads of state here, the presidents of El
Salvador and Nicaragua pressed Clinton to come to the aid of hundreds of
thousands of people who sought refuge in the United States a decade ago and face
the prospect of expulsion now that peace and stability have arrived. The new
law, which took effect April 1, could affect about 300,000 Central Americans in
the United States, including more than 30,000 in the Washington area.

Clinton made clear that amnesty is not an option, according to participants in
the closed-door session. However, in private and later during public remarks,
the president repeatedly expressed sympathy for the plight of the immigrants who
came legally, comparing them to boat people who escaped Vietnam in the 1970s.
And he promised to avoid any Draconian roundups while he attempts to persuade
Congress to soften the impact of the law, which he signed during last fall's
election campaign.

"There will be no mass deportations and no targeting of Central Americans under
this law," Clinton said at a post-summit news conference, repeating a pledge he
has made throughout his trip this week. "I am working with Congress to implement
the new law so that it does not produce these unintended results."

While disappointed not to hear more specific assurances, Central American
leaders said they are convinced that Clinton understands their positions and
believe he will translate his soothing words into tangible results.

"It is very encouraging for us to hear the profoundly humane position that he
adopts when he looks at the people who have had so much pain," said President
Armando Calderon Sol of El Salvador.

"We're always wanting to see more, but of course we understand the situation the
United States is facing," said Leonel Fernandez Reyna, the U.S.-educated
president of the Dominican Republic. "We do think there has been a consideration
of the humanitarian problem involved."

On other topics, the United States signed an "open skies" agreement permitting
unrestricted air service with Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador and
Guatemala, while the region's leaders also discussed expanding free trade, joint
law enforcement and environmental protection.

But U.S. immigration policy came to dominate the meeting in a way it had not
previously during this first Latin American trip of Clinton's presidency. The
issue resonates strongly here because of the imminent threat to Central American
immigrants in the United States and the wide-ranging impact their deportation
could have, not only on them and their families, but also on their home
countries.

Those immigrants, who entered the United States under rules intended to grant
them temporary sanctuary from political upheaval at home, collectively send home
$ 1.5 billion a year to relatives in El Salvador and Nicaragua. Analysts say
shipping them home en masse could overwhelm Central American labor markets,
which would not have enough jobs for all of them.

The new law has a variety of provisions intended to curb illegal immigration and
was not aimed specifically at the Central Americans. But they became endangered
when officials focused on a provision that allows the government to exempt only
4,000 people a year from deportation. The administration is postponing the
effective date of that cap until Oct. 1, while negotiating with congressional
leaders to find a compromise.

The emotion of the dispute was evident as Clinton rode in a parade through the
streets of San Jose, the Costa Rican capital. Thousands of cheering, flag-waving
schoolchildren lined his route and greeted him enthusiastically under brilliant
blue skies. But one man held up a hand-scrawled sign that said, "Stop the
Deportation," and a half-dozen others held up their middle fingers when he
passed.

In a delicate balancing act, Clinton tried to satisfy audiences both at home and
here by affirming the need for strong immigration laws even as he agreed to do
what he can to soften their edges.

"It's a good thing that we try to stop illegal immigration, because if we don't,
we won't be able to keep the American people in support of legal immigration,"
Clinton said. "But we have to understand, these Central American countries are
in a different category because of what they went through in the 1980s."

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner, accompanying
Clinton, said the president and his staff did not fully understand the law's
ramifications when he signed it. "We have come to understand much more clearly .
. . exactly how complex it is and exactly what the consequences would be," she
said.

During their private session, U.S. officials said, El Salvador's Calderon Sol
asked Clinton to consider amnesty, and Nicaragua's Arnoldo Aleman joined in
pushing for U.S. leniency, reminding him that the United States had played a
major part in creating the turmoil that drove away their citizens during its
Cold War proxy confrontations with the Soviet Union.

Clinton acknowledged the U.S. role but said there was no practical way to seek
amnesty because Congress will not accept it, Calderon Sol told reporters.
Clinton aides said they did not recall the president's responding directly on
amnesty but rather offering more general reassurances that effectively made
clear it was not an option.

"It's not the administration's position to seek amnesty," Meissner said later.
"We believe this law is a good law, and by and large we think it is workable."


LOAD-DATE: May 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp//luke frazzat, Clinton speaks outside National Theater in
San Jose, Costa Rica, where he met with leaders of Central America and the
Dominican Republic. (Photo ran in an earlier edition)

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              236 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 11, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Consistency In Labeling

Geneva Overholser

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C06; OMBUDSMAN

LENGTH: 701 words


"For whom should I feel sorry today?" asked a letter writer last week.

"Just about every day a story about some sort of social injustice appears on the
front page. It's important for newspapers to cover the difficulties
disadvantaged people face, but your editors seem to be obsessed with the
problems of the oppressed. (By the way I think it is intellectually dishonest to
refer to illegal aliens as immigrants.)"

This and related criticisms recur. For example, a two-part series in March on
the effects of the new immigration law had this headline: "Pall Over Immigrants'
American Dream: Many Are Alarmed by New Law's Tougher Requirements for Remaining
in U.S." An anecdote begins the story, telling of an admirably hard-working
person who, the story notes, has remained in this country for years against the
law.

A couple of complaints about that series, plus the letter above, are a good
reminder: Exposing injustice is a critical responsibility. But it carries an
obligation of vigilance against too readily anointing victims in complex and
multifaceted situations.

Another frequent charge: We customarily (sometimes insultingly) label
conservative groups while others go label-free. Last week brought a striking
example, noted by two leaders of the Independent Women's Forum: "We write to
bring to your attention the biased, prejudicial and opprobrious description of
Elaine Donnelly in the April 30 article, 'Verdict Deepens Divisions Over Women
in Uniform.' "

The letter notes that the article includes several sources identified by title
and affiliation "without prejudice." When it comes to Donnelly, it names her and
the organization she heads (the Center for Military Readiness), and then adds
this phrase: "and a one-woman campaign against sex integration in the military."

Said the letter: "We readers don't need to be prompted to hiss when Elaine
Donnelly is introduced. Just tell us (accurately and completely) what she said,
and we'll make up our own minds." I agree.

On the same front, this call concerned an April 25 article on the Fairfax County
School Board: "[The reporter] identifies two of the school board members as
'Christian conservatives' but he doesn't mention the religious affiliations of
any of the other school board members. . . . And it's pretty standard in The
Post to describe certain school board members as 'conservatives' but to describe
others as simply 'Democrats' without indicating whether they're liberals. Three
of the board members he cites are unabashed liberals. I don't understand why
they can't all be either Democrats or Republicans. Or, if you're going to single
out some as conservatives, make their counterparts liberals. It always seems to
be the conservatives who are singled out. I think there should be more
consistency."

This call aptly notes the complexities. Surely news stories sometimes need to
cite Christian conservatives as such. But wouldn't citing what this caller
refers to as "unabashed liberals" be equally relevant in similar situations? The
answers aren't easy: You can't apply labels people don't accept for themselves.
But there is an imbalance here that we need to ponder.

Then there is the problem of under-labeling -- or at least under-identifying. As
this letter writer noted: "Some of your reporters are in the habit of referring
in the last paragraphs of a story to someone who has been mentioned many
paragraphs earlier." He noted a May 3 story in which the president of the Congo
is identified once in the seventh paragraph and then in the last graph -- 15
paragraphs later. Gentle references backward, to jog a reader's memory, are an
underrepresented blessing in the newspaper.

Finally: "I have my share of non-compliments about typos and some of the bad
puns in the headlines. But what we do like about The Washington Post is that
Foreign Journal. Today's [May 5] was about Prague and the problems about statues
and other things being vandalized. But we've enjoyed many of them -- about Italy
and other places. And we think it's a great feature to just broaden the horizon
of Americans. So I thought it would be nice to tell you something that we like
about your paper for a change."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              237 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 11, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

WORLDWISE

Carol Sottili

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. E03; WORLDWISE

LENGTH: 674 words


QUICK TRAVEL TAKES

The title says it all: "Ballpark Vacations: Great Family Trips to Minor League
and Classic Major League Ballparks Across America," by Bruce Adams and Margaret
Engel, is available for $ 16.50 at local bookstores . . . Steamtown National
Historic Site in Scranton, Pa., will celebrate Armed Forces Day Saturday with a
special 75-minute steam-powered train ride to Tobyhanna Army Depot. The
round-trip ride is $ 10. Call 1-888-856-2345 . . . The "Hunt Country Stable
Tour," an inside look at thoroughbred racing, takes place May 24 and 25 in
Middleburg and Upperville, Va. The $ 15 admission benefits Upperville's Trinity
Episcopal Church, 540-592-3711 . . . Hostelling International-American Youth
Hostels (202-783-6161) has opened new hostels in San Diego, Denver and Durango,
Colo.

FACES OF IMMIGRATION

The hopes, fears and dreams shared by immigrants to America are revealed in two
new photographic exhibits. "Points of Entry," opening May 18 at the Jewish
Museum in New York City, contains photos of immigrants passing through Ellis
Island and settling in New York City. The exhibit also contains photographs
taken by immigrants. "Refuge: The Newest New Yorkers," which opened Friday at
the New York State Museum in Albany, exhibits photos of recently arrived
immigrants and their first- person accounts of the worlds they left. Admission
to the Jewish Museum is $ 7; call 212-423-3200. Admission to the New York State
Museum is free; call 518-474-5877.

WEBS WE WEAVE

New on the Internet:

* Chicago's Museum of Contemporary Art includes a virtual tour of its permanent
collection with audio. http://www.mcachicago.org

* The Polish National Tourist Office details attractions, customs regulations,
transportation, accommodations, restaurants and a calendar of events.
http://www.polandtour.org

* The Weather Channel now offers a business travelers' forecast, with weather
maps, flight arrival times and average airport delays. http://www.weather.com

* Best Fares discount travel magazine has a section open to non-subscribers that
details air-fare bargains and contains a master list of discounts that airlines
offer only on the Internet. http://www.bestfares.com

A SHORE THING

Bird, bike or kayak your way along Virginia's Eastern Shore with weekend escape
tours offered May through October. The tours are sponsored by Eastern Shore
Escapes and the Nature Conservancy with per-person, double-occupancy prices
starting at $ 195 for biking, $ 220 for birding and $ 225 for kayaking. Two
nights of lodging, guides, van support and some meals are included. Departure
points vary by tour. Information: 1-888-827-4673.

SWISS RAIL TALE

Switzerland commemorates its 150th anniversary of rail travel with an
eight-month-long celebration. Hundreds of special events and exhibits are being
held throughout the country through October. Among them:

* Seventy rail cars representing the history of rail travel in Switzerland will
participate in a two-hour parade June 14 and 15 in Lausanne.

* Tours of the Rotonde, the official home depot for steam trains, will be held
in Delemont June 21-July 20.

* The ceremony marking the 150th anniver-sary of the country's first sched-uled
train will be held in Zurich Aug. 8-10.

For a free brochure detailing the events and special rail tour packages, call
Switzerland Tourism, 212-757-5944.

PUTT IT THERE

"Golf Travel," a newsletter devoted to golf getaways, has picked its top 10 U.S.
golf resorts.

They are:

1. The Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.

2. Spanish Bay, Pebble Beach, Calif.

3. The American Club, Kohler, Wis.

4. Mauna Lani, Kohala Coast, Hawaii.

5. The Lodge at Pebble Beach, Calif.

6. The Boulders, Carefree, Ariz..

7. The Broadmoor, Colorado Springs.

8. Grand Cypress, Orlando.

9. The Four Seasons Resort and Club at Los Colinas, Irving, Tex.

10. Mauna Kea, Kamuela, Hawaii.

TRAVEL TRIVIA . . . .

WHICH CITY IS FARTHER NORTH, DENVER OR PHILADELPHIA?

TRIVIA ANSWER: PHILADELPHIA.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, switzerland tourism; Photo, mel rosenthal; Photo, lewis hine,
Images of American immigrants: Hmong women in Liverpool, N.Y., left, at the
State Museum, and an Albanian woman at Ellis Island in 1902, at the Jewish
Museum.  This 1871 Swiss steam engine, retired in 1907, will run again this
summer.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              238 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 20, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 377 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees:

Appropriations -- 9 a.m. Interior subc. FY98 approps. for Dept. of Interior.
Interior Sec. Babbitt. 124 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Appropriations -- 10 a.m. Legislative branch subc. FY98 approps. for U.S.
Capitol Police, Congressional Budget Office & Office of Compliance. S-128
Capitol.

Appropriations -- 2:30 p.m. Foreign operations subc. FY98 approps. for
international financial institutions. Treasury Sec. Rubin. 138 DOB.

Armed Services -- 10 a.m. Quadrennial DOD Review. Defense Sec. Cohen. 106 DOB.

Governmental Affairs -- 4 p.m. Mark up pending legislation & vote on pending
nominations of David Barram to be administrator of general services for GSA &
Kenneth Mead to be inspector general of Transportation Dept. 342 DOB.

Intelligence -- 10 a.m. Zona Rosa massacre in El Salvador. 216 Hart Senate
Office Bldg.

Judiciary -- Time unavailable. Oversight hearing Dept. of Justice. Attorney
General Reno. Room To Be Announced.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration subc. Private immigration bill for Michael
Christophe Meili & family. Whistleblower concerning Nazi-Swiss banking. 226 DOB.

Labor & Human Resources -- 10 a.m. Health plan quality. 430 DOB.

HOUSE

Meets at 10:30 a.m.

Committees:

Agriculture -- 10 a.m. Forestry, resource conservation & research subc. Review
financing of national forest roads. 1300 Longworth House Office Bldg.

Commerce -- 2 p.m. Energy & power subc. Reauth. of Dept. of Energy's research &
development programs. 2123 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

Conference Committee -- 11 a.m. Mark up FY97 supplemental approps. Senate
Chamber 5.

Judiciary -- 9:30 a.m. Immigration & claims subc. Oversight hearing visa fraud &
immigration benefits application fraud. 2237 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 1 p.m. Constitution subc. Oversight hearing Civil Rights Division
of Dept. of Justice. 2226 RHOB.

Resources -- 10 a.m. National parks & public lands subc. Land exchange
legislation. 1334 LHOB.

Resources -- 1:30 p.m. Energy & mineral resources subc. Oversight hearing timber
& mining land buyouts. 1324 LHOB.

Rules -- 11 a.m. Consideration of rule for dolphin protection legislation. H-313
Cap.

Small Business -- 10 a.m. Empowerment subc. Rural empowerment. 2359 RHOB.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              239 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 20, 1997, Tuesday, Final Edition

Ex-Official Resentenced In U.S. Passports Case

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16; AROUND THE WORLD

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


A former top U.S. immigration official was jailed yesterday for a three-month
term for possessing material to make false passports, far less than a previous
sentence of 40 months that he had received for actually having bogus passports.

Jerry Stuchiner, 45, was sentenced to 40 months in prison last August after he
admitted possessing false travel documents. But the five Honduran passports he
was carrying when he was arrested at Hong Kong airport in July were blank except
for an official stamp and signature. By legal definition, a travel document must
include a photograph.

An appeals court ruled he had been charged with the wrong offense and that his
conviction was unsustainable, but officers from the Independent Commission
Against Corruption rearrested him moments after he left court last month. This
time Stuchiner was charged with the correct offense -- possessing documents for
making false instruments -- and was duly sentenced, the commission said.

The commission was working with U.S. Justice Department officials probing a
smuggling ring that took illegal migrants from Asia to the United States. At the
time of his arrest, Stuchiner was the top immigration officer in the U.S.
Embassy in Honduras.  --

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              240 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 29, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

For the Record

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; FOR THE RECORD

LENGTH: 293 words


From remarks yesterday by New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani to the National Press
Club:

Is immigration better for us or worse for us? . . . There are two sides to the
story. But for the last four to five years, we've only heard one side . . .
which is the problems of immigration. . . . And what we tried to do, starting
last year, is to give the picture of . . . the benefits. . . . Immigrants who
come to the city of New York . . . work about 10 percent more often than people
who are citizens of the United States and citizens of the city. They start
businesses two to three percent more often. They are net contributors in fairly
significant amounts to the economy of the city.

When I see immigrants coming in . . . by and large . . . I see . . . people who
are going to work, people who are going to establish jobs for other people,
people who are going to increase our tax revenues and people who are going to
rejuvenate neighborhoods. . . .

They come in with an emotion that unifies them with my grandparents. . . . The
feeling is to create a better life for themselves and their families. . . . And
when you multiply that by 100 people, 1,000 people, 100,000 people per year, you
get a city that is one of the most successful cities in the world. And it's been
that way for a very, very long time. . . .

Last year, when Congress first decided that it would try to seriously restrict
immigration and change the essential equilibrium that existed, we tried to warn
about it before Congress passed the welfare bill and the immigration bill, and
that really wasn't terribly successful . . . [because] the welfare bill and the
immigration bill together cut off all legal immigrants from benefits starting on
Aug. 22nd of this year.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              241 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 04, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Clinton Urges Immigration, Wage Controls on Marianas

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; IN BRIEF; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 340 words


Citing persistent labor and human rights violations, President Clinton has
endorsed imposition of federal immigration and minimum wage laws in a remote
Pacific Ocean territory that has been criticized as an outpost of iniquity under
the U.S. flag.

In a May 30 letter to Froilan C. Tenorio, governor of the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, Clinton said the territory 3,900 miles west of Hawaii
has used exemptions from those laws to import thousands of temporary foreign
workers who are often poorly paid and mistreated in a pattern of labor practices
"inconsistent with our country's values." The letter was made public Monday.

Saying that "the problems persist and, in some cases, are getting worse,"
Clinton said he would work with Congress to amend a 1976 "covenant" that created
a political union with the islands and made their inhabitants U.S. citizens, but
allowed them to keep control of immigration and the minimum wage. Although the
issue has come up previously in Congress, the letter marked the first time that
a U.S. president has endorsed such a unilateral change in the covenant.

Government officials and businessmen in the commonwealth reacted negatively ,
according to news media on Saipan, the territory's largest island. Tenorio
suggested that Clinton has been "misled," but expressed confidence that his
lobbying strategy of bringing dozens of congressional members and staffers to
the islands on expense-paid junkets would head off the changes. Tenorio's deputy
said the imposition of federal immigration law would be "a disaster."

One of the chief beneficiaries of the labor situation has been Saipan's $ 500
million-a-year garment industry, which employs thousands of workers imported
from China. In a "gross abuse" of congressional intent, the industry has become
"a huge loophole for Asian garment manufacturers to get around U.S. quotas at
the expense of U.S. employers and U.S. workers, all the while using the 'Made in
U.S.A.' label," an Interior Department background paper said.

LOAD-DATE: June 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              242 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    June 11, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Urban Immigration

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 243 words


The Post's two-part series on the revival of New York City [front page, May 25
and 26] demonstrates the risk in using a policy of mass immigration to
camouflage the ills of urban America.

Immigrants may renew neighborhoods abandoned by "white flight." The unanswered
question remains, "What impelled so many to flee the city in the first place?"
Depending on an endless stream of immigrants, many of them illegal, to replace
those who have left is hardly enlightened urban policy. As the series documents,
many immigrants have no decent place to live, and they are willing to work in
conditions that are little improvement over the sweatshops of the early 20th
century. Is this what we mean by urban revitalization?

The most disturbing evidence, however, concerns the future. Overcrowding and the
language and cultural problems caused by a rapid influx of immigrants have
worsened the already-marginal academic performance of New York's schools. How,
without adequate education, can the children of this generation of immigrants
become the heads of solid middle-class households in the future?

No one questions that immigration brings many benefits to our society. But does
our current policy of mass immigration (1.2 million immigrants per year, legal
and illegal) augur well for the future of New York or other urban centers?

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Chairman

Subcommittee on Immigration and Claims

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              243 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 13, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Hong Kong Set to Free Jailed Former INS Agent; Suspected Smuggler Could Be
Charged in U.S.

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 672 words


With China's takeover of Hong Kong looming, the bizarre case of Jerry Wolf
Stuchiner, a renegade former U.S. immigration agent, has taken another twist,
leaving the Justice Department in a quandary.

According to U.S. officials, Hong Kong authorities have commuted Stuchiner's
latest sentence for passport fraud and plan to release him from jail before July
1, when the British colony reverts to China. Although he was arrested by Hong
Kong anti-corruption police nearly a year ago and is suspected of involvement in
the illegal smuggling of Chinese aliens to the United States, the Justice
Department has yet to file charges against him.

This means that unless the U.S. government mounts a case against Stuchiner
quickly, the 45-year-old former Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
agent could walk out of jail a free man and elude U.S. law, officials said.
There is concern that Stuchiner, using his experience as a 19-year veteran of
the INS, his knowledge as one of the agency's foremost alien-smuggling experts
and his underworld contacts, could simply disappear.

The Justice Department has been tight-lipped about the matter, saying only that
Stuchiner is the subject of a pending investigation and that no charges have
been filed. Officials said it is up to the department's Public Integrity Section
to decide whether to prosecute the former agent and what charges to file.

Stuchiner has said that if he remains in custody in Hong Kong after China takes
over, his life would be in danger because he helped Chinese dissidents flee to
the United States after the massacre of democracy activists in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square in 1989. Stuchiner served as the INS officer-in-charge in Hong
Kong from 1989 to 1994.

During his assignment in the colony, Stuchiner entered into various business
deals with a shadowy former INS informant, Dickson Yao, including a failed plan
to supply 20,000 Chinese temporary workers to Israel. While those ventures were
not illegal, the INS agent also is suspected of selling forged passports and
visas to illegal aliens. He was abruptly transferred to Honduras in May 1994,
taking up a post as the immigration service's only agent in Central America, a
major transit area for Latin Americans and Asians seeking to enter the United
States illegally.

In Honduras, Stuchiner was praised for his role in breaking up an
alien-smuggling ring allegedly headed by a Costa Rican who moved thousands of
Indians and Chinese through Central America en route to the United States. But
amid further questionable deals with Yao, he also came to the attention of the
Justice Department's inspector general's office. When Stuchiner flew to Hong
Kong in July 1996 with a Salvadoran girlfriend, an undercover agent was on the
plane.

Upon arrival, agents of Hong Kong's Independent Commission Against Corruption
arrested Stuchiner, seizing five Honduran passports that allegedly were destined
for a smuggling ring. He pleaded guilty to possessing false travel documents and
was sentenced to 40 months in prison. But an appeals court ruled in April that
he had been charged with the wrong offense, since all the passports were blank,
except for an official stamp and signature, and none contained a photograph as
stipulated under the legal definition of a travel document.

Stuchiner was subsequently sentenced to three months in jail for a lesser
offense. Since then, according to officials familiar with the case, Hong Kong
has quietly informed the U.S. government that it intends to release Stuchiner
later this month, commuting the sentence by a month.

"The Hong Kong government is anxious to have him moved before July 1," a U.S.
official said. But that deadline is putting the Justice Department in a bind
because of difficulties in putting together a solid case against him, another
official said.

As a result, they said, Stuchiner may become a free man with no place to go
since he no longer has a valid U.S. passport, stuck in Hong Kong under a regime
that he dreads.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              244 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 16, 1997, Monday, Final Edition

Border Agent's Fall Fatal

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A Border Patrol agent fell to his death in a ravine while searching rugged,
mountainous terrain for possible illegal immigrants, authorities said.

Stephen Starch, 25, stationed at El Cajon, died Saturday of severe head
injuries, said spokesman Jim Pilkington at the Border Patrol's San Diego
headquarters.

There was no indication of foul play, he said.

Starch and his partner were working in an area west of Tecate Peak in the rural
community of Dulzura, and had split up to follow different trails, Pilkington
said.

Agents were unable to contact Starch by radio. Helicopter crews from the Coast
Guard and Customs Service joined the search and his body was found after about
three hours, Pilkington said.

Another Border Patrol agent in the San Diego region died in a fall in 1995 after
losing his footing on a ledge.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              245 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 19, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Errors About Immigrants; The government spends much more on the native born.

Julian L. Simon

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 806 words


In their May 28 op-ed column, "Immigrants, Welfare and the GOP," Reps. E. Clay
Shaw Jr., chairman of the House human resources subcommittee, and Lamar Smith,
chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, wrote that a "Harvard study"
showed that "alien households . . . are more likely to receive welfare than
households with only citizens." Smith elsewhere claims that immigrants "live at
taxpayers' expense" on welfare programs.

But last month the National Research Council released a study concluding that
immigrants put more into the public coffers than they take out. How does this
square with Smith's and Shaw's assertions?

Expenditures commonly called "welfare" are about $ 150 per year greater per
immigrant than per native, and have been higher since as far back as the turn of
the century. But the welfare expenditures are only a drop in the bucket of total
government social outlays on both groups. The relevant totals are roughly $
3,800 for natives and $ 2,200 for immigrants. The piddling welfare expenditures
on immigrants are a red herring. The following elements tell the story.

Narrow Welfare Expenditures. From census and federal administrative data,
Rebecca Clark of the Urban Institute calculated expenditures for immigrants and
natives on Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), food stamps,
supplemental Security Income (SSI) and General Assistance. Foreign-born persons
tak en together have perhaps a 15 percent higher probability of obtaining these
goods and services than do natives. From her data, I estimate that federal
expenditures average $ 404 per year per immigrant, while the average native
receives $ 260. The data on these four federal welfare programs do not, however,
include most government payments to the elderly or expenditures for local public
schooling.

Payments to the Elderly. Social Security and Medicare, by far the most expensive
government transfer programs, are paid mainly to natives. This is because
immigrants typically arrive when they are young and healthy, and also because
older recent immigrants do not qualify for Social Security.

These expenditures are difficult to estimate for immigrants because the payments
differ greatly among age groups. Total federal expenditures of $ 305 billion in
1992 for Social Securi ty and $ 133 billion for Medicare indicate expenditures
per native of $ 1,305 and $ 566 respectively. Authoritative 1975 data suggest
that the average receipt per immigrant who arrived within the past 25 years is
less than one-fifth of the average expenditure per native -- say, for argument,
$ 261 and $ 113 respectively. (Some allowance for the public support of the
immigrant aged is embodied in the relatively heavy SSI payments that substitute
for Social Security.) These programs dwarf welfare programs.

Schooling Costs. Estimates by Rebecca Clark imply $ 522 per capita for
immigrants, and $ 992 per capita for natives. The expenditures are lower for the
immigrant population because the proportion of children among the total
immigrant population is smaller than among the total native population. I
consider it prudent, however, to assume schooling costs for immigrants equal to
those of natives.

Unemployment Compensation. Safely assume similar expenditures of $ 138 per
capita for immigrants and natives, based on earlier solid data.

Medicaid. It is reasonable to assume higher expenditures for immigrants than for
natives, because immigrants are somewhat poorer on average than natives. Federal
and state Medicaid expenditures are about $ 90 billion and $ 70 billion
respectively, so expenditures per person are about $ 627 for natives and, say, $
752 for immigrants.

Totals. Adding together all the above transfer payments plus schooling costs is
the appropriate measure of government expenditures for an assessment of the
costs and benefits of immigration. Total expenditures on natives per capita are
much greater than the expenditures on immigrants per capita, roughly $ 3,800
versus $ 2,200.

It is quite astonishing that the estimates for natives are so much higher than
those for immigrants. The gap derives mainly from the costs for the elderly.
These data are rough because of the age composition of the immigrant population
-- more of whom came in recent years -- and other uncertainties in the
estimates. But two conclusions are sure:

(1) The slightly greater expenditures for immigrants on the narrowly defined
welfare programs are more than offset by other categories -- indeed, dwarfed by
them. Therefore, the welfare programs alone deserve no attention.

(2) Overall expenditures for immigrants are not greater than for natives.
Rather, expenditures for immigrants are much less those for natives.

The writer is a professor at the University of Maryland and a Cato Institute
senior fellow.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              246 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 27, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Today at the Folklife Festival

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D06

LENGTH: 979 words


The Smithsonian's 30th annual Festival of American Folklife, on the Mall between
10th and 14th streets, continues through Sunday and resumes July 2-6. Today's
schedule:

AFRICAN IMMIGRANT FOLKLIFE

Community Talk

11-11:45 a.m. Connections to Home

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Immigration Stories

12:30-1:15 p.m. Passing On Culture

1:15-2 p.m. African Immigrant Musical Traditions

2-2:45 p.m. Old Traditions in New Settings

2:45-3:30 p.m. Work Experience Stories

3:30-4:15 p.m. Culture Bridging

4:15-5 p.m. Immigration Stories

5-5:30 p.m. Connections to Home

Craft and Enterprise

11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Ongoing demonstrations and displays of African immigrant
businesses and craftspeople: African Braids and Accents (Senegalese
hair-braiding traditions); Gihgi's African Fashions (Nigerian traditional
dressmaking and clothing importers); Simba Records (Kenyan-owned African record
store); Namory Keita (Malian woodcarving).

Foodways and Homelife

11 a.m.-noon Kenyan Cooking: Jane Musonye

Noon-1 p.m. West African Cooking: Mimi Green

1-2 p.m. Ethiopian Foods/Meat Cutting Demonstration: Mahmoud Tutu

2-3 p.m. Kenyan Cooking/Garden Talk: Jane Musonye and Mumia Shimaka Mbasu

3-4 p.m. West African Cooking: Mimi Green

4-5:30 p.m. Ethiopian Foods/Meat Cutting Demonstration: Mahmoud Tutu

Palaver Place Community Social Hall

11 a.m.-noon Vera Oye Yaa-Anna and Joe Ngwa

Noon-1 p.m. Ugandan Traditional Music and Dance: Kayaga

1-2 p.m. Vera Oye Yaa-Anna and Joe Ngwa

2-3 p.m. Nigerian (Yoruba) Praise Poetry: Abiodun Adepoju

3-4 p.m. Ugandan Music and Dance: Kayaga

4-5 p.m. African Dress in Washington DC

5-5:30 p.m. Mural Painting: African Immigrant Artists

Teaching and Learning Culture

11 a.m.-noon Swahili Language and Storytelling: Mkamburi Lyabaya

Noon-1 p.m. African Geography Lesson

1-2 p.m. Kenyan Storytelling: Jane Musonye

2-3 p.m. African Immigrant Children's Games

3-4 p.m. Swahili Language and Storytelling: Mkamburi Lyabaya

4-5 p.m. Woodcarving Workshop: Namory Keita

5-5:30 p.m. African Immigrants on the Internet

Music and Dance

11 a.m.-noon Nigerian Juju and Highlife: African Music Ambassadors

Noon-1 p.m. Nigerian (Yoruba) Praise Poetry: Abiodun Adepoju

1-2 p.m. Highlife: Bakula

2-3:15 p.m. Nigerian Juju and Highlife: African Music Ambassadors

3:15-4:15 p.m. Soukous, Yoruba Gospel and Highlife; Kokomos

4:15-5:30 p.m. Highlife: Bakula

5:30-7 p.m. Dance Party: Nigerian Juju and Highlife: Kokomos

MISSISSIPPI DELTA

Home Narrative

11-11:45 a.m. Quilting: Martha Skelton

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Passing It On

12:30-1:15 p.m. Basketmaking: Tampa Wilson

1:15-2 p.m. Flower Arranging: Alice Virden

2-2:45 p.m. What the Blues Can Tell You

2:45-3:30 p.m. Quilting: Henrietta Taylor

3:30-4:15 p.m. Mah-Jongg: The Chow Family

4:15-5 p.m. Tatting: Edna White

5-5:30 p.m. A Walk in the Garden

Delta Kitchen

11-11:45 a.m. Cobbler: Dinni Clark

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Hot Tamales: Irma Rodriguez

12:30-1:15 p.m. Sweet Potato Pie: Lucinda Cusic

1:15-2 p.m. Baking: Sally Chow

2-2:45 p.m. Chocolate Pie: Lawrence Craig

2:45-3:30 p.m. Cheese Straws and Jezebel Sauce: Dinni Clark

3:30-4:15 p.m. Collard Greens: Lucinda Cusic

4:15-5 p.m. Hot Tamales: Irma Rodriguez

5-5:30 p.m. Barbecue: Lawrence Craig

Camp Narrative

11-11:45 a.m. Tall Tales From the Camp

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Willing to Take a Risk

12:30-1:15 p.m. Hunting and Fishing: Subsistence and Sport

1:15-2 p.m. Cotton: Then and Now

2-2:45 p.m. Camp Cooking

2:45-3:30 p.m. Working the Water

3:30-4:15 p.m. Hunting Calls

4:15-5 p.m. Working the Land

5-5:30 p.m. Traditional Blues

Delta Dance Hall

11-11:45 a.m. Root Blues: Eddie Cusic

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Traditional Blues: Big Lucky and His Mighty Men of Sound

12:30-1:15 p.m. Soul Blues: Sweet Miss Coffy and the Mississippi Burnin' Blues
Band

1:15-2 p.m. Rockabilly: Kenny Bill Stinson and the Ark-La-Mystics

2-2:45 p.m. Dixieland Jazz: Tim Laughlin's New Orleans Dixieland Jazz Band

2:45-3:30 p.m. Rockabilly: Kenny Bill Stinson and the Ark-La-Mystics

3:30-4:15 p.m. Soul Blues: Sweet Miss Coffy and the Mississippi Burnin' Blues
Band

4:15-5 p.m. Traditional Blues: Big Lucky and His Mighty Men of Sound

5-5:30 p.m. Root Blues: Eddie Cusic

Worship Stage

11-11:45 a.m. Oratory Skills

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Gospel: Myles Family

12:30-1:15 p.m. Gospel: Revelators

1:15-1:45 p.m. Lined-Out Hymns with Penola Caesar

1:45-2:30 p.m. Easter Rock: Winnsboro Easter Rock Ensemble

2:30-3:15 p.m. Worship Craft: Jewish Crafts

3:15-4 p.m. Gospel: Myles Family

4-4:45 p.m. Women in the Church

4:45-5:30 p.m. Oratory Skills and Lined-Out Hymns

SACRED SOUNDS

Performance Stage

11-11:45 a.m. Southeastern Kentucky Gospel: Old Regular Baptists

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. South African Dance Worship: International Christian
Church

12:30-1:15 p.m. Native American Story Songs: Nancy Richardson

1:15-2 p.m. Jewish Traditions From Jerusalem: Shiru Shir

2-2:45 p.m. Japanese Ritual Music: Hawai'i Gagaku Kenkyukai

2:45-3:30 p.m. Quartet-Style Gospel: Seven Sons

3:30-4:15 p.m. Muslim Praise Song: Jerusalemite Religious Chant Group

4:15-5 p.m. South African A Cappella: Natal '77

5-5:30 p.m. Hip-Hop: Brothers Inc. 4 da Lord

7-9 p.m. Evening Concert: Church of the Living God, International Christian
Church

Narrative Stage

11-11:45 a.m. Music and Native American Beliefs (Karuk)

11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Muslim Voices

12:30-1:15 p.m. Gospel Quartet Singing: Perspectives on Faith

1:15-2 p.m. Faith and Song

2-2:45 p.m. Sacred and Social Identities in South Africa

2:45-3:30 p.m. Jewish Traditions: Sacred and Secular

3:30-4:15 p.m. Hip-Hop and Christian Ministry

4:15-5 p.m. Sacred Sounds of the Shinto Faith

5-5:30 p.m. South African Traditions and Christianity

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              247 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 28, 1997, Saturday, Final Edition

What Should We Do Now for Refugees?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 703 words


The Post's June 15 editorial "Recommendations on Refugees" misses the main point
of the bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform's recently released
report, U.S. Refugee Policy: Taking Leadership. In focusing on "two central
issues" -- how many of the world's refugees the United States should take in
each year and what groups should qualify as refugees -- you overlook the core
issues that the commission dealt with. What should be our post-Cold War refugee
policy? How can the United States best exert leadership to protect and assist
refugees worldwide, particularly in answering the calls for military
intervention in humanitarian crises? When the principle of protection is being
eroded worldwide and refugees face continuing risks, what should guide our
choices?

Only a fraction of the world's refugees come to the United States. Most remain
trapped in their own countries as internally displaced persons or are encamped
in neighboring countries awaiting repatriation. By focusing exclusively on those
who come to the United States, you omit this larger context. As the world's
leader on refugee issues, the United States should set an example for others by
setting refugee policies to act, where possible, to prevent refugee crises;
respond quickly and effectively when preventing a crisis is not possible;
facilitate protection to refugees wherever they are located; and seek long-term
solutions so as not to perpetuate refugee displacements. Our domestic
resettlement and asylum policies cannot be seen in isolation from these global
demands.

Rather than seeing the goal of refugee resettlement as managing what you refer
to as "the demand for admission [to the United States that] always exceeds the
number of slots available," the commission concluded that the United States
should actively seek refugees for resettlement as part of our efforts to promote
a more effective international refugee system. The commission believes we must
base our refugee admission priorities on human rights and humanitarian
considerations that accurately reflect the reasons that certain refugees are of
special concern to this country.

The commission recommends that priority be given to refugees who are in urgent
need of rescue or who are the immediate relatives of U.S. residents. Beyond
these priority categories, refugees should be selected from three broad groups:
(1) human rights cases, with special consideration to those fearing persecution
because of ties to the U.S. government; (2) refugees with close (but not
immediate) family in the United States; and (3) refugees who, because they
cannot ever return home, should not be forced to linger forever in refugee
situations.

Although in 1995 you called for targets "without imposing rigid caps on true
refugees or reversing this country's humanitarian leadership," your recent
editorial faults the commission for failing to set a maximum number of
admissions. The commission continues to recommend targets, as it (and The Post)
did two years ago. This target must be large enough to include all the priority
admissions and enough of the other three categories of admissions. Only in that
way will the United States demonstrate leadership that, frankly, the world will
find from no other nation. We cannot expect other nations to share in
resettlement in meaningful numbers if we do not lead the way.

In regard to your concerns that the commission failed to comment on who
qualifies as a refugee, we have confidence in the 1951 United Nations definition
of a refugee, which has proven remarkably resilient. It was deliberately written
to cover the categories of human beings marked for extermination by the Nazis,
including Jews, Gypsies, Slavs, political opponents and homosexuals. We do not
need a new refugee definition, but we do need a new post-Cold War refugee policy
and a renewed U.S. commitment to provide leadership on refugee issues. Such a
policy should protect those who need protection; help mend the fabric of torn
nations so that those forced to flee may return; and find new homes for those
who can never return.

-- Susan Martin

The writer is executive director of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, tim brinton

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              248 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 29, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Facing the Harsh Reality of the American Dream; For Many Immigrants, Settling in
U.S. Means Working for Minimum Wage Despite Experience or Education

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1410 words


A year ago, Hawre Faraj was supervising a large construction project in northern
Iraq. He had a nice office, a computer and a personal driver. Today, the
30-year-old Kurdish refugee is supervising a row of impaled chicken breasts as
they move along the conveyor belt in a chilly Hyattsville poultry plant.

Evacuated by the U.S. military and resettled in this area in April, Faraj and
several friends were taken to the chicken factory by Lutheran Social Services.
Faraj, who holds a college degree in English, keeps track of orders and chicken
parts, but the shock to his professional pride has been enormous.

"This is one of the lousiest jobs a person could do. All of us have college
educations, but we were told we had to accept any job we were offered,
regardless of our background," said Faraj, wearing a regulation hairnet and
winter boots. "It seems when you are starting a new life here, you don't have
any choice."

Throughout the Washington area these days, the person behind the wheel of any
taxicab or the counter of any hamburger stand may well be a foreigner who once
did something much more elevated for a living: a Pakistani engineer, a Bolivian
high school teacher, a Filipino accountant or, perhaps, a Vietnamese army
officer.

Of the more than 700,000 legal immigrants and 90,000 political refugees who
enter the United States each year, a sizable number are educated or trained
professionals. Some are recruited for their skills, such as the 9,000 engineers,
4,200 doctors, 25,000 business managers and 11,000 teachers who were admitted in
1995 with "occupational preference" visas.

But many more come to the United States seeking economic and educational
opportunities that fail to materialize, at least in the short run. English
proves a greater barrier than they anticipated. College loans are not available.
Employers scoff at foreign diplomas. Professional recertification exams are
arduous and expensive. And every month, the rent comes due.

So they swallow their pride and grab the first opportunity that comes along,
often a back-room position in a hotel, restaurant or factory. If their English
is decent, they can aim at more people-oriented jobs, such as salesclerk, waiter
or cabdriver. But very often, the ladder stops there.

"Ten years ago, I thought my qualifications would work in U.S.A. I thought I
could go to university and finish my career. But whatever I was thinking back
then, it was wrong," said Mohammad Khalid, 39, a marine engineer from Pakistan
who drives a cab in Washington. "I like this society, but for foreigners, there
are just too many obstacles. For me, it was big mistake to come here."

The drop in status often is sharpest for middle-class political refugees. Yanked
out of conflict zones, they often are dropped by resettlement agencies into
apartment complexes far from jobs or social services, often with no furniture,
savings, means of transportation or letters of introduction.

At Lutheran Social Services in Falls Church, a nonprofit agency that has helped
orient recent waves of refugees from Iraq, Bosnia and Vietnam, staff members
said they often must cut cruelly through the newcomers' illusions that they can
resume their old lifestyles quickly and that American society will give them a
break.

"Many of them have a high sense of self-worth, and the longer it takes them to
accept that they have to step down, the more angry and depressed they can
become. If I were in their position, I'd be angry, too," said Ruth Ann Dawson,
the director.

The adjustment is hardest for doctors, she said. "You get them a job as a
hospital aide and they want to be making all the decisions."

Jorge Prado, 36, had been practicing medicine in Nicaragua for six years when he
became fed up with his country's divisive politics and decided to try his luck
in the United States. When he arrived with his family in 1992, his plan was to
learn English, take his medical recertification exams and continue to heal the
sick.

Today, the Silver Spring man rises at dawn to travel to the Virginia suburbs,
where he paints and hangs drywall in new apartments for $ 10 an hour. His
English is rudimentary even after several stints of night class. His medical
role has been reduced to giving talks on cancer prevention at a Washington
clinic for Latinos.

"It's very frustrating not to be allowed to touch a patient," said Prado, who
has scaled back his ambitions and now hopes to become a physical therapist. "The
happy person is one who works at something he likes, but the more years go by,
the more I think it's too late for me to begin again."

Frustration has been even more acute among several hundred Kurdish refugees who
arrived in the area in April. Most held professional jobs assisting U.S.
military and relief operations in northern Iraq, and they expected special
treatment when they were evacuated from danger and invited to live in the United
States.

Some thought they would be given apartments, cars and even college tuition.
Instead, they found themselves searching want ads, scavenging for chairs and
dishes at yard sales, and facing cutoffs of their limited government living
allowances.

"We were important people at home; we had land and satellite dishes. But here we
are nothing; we are abandoned," complained Husamuddin Sadalla, 60, a former high
school principal. Spreading out a sheaf of useless diplomas in Arabic, the
Annandale man said he had applied in vain for jobs as a translator and teacher.
His brother, a former publisher, now works at a McDonald's.

"We want to be assets to America, but we need help until we can stand on our own
foot," Sadalla said. But some educated refugees are so grateful to have been
rescued from horrific conditions that they gladly accept the most menial labor.
Many Vietnamese newcomers to the Washington area survived years of war and
communist labor camps, and they long ago jettisoned intellectual ambitions in
the struggle to stay alive.

"I came here knowing I would have to start very low. That is the reality. We may
not like it, but we accept it," said Do Tran, 52, a former army lieutenant,
literature teacher and seminarian. Since arriving in Washington in 1995, he has
worked at a perfume factory and a copying service.

"Vietnam has a long history of culture, but we live that only in memory," he
said.

Illegal immigrants from countries such as Mexico and China often have little
formal education and are fleeing desperate poverty; washing dishes for $ 5.50 an
hour is a major step up. But even for many legal immigrants, a precious perch at
the bottom rung in the United States is preferable to a white-collar job back
home. Often their primary motive is their children's future; even if they remain
stuck at minimum wage, they know the next generation will have more
opportunities.

Desmond Parker, 48, could have retired soon after teaching high school for 25
years in Jamaica. Instead, he immigrated to the United States with his family in
1995, settling in Silver Spring, and now works two shifts to make ends meet,
checking prices at Hechinger and sorting mail for a delivery service. His
schedule is exhausting, but his sights are firmly set.

"I should have made this move much earlier," Parker said as he stood at the
Hechinger checkout stand in Langley Park. "I miss teaching poetry and Bible
study, and here there is not as much time to enjoy life, but the dollar
stretches much further here, and my daughter will be able to go to college."

What may be a comedown to the educated immigrant is often a boon to his
employer. Whether counting chickens or hotel towels, supervisors say, an eager
and skilled worker is preferable. At Lutheran Social Services, Dawson and her
staff said some employers refuse to hire refugees who speak little English, but
others have been so pleased they ask when more will arrive.

At the Poultry Express factory in Hyattsville, owner Kurt Otto has hired
numerous refugees sent by Dawson's office. Now, workers from Laos, Iraq, El
Salvador and Somalia stand side by side, slicing off skin from each chicken
breast that moves past.

"It's a very good opportunity for them, and for me," said Otto, keeping an eye
on the production line. "This job is not for everyone, but the Kurds are
especially smart. I've given them all promotions, and I'm hoping they'll stay
around and learn the business."

A few feet away, Hawre Faraj grinned and shook his head.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dayna smith; Photo, chris stanford, Hawre Faraj, center,
supervises as Angelica Castillo, left, and Thomsina Valdez work at a Hyattsville
poultry plant. Faraj, a 30-year-old Kurdish refugee, supervised a large
construction project in northern Iraq.  Jorge Prado, 36, practiced medicine in
Nicaragua before immigrating to the United States. The Silver Spring resident
now paints and hangs drywall.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              249 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 02, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

'Men in Black': Alienbusters

Rita Kempley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 556 words


"Men in Black" is an alien abductee's worst nightmare come true. In this witty
and stylishly offbeat sci-fi comedy, the Earth has become a "kind of like
Casablanca, but without Nazis" for extraterrestrial war refugees. At any one
time, the United States allows 1,500 legal aliens to live among us, mostly in
New York. Of course, the government doesn't tell us they're here, maybe because
of the way we behaved after Orson Welles's radio broadcast of "The War of the
Worlds."

Anyway, these creatures look just like us, and their activities are constantly
monitored by a team of crack covert operatives from an unofficial branch of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service known as the Men in Black, or MiB.
Equipped with shades, short-term-memory bleepers and an array of guns that look
like outsize saxophones, the mysterious G-men track down undesirable illegals
and send them packing. The truth is out there -- uh-huh, there is an invasion of
scary aliens -- and the mysterious MiB squad is privy to it. But the price of
this ultimate insider information is dear. Agents must sever all conventional
human contacts lest regular folks learn the truth and cause a run on bread and
milk or something.

Based on an obscure comic book series by Lowell Cunningham, this cheerfully
perverse movie could just as easily have come directly from the text of a
supermarket tabloid. Agent K (deadpan Tommy Lee Jones) regularly consults the
lurid rags -- source of "the best investigative reporting on the planet" -- for
news of rogues and extraterrestrial orbit-jumpers.

Underneath that human skin, the ETs are slime-squirting off-worlders with lots
of flippers and fins. Created by special-effects Oscar winner Rick Baker, the
beings are among the movie's chief delights with their squishy forms, screwy
mannerisms and serious attitude problems. There's a creature capable of
regenerating body parts, and a Troll doll-size being who dwells in the thalamic
region of a hollowed head. And these are the good guys.

Agent K and his cocky new partner, Agent J (engaging Will Smith), are up against
a "bug," one of the dumbest, meanest, ugliest, cussedest varmints in the known
universe. After crashing his dilapidated saucer in Upstate New York, the
cockroachlike fiend sucks the innards out of a burly redneck (hilarious Vincent
D'Onofrio) and, wearing his victim's rotting body as a disguise, heads for
Manhattan. There the mammal-hating insectoid causes war to be declared between
Earth and another galaxy.

Will agents J and K and an attractive mortician (Linda Fiorentino) be able to
stop the bug and save the world? Does Will Smith remind you of the cocky fighter
pilot who helped save the world from cosmic cockroaches in "Independence Day"?
And when did Earth become a giant roach motel?

Okay, so "Men in Black" isn't going to overtax any synapses. Ed Solomon's
screenplay is clever, but like its pulp source, it's thin in terms of plot and
character. A little more of either would have propelled the story past the lulls
that befall the second act. However, director Barry Sonnenfeld, who demonstrated
a knack for Gothic comedy in "The Addams Family," brings the same mischievous
gleefulness to this deliriously macabre enterprise.

Men in Black, at area theaters, is rated PG-13 for language and cartoon
violence.


LOAD-DATE: July 02, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, columbia pictures, Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith battle a bug.
Will Smith takes aim at a giant menacing alien in "Men in Black."

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              250 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 06, 1997, Sunday, Final Edition

Washington State, Asia Come Together in Trade; Ethnic Ties Spur Big Business
Across Pacific

Lou Cannon, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1294 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Spurred by commerce and kinship, Washington state has become the leading apostle
of an expanding Asian trade relationship that business and political leaders
here see as the global wave of the future.

Seattle's ports are jammed with ships from Japan, China, Russia and other
Pacific Rim nations. Its principal employer, Boeing, is the nation's leading
exporter to China. Washington is the only state to maintain trade offices in
Shanghai and Vladivostok. Asian trade delegations frequently visit the state
capital of Olympia to meet Gov. Gary Locke (D), the first Chinese American
governor of a mainland U.S. state.

"Much of our heritage is built upon the contributions of immigrants," said
Locke, whose grandfather came from China as a houseboy. "We have a greater
appreciation of the contribution of immigrants and a greater connection with our
homelands."

That connection is increasingly Asian. In a state settled by Yankee and
Scandinavian immigrants, Asian Americans make up an estimated 10 percent to 12
percent of the population in the Seattle metropolitan area, one of the nation's
major international trade centers. The growing Asian presence includes Chinese
from Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the mainland and significant numbers of Japanese,
Koreans, Filipinos and Vietnamese.

"Seattle is not Detroit," said David Tang, a lawyer who was born and raised in
Hong Kong. "We look upon Asia as marketing opportunities, not competition. This
creates a different psychological approach. We're a gateway where our economic
life depends on trade."

Tang advises U.S. firms that do business in Asia and Asian firms that do
business here. There are plenty of both in Washington, which has 275
foreign-owned companies, including 141 headquartered in the state. Washington
has 30 consulates and 73 sister cities or ports abroad.

In 1996, more than $ 87 billion in trade flowed through Washington ports, with
imports having a slight edge over exports. Japan was far and away the largest
trading partner, followed in order by Canada, China, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong
Kong, Thailand and Singapore. Washington has the highest per capita foreign
trade of any U.S. state, and one of four jobs in this state depends on trade.

But as Locke suggests, business is not the only motivation for Washington's ties
with Pacific Rim nations.

Tucked away in America's northwest corner, Washington state has felt remote from
the national mainstream and inclined to look westward across the Pacific. The
state was a pioneer in trading with Japan. Seattle was where the first Chinese
ship docked after normalization of U.S.-Chinese relations in the mid-1970s. When
an earthquake struck the Soviet Far East, volunteer groups in the Seattle area
led a massive drive to send food and other necessities.

Now, Washington state is taking the lead in establishing relationships with
isolated and famine-threatened North Korea.

Secretary of State Ralph Munro (R), a longtime advocate of U.S.-China ties, led
a goodwill mission in May to North Korea, where xenophobic leaders rule over a
closed, totalitarian society, to evaluate humanitarian needs. A shipment of 19
tons of wheat donated by Fisher Mills and Washington wheat growers arrived
during his visit.

A North Korean agricultural mission made a return visit in June, inspecting
Washington state crops and flood control projects. Munro warmly welcomed the
North Koreans but also urged them to improve relations with their wary neighbors
in South Korea.

When a South Korean delegation came to Olympia the next day and expressed
concern about Munro's meetings with North Koreans, he told them he had seen
malnourished and hungry North Korean children on his visit.

"Asia is our neighbor, and we will help any nation in need," he said.

This humanitarian emphasis has wide bipartisan acceptance in Washington state,
where relationships that might be controversial elsewhere cause little stir.
Munro urges officials from other states to visit North Korea. Both he and Locke
stress the importance of "people to people" relationships, which they say are
prized in Asia.

With the backing of the Legislature, Munro is creating a computerized data base
to store information about thousands of contacts between Washington state and
Asian nations by governments, schools, hospitals, volunteer groups and private
citizens.

Because of their reliance on foreign trade, most of the state's business and
political leaders advocate giving China permanent favored trading status and
admitting it to the World Trade Organization. On this year's House vote to
extend China's favored status another year, every member of the nine-member
Washington delegation except conservative Linda Smith (R) voted aye.

Friendly relationships with China are especially important to Boeing, whose
aircraft production is a traditional measurement of Washington's economic
health. Boeing, which provides 90,000 jobs in Washington, lost China sales to
European rival Airbus in 1996 and 1997 that company officials blame on
U.S.-Chinese political tensions.

Despite these setbacks, Boeing has sold nine planes to China this year worth $
1.2 billion. Marta Newhart, senior manager of Boeing's Greater China division,
said that of 354 civilian airplanes now in use in China, 226 have been
manufactured by Boeing.

Boeing sells one of every 10 planes it produces to China. Company officials
predict this proportion of sales will increase to one in seven in a few years if
China and the United States maintain stable political relations.

Business people in Washington state are dazzled by the potential of the Chinese
market. Bill Bryant, president of a firm that sells agricultural commodities in
Asia, estimated that there are 250 million people in the emerging Chinese middle
class, about the population of the United States.

And Tang jokingly propounds what he calls his "$ 1 billion sock theory," which
holds that U.S. firms will prosper if they can sell one pair of socks to 1
percent of the Chinese people.

The array of Washington-made products sold in Asia is so vast that Patricia
Davis, president of the Washington Council on International Trade, calls the
state "a microcosm of national trade." Washington-based Microsoft, second only
to Boeing as an employer, is the nation's largest seller of computer software.
Other top exports include cotton, aluminum alloys, cowhides, copper, tractors
and soybeans. Recently, the first symbolic shipments of Washington apples and
cherries were sold in Shanghai.

Despite widespread optimism over the potential of the Chinese market, some
Washington business leaders recognize they are vulnerable to political conflicts
with China and "protectionist" impulses at home.

Bryant is concerned about authoritarian excesses in China and wants the United
States to insist upon Chinese compliance with World Trade Organization policy on
democratic markets and the rule of law, as a condition of admission.

Tang, meanwhile, believes that the trade community itself is partly to blame for
the backlash against China.

"After the NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement) and WTO decisions in
1994, the trade community sat back and breathed a sigh of relief," he said.
"Into this vacuum rushed the Pat Buchanans of the world. Now, we're on the
defensive and finding it hard to get the trade message out."

Tang and Locke, his fellow Chinese American in Olympia, say, however, that
Washington state has the right message for the rest of the nation: They are
convinced that the United States should broaden trade with a China they believe
will inevitably be liberalized by participation in the global marketplace.

"That genie is out of the bottle," Locke said. "It can never be put back."


LOAD-DATE: July 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap, Washington Gov. Gary Locke, shown with his wife, Mona
Lee-Locke, after his election last November, is a frequent host to Asian trade
delegations.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              251 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 11, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

New Antiterrorism Law Suffers Legal Setbacks; Appeals Court Rejects
Palestinians' Deportation

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 10


The U.S. government lost another round today in its 10-year effort to deport
seven Palestinian immigrants and the Kenya-born wife of one of them for
supporting the lawful activities of the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine (PFLP), which is on the secretary of state's list of terrorist
organizations.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco rejected the Clinton
administration's arguments under a new antiterrorism law that even
constitutionally protected activity such as recruiting members and raising
humanitarian aid is grounds for deportation when it provides "material support"
to a terrorist group.

In upholding an injunction against deportation proceedings that was issued last
year by a U.S. district judge here, the appeals court ruled that immigrants have
the First Amendment right to raise money and promote the legal activities of an
organization that engages in terrorist acts as long as they do not intend to
support terrorism.

David Cole, a Georgetown University Law Center civil rights lawyer who
represents the Palestinians, said that if upheld on appeal, today's ruling will
overturn a key portion of an antiterrorism law signed by President Clinton last
year.

Among other things, the statute makes it a crime to provide financial support to
an organization labeled a terrorist group by the secretary of state.

The PFLP, a radical offshoot of Yasser Arafat's Palestine Liberation
Organization, opposes the ongoing peace negotiations between the Palestine
Authority and Israel. It also sponsors social programs for Palestinians,
including education and health care programs.

In today's ruling, Judge Dorothy Nelson wrote that "targeting individuals
because of activities such as fund-raising is impermissible unless the
government can show that group members had the specific intent to pursue illegal
group goals."

The court also issued a jurisdictional ruling that the 1996 antiterrorism law
does not strip federal courts of the authority to review immigrants'
constitutional claims, such as a claim that a politically motivated deportation
order violated First Amendment rights.

Cole, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights, said that part of the
ruling could affect hundreds of cases involving immigrants.

The seven Palestinians, all Jordanian nationals, and the Kenya-born wife of one,
were arrested by FBI and immigration agents in Los Angeles in 1987 even though a
lengthy FBI investigation failed to turn up any evidence of plans to commit
criminal or terrorist acts, federal officials acknowledged in submitting 10,000
pages of evidence and surveillance documents during court proceedings.

After U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson issued an injunction against
deportation on the grounds that the government had selectively enforced its
immigration laws and the 9th Circuit upheld the injunction, the government tried
again under the new antiterrorism law.

It argued that the federal courts no longer had the authority to review
immigration cases until a final deportation order was issued. The government
also said it had new evidence that the Palestinians were fund-raisers and not
merely supporters of the PFLP.

In today's ruling, Nelson said that the Palestinians' fund-raising does not
change the case and that immigrants whose First Amendment rights are violated
are entitled to prompt judicial review without having to wait for final
deportation proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              252 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 08, 1997, Thursday, Final Edition

Labor Contractors Plead Guilty To Enslaving Migrant Workers

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 149 words


Three labor contractors in South Carolina pleaded guilty yesterday to federal
charges of recruiting and enslaving migrant farm workers, the Justice Department
said.

Miguel Angel Flores, a Mexican farm labor contractor under investigation since
the 1980s, and two employees admitted threatening and abusing workers from
Mexico and Guatemala to force them to perform labor, the department said.

"There is no place for slavery in America, or anywhere," Attorney General Janet
Reno said after the guilty pleas in U.S. District Court in Charleston, S.C.

According to the department, the defendants recruited illegal immigrants in
Arizona, crammed them into vans and rental trucks and refused to let them out or
feed them until they reached South Carolina. The workers were then charged
"smuggling fees" that they had to repay through labor, a form of indentured
servitude, Reno said.

LOAD-DATE: May 08, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              253 of 253 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 09, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

Chinese Charged With Smuggling; 2-Year U.S. Probe Leads to Capture of Freighter
Crowded With Aliens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 862 words


Culminating a two-year investigation, federal authorities yesterday indicted
three Chinese men on alien-smuggling charges after intercepting a freighter
loaded with more than 100 desperate, dehydrated Chinese in stormy seas off
Bermuda, U.S. officials said.

The indictments in Boston yesterday and the seizure of the 221-foot coastal
freighter Xing Da last week broke up what officials characterized as a major New
York-based criminal organization that had smuggled Asians into the United States
for several years. The investigation also marked a rare success in penetrating a
Chinese alien-smuggling ring because undercover agents were able to capture both
the major U.S.-based organizers and the main smuggling vessel.

The three men indicted, all of New York City, had agreed to pay the owner of a
fishing boat at least $ 500,000 to smuggle illegal aliens into Massachusetts
from a mother ship off the coast, according to court papers. As it turned out,
the fishing boat owner was actually an undercover agent of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service who was working with Coast Guard agents to dismantle the
smuggling operation, an affidavit said.

The investigation is continuing, and further arrests are expected, officials
said.

In the last four years, more than 40 vessels have been detected attempting to
smuggle Chinese to the United States, and dozens of others are believed to have
landed their cargoes successfully on U.S., Mexican or Central American shores.
The most renowned case was that of the Golden Venture, which ran aground off New
York in 1993 with more than 280 Chinese on board, 10 of whom drowned trying to
swim to shore.

Illegal Chinese immigrants typically pay $ 30,000 to $ 40,000 each to be
smuggled into the United States by air, land or sea. They usually make a down
payment in China, and they or their families then pay off the rest once they
reach their destination. Sometimes the arrangement involves years of "debt
bondage" in the United States, while the illegal immigrants work for low wages
to pay off their smuggling fees.

Conditions aboard smuggling vessels have become increasingly brutal in recent
years as the risks of detection have increased, INS officials say. Crew members
and "enforcers" of the smuggling organization often keep the passengers confined
in the ship's hold during the lengthy voyage to avoid being spotted by U.S.
surveillance aircraft equipped with heat-detecting devices.

After a nearly four-month voyage from Zhong Shan in China's Guangzhou Province,
the Xing Da was stopped and boarded Oct. 2 by the Coast Guard cutter Reliance
about 112 miles north of Bermuda, Coast Guard and State Department officials
said.

Carrying 109 passengers and crew, the vessel was en route to a rendezvous point
in the Atlantic, where it was to transfer its human cargo to a fishing boat for
a smuggling run to Massachusetts about 600 miles away.

As a boarding party of Coast Guard crew members and Marines was taking control
of the Xing Da, passengers in the cargo hold set fires and rammed a wooden pole
against the freighter's hull in a futile attempt to prevent the seizure,
officials said. There were no reports of injuries in the disturbances, and the
Xing Da was towed to an anchorage a few miles off the northern end of Bermuda
yesterday.

Bermuda agreed to let the ship anchor in its waters, provided that the United
States move the Chinese out as quickly as possible, said Gavin Shorto, a Bermuda
government spokesman. He said efforts were underway to arrange flights for the
Chinese, possibly to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba or an island
in the Caribbean.

The State Department is trying to open negotiations with China on repatriating
the migrants, officials said.

At the time it was intercepted, the freighter had exposed electrical lines and
was leaking fuel from its tanks, officials said. Many passengers were severely
dehydrated, the ship was pitching in 12-foot seas, and a tropical storm was
approaching. Before taking the ship under tow, the Coast Guard boarding party
disabled the ship's engines and put out the fires that the passengers had set.

About a dozen Marines were in the boarding party to help keep order while the
Xing Da was being towed to Bermuda. INS agents also went on board to separate
the 83 passengers, including at least six women, from 26 other Chinese
identified as crew members and enforcers, officials said.

"The migrants will remain on the ship in sheltered water near Bermuda, enabling
U.S. agencies to conduct an investigation," said Susan Snyder, a State
Department spokeswoman.

Indicted in the case were Hui Lin, 34, Yiu Ming Kwan, 45, and Nai Fook Li, 30.
Informed sources said the men are affiliated with the Fuk Ching organization, a
Chinese gang that has been heavily involved in smuggling people into the United
States.

If convicted of alien-smuggling, the defendants would face prison terms of up to
10 years per alien under tough new penalties recently enacted as part of a law
to curb illegal immigration. They also would face jail terms of up to five years
for conspiracy and fines of up to $ 500,000.


LOAD-DATE: October 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, coast guard, Chinese merchant vessel Xing Da was towed to
anchorage off Bermuda after interception by Coast Guard last week.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
