
                               1 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 5, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Still Focused on Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 686 words


As President Bush prepared to welcome Mexican President Vicente Fox to the White
House today, the Mexican foreign minister said yesterday that his country will
continue to argue that a new U.S. immigration policy should include a plan for
legalizing some of the undocumented immigrants now working in the United States.

But with talks proceeding more slowly than either side had hoped, Foreign
Minister Jorge Castaneda indicated after meeting with Secretary of State Colin
L. Powell that Mexico will show a new flexibility. "It's not an all-or-nothing
deal," Castaneda said. "This is such an important negotiation."

Bush plans to talk with Fox today about ways the United States can bring Mexican
workers in temporarily, as well as ways to legalize some of the 3 million to 4
million undocumented immigrants working in the country.

The White House announced last week that no agreement was expected, and Powell
said the two countries have not yet begun to talk about specifics.

"It is a very difficult, a tough issue and we've got to do it right, not do it
fast," Powell said. "We've made a great deal of progress with respect to
principles. We are now getting ready to move from principles into specifics and
programs, and how would one design such programs."

Fox, who has made immigration reform a top priority, said in an interview Monday
that he expects it will take four to six years to revamp U.S.-Mexican
immigration policy.

Bush and first lady Laura Bush planned to greet Fox and his wife, Martha
Sahagun, at a ceremony on the South Lawn this morning. The two presidents will
then head into the Oval Office for their fifth meeting since Bush took office.
In the afternoon, they will hold a joint Cabinet meeting.

Tonight, Fox will be the guest of honor at the first state dinner of the
administration. On Thursday, he will address a joint session of Congress. Later
Thursday, Bush and Fox plan to travel together to Toledo, Ohio, and the first
ladies will appear in Chicago.

Previewing his talks with Fox about immigration, Bush told reporters yesterday
that it will "take a while to bring all the different interests to the table."

"I've explained to the president that there's no appetite for blanket amnesty in
Congress," Bush said. "I've also told him our desire is to make it easier for an
employer looking for somebody who wants to work and somebody who wants to work
to come together, but that in itself is a complex process."

Bush said he is confident that many members of Congress "are committed to
treating Mexicans with respect when they come to our country."

"We want them to be treated like you'd want any neighbor to be treated," Bush
said. He said the United States has to "do a better job of making our borders
more safe," and he said the administration will work toward "a guest worker
program that will benefit America as well as benefit the Mexicans."

Castaneda said Mexico wants any immigration agreement to include a temporary
guest worker program as well as measures to "regularize" undocumented workers,
giving them some legal status. "We have to address all of the facets of the
issue," Castaneda said. "We cannot only address one aspect."

Powell said, "I totally agree."

Seeking to highlight areas of agreement as the two new presidents opened the
latest phase in their effort to improve ties between the neighboring nations,
U.S. and Mexican officials said they had reached agreements to share information
about food-borne illnesses and to share assets confiscated from drug
traffickers.

Also yesterday, the U.S.-Mexico Binational Council, a private group sponsored in
part by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, released a 62-page
report calling on the two nations to work together to level social disparities.

"This might take the form of a substantial commitment from the United States and
Canada to provide financial resources to Mexico as well as expanded trade and
investment," the report said. "The greatest challenge facing Mexico today is the
need to fight poverty, and the United States has a stake in boosting Mexican
social development."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               2 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 15, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Delays Cited In Charging Detainees;
With Legal Latitude, INS Sometimes Took Weeks

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 851 words


Scores of immigrants detained after the Sept. 11 terror attacks were jailed for
weeks before they were charged with immigration violations, according to
documents released by the Justice Department.

In one example, two Pakistani immigrants were arrested on Oct. 2, but were not
charged with overstaying their visas until 49 days later, the records show. In
another case, an Israeli national of unidentified ethnicity was held for 66 days
before being charged with illegally entering the country.

The newly released documents, filed in federal court Friday by the Justice
Department in a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit against the agency, provide
the clearest picture yet of the controversial and secretive dragnet launched by
the U.S. government in the wake of the Sept. 11 terror attacks.

The data show that most of the approximately 725 people detained on immigration
violations since Sept. 11 were charged within several days of their arrest. But
a significant number waited in jail for a week or more before the Immigration
and Naturalization Service served them with charging documents, according to a
heavily edited list provided to plaintiffs in the lawsuit.

Even the longest of those delays do not appear to violate INS regulations, which
allow officials an undefined "reasonable time period" to formally charge
detainees with an immigration violation, according to U.S. officials and
immigration experts.

But the numbers illustrate the wide discretion that immigration officials and
federal prosecutors have exercised over those detained after the attacks on New
York and Washington, and underscore the secrecy surrounding the detentions,
according to critics of the process.

"There isn't much justification for holding someone for that period of time
without bringing a charge," said David Cole, a Georgetown University law
professor who belongs to a legal group that is a plaintiff in the lawsuit, which
seeks the identities of the detainees and other information.

"In open proceedings, the government would never get away with holding a person
for three weeks without bringing charges. The only reason they have gotten away
with it is these proceedings have been conducted under a veil of secrecy."

Justice officials said yesterday that some of the immigrants who experienced
delays may have been in the custody of the FBI or other agencies before being
turned over to INS, which could have caused a delay in formal charges.

Justice officials stressed that even without formal charges, detainees had the
right to seek lawyers, contact a consulate or embassy and ask an immigration
judge to set bond.

"Some of the formalities might have taken some time, but that doesn't mean
people weren't getting the attention they needed," said one senior Justice
official. "A lot of these cases may well be explained."

About 725 people, most of them Middle Eastern, have been detained on immigration
charges as part of the Sept. 11 probe, including 460 still in custody, according
to the documents and Justice officials.

About 370 of the detainees are suspected of having possible ties to terrorist
groups or to individuals with links to terrorism. The rest have been released on
bond, removed from the country or are being deported, authorities said.

Another group of more than 100 foreign nationals has been charged with criminal
offenses by the federal government.

FBI and Justice officials have previously indicated that only a handful of those
still in U.S. custody are suspected of being members of Osama bin Laden's al
Qaeda terrorist network or of having direct links to the Sept. 11 hijackings.
Only one person in U.S. custody, French citizen Zacarias Moussaoui, has been
charged in connection with the attacks.

A coalition of activist and legal groups, including the American Civil Liberties
Union, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee and the Center for
National Security Studies, sued the Justice Department in December to obtain
more detailed information about foreign nationals detained on criminal and
immigration charges since Sept. 11.

In documents filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, federal
prosecutors denied most of the requests, arguing that providing the names,
locations and other details about detainees would undermine the FBI's Sept. 11
probe and could endanger the public by revealing the arrests of suspected
terrorists.

"Releasing this information could pave the way for additional terrorist
activities in that it would undermine the ability of the United States to obtain
cooperation from knowledgeable witnesses," wrote James S. Reynolds, chief of the
Justice Department's terrorism and violent crime section.

But Steven Shapiro, the ACLU's legal director, said the government's "response
remains inadequate. It still denies the American public the kind of basic
information that is routinely available in other criminal investigations, and
allows the press and public to determine if the government is behaving
responsibly."

Staff writer Mary Beth Sheridan and research editor Margot Williams contributed
to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                               3 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 20, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Tyson Foods Indicted in INS Probe;
U.S. Says Firm Sought Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Kirstin Downey Grimsley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 904 words


A federal grand jury in Tennessee yesterday indicted the nation's largest meat
producer, Tyson Foods Inc., and six current or former executives on charges of
conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants into the United States to work in
poultry plants.

It is the largest case alleging corporate smuggling of illegal immigrants in
U.S. history, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
conducted an undercover investigation in which its agents posed as Mexican
middlemen.

Government prosecutors said the 2 1/2-year probe of Tyson's business practices
uncovered managerial conspiracies to import workers from across the Mexican
border and transport them to 15 Tyson plants across the country, including two
in Virginia -- in Glen Allen, near Richmond, and Temperanceville, on the
Delmarva peninsula.

The indictment said that as part of the conspiracy Tyson "did cultivate a
corporate culture in which the hiring of illegal alien workers" was condoned by
management "to meet its production goals and cut its costs to maximize Tyson
profits."

The grand jury alleged that the firm sought to hire more than 2,000 illegal
immigrant workers through INS agents who offered to bring workers across the
border and provide them with fraudulent work documents, including fake Social
Security cards.

"We couldn't keep up with their demands" for more immigrant workers "because we
had limits on the number of people we could transport," said John MacCoon, an
assistant U.S. attorney overseeing the case.

The Tyson officials indicted were Robert Hash, a divisional vice president at
company headquarters, who oversaw five plants; Gerald Lankford, a former human
resources manager at Retail Fresh, who helped supervise six plants; Keith
Snyder, who was a manager at two plants; and Spencer Mabe, Truley Ponder and
Jimmy Rowland, all former managers at a plant in Shelbyville, Tenn.

There were also hiring improprieties at plants in Alabama, Texas, Indiana,
Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina and Missouri, the indictment alleges.

Tyson Food officials denied the charges. "The prosecutor's claim of a corporate
conspiracy is absolutely false," Ken Kimbro, senior vice president of human
resources, said in a statement.

Company executives said the firm cooperated with government officials and
conducted an internal investigation of the allegations. They said they found
that the incidents were "limited to a few managers who were acting outside of
company policy at five of our 57 poultry processing plants."

After the internal investigation, Tyson officials said, four of the indicted
managers were fired and the other two, Hash and Snyder, were placed on
administrative leave.

The meatpacking industry has increasingly turned to immigrant labor in recent
years, amid a tight job market and widespread labor shortages. Mexican workers
have migrated to Arkansas and Missouri, while South Koreans and Guatemalans have
moved to Maryland's Eastern Shore.

Meat producers have said they began hiring recent immigrants because the work,
which usually involves blood, unpleasant odors and repetitive tasks, is not
attractive enough to American-born applicants.

But critics say the underlying problem is that the firms pay as little as $ 7 an
hour, too little to attract American workers. Producers have said they can't pay
more because consumers won't buy the products if they cost more.

Al Zapanta, president of the U.S.-Mexico Chamber of Commerce, said Tyson, which
he called a "good corporate citizen," and many other American companies can't
find enough workers in the United States to meet their needs.

"We're not willing to do these jobs anymore, but immigrants, like always, are
willing to do it to provide for their families," he said.

The case started when INS officials received a document about hiring practices
at the Shelbyville plant, prosecutor MacCoon said. That led the agency to launch
a sting operation using undercover agents.

The agents, posing as middlemen, recorded several telephone conversations with
company officials in which supervisors expressed an interest in hiring
undocumented workers, the indictment said. One undercover agent told Tyson
officials repeatedly of his efforts to get workers "across the river."

In a conversation on Sept. 29, 1998, for example, Tyson executive Mabe told the
undercover agent the workers would need identification documents but that "if
these folks are hired, they won't never be checked."

The undercover agent later told Mabe that fraudulent Social Security cards cost
$ 200 each, and Mabe replied that he would check with other officials but could
probably pay a "recruiting fee." The executive added that he would then need
"some kind of guarantee that they are going to stay . . . for at least six
months, a year, or something," according to the indictment.

It also cited written records of a meeting in March 1998 at the company's
Springdale, Ark., headquarters that contained this directive: "Never, ever,
admit hiring illegals."

If convicted, Tyson could face a civil forfeiture of $ 500,000 per count. It
could also be required to relinquish any profits it obtained through hiring
workers illegally, MacCoon said.

He noted that Tyson remains under criminal probation since it pleaded guilty in
December 1997 to paying an illegal gratuity in a corruption case against former
agriculture secretary Mike Espy, who was acquitted in 1998.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               4 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

No Easy System for Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 242 words


Contrary to what Adam Sparks believes, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service does check intending immigrants' health and criminal records [letters,
Oct. 10]. In addition, the relative (or employer) who sponsors an immigrant must
still assume financial responsibility for the immigrant.

As a legal immigrant, I know firsthand of these requirements.

Moreover, illegal immigrants do not receive widespread government assistance.
During the 1990s, the federal government drastically cut illegal and legal
immigrants' access to benefits. Recently, some states and cities have expanded
certain benefits, because, for example, immigrants who do not have access to
basic or emergency health care could undermine public safety. It is true that
the law stipulates that these individuals should not be here. In any case, they
are a reality that we must address.

Mr. Sparks makes the system sound a lot easier than it is for legal and illegal
immigrants. The system has many safeguards. Mr. Sparks must also understand that
U.S. immigration authorities are facing many determined individuals who feel
they have little or no economic opportunity in their countries. It is hard to
stop a person who feels she or he has nothing to lose.

And many believe that if authorities do not conduct more raids to apprehend
illegal immigrants, it is because they are willing to turn a blind eye to this
cheap and reliable source of labor.

MONICA V. MARTINEZ

Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               5 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Keep Immigration Tight

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 158 words


The calls by Sens. Tom Daschle and Richard Gephardt for looser immigration rules
for Mexicans wishing to move to or stay in the United States [news story, Nov.
18] are blatant appeals for Hispanic votes that run contrary to American public
opinion.

What's more, such rules are impractical.

With the slow economy, especially after Sept. 11, polls show that Americans
increasingly favor more selective immigration laws and more secure borders and
that they strongly oppose the mass amnesty for undocumented Mexican immigrants
that the two senators call for.

Sen. Daschle's assertion that undocumented immigrants would undergo FBI
background checks before receiving amnesty is impractical. No U.S. government
agency has the resources to perform background checks on the 4.5 million
Mexicans who could receive amnesty. Because each new citizen means another
voter, surely many of them would receive cursory checks, if any.

CHRISTOPHER EDWARDS

New York

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               6 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 26, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Return to Immigration Reform

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 308 words


IN THE IMMEDIATE aftermath of Sept. 11 the debate about immigration policy
flipped. Overnight, discussion swung from the possibility of more open borders
to the urgent need for tighter security. The regularization agenda embraced
earlier this year by Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox of Mexico was shoved to the
back burner, while Congress and the administration began considering how to beef
up the border patrol, improve scrutiny of visa applicants and keep better track
of foreign students in the United States. When mid-level American and Mexican
officials met for talks in Washington last week, it was clear that security
remains the top U.S. priority. But this is not an either-or question.

The United States and Mexico can and should collaborate on security, including
coordinating intelligence so that foreign travelers of concern to U.S. officials
can be identified if they turn up in Mexico. More extensive pre-clearance of
regular travelers or cargo could help ease security delays at the border. But
there is a security aspect as well to tackling the broader problems of illegal
migration. Although the flow across the border has slowed since Sept. 11, and
more Mexicans here are seeking to return home than at this time a year ago, an
estimated 3 million Mexicans still are living illegally in the United States,
and when the economy recovers, the lure of jobs in the north will return.
Finding ways to bring longtime illegal residents into the sunshine and direct
the flow of workers into legal channels would be another step toward getting a
better handle on who is here and who is crossing the border. It should free at
least some investigative capacity for focusing on those who threaten the United
States, rather than those seeking to share in its prosperity. Tackling these
issues made sense before Sept. 11. It still does today.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               7 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 6, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

INS Seeks Law Enforcement Aid in Crackdown;
Move Targets 300,000 Foreign Nationals Living in U.S. Despite Deportation Orders

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 712 words


U.S. immigration authorities announced yesterday that they have enlisted the
help of law enforcement agencies in a crackdown on more than 300,000 foreign
nationals who have remained in the country illegally after they were ordered
deported.

James W. Ziglar, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said the names of as many as 314,000 such foreigners would be entered in a
national FBI crime database so police can help identify them. Previously, the
government did not pursue most people who ignored orders to leave the country.

Ziglar said the move was part of an effort to tighten domestic enforcement of
immigration laws, an area of concern for lawmakers since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

"This isn't a sweep" of illegal immigrants, Ziglar said. These are "people who
have been on the lam, who have been accorded due process," he told a U.S.
Chamber of Commerce luncheon.

The order applies to foreigners who were in the United States illegally and have
either skipped their deportation hearings -- resulting in an order to leave the
country -- or turned up to receive deportation orders but subsequently vanished
while out on bond.

Their names will be placed in the FBI's National Crime Information Center
database, a list of millions of records consulted by more than 80,000 law
enforcement agencies ranging from local police to the Secret Service.

The new measure would allow even a local police officer writing a traffic ticket
to determine that a violator is subject to a deportation order. Previously, only
foreign nationals sought on criminal charges, as opposed to immigration
violations, were entered into the FBI database.

INS spokesman Joe Karpinski said that local or state police who discovered
deportees would turn them over to the INS, which would return them to their home
countries. He estimated the new system would lead to the discovery of up to 10
percent of the missing deportees each year. The rest, he acknowledged, might
manage to stay in the country undetected.

Karpinski said it would take about a year to gather the names of as many as
314,000 people from INS offices and log them into the FBI database.

Ziglar's announcement represented a shift for the INS, which has devoted little
attention to people, known as "absconders," who disappear after deportation
orders. Spokesmen said the agency has lacked the staff to go after many of the 7
million to 8 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, and has
focused on a few high-priority groups, mainly criminals and immigrant smugglers.

Some of the hundreds of thousands of "absconders" disappeared after receiving a
final deportation notice, which is known in immigrant communities as a "run
letter" because that is what it prompts many to do. But enforcement has been so
limited that many deportees do not bother hiding, said Susan F. Martin, director
of the Institute for the Study of International Migration at Georgetown
University.

"They don't even run anymore. They know the INS won't go to their house to pick
them up," she said.

Ziglar said his announcement was not part of the government's anti-terrorism
campaign, but instead was aimed at making the INS "more effective." Still, it
comes after alarm from legislators over the government's lax enforcement of
immigration laws. Three of the 19 men blamed for the Sept. 11 terrorist strikes
had stayed in the United States illegally beyond the limits imposed by their
visas.

Ben Ferro, an immigration consultant and retired INS district director, said the
crackdown was long overdue.

"Up until now, the INS had placed these absconders in the lowest possible
priority," Ferro said. "It's courageous because he [Ziglar] is going to catch
some flak over this" as people are removed from jobs, homes and families and
sent back to their native countries.

Even some pro-immigration activists seemed unfazed. "What's important to know
about these folks [is], they did have their day in court," said Angela Kelley,
deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, a Washington group. "In the
post-September 11th context, we've seen a lot of people's constitutional rights
trampled on. It's those people I'm much more worried about."

Staff writer William Branigin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               8 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Fla. Police May Aid INS in Detaining Immigrants

BYLINE: Mike Branom, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO March 4


In an unprecedented move in the war on terrorism, the federal government is
drafting a plan that would allow Florida authorities to arrest illegal
immigrants deemed threats to national security.

"It's a big deal, it's revolutionary," said Joe Greene, assistant commissioner
of investigations for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "There's a
role in homeland security for an appropriate mix of the INS with the support of
local and state law enforcement officials."

Florida would be the first state where state and local authorities carried
authority previously held only by federal agents. Officials said today that the
Florida plan might be in place by next month.

Under the proposal, local authorities could arrest suspected illegal immigrants
on civil charges. They already can detain immigrants on criminal charges.

"We want to avoid that case where somebody has to be let go because we don't
have the authority to detain them," Florida Domestic Security Chief Steve Lauer
said.

At least 15 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers had Florida connections. Of the 19,
three were in the country on expired visas.

The plan being drafted by the INS and the state calls for 35 police officers,
sheriff's deputies and Florida Department of Law Enforcement agents to be
trained in federal immigration policies and procedures.

Federal and local officials pointed out that the INS would still handle routine
immigration cases. Only in urgent situations, they said, would there be local
assistance.

"We're not taking over anything," Lauer said.

But he said that exactly in what circumstances local authorities could make
arrests has yet to be worked out.

The proposal also had some local officials worried that their forces would be
pressed into service covering for the INS.

"The execution of this is going to demand a lot of cooperation," Broward County
Sheriff Ken Jenne said. "The local governments are going to be anxious to
cooperate, but whether the INS has the personnel to do so is going to be another
story."

Greene said the INS is not looking at local authorities to substitute for its
own agents, but acknowledged any assistance could help his understaffed agency.

"I oversee 2,000 special agents in the country, and that's nowhere near enough
to handle the responsibilities that are being asked of us," Greene said.

Some immigrant advocates said the proposal was flawed.

"I think this is further evidence of collateral damage that we've seen since
9-11 in terms of immigrants' rights," said Cheryl Little, executive director for
the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.

"Once [officials] have this green light, what's to stop them from stopping
somebody because they don't like the color of their skin?"

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                               9 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 6, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Plan to Have Police In Florida Help INS Stirs Rights Debate;
Activists Say Immigrants' Trust at Issue

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 856 words


A pilot project to give some Florida police officers federal power to arrest
illegal immigrants would merge the roles of local law enforcement and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service as never before, sparking fears that the
new arrangement may erode immigrants' trust in police.

The proposed project, involving 35 Florida police officers who will focus on
thwarting terror attacks, marks the first use of an obscure provision of a 1996
law that allows the INS to "deputize" local or state police to enforce
immigration law.

Proponents argue that, in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, an
overwhelmed, understaffed INS needs aid from local law enforcement. They
predicted other states may try to emulate the Florida project; already, South
Carolina is considering a law that would enable it to do so.

"This is really seen as a new tool that will . . . expand our ability to enforce
the nation's immigration laws," said Bill Strassberger, an INS spokesman.

But local and national immigrant advocates are alarmed, saying the plan could
lead to harassment and discourage undocumented immigrants from reporting crimes.

"This will totally destroy the relationship that has been built with the police
for many years. It's extremely bad for the Latino community," said Gustavo
Torres, director of Casa de Maryland, a social service agency.

The controversy underlines the complexity of bolstering national security in a
country that is home to an estimated 8 million undocumented immigrants. Three of
the 19 alleged hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks were part of that underground
population, but so are millions of laborers valued by their bosses. The INS has
2,000 investigators to pursue them.

Until now, local and state police sometimes helped the INS with transportation
or security when it was conducting a raid. But they could not make arrests on
civil immigration violations.

Florida officials initially proposed the partnership with INS as a way to enlist
the state's police force in the search for people in the country illegally. "Why
not leverage the entire 40,000 [police] officers in Florida?" Tim Moore,
commissioner of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, said in December.

Since then the plan has been dramatically scaled back. It calls for providing
training in immigration matters to 35 police officers, sheriff's deputies and
Florida Department of Law Enforcement agents. They would be attached to seven
domestic security task forces being established in Florida, said Al Dennis, a
spokesman for the law enforcement department.

The police would focus on terrorism suspects. "This is not about getting
authorization to raid farm workers' camps," Dennis said. But he had few other
details of the project, explaining that Florida officials were still working on
a memorandum of understanding with the INS, an essential step in deputizing
local police.

Experts said the plan appears to represent a significant change in the
relationship between federal immigration authorities and local police.

Doris Meissner, a former INS chief, said that agency had long been wary of
deputizing local police because of fears they would misunderstand complex
immigration laws and violate civil rights. For their part, local police were
often reluctant to do the INS's work because of concerns that immigrants would
not report crimes if they feared arrest.

"There may be a new willingness and desire on the part of local law enforcement
to actually make the commitment that would be required to really exercise the
authority properly," said Meissner, now at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.

Since the 1996 law passed, there has been only one serious attempt to give local
police federal immigration powers. In 1998, Salt Lake City approached the INS
about deputizing 20 officers to focus on undocumented immigrants, part of an
effort to fight crime. But the city council abandoned the plan after an outcry
from Hispanic activists worried about ethnic profiling.

Cecilia Mun oz, vice president for policy for the National Council of La Raza,
said that concern has been revived after Sept. 11. "We get complaints almost
every day about people being pulled out of their cars, being asked to prove they
belong in their communities. We are very concerned this proposal will create
more of that."

South Carolina's attorney general, Charlie Condon, has urged passage of a bill,
scheduled for consideration by a subcommittee today, that would allow local
police to enforce federal immigration laws. He hopes the state can then open
talks with the INS on a formal agreement, a spokesman said.

District, Maryland and Virginia officials said there were no plans to seek a
similar agreement. But a spokesman for Virginia's attorney general, Jerry
Kilgore, expressed interest in the plan.

"For almost all law enforcement situations, the first response is going to be at
the local level. Especially in this atmosphere we're in, with regard to
terrorism, we would be more than happy to find a partner at the national level,
whether it's the INS or other federal agencies," said Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              10 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Court Denies Back Pay to Fired Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 480 words


The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that the federal government may not compel
employers to award back pay to undocumented immigrants who were illegally fired
for trying to join a labor union.

By a vote of 5 to 4, the court held that the National Labor Relations Board
(NLRB) had thwarted a national immigration law's goal of preventing the hiring
of illegal immigrants when it told Hoffman Plastic Compounds Inc. to pay almost
$ 67,000 to Jose Castro. Castro was an undocumented worker from Mexico who went
to work for the company in 1988, then was fired in 1989 for joining an
organizing drive by the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum & Plastic Workers of
America.

"[A]llowing the board to award backpay to illegal aliens would unduly trench
upon explicit statutory prohibitions critical to federal immigration policy,"
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote in the opinion for the court, which was
joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, Antonin Scalia and
Clarence Thomas. "It would encourage the successful evasion of apprehension by
immigration authorities, condone prior violations of the immigration laws, and
encourage future violations."

The NLRB, Rehnquist wrote, "asks that we . . . allow it to award backpay to an
illegal alien for years of work not performed, for wages that could not lawfully
have been earned and for a job obtained in the first instance by a criminal
fraud."

However, four dissenting justices said that the ruling would actually create
more incentives for companies to hire illegal immigrant workers, because they
can now violate their right to join a union, at least once, without fear of
legal liability.

"[T]he Court's rule offers employers immunity in borderline cases, thereby
encouraging them to take risks, i.e., to hire with a wink and a nod those
potentially unlawful aliens whose unlawful employment (given the Court's views)
ultimately will lower the costs of labor law violations," Justice Stephen G.
Breyer wrote in a dissenting opinion joined by Justices John Paul Stevens, David
H. Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

The National Labor Relations Board found in 1992 that Hoffman had violated
federal labor law by firing Castro and three other employees for trying to join
the union. At a hearing in 1993, Castro admitted he had entered the country
illegally and got his job with fraudulently obtained documents. An
administrative judge found him ineligible for back pay. But in 1998, the NLRB
reversed that ruling and ordered Hoffman to pay Castro.

Hoffman appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit, which concluded last year that the NLRB's order should be upheld.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D.-Mass.) called yesterday's decision "a dramatic
setback to America's workers," and said he would seek legislation to undo it.

The case is Hoffman Plastic Compounds v. NLRB, No. 00-1595.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              11 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 25, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Men Charged In Visa Scheme;
2,700 Fake Papers Filed, U.S. Says

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 930 words


Federal agents swarmed into Arlington yesterday and shut down a massive
immigration fraud scheme that allowed thousands of illegal immigrants to obtain
permission to work in the United States -- and made millions of dollars for an
Arlington lawyer and his colleague -- prosecutors said.

Samuel G. Kooritzky, 63, an immigration lawyer and owner of the Capital Law
Centers, and Ronald W. Bogardus, 65, an engineer, had submitted nearly 2,700
phony applications since the beginning of last year for "labor certifications"
from the state and federal government, according to a 60-page affidavit filed in
federal court in Alexandria yesterday. The docu- ments certify that an employer
needs a foreign worker for a job because no U.S. citizens are available. Once
the Department of Labor issues a certification for a worker, the immigrant can
apply to the Immigration and Naturalization Service for permanent residency.

Kooritzky allegedly charged immigrants at least $ 8,000 to file the paperwork.
The two men, who are each charged with one count of immigration fraud, raked in
at least $ 11 million, and as much as $ 21 million, over the past 18 months,
agents estimated.

"There's every reason to believe this is going on all over the country," said
Ben Ferro, a former INS district director in Baltimore.

Ferro said the INS doesn't have enough agents to track internal visa schemes,
particularly with increased border scrutiny and other changes in priorities
since Sept. 11. "There are many, many areas of immigration law that, because INS
doesn't have the ability or willingness to monitor and stamp them out, it goes
unchecked," he said. "And when these things are found, they're usually only
prosecuted when they reach the kinds of numbers you're talking about here."

Bogardus is accused of obtaining the names of local businesses for the
paperwork, even though the businesses and their managers were unaware they were
being used as "sponsors" for the immigrants.

As one example, Kooritzky allegedly filed 184 requests for labor certifications
from a Silver Diner restaurant in Arlington for short-order cooks. None of the
agencies reviewing the paperwork noticed the sudden demand for foreign workers
from one restaurant.

An INS spokesman said last night that noticing such a scheme would depend on how
many applications were filed in a certain time period. "It's certainly something
we want to be on guard against, but there's no way to ensure, if the petitioners
are coming forward with the proper determinations, that there are too many
coming forward," spokesman Bill Strassberger said.

Kooritzky of Vienna was released after a brief appearance before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Welton Curtis Sewell. He did not comment.

Bogardus said, "I'm an honest, law-abiding citizen." But Sewell ordered the
Arlington man held without bond after agents found him carrying $ 44,000 in cash
when he was picked up outside his Arlington office. The judge also ordered the
assets of both men frozen.

Investigators in Kooritzky's case said they were amazed that neither the
Virginia Employment Commission nor the U.S. Labor Department noticed the volume
of applications coming in from individual restaurants. In addition to the Silver
Diner's petitions, 173 requests came from a Shoney's in Manassas; 184 from an
Applebee's in the Alexandria area; 108 from an Outback Steakhouse in Arlington;
and 230 from two Chili's restaurants, one in Springfield and another in the
Alexandria area.

In each instance, the application said the potential cook would be paid $ 12.05
an hour, according to the affidavit written by Andrew H. Shea, a Labor
Department special agent. When Shea visited the restaurants, managers at each
said they had not filed for labor certifications and that they don't pay
starting cooks that much.

When immigrants seek a labor certification, their applications are sent to the
state employment agency to determine whether U.S. workers are available. The
state agency sends the application to the federal Labor Department, which
decides whether to issue a certificate. The immigrant then can take that
certification to the INS.

Joyce Fogg, a spokeswoman with the Virginia Employment Commission, said, "The
state's responsibility is to review it for completeness and see that the
employer's requirements do not exceed what is normal for the occupation."

She said the state also tests the labor market to see if U.S. workers are
available. "If an employer has already tested the market by running newspaper
ads, our people review that effort."

Shea's affidavit said Kooritzky and Bogardus placed ads in the Washington Times
and submitted those as evidence that they had tried to hire local workers.

Kathleen Harrington, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of Labor, said the
agency's review program works to "ensure there is no adverse impact on the local
labor market." She said the department would look at the allegations in the case
and "evaluate how we do operate the program."

Of the nearly 2,700 applications filed by Kooritzky since January 2001, Shea
wrote, he had investigated 1,436 and "did not find a single legitimate
application." The inquiry was launched last spring after the Labor Department
accidentally sent a certification to a Chili's restaurant, rather than
Kooritzky, and the store manager notified authorities.

Investigators do not know how many of the labor certifications were approved or
how many visas were issued. Officials said the INS could move to revoke the
residency status of anyone who obtained a visa with a phony application.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              12 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 2, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Migrants Wary of Guest Worker Plan;
Impact on Wages, Competition for Jobs, Permanent Residency a Big Concern

BYLINE: William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1776 words

DATELINE: VISALIA, Calif.


In the golden light of late afternoon, in the heart of this vast agricultural
valley, three weary grape-pickers lean against a dusty truck and add their
voices to the coming debate over immigration reform.

"Don't make us guest workers. Make us citizens. We've earned it," said Antonio
Vargas, who earned $ 60 that day after working eight hours under the sun. "They
should make us legal first and then see how many more workers they need."

Asked by a reporter if it would be all right to print his name, Vargas shrugged.
"Sure, what are they going to do? Kick us out of the country?" He shook his
head. "We're all here without papers," he said.

There may be as many as 200,000 undocumented residents in California's Central
Valley. Of the 1.2 million agricultural workers in the country, as many as
750,000 are believed to be here illegally. Vargas understands that if all the
undocumented Mexicans left the valley, the crops would rot in the ground.

Three thousand miles away in Washington, President Bush will welcome Mexican
President Vicente Fox this week for talks that may begin to determine the future
of Vargas and the estimated 6 million to 9 million illegal immigrants in the
United States, about half of whom are Mexican.

As the two leaders prepare to meet, illegal immigrants, whose voices have
largely been unheard in the immigration reform debate, are wondering if the
"special relationship" Bush has said he seeks with Mexico will someday allow
them to come out of the shadows.

In dozens of interviews across California, workers such as Vargas applauded the
talk of reform that would make it possible for them to acquire legal residency,
work permits or citizenship.

But they are wary of "guest worker" programs that would bring unskilled laborers
from Mexico to fill temporary jobs in agriculture and service industries. They
fear that the presence of temporary workers would suppress wages for all
low-skilled labor. They also assume that if the Mexican bureaucracy were
involved, the system would be corrupt and would involve bribing low-level
officials to get jobs here.

"I've been here for almost five years," said Yolanda Acosta, 30, a Mexican who
works illegally as a maid at a small motel in Los Angeles. "I've waited my turn
and worked hard. I think the government should want me."

In July, the administration sparked excitement in the immigrant community when
it floated the possibility that reform might include legalization or
"normalization" of undocumented workers, who perform low-wage jobs on farms and
in restaurants, slaughterhouses, hotels and nursing homes.

Last month, after high-level meetings between U.S. and Mexican officials, that
talk turned to a more vague discussion of an expanded guest worker program.
There have been few details of just what that might mean, and officials
cautioned that they did not expect a rapid conclusion to the negotiations.

On Friday, White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said the Bush-Fox meeting
is expected to yield a set of "principles" on how to stem the flow of migrants
across the U.S.-Mexico border and a plan for Mexicans living illegally in the
United States.

The ultimate decision -- a guest worker program, normalization, some combination
of plans or little reform at all -- is being closely awaited by the workers.
They do not like, for example, the current policy of generally tying a guest
worker to a single contracting employer. Life might be hard in the United
States, some say, but you can always quit your job and look for another.

"What if you don't like the boss?" asked Augustin Ramirez, 31, an undocumented
worker who makes $ 10 and sometimes $ 15 an hour hanging drywall in Los Angeles.
"If you can't quit, you have lost freedom. I wouldn't do it. I make the
decisions for me."

Few of the undocumented workers already here said they plan to return to and
live in Mexico, which guest workers might be required to do.

Union leaders who represent agricultural and service employees, many of them
undocumented, repeat the same refrains.

"This is an issue that is critical to our members. We think, first, that
everyone in this country needs to be legalized before there is any other
discussion about guest workers or anything," said Eliseo Medina, executive vice
president of the Service Employees International Union, the largest labor
organization representing immigrants, with about 1.4 million members.

Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm Workers, called legalization his
group's "number one priority." The farm workers union opposes large increases in
the number of guest workers.

What would happen, the immigrants ask, if millions of undocumented workers here
were not legalized but forced to compete for jobs with legally sanctioned guest
workers? "We would be fighting each other for the same jobs," said Francisco
Torres, a farm worker for the past 21 years, who took advantage of the 1986
amnesty that legalized 2.7 million people. "Nobody would make any money."

Acosta, the motel worker, favors any reform that would make her a legal resident
and able to work. She has two children, both living with their grandmother in
Mexico. As an illegal immigrant, Acosta cannot get health insurance or a
driver's license. She cashes her checks at storefront banks, and most of her
spending -- for rent, clothes and food -- is in cash. She has had taxes withheld
from her paychecks, but she never files a tax return to get some of the money
back.

Her biggest problem, Acosta said, is that her being here illegally makes it
risky, if not impossible, for her to go home to Mexico to see her children. In a
way, she feels trapped. "Getting back, my God, it's too hard, and too
expensive," Acosta said.

Tightening the border with Mexico has not reduced the illegal population in the
United States, which soared along with the booming economy of the 1990s. But
beefing up the border has moved traffic away from urban areas and into the
deserts. It has also made crossings more expensive and dangerous. Last year,
more than 300 people died trying to cross the 1,900-mile border between the
United States and Mexico.

Maria Pineda is a farm worker in California's Central Valley. She has not
returned to Mexico in the past 14 years because she is here illegally. "I'm
afraid," she said. "It is not easy to go back and forth."

Pineda said legalization would allow her to enroll in adult education classes
and perhaps get a job as a nurse's assistant -- to advance out of the fields.
She said she also hopes for some kind of legal status so that her children could
go on to college as state residents and pay far less tuition, and perhaps even
qualify for financial aid.

Whenever she works under a rare United Farm Workers contract, Pineda can make
about $ 14,000 a year picking crops. Without the contract, she said, she is at
the mercy of growers, and her annual income drops to about $ 8,000 a year.

That salary gap, however, points to another possible roadblock as Congress
considers the cost of legalizing millions of undocumented immigrants. Many work
for minimum wage and might eventually be eligible for some forms of public
assistance, such as food stamps.

There is opposition to both legalization and expanding guest worker programs.
Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) and others, for example, are reluctant to grant
"amnesty" to millions of immigrants who entered the country illegally, saying
that it would reward law-breaking. Some also argue that it is unfair to focus
exclusively on Mexicans.

In addition, groups that want the nation to slow the flow of immigration say
that a new guest worker program is not really necessary, that there is ample
labor but not at the wages offered for low-skilled jobs. They also note that
many guest workers do not return to their countries but find ways to remain in
the United States.

The United States operates several guest worker programs. The best known
provides visas to professionals in high-tech jobs, but another is for seasonal
agricultural workers. Farmers have complained for years that the guest worker
program is too bureaucratic and cumbersome, and only about 30,000 agricultural
guest workers come here each year to join a farm labor force of about 1.2
million.

But a coalition of employers who need low-wage workers says there is a labor
shortage that could be addressed by expanding guest worker programs to meet the
current and future demand for millions of low-skilled employees -- workers that
our own nation cannot provide.

Calling itself the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, the group represents
hotels, restaurants, nursing homes, meatpackers, contractors and janitorial
service suppliers.

"Who will fill the millions of essential worker positions that we will create?"
Randel Johnson, a vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, asked a House
subcommittee. "Immigration must be one answer, but current law does not provide
the solution."

In his written testimony, Johnson advocated a guest worker program that provides
"an orderly, structured (and safe) process by which those outside the country
looking for work can enter the country, obtain legal employment, and return home
to their families."

It is unknown how many Mexicans and Central Americans would be ready to come to
the United States, without their families, to work for some period and then
return home. Labor experts and Mexican officials believe that there would be a
large supply of ready guest workers. One problem, however, is that many illegal
immigrants already in the United States may be unwilling -- or may be ineligible
-- to become guest workers.

"They're not interested in becoming guest workers," said Rodriguez of the United
Farm Workers. "They've got kids in school, they attend churches, their lives are
here, and their basic feeling is 'I'm here. I'm not going anyplace. Regardless
of what you do, I'm not leaving.' "

Interviews with undocumented workers tend to support Rodriguez's point. Illegal
immigrants with families or spouses said they do not want to return to Mexico
and would not volunteer to be temporary workers.

"I love my country, but I cannot make a living there," said Javier Cristobal,
who works at a Los Angeles restaurant, will marry a U.S. citizen soon and hopes
to legalize his status that way. "You spend a few years up here and you stop
thinking as much about going home."

Asked what will stop their compatriots from illegally crossing the border to
look for work in the United States, most undocumented workers had no answer.

"They'll keep coming," Torres said. "No matter what."

Special correspondent Jeff Adler contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              13 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 25, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrant Total Is Raised

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 667 words


The number of illegal immigrants in the United States is at least 7 million and
possibly as high as 8 million, according to new figures from the 2000 Census
that offer a significantly larger count than previous estimates.

The new total shows that the number of undocumented immigrants has at least
doubled since 1990, as millions of people arrived -- mainly from Mexico and
Central America -- to fill jobs in the booming economy of the past decade. The
previous estimate from census officials for the undocumented population was 6
million.

The new figure is another indication of the enormous demographic changes the
country has seen in the past decade, fueled in large part by a record number of
new immigrants. The precise number of undocumented arrivals has long been
difficult to pin down and highly controversial.

The new information is likely to reinforce sentiment to seal the nation's
borders more tightly against illegal immigrants or to take steps to prevent
people who entered legally from overstaying their visas.

Before the Sept. 11 attacks, support had been building for an amnesty program
for undocumented workers, but that is now seen as unlikely. Not only is there
less political support for regularizing undocumented workers, there is also less
employer demand because the nation's economy is deteriorating.

Census Bureau officials computed the new total in part to help determine why the
nation's population as measured by the 2000 Census -- 281 million -- was 6
million larger than they had estimated it would be. To answer that question,
they took an early look at data on the nation's foreign-born residents, which
had not been scheduled for release until next year.

That data showed that 31 million U.S. residents were born abroad, and officials
concluded that at least 7 million of them were undocumented. Overall, the
foreign-born population grew by more than 11 million in the past decade.
Undocumented immigrants accounted for about a third of that, according to the
new data.

The figure of 7 million undocumented immigrants was contained in a recent Census
Bureau study, but the study said the number could be low by as much as a million
because immigrants are often missed in the door-to-door national head count.

The study's coauthor, Kevin Deardorff, said in an interview this week that,
based on information he received after the report was written, he believes it is
"a number closer to 7 million."

But another expert on immigration, Jeffrey S. Passel, an Urban Institute
researcher who advised the Census Bureau as it compiled the new numbers, argued
that even a figure of 8 million could be low.

"They now are in the ballpark," he said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service bumped up its own estimate earlier
this year to a potential total of 7.5 million.

Steven Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies, which
favors limits on immigration, said the new census numbers marked "the first time
anyone in the government has said it is that big." Given that the 1990 estimate
of illegal immigrants was 3.5 million, Camarota said, "this number shows an
inability to control the border."

Cecilia Mun oz, vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza,
argued that the numbers showed the need to revive amnesty discussions, in part
to get a handle on who is in the country illegally. "We are much more likely to
advance the cause of security in this country if we have a better sense of who
is coming into the United States," she said.

The recent economic slide has particularly hurt undocumented workers, who often
are employed in the service jobs most likely to vanish in bad times. But Deborah
Waller Meyers, a policy analyst with the Migration Policy Institute, said that
she would be "surprised if large numbers of undocumented people left the United
States" now. Border security is tighter than it was a few years ago, she said,
and many illegal immigrants realize that they may not be able to get back in.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              14 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Smuggling Ring Broken, U.S. Says

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 337 words


Federal law enforcement officials have broken up a large smuggling ring that
used a Los Angeles-based bus company to transport illegal immigrants from U.S.
cities near the Mexican border to locations around the western United States,
Attorney General John D. Ashcroft announced yesterday.

Thirty-two people were indicted in "Operation Great Basin," including the
president and other corporate officers of Golden State Transportation, a
regional bus company, and six alleged smugglers, Ashcroft said.

They were charged with "transporting and harboring illegal aliens for profit,"
he said.

"We will not tolerate violations of our borders," Ashcroft told reporters
yesterday. "Operation Great Basin serves as a warning. . . . U.S. law
enforcement is ready to find you . . . and prosecute you."

No one answered the telephone at Golden State's headquarters. The company is
partially owned by Sistema Internacional de Transporte de Autobuses Inc., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Greyhound Lines Inc., said Lynn Brown, a spokeswoman
for Greyhound.

"[Today's] announcement came as a complete surprise," Brown said. "The Justice
Department has not contacted us about this. Of course if we're contacted, we'll
cooperate fully."

The indictments allege that Golden State officials conspired with smugglers to
transport between 50 and 300 migrants a day from the southwest border to such
cities as Los Angeles, Albuquerque and Las Vegas. The alleged scheme involved
immigrants already in the United States who had been taken to private homes to
await transportation to other cities.

Bus company officials allegedly allowed smugglers to buy large blocks of tickets
in advance and schedule arrivals and departures at night to avoid police
detection, according to the indictment. They also allegedly altered their routes
to circumvent Border Patrol checkpoints.

The FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which conducted the
two-year investigation, arrested 19 people in seven states over the last two
days, Ashcroft said.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              15 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 16, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS Sees Big Drop in High-Tech Visas

BYLINE: Shannon Henry, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E05

LENGTH: 554 words


The fallout from a slowing economy and the technology bust has shown up in yet
another place: the decreasing number of so-called high-tech visas awarded to
foreign workers.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said this week that the number of
people who received H-1B visas during the first three quarters of fiscal year
2002 was less than half the number approved in the same span last year.

"Jobs are down overall and so are H-1B visas," said Theresa Brown, director of
immigration policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "You're seeing the economy
at work."

From Oct. 1, 2001, to June 30, 2002, about 60,500 people were approved to work
under H-1B status. About 130,700 people were approved as of the same time last
year. Pending petitions for H-1B visas were estimated at 18,000 as of June 30.

The H-1B status allows foreign professionals to work here for up to six years.
Congress has increased the annual allotment of H-1B visas several times, to the
current threshold of 195,000.

Elizabeth Stern, an immigration lawyer with Shaw Pittman, said that because
companies are cutting expenses, they are doing less recruiting at overseas
universities.

However, the INS said those who count toward the official limit make up less
than half of the total number of people given H-1B status, because those who
were previously approved and whose stays are extended or have their status
modified are not included in those numbers. Also, people working for educational
institutions and nonprofits are exempt from the limit and not counted against
it.

Still, according to the INS report, demand for H-1B visas is down. During the
first nine months of fiscal year 2002, 159,000 H-1B visa requests for new or
continuing employment were filed, compared with 270,000 in the same period last
year and 220,000 two years ago.

The shrinking number of H-1B applicants comes at a time when technology
unemployment continues to rise. During the tech boom, many U.S. companies said
their biggest problem was finding enough workers. So businesses, especially
technology companies, went overseas for skilled labor, and helped foreign
workers apply for H-1B visas. The growing popularity of H-1B visas, however,
became controversial as some protested that American workers were bypassed for
foreigners who would work for less money. Others complained that the program
allowed U.S. businesses to exploit foreign workers.

Thom Stohler, vice president for workforce policy at the American Electronics
Association in Washington, said he wasn't surprised at the drop in applications,
because it tracks with the economy. But he said the visas are still an important
part of the technology workplace.

"The H-1B visa program is a necessary program," said Stohler, whose organization
represents 3,000 technology companies. "It helps create jobs." He said he didn't
agree that H-1B visa-holders displace American workers.

"The program is very popular with industry and not popular with the public,"
said Steven Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington. Camarota said the reported numbers are "meaningless" because of
those with H-1B status who aren't counted in the statistics. Still, Camarota
said, the numbers are too high. "Our immigration policy is decoupled from our
economic policy," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              16 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

10 Years Too Steep

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 312 words


The recent arrests of undocumented workers and ex-offenders at our region's
airports offer only the illusion of greater safety for the traveling public
[front page, April 24].

As co-founder, along with Kerry O'Brien, of a nonprofit organization devoted to
securing and enforcing the rights of low-wage workers, we believe that it is
nothing short of offensive for the government to accuse workers of widespread
fraud deserving of 10-year prison sentences.

Where punishment is deserved, let it be meted out. But let it fit the crime.

Many employers are eager to hire undocumented immigrants because they provide
easily exploitable, cheap labor. We also see many workers who are having trouble
getting or keeping jobs because of their criminal histories. These workers, who
are seeking work to improve their lives, are faced with the lose-lose situation
of telling the truth about their histories on job applications and being turned
down for employment, or lying about their criminal records and risking
termination if background checks are done.

If these workers are not eligible for continued employment at our local
airports, so be it. However, it is unjust to paint with the same brush immigrant
workers and ex-offenders who prepare sandwiches and salads for airline
passengers with educated, trained terrorists who fly planes into buildings,
killing thousands of people. It is similarly unjust to try to imprison these
workers for 10 years when all they were trying to do was earn a living.

The Post story quoted no immigrant advocates, no unions that represent these
workers and none of the people arrested. Neither the government nor The Post's
story mentioned anything about sanctions for the employers who may have violated
the law by knowingly hiring workers without proper authorization.

JUDITH M. CONTI

Co-Founder

D.C. Employment Justice Center

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              17 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 10, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Deported 131 Pakistanis In Secret Airlift;
Diplomatic Issues Cited;
No Terror Ties Found

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1025 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


In a highly unusual airlift involving hundreds of U.S. immigration officers, the
Justice Department secretly chartered a Portuguese jet to deport 131 Pakistani
detainees who had been held for months at INS detention facilities around the
country.

A majority of the detainees, a Pakistani official said, had been arrested under
a Justice Department program to locate and apprehend immigrants who have ignored
previous deportation orders and who came under scrutiny after the Sept. 11
attacks. None of the detainees appeared to have links to terrorism, U.S.
officials said.

U.S. and Pakistani officials arranged the airlift as a way to resolve
contentious diplomatic issues that have arisen between the two countries since
the Justice Department began detaining immigrants in the United States. U.S.
authorities have arrested about 1,200 people, most of Arab and South Asian
descent, on immigration violations and in connection with the terrorism
investigation. According to the latest government figures, 74 foreign nationals
are still being held on immigration charges related to the probe.

None of the detainees taken into custody after Sept. 11 has been charged with a
terrorism-related crime. The detentions and subsequent deportations have been
conducted in secret, drawing criticism from civil liberties advocates. Those
critics say the government has illegally targeted Muslims and disrupted the
lives of hundreds of people who have nothing to do with terrorism and who have
built lives in the United States.

Most of the detainees, who were airlifted out of Louisiana on June 26, boarded
the plane quietly and willingly, but about 40 of them were "extremely unhappy"
about being deported, according to Imran Ali, a Pakistani consular officer. One
briefly resisted by lying down on the tarmac, and another had to be carried onto
the plane, he said. Seconds before the plane was about to taxi, a man whose wife
had obtained a court order preventing his deportation was removed from the
plane.

The flight touched down 20 hours later in an equally dramatic scene, according
to Ali, who helped plan the operation and was aboard. About 50 detainees, now
shorn of the loose-fitting handcuffs they had worn throughout the trip, dropped
to their knees in the 120-degree heat and pressed their foreheads to the
broiling tarmac to give thanks to Allah.

"It was very moving. They were thanking God that they were free," said Ali.
"Most of them were very disappointed to have to leave the United States. Many
were crying. But after being in detention for eight or nine months, they were
also happy to be back in Pakistan."

Citing security concerns, the government did not release any information about
the flight to the detainees or to their families, although all were allowed to
make phone calls before departure.

The flight was originally scheduled to carry 170 detainees, but 39 obtained
court rulings blocking their deportation, Ali said.

According to figures released by the Justice Department last year, 300 of those
detained in the United States were from Pakistan, more than from any other
country. At the urging of top Pakistani officials, including President Pervez
Musharraf, the U.S. government accelerated the removal of Pakistani detainees
earlier this year, deporting them with escorts a few at a time on dozens of
commercial flights. But that process came to a standstill in May for
administrative reasons, according to Ali.

At the same time, U.S. authorities had begun to arrest hundreds of people who
had ignored deportation orders under a new "Absconder Apprehension Initiative."

Planning for the charter flight began in early May, as the Pakistani ambassador,
Maleeha Lodhi, pressed U.S. officials to resume the removal process and also to
expedite the repatriation of Pakistani nationals detained under the absconder
initiative.

"The Pakistani government was extremely cooperative in helping us ensure that
these individuals were repatriated with safety, speed and dignity," said Karen
Kraushaar, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

According to U.S. officials, the operation, which involved the coordination of
INS offices throughout the country, was kept quiet for security reasons. They
said the government chose to use a charter flight because of concerns that a
U.S. government jet would be a potential target. After accepting bids, the
government chose to use a Lockheed L-1011 jet offered by a Portuguese company,
Air Luxor, for $ 342,000. Officials involved in the planning estimated that the
cost of the entire operation surpassed $ 500,000.

The detainees were escorted to an airport in Louisiana by INS agents from 22
cities across the United States, including Baltimore. They numbered 130 men and
1 woman, officials said. According to Ali, 26 were detainees arrested on
immigration violations after Sept 11; 35 had been held on criminal charges,
including rape, larceny, burglary and cocaine possession; and most of the
remainder were absconders.

Of the absconders, Ali said, many had been in the United States for years and
were married with children. The deportations, he said, ruptured their lives and
those of their families. Ali said he believes those immigrants should be granted
amnesty. "On the human scale, it's a tragedy. But we were left with a Hobbesian
choice: Either grant them their freedom or let them languish in jail," he said.

The flight departed with 30 unarmed INS officers guarding the detainees in
shifts. Dressed in civilian clothes, the INS officers stood in the aisles at all
times, Ali said, one at every fifth row. The detainees were given specially
blessed meals and were allowed to watch three movies. Two nurses dispensed
pain-relief medicine and monitored the detainees.

Ali said he spoke with each detainee during the flight. Their main concerns, he
said, were that they had been singled out because they were Muslims, and that
they would be taken into custody again when they arrived in Pakistan. None was,
he said. Instead, the plane pulled up at a remote location at the Islamabad
airport. The detainees were questioned briefly, then released.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              18 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 11, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Migrant Smuggling Grows More Ruthless, Deadly

BYLINE: Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1396 words

DATELINE: CALEXICO, Calif.


The crossing began in the dirty water of the New River. Clinging to old tires,
the illegal migrants and the men smuggling them waded silently past this dusty
border town on a hot, windy afternoon. They had not gone far when Brad Dupre, a
Border Patrol agent, drove by and spotted them.

"You can bet another smuggler's waiting for them," he said. He wheeled his truck
up a bumpy road near the river. Then his radio crackled with an alert: A white
pickup had ignored another agent's order to stop. Dupre caught sight of it
minutes later, but as soon as he pursued, the driver swerved into a ditch, dived
into the river and disappeared. The migrants downstream had lost their ride.

"Well, that one didn't go like they planned," Dupre said.

Another day here in the desert badlands along the border, another chase. The
cat-and-mouse game between federal agents and migrant smugglers from Mexico is
old and never ends. But with security on the border tighter than ever this
summer, the tactics of the smuggling gangs that most illegal migrants now rely
on are becoming more desperate, ruthless and deadly.

In the past two months, more than 110 migrants who put their fate in smugglers'
hands have perished along the border from California to Texas. They have
succumbed to searing desert heat, frozen in mountain passes, drowned in rivers
and canals, and crashed in vans trying to elude highway checkpoints.

Hundreds more migrants rescued from dire straits have told investigators the
same stories of being abandoned or abused by smugglers demanding payment of $
1,500 or more for passage into the United States through treacherous routes.

The Border Patrol has made the problem a priority, and federal prosecutors are
toughening criminal penalties for smuggling, but migrants are still dying in
large numbers. The tally so far this summer, usually the riskiest time of year
for crossings because of triple-digit temperatures on the border, is higher than
it was last summer even though by all accounts the number of migrants trying to
sneak into the country from Mexico this year is declining.

In this hardscrabble farming valley 110 miles east of San Diego, more than a
dozen migrants have drowned in recent months trying to cross the All American
Canal, which straddles the border and is only about 25 yards wide but has
deceptively strong currents. Most victims fell off flimsy rafts smugglers gave
them, or slipped from weak ropes tossed in haste across the canal.

One night earlier this summer, five illegal migrants were killed and 16 others
were seriously injured when a smuggler who had stuffed them inside a van tried
to evade a checkpoint on Interstate 8 near here by driving on the wrong side of
the busy highway with his headlights off. The van struck four oncoming vehicles.

Such extreme maneuvers are becoming common, Border Patrol agents say, because
smugglers have new fear of getting caught and reap bigger rewards if they don't.

After the horrific crash, which also killed a middle-aged motorist from
Albuquerque, a 25-year-old Mexican field worker who allegedly drove the van was
arrested and charged with smuggling. He reportedly has told investigators that
he had led a group of illegal migrants on a two-hour hike through the desert and
was expecting to be paid $ 300 from a smuggling organization that operates in
Mexico and Southern California if he made it past border checkpoints.

"The price and the danger of smuggling is rising. And more people are turning to
smugglers," said Executive Assistant U.S. Attorney John R. Kraemer in San Diego,
whose office is on track to prosecute more than 500 alleged migrant-smugglers
this year.

The days when most migrants trying to get across the border illegally paid a
lone "coyote" a few hundred dollars for help, or attempted a crossing on their
own from Mexico, are over. Today, authorities say that nearly all migrant
smuggling along the border here is managed by syndicates that charge expensive
fees, control routes and employ a variety of operatives -- guides, scouts,
decoys, drivers -- linked by cell phones and following meticulous plans.

"We're not dealing with mom-and-pop operations anymore," said Dupre, who has
investigated border smuggling for over a decade. "These groups have people all
over. They change tactics every time we change tactics."

Here in the Border Patrol's El Centro sector, which has become a smuggling hub,
agents have apprehended nearly 90,000 illegal migrants this year and have
rescued 200 others from the desert. Their journeys, investigators say, are
becoming ever more elaborate and risky.

Once smuggling deals are made in Mexico, most migrants are driven to a secluded
desert site to follow a guide who leads small groups on grueling trips to the
border on foot. Those that make it across connect with drivers assigned to take
them to local hiding places until plans are made to get them through highway
checkpoints, then on to safe houses where they are held, often against their
will, until prearranged fees are paid.

In recent years, the Border Patrol has installed so many agents, steel fences,
spotlights and motion sensors at what had been the busiest crossing points near
urban areas such as San Diego that the smuggling trade has moved to remote
places. Security also has tightened since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

But some immigrant rights groups say that the crackdown, dubbed Operation
Gatekeeper, is increasing demand for smugglers and putting migrants in more
peril because it keeps pushing crossings into harsher terrain and climate.
Nearly 800 migrants have died attempting illegal crossings in the past three
years.

"They've made smugglers absolutely indispensable," said Claudia Smith, who works
on migrant issues for the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation. "So many
people are being led into or left in these vast expanses of hell in the desert,
there's no amount of search and rescue that can save them all."

Robin Hoover, a minister who leads a group in Arizona called Humane Borders,
which last year began erecting water stations in the desert for migrants, said
that while not all smugglers are thugs, many have become reckless and cruel.

Some of them dupe migrants into believing the desert crossings will be easy, he
said, then rob and leave behind those struggling on the trip. Other smugglers
separate migrants from their children or force them to take drugs, he said.

"In a couple of cases this year, they have given them cocaine so they could keep
up, or at least not complain so bitterly," Hoover said.

The Border Patrol dispatches medical teams on rescues and has installed six
rescue towers with reflective mirrors and strobe lights around the desert. The
towers can be seen for five miles and are linked electronically to a Border
Patrol communications center. Migrants just press a button for help.

The agency is trying to bust smuggling rings with the help of Mexican
authorities and by using undercover operations and aerial surveillance. It
recently released its first "Most Wanted" list of smugglers and is enlisting
Mexican celebrities in a new media campaign to warn how dangerous crossings are.

But on the front lines here, smugglers are responding with round-the-clock
guile. They send scouts to watch Border Patrol checkpoints. They pay local
residents who are unlikely to arouse suspicion to hide illegal migrants or drive
them past the checkpoints. They set up some unsuspecting migrants to get caught
in order to distract agents from noticing others slipping across the border.

"We can barely keep up," Dupre said as he searched the pickup truck of the
smuggler who had jumped into the New River. Its engine was still running.

The river, which winds across the border, is a popular route for smugglers. The
overgrown brush along its banks provides good cover, and it is so polluted with
sewage and other toxic waste from Mexico that the Border Patrol forbids agents
to get in it. Most migrants led into the river by smugglers do not realize its
waters are hazardous, Dupre said.

"They have no idea where they are," he said. "They're just sheep following their
guide."

Dupre climbed back into his truck. There was still no sign of the smuggler in
the river. "He'll turn up again," he said, and kept looking as he pulled away.

Special correspondent Jeff Adler contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              19 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 18, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Suspects Entered U.S. on Legal Visas;
Men Blended In;
Officials Say 49 Have Been Detained on Immigration Violations

BYLINE: Peter Slevin and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1330 words


At least 16 of the 19 suspected hijackers who commandeered American jetliners
entered the United States with legal visas, U.S. authorities said yesterday,
adding to a portrait of terrorists who took advantage of America's open society
as they planned their murderous assault on the Pentagon and the World Trade
Center.

Fifteen of the suspects received business or tourist visas from U.S. consular
offices abroad, while one arrived with a visa permitting him to take vocational
courses -- such as airplane flight training, a source said. Once in the United
States, the men simply blended in, even as some of their visas apparently
expired.

As the largest criminal investigation in U.S. history ended its first week, U.S.
authorities announced yesterday that 49 people with potential connections to the
probe had been detained on possible immigration violations, while others had
been arrested on material witness warrants sealed by federal courts on national
security grounds. They said the numbers are growing.

FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III told reporters that some detained individuals
are cooperating, while others are not. Investigators are picking up so many
people and scrutinizing so many documents, from seized papers to intercepted
communications, that Mueller yesterday made a national appeal for talented
Arabic and Farsi speakers.

The web of inquiry rippled outward as federal authorities worked to unravel
details of the hijackers' support network and solve a central riddle: Are more
terrorists at large in the United States? Are more attacks planned?

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft said surviving associates of the hijackers
have "ties" to terrorist organizations and "may be a continuing presence in the
United States." Ashcroft said he would seek stronger investigative powers and
announced that 300 members of the U.S. Marshals Service had been added to the
team probing the terrorist assault.

Elsewhere, the FBI searched homes and businesses and continued to track scores
of individuals wanted for questioning.

One focus of the investigation is e-mail traffic among the alleged conspirators.
The FBI has asked Microsoft Corp. for e-mail records from a Hotmail account that
has the word "pilot" and the letter "Z" in the address, according to a source
familiar with the court order. The government is also seeking information from
accounts managed by America Online, Earthlink and several mid-sized providers.

The FBI believes some suspects may have accessed their e-mail at computers in
two public libraries in Hollywood, Fla., according to Broward County libraries
director Sam Morrison. Yesterday, U.S. subpoenas went to county libraries,
seeking electronic and paper records of transactions made by anyone on a list of
names compiled by the FBI.

"They asked for all information that we have in whatever form we have it related
to this list of people," Morrison said.

At a Delray Beach, Fla., library, a librarian reported that two Middle Eastern
men, including one who gave a name that matched the FBI's list of suspects, had
used that facility's Internet connection.

Among developments elsewhere:

* In Boston, federal officials were investigating a report that a man lacking
proper clearance gained entry to the control tower at Boston's Logan Airport
just three days before the terrorist strikes. Two of the hijacked planes
departed from Logan and headed south, powering into the twin towers of the World
Trade Center.

"We are aware of the allegations in our facility and we are investigating," said
FAA spokeswoman Arlene Salac, who said no logs were kept of tower visitors. She
said video of the tower would have been erased within 24 hours of the visit, and
she declined to discuss published reports that the man claimed to be a pilot
with family in Afghanistan.

* In Montreal, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police are investigating whether some
suspects in the terrorist attack on New York and Washington may have taken
lessons at a local flight school, said the flight school's owner.

* In Central Florida, FBI agents arrested a man as a material witness Sunday,
according to a law enforcement source who said the man was connected by credit
card records to some of the hijackers. Authorities moved to hold him without
bail and transfer him to New York, where the investigation is centered. The
unidentified man has obtained a lawyer and sought a bond hearing.

In discussing the broader investigation, Justice Department officials have
refused to name some of the people arrested as material witnesses, saying that
they want to avoid tipping off others and compromising their investigation.
Officials will not even say how many people have been arrested as material
witnesses. All are being held without bond, and charges against them will be
lodged under seal.

Department officials said individuals being held on immigration violations will
not be publicly identified either. Certain court documents will be made public
as people are formally charged, but will be significantly redacted.

People held on immigration violations can request a bond hearing before an
immigration judge and a lawyer to represent them, said a department lawyer: "We
don't force people to talk to us."

Although most of the suspected hijackers entered the country legally, some had
violated the terms of their visas before the Sept. 11 terrorist attack,
according to federal authorities. The business and tourist visas, known
respectively as B-1 and B-2, usually admit visitors for a few months.

Many travelers, however, obtain versions of those visas that allow them to enter
the country repeatedly. Immigration and Naturalization Service inspectors at
entry points have not been able to keep a tight watch on the flood of travelers,
said Benedict Ferro, a retired INS district director.

"I think you'll find the average amount of time the inspector at the airport
spends with an individual is less than a minute," Ferro said. "That's the kind
of whittling away at the process that has been going on for years."

FBI investigators across the country continued to explore the social networks
and living arrangements of the hijackers. Agents twice visited a sprawling motel
on Route 1 in Laurel that two suspected hijackers visited in anonymity -- the
Pin-Del Motel, where a neon sign advertises "Vacancy" and another sign promotes
truck parking and waterbeds.

Nawaq Alhamzi, identified as a hijacker on American Airlines Flight 77, which
crashed into the Pentagon, stayed at the Pin-Del on Sept. 1, the motel's
registration records show. He paid $ 42.90 in cash for the room and gave his
address as 161 Lexington Ave. in New York City.

Ziad Jarrahi, believed to have been the pilot on United Airlines Flight 93
hijacked from Newark, stayed at the same Laurel motel a week earlier. He paid $
132 with a Visa card for three nights when he checked in Aug. 27.

The next day, at 6:20 p.m., he checked out. The motel refunded him $ 44.

Two of the hijacking suspects stayed for a week at the Valencia Motel in Laurel,
where FBI agents seized or inspected registration records, credit card receipts
and phone logs from Aug. 23 through Sept. 11.

Several miles south, at the Islamic Center of Laurel, a fixture of the town's
small Muslim community, members said they were surprised that Laurel had become
a focal point. The head of the congregation, who asked not to be identified,
said members were questioned last week by the FBI and shown photos of suspected
terrorists.

No one recognized any of the men in the photographs, the congregation leader
said. "If someone were going to carry out an operation like that, I doubt they
would expose themselves to this community," he said.

Staff writers Jo Becker, Justin Blum, Ceci Connolly, Tom Jackman, Chris L.
Jenkins, Fredrick Kunkle, Brooke A. Masters, Caroline E. Mayer, Don Phillips,
Eric Pianin, Walter Pincus, Susan Schmidt, Michael D. Shear, Leef Smith and
Craig Whitlock contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              20 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 29, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Drug Trafficking Declines on U.S.-Mexico Border;
Tightened Security Since Sept. 11 Snares Fugitives, Reduces Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Sept. 28


Heightened security along the U.S.-Mexico border since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks in the United States has dramatically reduced the flow of drugs and
illegal immigrants and led to the arrests of scores of fugitives wanted in both
countries.

The U.S. Customs Service said that between Sept. 11 and last Sunday, more than
8,700 pounds of drugs were seized along the border, an 80 percent drop from the
44,160 pounds seized in the same period last year.

Dean Boyd, a Customs spokesman, said drug traffickers may be "sitting on loads
in Mexico temporarily" during this "code red" security level. But he did not
discount the possibility that traffickers may simply be using alternate routes,
and he said the drop-off could be temporary. In fact, he said, drug seizures
have started creeping back up in the past few days, perhaps because the
traffickers have "got to meet payroll."

The number of illegal immigrants crossing the border has also fallen
dramatically. Along the 2,000-mile border, immigration-related arrests are down
24 percent this year. But since the attacks, they are down 34 percent, and in
some places along the border, arrests have declined as much as 48 percent
compared with the same period last year, said a spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Customs officials also say they are catching fugitives unrelated to the
terrorist attacks at a sharply increased rate. Comprehensive figures are not yet
available for the whole border, but officials in several key sections are
arresting more people with outstanding warrants for a variety of crimes from
auto theft to murder.

For example, officials in El Paso have arrested 26 fugitives wanted on federal,
state or local charges since the attacks, compared with 11 during the same
period last year.

The best-known fugitive arrested was the former governor of the Mexican state of
Baja California Sur, wanted on embezzlement charges in Mexico. Former governor
Guillermo Mercado Romero is now in a Mexican jail. He was walking across the
border near San Diego last week when he was asked for his identification. A U.S.
immigration official checked it against a law enforcement database, the charges
against him popped up and he was detained.

U.S. inspectors typically can perform only random and quick inspections of
pedestrians and cars crossing the border. But since Sept. 11, more inspectors
have been added. Most are working overtime, and are performing more
comprehensive checks. In addition, the United States has stepped up exit
inspections, monitoring not only those entering the country, but also those
leaving it.

It is unclear how long the far more expensive and extensive code red security
measures will continue. President Vicente Fox said Thursday that his
government's tighter border security since Sept. 11 would likely be permanent.
Many U.S. border officials also said border security is likely to be permanently
enhanced with increased personnel and more X-ray machines.

Fox noted, as U.S. officials have, that the coming challenge is improving
security while maintaining a smooth flow of commerce.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              21 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 7, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Losing Track of Illegal Immigrants;
Once in U.S., Most Foreigners Easily Escape Notice of INS

BYLINE: James V. Grimaldi, Steve Fainaru and Gilbert M. Gaul, Washington Post
Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2580 words


Over the past decade, terrorists have posed as students, slipped across the
lightly patrolled Canadian border, used false passports and presented themselves
as tourists to enter the United States and plot deadly acts.

Their persistence in exploiting loopholes forced U.S. officials to confront a
monumental question after the Sept. 11 attacks: Can a broken system, designed to
police millions of people who come to the United States in search of a better
life, be quickly reconfigured to capture the few who arrive in pursuit of a life
of terror.

The challenges are daunting, interviews and a review of federal and
congressional audits and INS records show. The attacks against the Pentagon and
the World Trade Center highlighted numerous problems:

* International students, sponsored by 15,000 universities, colleges and
vocational schools, have been considered a potential security risk for nearly
two decades. The federal Immigration and Naturalization Service fails to keep
track of foreign students and ignores scores of second-tier schools that offer
aviation and specialized training to foreigners.

* The INS is unable to track more than 3 million foreign nationals who are
overstaying their visas. Record-keeping is so incomplete that the INS has no
record of six of the 19 suspected Sept. 11 hijackers entering the country,
though they are believed to have come through ports of entry with legitimate
visas.

* Counterterrorism has never been a top INS priority and the agency is
ill-equipped to handle it. Though the INS has a small national security unit to
coordinate with federal law enforcement, what little funding it has mostly goes
into operations not specifically aimed at stopping terrorists.

* The 4,000 mile border between Canada and the Lower 48 states has been
identified by terrorists as easy to cross, with vast unmonitored stretches.
Officials are unsure when it can be made more secure.

"Our nation is best characterized as a sieve," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein
(D-Calif.), an immigration subcommittee member. "Clearly people are exploring
the penetration points of our system to put themselves in close touch with
either substances or instruments of mass destruction in the United States."

Some loopholes have been closed in recent years, sometimes in response to
terrorist plots. It is now harder to claim political asylum, for example, and
new technology has helped identify suspect individuals at entry points.

The continuing wide abuse of the system has been especially evident since Sept.
11. Authorities have rounded up more than 500 foreign nationals, holding as many
as 150 on suspicions that they violated immigration laws that officials
acknowledge are rarely enforced.

The overwhelming majority of those charged have no known links to the 19 men
believed responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks.

Senior law-enforcement officials have recognized for years that foreign students
raise security issues. The INS is unable to track more than half a million
foreign students -- from nuclear-engineering scholars to 20,000 pilot trainees
-- giving terrorists potential access to dangerous technology and training.

The concerns peaked in 1993 with revelations that the terrorist who drove an
explosives-filled truck under the World Trade Center had arrived on a visa to
study engineering at Wichita State University.

In 1995, an INS task force concluded that the agency "has no system in place to
monitor or audit schools" and did not know when foreign students "depart, drop
out, transfer, interrupt their education, violate status or otherwise violate
the law."

That flawed system has remained essentially unchanged, the INS and school
administrators said. To secure or extend a visa, foreign students rely on a
ubiquitous immigration form called an I-20, which is sent by approved schools to
an INS data processing center in London, Ky.

"Lord knows what happens after that," said Helene Robertson, a former director
of immigration services at Georgetown Medical School. "We'd joke about it being
sort of a black hole."

By 1996, Congress ordered the INS to update computerized tracking of foreign
students. The agency launched a 21-school experimental program in 1997. Colleges
protested, however, arguing that student tracking would stigmatize foreigners
and impose a burdensome $ 95 fee.

Still, the experimental program succeeded, many participants said. Robert
Sunday, chief operating officer of the North American Institute of Aviation in
Conway, S.C., the program's only flight school, said that if an enrollee does
not show up, "we go right to the computer and cancel his visa."

Opposition remains. After Sept. 11, the Association of International Educators,
a chief opponent, said it realized that some tracking of students was needed.
The group's president, June Noronha, acknowledged last week that educators still
are troubled by what she called a "very medieval" system.

Lost in the debate is the fact that the hijackers who trained at U.S. flight
schools would not necessarily have been part of the proposed student-tracking
system.

The system would track immigrants with student visas, but it would ignore
foreign students using tourist or business visas -- or no visas at all. Some
such students attend thousands of flight schools that operate well beyond the
reach of the INS.

Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi, who are believed to have crashed two planes
into the World Trade Center, appear to have navigated the system to perfection.
Both carried tourist visas and enrolled in flight schools that did not question
their visa status.

The suspects "obviously looked for weaknesses, and that includes human
weakness," Sunday said. "They put $ 10,000 down and hoped the guy would not ask
for a visa."

When Atta and Al-Shehhi signed up for training at Huffman Aviation International
in Venice, Fla., owner Rudi Dekkers said, he did not ask for visas. "When
somebody walks in the front door, it's not my duty to ask you where you're
from," he said.

The INS agrees. Immigration law does not require schools to ensure that their
students are in the country legally. "The way this has evolved, the individual
and not the school is violating the law," INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said.

The INS is the first line of defense against terrorists trying to cross U.S.
borders, but it has long been overwhelmed by sheer numbers: About 530 million
people, about one-third of them returning Americans, cross U.S. borders each
year.

Counterterrorism has never ranked high among the agency's priorities. The INS
opened a counterterrorism office in 1997, but coordinator Walter Dan Cadman told
the Senate three years ago that the unit got a "late start" and was a fragmented
effort. Neither Cadman not the INS public affairs office last week would answer
questions about the unit's size or mission.

The INS assigns about 2,500 agents to "interior enforcement" of immigration
laws. The effort is fraught with problems, officials said. Inadequate technology
makes it impossible to locate foreign visitors at any given time. The large
number of them stretches resources thin. And even when agents succeed in
arresting illegal immigrants, jail space is so limited there may be no place to
put them.

As a result, most of the INS's interior enforcement until recently focused on
large sweeps of illegal workers, hardly making a dent in the problem. Just a
month ago, the Bush administration was considering granting amnesty to illegal
immigrants -- an acknowledgment that little could be done to remove about 7
million people in the country illegally.

The INS has not tried to confront the estimated 3 million people who have
overstayed their visas.  Four out of 10 illegal immigrants in the United States
arrived on tourist, business or student visas and simply remained here. Three of
the Sept. 11 hijacking suspects were among them.

In 1997, the Justice Department's inspector general concluded that the INS could
not "identify, locate, apprehend and remove" offenders. The INS confirmed that
is true today.

"It's very easy to come into this country and disappear and not be found," said
James W. Ziglar, the recently installed U.S. immigration commissioner.

Outdated technology is an issue. When most foreign visitors arrive, their names
and intended destinations go into an INS database, but the information supplied
is often false. That was demonstrated more than a decade ago when agents visited
2,000 addresses to find visa offenders. They found one.

In 1996, Congress ordered the INS to keep a record of everyone entering and
leaving the country. But Congress immediately put that order on hold and last
year repealed it. Businesses were worried that delays at border crossings would
stall commerce.

Law-enforcement officials have repeatedly warned about another area of abuse: a
"visa-waiver" program, which allows citizens from 29 countries to enter without
visas. A 1999 Justice Department inspector general's report found that abuse of
the program "poses threats to U.S. national security." It said that some
terrorists and criminals intercepted by the INS had tried to use the program,
convinced that "they would have a greater chance of successful entry."

When Ahmad Ajaj came to the United States in 1992, he nearly slipped through the
visa-waiver gap. Ajaj carried a Swedish passport, allowing entry without a visa.
An inspector spotted his photo crudely pasted atop another passport picture.

Ajaj went to jail for passport fraud, then plotted the 1993 World Trade Center
bombing from his prison cell.

With 4,000 miles of rugged, often unguarded wilderness, a shortage of security
resources, and more than 100 million travelers annually, the border is a
daunting challenge.

Just 334 agents police the northern border, or one U.S. Border Patrol agent
about every 12 miles. Some stations do not have 24-hour coverage, leaving the
border unguarded from midnight to 8 a.m. At some entry points, agents put out
orange rubber cones at night to dissuade travelers from crossing unchecked into
the United States

"The nice ones will put the cones back after driving through," said Sen. Byron
L. Dorgan (D-N.D.), who believes the northern border is "particularly
vulnerable."

That view has been expressed for years by law-enforcement and intelligence
authorities concerned about the growing presence of terrorists in Canada. More
than 50 terrorist groups have established beachheads in Canada.

While Congress and the INS built up manpower and technology along the southwest
border in the mid-1990s, the northern border was essentially overlooked, and in
some cases, actually lost resources, they said.

From fiscal 1994 to fiscal 2001, Border Patrol agents assigned to the southern
border more than doubled, to 9,056 agents, or about one for every 1,300 feet.
The much larger northern border got just 28 new guards, a 9 percent increase.

"We simply don't know what's going on on our border up here. And the reason we
don't know is because we've never had enough people," said Carey James, a
retired Border Patrol supervisor in the Pacific Northwest. "Lord knows who is
getting through and what is getting through," he said.

James and other INS officials said they complained about manpower and resources,
but no one in Washington listened, even after two terrorists were captured
attempting to cross the border in the late 1990s.

"I thought red flags would go with those [captures] and they would do something.
But nothing happened," said Eugene R. Davis, a former Border Patrol supervisor
near Vancouver.

Ziglar last week said, however, that it was a "misperception" that the border is
"unprotected and undefended." In the first six months of the year, more than
4,000 criminal foreigners were caught along the northern border. Still, he said,
"more could be done."

The gaps in policing the border, authorities said, include manpower shortages,
outdated computers, a lack of interior enforcement, and a shortage of holding
cells that forces agents to send illegal immigrants back to Canada, only to have
them sneak across the border again.

Because of a lack of resources, the Border Patrol "cannot accurately quantify
how many illegal aliens and drug smugglers it fails to apprehend," the Justice
Department's inspector general reported in February 2000. Sensors and cameras
help, the report said, but they cannot cover the long border. A $ 6 million
camera system being installed is several months behind schedule, INS officials
said.

"The cameras will be helpful. They will help us distinguish between human beings
and animals, but they've yet to design a camera that will hop off of that pole
and arrest a guy," said Keith Olson, a Border Patrol agent and president of the
National Border Patrol Council, a union representing agents.

Efforts to shore up the northern border are part of a larger, four-part national
plan to secure all of the nation's borders. The INS began the effort in the
mid-1990s, starting with the southwest and California. The northern border is
the plan's last leg.

"We're now at about step one-and-a-half," an INS official estimated, adding that
he didn't know how much longer it would take to secure the northern border.
Along vast stretches of that border, illegal immigrants can walk across
prairies, dirt roads and mountain passes into the United States. At busy ports
of entry, inspectors and Customs agents have little time to check the more than
100 million visitors and $ 400 billion worth of goods that pass through each
year.

Canada's generous political asylum laws, a shortage of law enforcement resources
and difficulties tracking aliens who enter the country and then disappear have
made Canada a haven for terrorists, according to government reports and
interviews.

"Given what went on Sept 11. and how sophisticated this organization and these
efforts were, you have to conclude that the issues with Canada are a real
problem waiting to happen, and there has to be much more thought on how to deal
with Canada," said Doris Meissner, who was immigration and naturalization
commissioner in the Clinton administration.

After last month's attacks, some solutions to long-standing problems came
quickly.

Ziglar, the INS commissioner who took office in August, and Customs Commissioner
Robert Bonner said they never got U.S. intelligence briefings until Sept. 11.
Now they get them daily.

"It's been very helpful," Ziglar said.

The Bush administration and Congress are demanding improvements in intelligence
sharing.

Feinstein, frustrated over the lag in implementing a foreign-student tracking
system, wants a moratorium on student visas until it is in place. And Canadian
border security is getting renewed attention, with calls by Congress and the
Bush administration to triple the number Border Patrol agents and U.S. Customs
Service inspectors there.

More could be done to use immigration laws to fight terrorism, said Seth Waxman,
who coordinated Justice Department immigration policies before he became the
Clinton administration's solicitor general. Sealing the border and further
restricting foreign visitors, however, would be expensive and politically
costly. At some point, experts say, a tightened system would threaten civil
liberties and send an anti-immigration message to the world.

"There is no fail-safe solution," Waxman said. "No silver bullet."

Staff writer Mary Pat Flaherty and staff researcher Alice Crites contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              22 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 17, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Notary Gets 33 Months for ID Fraud;
Woman Exploited State Law to Help Thousands of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 468 words


A Falls Church notary public was sentenced yesterday in U.S. District Court to
33 months in prison for helping thousands of undocumented immigrants from out of
state illegally obtain Virginia driver's licenses and state identification
cards.

Jennifer Wrenn, 58, was convicted in August of identification document fraud,
encouraging aliens to live in the United States illegally and money laundering.

Prosecutors argued that Wrenn supplied false Virginia addresses and -- in some
cases, false identities -- to immigrants and then helped them use the false
information to exploit a loophole in Virginia law.

Unlike most states, the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles allowed applicants
to prove in-state residence and identity with a notarized affidavit, rather than
such documents as utility bills or passports. Wrenn was convicted of notarizing
thousands of false affidavits at her offices in Falls Church and Manassas.

"Ms. Wrenn made $ 514,000 and caused untold harm to the state of Virginia," said
Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton.

Wrenn's Feb. 26 arrest drew attention to the thousands of out-of-state residents
who were streaming into Virginia to exploit the state's unusual laws, and the
DMV promised reforms. But the DMV continued to accept the forms until Sept. 21,
one day after The Washington Post revealed that seven of the terrorists who flew
hijacked planes into the Pentagon and World Trade Center had exploited the
loophole to obtain Virginia identification cards.

Wrenn was out of business before the hijackers got their IDs and has not been
linked to them. But her attorney, Robert A. Salerno, unsuccessfully asked U.S.
District Judge T.S. Ellis III to reduce her sentence because she might be in
danger if inmates mistakenly connect her to the events of Sept. 11.

In an unusual move, Ellis increased Wrenn's sentence for obstructing justice and
then reduced it, ruling that she had accepted responsibility for her actions.
The judge agreed that Wrenn tried to have an underling destroy a key document
when she got wind of a DMV investigation into her operation. But he found that
she had adequately acknowledged responsibility for her activities.

Salerno said that before her arrest, Wrenn did not recognize how serious her
actions were, although she was aware that she was not following Virginia's
regulations for notary publics. "She didn't appreciate that her conduct
implicated federal statutes" which carry much more severe punishment, Salerno
said.

A dozen people have pleaded guilty in connection with Wrenn's operation,
including her husband, Harry Wrenn, who ran her Manassas office, and a lawyer
who worked for her cosigning false identity affidavits. The lawyer, Michael E.
Ford, was sentenced to five months in prison and surrendered his license to
practice law.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              23 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 17, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Falls Church Notary Gets 33 Months for ID Fraud

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 468 words


A Falls Church notary public was sentenced yesterday in U.S. District Court to
33 months in prison for helping thousands of undocumented immigrants from out of
state illegally obtain Virginia driver's licenses and state identification
cards.

Jennifer Wrenn, 58, was convicted in August of identification document fraud,
encouraging aliens to live in the United States illegally and money laundering.

Prosecutors argued that Wrenn supplied false Virginia addresses and -- in some
cases, false identities -- to immigrants and then helped them use the false
information to exploit a loophole in Virginia law.

Unlike most states, the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles allowed applicants
to prove in-state residence and identity with a notarized affidavit, rather than
such documents as utility bills or passports. Wrenn was convicted of notarizing
thousands of false affidavits at her offices in Falls Church and Manassas.

"Ms. Wrenn made $ 514,000 and caused untold harm to the state of Virginia," said
Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton.

Wrenn's Feb. 26 arrest drew attention to the thousands of out-of-state residents
who were streaming into Virginia to exploit the state's unusual laws, and the
DMV promised reforms. But the DMV continued to accept the forms until Sept. 21,
one day after The Washington Post revealed that seven of the terrorists who flew
hijacked planes into the Pentagon and World Trade Center had exploited the
loophole to obtain Virginia identification cards.

Wrenn was out of business before the hijackers got their IDs and has not been
linked to them. But her attorney, Robert A. Salerno, unsuccessfully asked U.S.
District Judge T.S. Ellis III to reduce her sentence because she might be in
danger if inmates mistakenly connect her to the events of Sept. 11.

In an unusual move, Ellis increased Wrenn's sentence for obstructing justice and
then reduced it, ruling that she had accepted responsibility for her actions.
The judge agreed that Wrenn tried to have an underling destroy a key document
when she got wind of a DMV investigation into her operation. But he found that
she had adequately acknowledged responsibility for her activities.

Salerno said that before her arrest, Wrenn did not recognize how serious her
actions were, although she was aware that she was not following Virginia's
regulations for notary publics. "She didn't appreciate that her conduct
implicated federal statutes" which carry much more severe punishment, Salerno
said.

A dozen people have pleaded guilty in connection with Wrenn's operation,
including her husband, Harry Wrenn, who ran her Manassas office, and a lawyer
who worked for her cosigning false identity affidavits. The lawyer, Michael E.
Ford, was sentenced to five months in prison and surrendered his license to
practice law.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              24 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Daschle, Gephardt Visit Mexico;
U.S. Leaders Hope to Return Attention to Immigration Issues

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan and Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A34

LENGTH: 598 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Nov. 17


The two top Democratic leaders in the U.S. Congress said after meeting with
President Vicente Fox today that their weekend visit to Mexico represented a
"reactivation" of the bilateral agenda that has been stalled since Sept. 11.

"The common interests on an array of issues have not been lost in the aftermath
of the disaster of September 11," Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle
(D-S.D.) said at a news conference. "Our commitment is every bit as strong."

Daschle said he expected that Congress would pass legislation next year on
immigration reform, which had been the top item on the bilateral agenda until
the terrorist attacks. He said he hoped it would include "regularization" for
undocumented Mexican workers who are longtime, tax-paying residents of the
United States and who pass an FBI background check. He also said he favored
expanded guest worker programs and provisions for allowing relatives of legal
Mexican workers to join them in the United States.

Daschle and House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo.) are in Mexico
talking about immigration, security and economic development at a time when
Mexican immigration to the United States is dropping sharply.

Officials say far fewer Mexicans are moving to the United States, partly because
there are fewer jobs in a slowing U.S. economy and partly because it's more
difficult to cross newly tightened U.S. borders. Apprehensions of illegal
immigrants trying to enter the United States from Mexico from Oct. 1 through
Nov. 5 dropped 54 percent from the same period last year.

At the same time, Mexicans in the United States, many of them suddenly out of
work, are beginning to return to Mexico. Mexican officials say more than 350,000
Mexicans had returned from the United States since Sept. 11 -- a 9 percent
increase over the same period last year.

Officials say that the traditional traffic of Mexican immigrants returning home
for Christmas may be a one-way trip this year. Many who come back could stay,
having no job to return to in the north, not wanting to deal with sharply
heightened border security, or simply feeling safer at home while the United
States is at war against terrorism. In addition, smugglers have reportedly hiked
their fees sharply as tougher border security makes their jobs more difficult.

On Sunday, Daschle and Gephardt are scheduled to tour two towns in the central
Mexican state of Puebla, places from which millions of Mexican workers set out
in search of a better life in the United States. Aides said that the leaders
wanted to see those communities firsthand to assess what they need for their
economic development. Closing the vast economic gap between the United States
and Mexico is widely viewed as the only long-term solution to illegal
immigration.

Gephardt said it was possible that that economic development could be assisted
by programs of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the U.S.
Export-Import Bank and a "micro-loan program" administered by the U.S. Agency
for International Development. He also said that the United States and Mexico
had to be more willing to make more "public investments to help the private
sector" to create jobs and improve Mexico's economy.

"We understand completely that the migration issue can ultimately only be
finally solved by more rapid and aggressive economic growth in Mexico," Gephardt
said. "And in a way we must be intimately involved in that for Mexico's sake and
for our own sake."

The lawmakers will also meet with the families of some of the 19 Mexicans
believed killed in the Sept. 11 attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              25 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Salvadorans Find Measure of Safety;
Unexpected Number of Illegal Residents Apply for Protected Status

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 767 words


About a quarter-million Salvadorans in Washington and other parts of the country
have deluged immigration authorities with applications for a program that allows
them to live and work temporarily in the United States, far exceeding
expectations, officials said yesterday.

Thanks to the program, known as Temporary Protected Status, or TPS, the vast
majority of Salvadorans living in the United States now have legal status.

And not a moment too soon, say Salvadoran officials and immigrant-aid groups.
Fearing a clampdown on illegal immigrants after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
employers have become more wary about hiring workers lacking proper
documentation.

"It means a lot to El Salvador," said Rene Leon, that country's ambassador to
the United States. "It provides a Salvadoran [with] flexibility to seek another
job if he has lost his job because of the crisis in the U.S. economy."

President Bush approved the special protection in March as a way to help El
Salvador after two devastating earthquakes. The program allows Salvadorans who
have been in the United States since mid-February to apply for work permits
lasting until September 2002. Money sent home by immigrants is key to El
Salvador's economy.

Advocates of reduced immigration criticize such temporary programs, saying they
are amnesties in disguise.

But for those who benefit, the program is a ticket to a new life.

"Now I don't feel fear. I work freely, without being nervous," said Mirian
Flores, 22, who was in the kitchen at the Atlacatl restaurant in Arlington one
recent night preparing Mexican and Salvadoran dishes.

The petite cook, swathed in a white plastic apron and hairnet, pressed a carrot
into a grinder. For two years, since she had sneaked into the country, she
worried constantly about being picked up by immigration authorities, she said.
Every trip outside the house felt like a risk.

"I didn't go out much -- just to work. I was afraid," she said. But with the
work permit, a burden has suddenly been lifted. "I go wherever I want, without
fear. I go to my friends' houses. I come to the restaurant on my day off. I go
to the park."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had initially predicted that 150,000
Salvadorans would seek the benefit. But as of yesterday, about 250,000 had
applied, INS spokesman Dan Kane said. Most have already received their work
permits.

Kane said the INS had not realized that so many Salvadorans had immigrated
illegally.

Local immigrant-assistance groups were not surprised that the program has been
so popular. As soon as it was announced, the agencies were overwhelmed by
Salvadorans seeking help with their applications. Leon estimated 20 percent of
those benefiting from the program live in the Washington area.

"We have had an enormous response," said Silvia Alber, an immigration lawyer at
the Spanish Catholic Center in the District. Although the flood of Salvadorans
planning to apply for the program has slowed to a trickle, some are still
turning up, she said.

"Considering how things are going in immigration, all those who did not apply
before are coming, because they know they are protected from deportation" under
the benefit, Alber said. There is no deadline for applications.

Salvadoran workers are expected to send home a record $ 1.9 billion this year,
said Leon, who has actively promoted the program among immigrants. That's up
from $ 1.7 billion last year -- the equivalent of 13 percent of the country's
economic output.

Much of the money arrives in small transfers, like the $ 200 a month sent by
Esmeralda Fuentes, 25, another Salvadoran who works at Atlacatl and who supports
her parents.

"They're poor -- they have no help," she said.

What will she do when the temporary protection program ends in September?
Fuentes paused, surprised. "Can you renew or not? I don't know," she shrugged.

In fact, many Salvadorans who applied for a similar benefit in 1991 have managed
to stay here through a series of extensions, and some have become legal
permanent residents. That irritates critics, who say that the program rewards
those who arrived illegally.

"The 'T' in TPS is a charade. Applicants never really have to go home," said Dan
Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
Washington group favoring reduced immigration.

Before the program began, about 350,000 to 400,000 of the estimated 800,000
Salvadorans in the country were undocumented, said Jeffrey S. Passel, a
demographer at the Urban Institute. Now, the number will shrink to a small
minority -- at least until September.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              26 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 12, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Utah Airport Workers Indicted in Security Probe;
69 Accused of Lying About Backgrounds

BYLINE: Greg Schneider, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 700 words


Authorities said yesterday that they arrested 45 Salt Lake City International
Airport workers on charges of lying about their backgrounds to get jobs and
security passes, and were seeking two dozen more in the largest such crackdown
since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Most were said to be illegal immigrants and worked in such jobs as security
screening, cargo handling and airplane maintenance.

Two hundred other 200 Salt Lake City airport workers who were judged to have
committed less serious infractions will face administrative action from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for allegedly being in the country
illegally.

The workers arrested were charged with various counts of INS and Social Security
fraud, including lying, using counterfeit Social Security cards and using false
alien-registration cards.

The workers are not thought to have coordinated their efforts or to have
attempted any type of threatening activity, said Paul Warner, the Utah U.S.
attorney who won indictments against the workers from a federal grand jury last
Thursday.

"In today's environment, we are not going to wait around for something to
happen," Warner said. "The operation we are discussing today is a proactive
strike to make a safe airport even safer."

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft said in a prepared statement that the case
illustrates that "Americans who pass through our nation's airports and who
travel on our nation's airlines must and will be protected. The Justice
Department will enforce the law fully and vigorously to protect Americans."

The sweep follows similar -- but smaller -- roundups of illegal immigrants at
Dulles International Airport and at airports in Denver and Miami since Sept. 11.
A spokesman for the Transportation Department inspector general's office said
there are likely to be more such operations in the coming months.

Yesterday's arrests involved employees of nearly two dozen private contractors
and came after INS agents and the Social Security Administration's inspector
general found irregularities during separate audits of 9,000 airport workers
shortly after Sept. 11.

The investigations were combined by the U.S. attorney and also involved the FBI,
the Customs Service, the Federal Aviation Administration, the U.S. Marshals
Service, the inspector general, and state and local law enforcement officials.

Of the 69 indicted workers, 63 are allegedly illegal aliens. Almost all had
badges giving them access to secure areas throughout the airport, including
aircraft. Three of them worked as baggage screeners, said Melodie Rydalch, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office. Most were from countries in Central
and South America, she said.

The other six workers were U.S. citizens charged with lying about their criminal
history. Four of those workers had full-access badges.

Those arrested could face prison sentences of up to 10 years on each charge and
fines of up to $ 250,000, and any illegal aliens could be deported, Rydalch
said.

Douglas G. Rivlin of the National Immigration Forum said he worried that the
government is becoming overzealous in pursuing immigrants.

"If people are lying on security background checks, that is a problem . . . but
scaring all immigrant workers two weeks before Christmas just doesn't seem to be
the most constructive use of their resources, nor the best way to stop
terrorism," Rivlin said.

Salt Lake City is taking extraordinary steps to lock down its airport for the
Winter Olympics that will be held there in February. Officials are considering
temporary restrictions on Utah air space, such as requiring general-aviation
planes to land in Nevada, Idaho and Colorado before heading on to Salt Lake City
while the Games are being held.

The airport is also working to become the first in the nation to search every
piece of luggage that goes into a plane and to perform background checks of
every employee, a city spokesman said.

While the investigation did not originate specifically because of preparations
for the Olympics, the pending games "were certainly on everybody's minds,"
Rydalch said. "We just cannot have people working in the airport when we do not
know who they really are."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              27 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Let's Be Clear About Whom We Want to Let In

BYLINE: George J. Borjas

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1447 words


Last summer, the United States was planning to grant amnesty to perhaps as many
as 10 million illegal immigrants, and President Bush was talking of creating a
system that would allow hundreds of thousands of guest workers, most of them
from Mexico, to enter this country. The terrorist attacks not only put a stop to
these plans for liberalizing our immigration system, they also exposed some of
its fundamental weaknesses. Officials turned out to know very little about how
or why visas are issued: They could not say how many foreign students are now in
the country -- or at which colleges they are enrolled. And it soon became clear
just how perfunctory are the background checks that foreign consulates perform
before granting many kinds of visas.

One result was the USA Patriot Act, which is designed to enhance border
security; a second was a host of ideas for short-term fixes, such as the
moratorium on student visas that Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) quickly
proposed -- and just as quickly withdrew when the higher education sector
lobbied against cutting off an important source of tuition revenues. But
although it is important to address some failings in the system immediately, we
should not remain blind to its underlying problems. Sure, our borders are long
and porous, but that doesn't excuse the United States from stating its
objectives for immigration. What types of immigrants should this country admit?
And how many immigrants does it want?

While the United States has proven curiously cautious about addressing such
questions, several other "nations of immigrants" (including Canada, Australia
and New Zealand) have far more proactive approaches to immigration: They have
devised systems that are designed to favor people who will contribute
economically to the country and who will assimilate quickly. I'm not suggesting
that such a system would have prevented the terrorists from entering this
country. Most were here legally on temporary visas, and at least some were
highly educated. My point is simply that the attacks provided us with a wake-up
call: We should not tinker with immigration policy without addressing its lack
of basic philosophy. What justification is there, after all, for a policy that
entitles a newly admitted immigrant to be eventually joined here by her sister's
husband's father's brother's spouse? Yet, this is precisely the entitlement now
enshrined in U.S. immigration policy -- a policy that stresses family
connections more than economic or security issues.

Our immigration policy has been spinning out of control for decades. While the
number of illegal immigrants has increased from about 3 million in 1993 to about
10 million today, those who wish to enter the country legally often must wait
years for their turn. More than 4 million foreign-born individuals who already
live in the United States legally are waiting for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) to clarify the status of their residency. And the
INS cannot keep track of the millions of temporary visitors, such as tourists
and students -- hardly a new problem. During the 1979 Iran hostage crisis,
President Carter appealed to the INS to estimate how many Iranian students were
enrolled in American universities. The agency didn't have a response then; and
it can't now tell us how many Saudi or Egyptian students are here.

All of these problems flow from a system that lacks clear objectives and any
cogent means of selecting those who will eventually be granted permanent visas
to live here. That failing became clear to me as I looked into the impact of
immigration on my own field of study -- economics. I was startled to see how the
economic performance (and impact) of immigrants has worsened over the past few
decades. According to the 1960 census, foreign-born men earned more than natives
in the labor market. By 1998, immigrants suffered a 23 percent wage
disadvantage. In 1970, immigrants were less likely to receive welfare than
natives. By 1998, 20 percent of immigrants received assistance, compared with
only 13 percent of natives. When I looked at what has been done to rectify this
situation, I found that, unlike other major nations of immigrants, the United
States fails to give enough weight to the economic potential of immigrants in
setting immigration policy.

Sponsorship by a relative is the surest means of gaining entry to the United
States. By contrast, Canada, New Zealand and Australia have point systems
designed to get them the immigrants they want. These countries award points to
visa applicants on the basis of specific characteristics and then set a passing
grade. The variables in the formula determine which types of people will be
allowed into the country, while the passing grade determines how many. Change
the test, as these countries do from time to time, and people with different
characteristics will succeed. Raise the final score required, and fewer will
pass. All three countries take age, education level and English language
proficiency into account, as well as family connections.

Canada, for example, overtly favors young professionals. (See the accompanying
sidebar for information about the point system from the Canadian immigration
service's Web site.) An applicant who is 30 years old gets 10 points, for
example, and an additional 16 points for having a professional degree. Some
professions are more highly valued than others. Canada must have too many
economists because it awards only 1 point for that profession, but it gives out
10 for being an occupational therapist.

By its nature, any point system will sometimes seem arbitrary. For instance, an
aging economist might well qualify for entry to Canada if he or she had once
been trained as a speech therapist. Despite such arbitrariness, the Canadian
point system does its job: It selects those immigrants whom the Canadian
authorities decided are most beneficial for their country by restricting the
entry of persons who are "too old" or "too unskilled" or "doing the wrong kind
of job." And the first cut is made by applicants themselves: "If you score fewer
than 60 points" out of the 100 you could get on the test form, the Web site
warns, "your application may not merit further consideration."

In addition to having a point system, New Zealand takes further control over its
applicants for immigration by requiring them to become fluent in English
quickly. In the late 1990s, the country used financial incentives to encourage
assimilation. It required that immigrants who were not proficient in English
post an $ 11,000 bond before entering the country. If the immigrant passed an
English test within three months after arrival, the bond would be refunded. But
if the immigrant failed to pass the test within a year, the bond would be
forfeited.

The adoption of a point system would not mean that family connections would no
longer matter in awarding visas, simply that they would represent only one among
several factors. Nor would it mean that we would turn our backs on refugees who
have long sought a better life in this country. But we can't get away from the
fact that many more people would like to enter the United States than we are
willing to admit. The United States now offers 50,000 visas annually to
foreigners who apply in the "diversity lottery." Last year, that lottery
attracted 10 million applications, making it, as a numbers game, far more
difficult to enter the United States than to get into Harvard College. Any
reform in immigration policy, therefore, needs to provide a logical basis for
some very tough choices.

Being an immigrant myself, I have benefited immeasurably from living in this
country. That makes me all the more disturbed to discover how flimsy a
philosophy underlies the process of deciding who ultimately belongs here and who
does not. I believe we should make more of an effort to control the flow of
population into this country -- and to select those people who will benefit the
United States.

We'll never secure our borders completely. But we should do all we can to make
sure we understand why we admit the people we do. The adoption of a more
rational policy for granting permanent visas is but one step in a long road.
Keep in mind: The terrorist attacks provided a shocking response to one highly
contentious issue in the immigration debate. Supporters of a more liberal
immigration policy have claimed that some immigrants do jobs that natives do not
want to do. Sept. 11 proved them right.

</body>George Borjas is a professor of public policy at Harvard University's
Kennedy School of Government. His latest book is "Heaven's Door" (Princeton
University Press).

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              28 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 19, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Long Wait for Filing of Charges Common for Sept. 11 Detainees;
Delays Reasonable, INS Officials Say

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 605 words


Nearly 300 foreign nationals detained as part of the Sept. 11 terrorism
investigation were jailed for a week or more before they were charged with
immigration violations, according to a federal review of immigration records
conducted this week.

But authorities said that they concluded the delays were reasonable and that
most detainees were charged within a month of being taken into custody.
Officials blamed most of the delays on tighter scrutiny of terrorism-related
cases and on the havoc created in New York immigration courts by the destruction
of the World Trade Center.

"We are confident after reviewing the list that there is a good reason for each
delay that occurred," an INS official said. "We have not found any cases where
individuals were not charged in a timely manner without justification."

The review by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service came after The
Washington Post noted long delays in charges being filed against many of the 722
detainees, according to records released by the Justice Department on Jan. 11.

Officials say the delays do not violate INS regulations, which require that
charges for people detained in connection with the terrorism probe be filed in
an undefined "reasonable period of time."

But many immigration advocates and defense attorneys have complained that the
INS and the Justice Department are using the extraordinary circumstances
surrounding the Sept. 11 probe to unfairly detain foreign nationals who have no
connection to terrorism. The delays mean longer time in jail for many immigrants
who should be freed or returned to their countries, they said.

"It's like 'Alice in Wonderland' since September 11th," said Claudia Slovinsky,
a Manhattan immigration lawyer who represents 14 clients in INS custody.
"They're being treated in no way like any pre-September 11th person was ever
treated."

An analysis of the INS records this week by The Post found that about 40 percent
of the immigrants were not charged within a week, and that some were held for
seven weeks or more without charges.

An INS review of the list, combined with information from sealed case files,
generated similar results, officials said: About 60 percent were charged within
a week of arrest, 15 percent were charged within eight to 30 days, and 2 percent
waited a month or more.

An additional 13 percent were held on previous deportation orders, while a
similar percentage were charged with criminal offenses, officials said.

Officials also discovered serious clerical errors in the data, which were
released as part of an ongoing Freedom of Information Act lawsuit filed by the
ACLU, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee and more than a dozen
other groups.

For example, the original records listed two Pakistanis who waited 49 days to be
charged. An INS official said yesterday that the review this week showed that
the dates were incorrect and that the two actually were charged about two weeks
after their arrest.

An additional 100 entries on the original list contained no dates indicating
that charges had been filed. INS officials said that those omissions were also
due to clerical errors and that all of those detained by immigration authorities
since Sept. 11 have been formally charged.

The Post analysis found that more than a third of the immigration detainees were
born in Pakistan, with nearly 100 others from Egypt and large numbers from
Turkey, Yemen, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. Only about a dozen detainees came from
European countries, including France and Germany, and one came from Canada.

Research editor Margot Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              29 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 14, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Announces Gun Purchase Initiatives;
FBI, INS Must ID Illegal Immigrants;
Background Check System to Be Upgraded

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 547 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft announced plans yesterday to curb gun
purchases by illegal immigrants and criminals while streamlining transactions
for legal gun buyers.

Ashcroft ordered the FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
revamp their computer systems to identify noncitizens who try to buy firearms
through federally licensed gun dealers. Illegal immigrants and those in the
United States on temporary visas are prohibited from buying guns under federal
law, although some in the latter group can buy firearms for hunting in some
circumstances, officials said.

"These more thorough procedures will help ensure that guns do not fall into the
hands of illegal aliens," Ashcroft said. "Illegal aliens who seek to buy guns
unlawfully will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law."

Ashcroft also announced plans to upgrade the nation's background check system to
provide immediate approval or denial for gun purchases in nine out of 10 cases.
Under current law, a person is allowed to buy a weapon if federal officials do
not provide a response within three days.

The attorney general also announced a $ 141 million initiative to help states
improve their computerized criminal records over the next four years -- a
measure that would help weed out felons trying to buy firearms -- and another
program to add 94 federal prosecutors focused on gun crimes among juveniles.

The measures earned mixed reviews from gun control groups, many of which have
been highly critical of Ashcroft because of his close ties to the National Rifle
Association and his views on gun control.

"It's definitely a step in the right direction," NRA spokesman Andrew
Arulanandam said. "It cleans up a lot of the mess in the system."

Americans for Gun Safety, a moderate gun control group that has sought to occupy
a middle ground on firearms issues, praised the background check advance as long
overdue. The group recommended similar steps in a report issued last month.

"The dirty little secret is that the records necessary to approve or deny
firearms purchases are a mess," said Jonathan Cowan, president of the group's
foundation. "Our poor records are a gaping loophole that allows criminals,
terrorists, illegal aliens and wife beaters to slide through a background
check."

But other groups said the measures do not go far enough to prevent access to
firearms by criminals or potential terrorists. They argued that Ashcroft is
focusing on speed over accuracy.

"He's really doing nothing to fix the problem," said Matthew Nosanchuck,
legislative policy director for the Violence Policy Center. "The priority seems
to be getting guns into people's hands as quickly as possible instead of taking
the time to ensure that prohibited persons aren't slipping through the system."

Ashcroft came under fire in December after he ordered the FBI to stop comparing
the names of suspected terrorists against federal gun purchase records. Gun
control groups said Ashcroft, an NRA member, was interpreting the law too
narrowly.

Ashcroft reiterated his position yesterday that such checks are prohibited under
federal law. He said the Justice Department would review proposed changes to
allow such record searches, though he stopped short of saying whether he would
endorse them.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              30 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 15, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Report by GAO Cites INS on Benefit Fraud;
Immigrants' Abuses Called 'Out of Control'

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 684 words


Immigration benefit fraud is "rampant" and "out of control," allowing some
foreign nationals to stay in the country illegally to traffic in drugs and
commit violent crimes, according to a General Accounting Office report scheduled
to be released today.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service "does not know the extent of the
immigration benefit fraud problem," the study concludes. "However, reports and
INS officials indicate that the problem is pervasive and significant, and will
increase as smugglers and other criminal enterprises use fraud as another means
of bringing illegal aliens, including criminal aliens, into the country."

Benefit application fraud involves obtaining documents that illegally give
immigrants U.S. citizenship, residence, authorization to work or other changes
in their status. It can include applicants who seek temporary visas but have no
intention of leaving the United States, or arrange sham marriages to U.S.
citizens to earn the right to stay here.

The study concludes that the INS lacks the ability to track and manage
investigations of fraud and does not share information among offices. That
allows applicants denied benefits at one service center to apply for and receive
benefits at another.

The GAO interviewed INS officials in Washington and around the country. It
examined how much the INS knew about the fraud, how the agency's policies
support benefit fraud and what measures the agency has to "gauge the results of
its benefit fraud enforcement activities."

The GAO collected the information at the request of Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner
Jr. (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and Rep. George W.
Gekas (R-Pa.), chairman of the immigration and claims subcommittee.

The two often have been critical of the INS. Last year they denounced Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft's plan to separate the agency's enforcement and service
functions, saying it does not go far enough to fix the INS.

"This report raises a whole host of troubling homeland security threats posed by
an immigration benefits process wrought with fraud," Sensenbrenner said in a
statement. "In fact, the GAO finds that the INS does not even know the extent of
the problem.

"We have a complete failure by the INS to take the steps necessary to protect
the people of the United States and the immigration system itself from criminals
manipulating the benefits process," he said.

Michael Pearson, an INS executive associate commissioner in charge of field
operations, said in a letter accompanying the report that his agency agrees it
should do a better job of detecting fraudulent applications and processing
legitimate applications more efficiently. An INS spokesman declined to comment
further.

The report found that 20 to 30 percent of applications in some places are
fraudulent. In a review of petitions for one visa category in which fraud is a
particular problem, the INS found 90 percent of 5,000 petitions were fraudulent.
A follow-up study of 1,500 of those petitions found that all but one was
fraudulent.

About 68 percent of INS applications and petitions are filed at the four service
centers, which are located in California, Texas, Nebraska and Vermont.

The examination found that benefit fraud is a low priority for the INS and that
there is no assurance that the agency's reviews can detect noncompliance or
abuse during the application process.

"Immigration benefit fraud has been a longstanding problem for INS that has
grown more intense and serious," the report said. "Institutionally, INS has not
done much to combat this significant problem, which threatens the integrity of
the legal immigration system because it results in INS's granting valuable
benefits to ineligible aliens."

The GAO recommended that Ashcroft order INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar to
develop a better method of tracking and managing benefit fraud investigations;
determine how the INS can balance processing applications quickly and detecting
fraud applications; and develop procedures for the agency's investigative units
to determine which fraud cases to pursue.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              31 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 13, 2002 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

House Allows Illegal Immigrants Leeway;
Bill Requiring Sponsor for Residency Passes Despite Concerns About Terrorists

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 819 words


Overcoming resistance from within their ranks, House GOP leaders shepherded
through legislation yesterday that would allow some illegal immigrants to remain
in the United States while applying for permanent residency.

Yesterday's 275 to 137 vote marked a victory for President Bush, who had
campaigned on the issue and pressed lawmakers to pass the bill before his
meeting next week with Mexican President Vicente Fox. But debate on the measure
-- which was coupled with new visa-screening requirements to spot suspected
terrorists -- showed how last year's terrorist attacks have hardened some
Republicans' opposition to more lenient immigration rules.

The House bill would revive the Section 245(i) program, which expired last
April. The program allows undocumented immigrants to seek a visa that would
grant them permanent residency if they pay a $ 1,000 fee and have a close
relative or employer to sponsor them. Without the program, these immigrants
would have to apply for visas from their home countries, where U.S. officials
could delay them for up to 10 years because of their earlier, illegal U.S.
stays.

Under the bill, an immigrant's visa application would not trigger a government
deportation effort. But the government still could deport such immigrants if
they were apprehended for other reasons. Because of that, some immigration
advocates have called the legislation flawed.

In a sense, the House vote was much closer than the margin suggests. The bill
barely received the two-thirds majority it needed because it was included in the
day's "suspension calendar," generally reserved for noncontroversial matters.

The Senate has passed a similar measure, but some senators may try to block it
when supporters seek to reconcile the two versions. If it becomes law, it will
represent the most significant pro-immigrant bill of this Congress, supporters
say.

Democratic and Republican leaders, mindful of the message the bill sends to
Mexico and to many U.S. Latino voters, have pushed for speedy passage. But
yesterday's House debate highlighted GOP divisions regarding immigration. Many
of those seeking visas under the 245(i) program have been Latinos, but the
number of potential new applicants is unknown.

While Bush and several congressional allies say a more open immigration policy
would stimulate the U.S. economy and the GOP's standing among Latinos, opponents
contend it would merely encourage lawbreaking. Last year's terrorist strikes
have exacerbated anti-immigration sentiment in Congress: A House caucus
supporting new immigration restrictions has 62 members, compared with 16 before
Sept. 11.

"September 11th brought home in the sharpest way possible that we have no
control over our borders," said Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who chairs the
Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus. "The White House is convinced this kind
of pandering will actually result in a higher percentage of votes from minority
communities. I adamantly disagree with them."

Several Republicans said yesterday that the measure would threaten national
security. Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) said it would undermine "this
country's ability to find and deport the terrorists among us."

Rep. Chris Cannon (R-Utah), however, said the country stands to gain by letting
these immigrants remain in the United States as they apply for residency. "This
is no threat to national security," he said. "It advances our interests."

Bush appealed to congressional leaders to extend the 245(i) policy, identifying
it during a recent closed-door meeting as a top 10 priority.

Under the House bill, illegal immigrants would be allowed to apply for residency
if they had been in the country since Dec. 20, 2000, and had entered into a
qualifying relationship with a close relative or employer before April 15, 2001.
They could apply until Nov. 30, or four months after the attorney general issued
regulations on the policy, whichever date came first.

Immigration advocates described such restrictions as too confusing and severe to
help the millions of undocumented immigrants living in the United States.

Angela Kelley, deputy director of programs at the National Immigration Forum,
called the bill "symbolically important but substantively paltry." Kelley, whose
group represents business, labor, religious and ethnic leaders, argued that the
administration should devote its efforts to reaching a broader immigration
accord with Mexico.

But immigration opponents said they were confident they could block broader
legalization programs for undocumented immigrants.

Lawmakers from both parties expressed support for the visa-security bill. It
would require immigration officials to track foreign students more closely,
issue tamper-resistant, biometric visas, and create a database of suspected
terrorists.

Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) has put a hold on the bill in the Senate,
demanding a chance to debate it.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2002



CORRECTION: A March 13 article misstated the circumstances under which some
illegal immigrants might apply for permanent residency. Under legislation
adopted by the House on Tuesday, undocumented immigrants would have had to enter
into a qualifying relationship with a close relative or employer before Aug. 15,
2001.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              32 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: SOUTHERN MARYLAND EXTRA; Pg. T07

LENGTH: 497 words


The House passed a bill (HR 1885) enabling hundreds of thousands of undocumented
immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency without first returning home.
The bill applies to undocumented immigrants who entered the United States before
Dec. 21, 2000, and who had secured a family or employer sponsor before Aug. 15.
The bill must be reconciled with a similar Senate measure.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House rejected an amendment to HR 2341 (above) that sought to deny transfer
of class action suits to federal court if the defendant were found to have
altered or destroyed documents. A yes vote was to make document destruction
grounds for keeping class action suits in state court.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) - * -

Gilchrest (R) - * -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) - * -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) - * -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (H 2146) imposing a mandatory life sentence on repeat
sexual offenders 18 and older who are convicted of committing a sex crime on a
minor on federal property, such as a national park, reservation or military
base. The bill went to the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The Senate voted to strip an energy bill (S 517) of higher fuel-efficiency
standards for cars and trucks and require a two-year government study on the
effect of tougher standards on auto-industry jobs and highway safety. The
underlying bill called for increasing efficiency to a combined-fleet average of
35 miles per gallon or greater for cars, sport-utility vehicles and light trucks
by model year 2015. The government currently requires automakers to average 27.5
mpg for cars and 20.7 mpg for SUVs and light trucks. A yes vote was to remove
fuel-efficiency requirements from the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * - -

Warner (R) * - -

The Senate refused to impose federal standards that would greatly increase the
production of renewable energy. The amendment to S 517 (above) required that
renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, be expanded to account for 20
percent of domestic electricity production by 2020. At present, they account for
about 3 percent. A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) - * -

Warner (R) - * -

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              33 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress, and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: PRINCE WILLIAM EXTRA; Pg. T09

LENGTH: 742 words


The House passed a bill (HR 1885) enabling hundreds of thousands of undocumented
immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency without first returning home.
The bill applies to undocumented immigrants who entered the United States before
Dec. 21, 2000, and who had secured a family or employer sponsor before Aug. 15.
The bill must be reconciled with a similar Senate measure.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (HR 2341) to shift most class action lawsuits to the
federal judiciary from state courts, where juries historically have been
sympathetic to plaintiffs. At present, class actions are assigned to federal
court only when all plaintiffs are from different states than all defendants.
Under the bill, federal courts would gain jurisdiction over claims exceeding $ 2
million when at least one plaintiff and one defendant are from different states.
A similar bill is pending in the Senate.

Supporters, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of
Manufacturers, said the bill would keep trial lawyers from "forum shopping"
suits of questionable merit to friendly state courtrooms. Foes, such as the
Association of Trial Lawyers of America and Public Citizen, said it would
deprive consumers of basic legal protections against harm inflicted by corporate
mistakes.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) - * -

Cummings (D) - * -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) - * -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The House rejected an amendment to HR 2341 (above) that sought to deny transfer
of class action suits to federal court if the defendant were found to have
altered or destroyed documents. Backers cited the alleged destruction on a mass
scale of Enron Corp. documents. Foes called that argument off base because
shareholder suits against Enron and the Arthur Andersen accounting firm already
were assigned to federal court.

A yes vote was to make document destruction grounds for keeping class action
suits in state court.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) - * -

Gilchrest (R) - * -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) - * -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) - * -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (H 2146) imposing a mandatory life sentence on repeat
sexual offenders 18 and older who are convicted of committing a sex crime on a
minor on federal property, such as a national park, reservation or military
base. The bill went to the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The Senate voted to strip an energy bill (S 517) of higher fuel-efficiency
standards for cars and trucks and require a two-year government study on the
effect of tougher standards on auto-industry jobs and highway safety.

The underlying bill called for increasing efficiency to a combined-fleet average
of 35 miles per gallon or greater for cars, sports utility vehicles and light
trucks by model year 2015. The government currently requires automakers to
average 27.5 mpg for cars and 20.7 mpg for SUVs and light trucks.

A yes vote was to remove fuel-efficiency requirements from a bill setting energy
policy.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * - -

Warner (R) * - -

The Senate refused to impose federal standards that would greatly increase the
production of renewable energy. The amendment to S 517 (above) required that
renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, be expanded to account for 20
percent of domestic electricity production by 2020. At present, they account for
about 3 percent

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) - * -

Warner (R) - * -

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              34 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. T06

LENGTH: 742 words


The House passed a bill (HR 1885) enabling hundreds of thousands of undocumented
immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency without first returning home.
The bill applies to undocumented immigrants who entered the United States before
Dec. 21, 2000, and who had secured a family or employer sponsor before Aug. 15.
The bill must be reconciled with a similar Senate measure.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (HR 2341) to shift most class action lawsuits to the
federal judiciary from state courts, where juries historically have been
sympathetic to plaintiffs. At present, class actions are assigned to federal
court only when all plaintiffs are from different states than all defendants.
Under the bill, federal courts would gain jurisdiction over claims exceeding $ 2
million when at least one plaintiff and one defendant are from different states.
A similar bill is pending in the Senate.

Supporters, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of
Manufacturers, said the bill would keep trial lawyers from "forum shopping"
suits of questionable merit to friendly state courtrooms. Foes, such as the
Association of Trial Lawyers of America and Public Citizen, said it would
deprive consumers of basic legal protections against harm inflicted by corporate
mistakes.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) - * -

Cummings (D) - * -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) - * -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The House rejected an amendment to HR 2341 (above) that sought to deny transfer
of class action suits to federal court if the defendant were found to have
altered or destroyed documents. Backers cited the alleged destruction on a mass
scale of Enron Corp. documents. Foes called that argument off base because
shareholder suits against Enron and the Arthur Andersen accounting firm already
were assigned to federal court.

A yes vote was to make document destruction grounds for keeping class action
suits in state court.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) - * -

Gilchrest (R) - * -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) - * -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) - * -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (H 2146) imposing a mandatory life sentence on repeat
sexual offenders 18 and older who are convicted of committing a sex crime on a
minor on federal property, such as a national park, reservation or military
base. The bill went to the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The Senate voted to strip an energy bill (S 517) of higher fuel-efficiency
standards for cars and trucks and require a two-year government study on the
effect of tougher standards on auto-industry jobs and highway safety.

The underlying bill called for increasing efficiency to a combined-fleet average
of 35 miles per gallon or greater for cars, sports utility vehicles and light
trucks by model year 2015. The government currently requires automakers to
average 27.5 mpg for cars and 20.7 mpg for SUVs and light trucks.

A yes vote was to remove fuel-efficiency requirements from a bill setting energy
policy.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * - -

Warner (R) * - -

The Senate refused to impose federal standards that would greatly increase the
production of renewable energy. The amendment to S 517 (above) required that
renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, be expanded to account for 20
percent of domestic electricity production by 2020. At present, they account for
about 3 percent

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) - * -

Warner (R) - * -

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              35 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Tighter Immigrant ID Rules Shut Doors;
Schools, DMV Reject Undocumented

BYLINE: David Cho and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1402 words


Normally it takes about an hour to register a student in Fairfax schools. For
the parents of 9-year-old Rolando, it took more than three months. Even then,
the boy was admitted to Bailey's Elementary only after being hit by a car during
school hours, an incident that prompted alarmed school officials to get him into
the classroom.

Count Rolando, a shy third-grader with almond eyes and a mop of brown hair, as
one of the unintended victims of Sept. 11.

Having slipped into this country with his family from Mexico in November, he
wasn't in school because his parents, undocumented immigrants, lacked the
official identification required to register him. Before Sept. 11, obtaining
such documents -- a driver's license or a state identification card, for example
-- was relatively easy, especially in Virginia, whose Department of Motor
Vehicles allowed applicants to establish their identity and residence simply by
producing some notarized forms.

But new or more rigorously enforced regulations adopted nationwide, after it was
learned that seven of the 19 hijackers had obtained Virginia ID cards or
licenses illegally, are making it nearly impossible for undocumented immigrants
to get such identification now.

Virginia's DMV, for example, which was roundly criticized for its laxity when
news of the terrorists' link emerged, has now done away with notarized
affidavits. The system had been in place since 1994 as a way to help people who
lacked other official identification.

People like Rolando's parents.

That case, while more dramatic than most, is hardly unique. Those who work in
the public schools say they know of several dozen children in Fairfax and
Arlington counties whose registration has been stymied by the crackdown. A few
cases also have come to the attention of school workers in Montgomery County.

DMV officials say they did what they had to do.

"It's clear that the residency and identity affidavits were being abused," said
spokeswoman Pam Goheen. "We absolutely had to do this. We had to tighten it up.
. . . The agency needs to strike a balance between the need for service and the
need for security."

Goheen added that DMV officials are leaning more on the side of security right
now.

More is at stake for the nation's estimated 8 million undocumented aliens than
their right to a public education, which was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court.
Without proper official identification, they are finding it harder to get jobs,
open bank accounts, rent apartments.

Even some legal immigrants have found themselves in the tightening net.

For Rolando's parents, who asked that their full names not be published, a
yellowed ID card and a scribbled U.S. address -- carried with them across the
border -- were all they had to show who they are and where they now live. With
those tattered papers in hand, the boy's mother tried four times to register him
in Fairfax, she said, but school employees told her that she needed a photo ID
and official proof of residency.

She had neither. With Virginia having closed its DMV loophole in late September,
neither she nor her husband could get a driver's license or state ID card.
Without such identification, they couldn't open a bank account, she said. And
they couldn't produce a lease or other statement from their landlord because,
like many immigrants, they secretly share living space with several others, none
of whose names appears on the lease.

"We had nothing when we came here . . . and we still have nothing," Rolando's
mother, 25, said in a recent interview in the cramped two-bedroom apartment in
Culmore, where the family lives.

Rolando might still not be in school had he not been hit by a car in early
December and spent three days in the hospital. When that came to light, top
school officials stepped in and smoothed the way for his entry into Bailey's
Elementary. He started there last month.

Daniel A. Domenech, superintendent of the 165,000-student Fairfax school system,
the largest in the Washington region, said school officials are having to tiptoe
between wanting to help these children and adhering to their own -- and the
state's -- regulations.

"We are really caught in a bind," he said. "Being an immigrant myself [Domenech
emigrated from Cuba as a boy], my heart goes out to these families and these
kids. . . . But at a time like this, when security has become a major issue, the
schools have to be extremely careful about bending rules."

Each week since Sept. 11, two or three families like Rolando's have shown up at
Maria Demarest's trailer office behind Bailey's Elementary, a stone's throw from
Culmore's low-rise apartments, which have become a haven for Latino and Middle
Eastern immigrants.

"They are really overwhelmed by the documentation they needed" to register their
children, said Demarest, a parent liaison at the school. "They couldn't get
anything."

Most school districts require families to furnish proof of residency in addition
to a photo ID of the parent and a child's birth certificate. Registrars "try to
be flexible" when people don't have those documents, said Sylvia Sanchez, a
registration coordinator in Fairfax. "But we still have to follow [school] board
policies."

Added Rita Valenzuela, a parent specialist at Gaithersburg Elementary: "The most
difficult document for them to get is the ID. And if they can't get that, then
we have no choice but to wait."

Some immigrant advocacy groups have been issuing new arrivals unofficial IDs to
give them some basis of identity. Gustavo Torres, executive director of Casa de
Maryland, a social services provider for immigrants, said that 100 or more
adults now line up each Tuesday at its offices to have their photos taken.

"Having an ID is just essential," Torres said. "You need it to work, to cash
checks, for virtually everything."

Adding to the problem is undocumented immigrants' ever-present fear of
deportation. "After September 11 and all these laws passed, they are just hiding
now. They are just scared, even of the schools," said Bernardo Vasquez, social
justice minister at St. Charles Borromeo Catholic Church in Arlington.

After the terror attacks, more than a dozen states clamped down on applications
for driver's licenses. In Minnesota, Delaware and Michigan, lawmakers considered
requiring proof of legal immigration status, according to Jason King of the
American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators. At the national level,
legislation that would tie the expiration of an immigrant visa to the expiration
of a driver's license has been proposed in Congress.

Virginia, whose lax DMV licensing procedures before Sept. 11 let undocumented
immigrants stream into the state, no longer accepts notarized identity and
residency affidavits, nor will it accept passports with expired visas, which had
been popular methods of obtaining a license. And both Virginia and Maryland --
whose laws were stricter than Virginia's to begin with -- now reject I-94 forms,
immigration documents that attest to one's legal resident status, as proof of
identity.

Despite these and other changes, the majority of state licensing systems remain
"rife with loopholes," said King, whose nonprofit organization is lobbying
Congress for uniform licensing laws.

"It's not fair that so many . . . are being punished for what a few did on
September 11," said Jorge Figueredo, executive director of the Hispanic
Committee of Virginia.

Seyoum Berhe, director of the Catholic Charities refugee office in Arlington,
said many refugees have been unable to get driver's licenses since Virginia's
crackdown because they don't have passports from their native countries.

"They are making the wrong people pay for this," Berhe said.

Just ask Sara Azari. She fled Iran in fear three years ago after converting to
Christianity and has not been able to obtain a Virginia license despite at least
10 visits to the DMV's Four Mile Run office in the past two months, she said.

In every case, Azari said, the documents she produced and her explanation of why
she has no passport did not pass muster with DMV employees. With her green card
still being processed by federal officials -- she was told it could take six
months or more -- the 33-year-old photo shop clerk has just about given up.

"It's as if I'm invisible to them. I work here. I pay taxes. I do everything
like a regular person in the U.S., but to them I'm invisible."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              36 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 20, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Proposes New Aid to Mexico;
$30 Million Aimed at Stemming Immigration by Promoting Investment

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 786 words


President Bush plans to direct $ 30 million to poor areas of Mexico over the
next year in an effort to discourage illegal immigration by strengthening
businesses there, administration officials said yesterday.

Bush will announce the plan in Mexico as part of a four-day Latin America trip
that will begin Thursday. He had resisted earlier requests from Mexican
President Vicente Fox for massive assistance to parts of his country that have
struggled even as the border region boomed after the 1993 signing of the North
American Free Trade Agreement.

Some authorities on Mexico, citing a World Bank estimate that the country needs
$ 20 billion a year in new infrastructure for 10 years, said Bush's plan was too
small to stem immigration. But Mexican officials expressed confidence the United
States will increase its spending if the program proves effective.

The White House has wanted to repair relations with Mexico and U.S. Hispanics
after fallout from the Sept. 11 attacks delayed plans to ease the path to
legalization for some of the 3 million undocumented Mexicans in this country.

During a visit by Fox that ended Sept. 6, Bush called on Congress to make such a
change. Although Bush says he remains committed to the goal, officials of both
governments say broad liberalization of U.S. immigration laws is not politically
feasible now, in part because some of the airliner hijackers were Arab
immigrants in the country illegally.

The new aid fund, called the U.S.-Mexico Partnership for Progress, will use U.S.
government money to promote private investment in the Mexican countryside.
Officials said the plan will help keep families together, since many of the men
who trek to the United States leave their wives and children behind.

The program will include subsidies for Mexican entrepreneurs who want to buy
franchises of U.S. brands, education about financial services so Mexican
immigrants can send money home more cheaply and partnerships to encourage a
secondary mortgage market in Mexico. The program also calls for greater
cooperation between universities and laboratories on both sides of the border,
and for the creation of a labor and talent bank.

Eduardo G. Sojo, Fox's economic policy coordinator, said in an interview that
the two presidents will invite each U.S. state to pay for college scholarships
for Mexicans. "The commitment of President Bush is something we appreciate a
lot," Sojo said.

At the same time, Bush is planning to toughen border protection by merging the
Customs Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which includes
the Border Patrol, officials said. Aides recommended the plan to Bush yesterday
and said they expect him to approve it. The new border enforcement agency would
fall under the Justice Department.

Balancing his border policy is among the toughest issues facing Bush. Hispanics
are the fastest-growing group of U.S. voters. This fall, Latino voters could
prove crucial in several House races.

Looking ahead to his departure for Mexico, Bush urged the Senate yesterday to
follow the House's lead and pass a bill that would allow many illegal immigrants
to remain in the United States while applying for permanent residency.

"I want to show our friends, the Mexicans, that we are compassionate about
people who live here on a legal basis, that we don't disrupt the families for
people who are here legally," Bush told reporters after a Cabinet meeting.

Officials from the Bush and Fox administrations jointly planned the spending of
the new aid, which is notably less than the billions of dollars Fox had
suggested the U.S. invest in highways, health clinics and other facilities in
areas of Mexico that did not benefit from NAFTA. Since the trade agreement took
effect, Mexico has become the nation's second-largest trading partner and
fastest-growing export market.

Robert A. Pastor, the National Security Council's director of Latin American
affairs under President Jimmy Carter, called Bush's plan "quite trivial"
considering "the central issue of North American relations: the development gap
between Mexico and its two northern neighbors, which is the reason for the
migration."

But M. Delal Baer, a member of a working group that contributed to the plan,
said it was built on the philosophy that government seed money could create
private initiatives that would last long after Bush and Fox leave office. "This
is the philosophy of giving a man a fishing rod, not a fish," she said.

Maria Cardona, communications director of the Democratic National Committee,
called the plan cynical.

"This gives [Bush] a way to deliver something in his visit with Fox that is
satisfactory to the right wing of his party," Cardona said.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              37 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T08

LENGTH: 742 words


The House passed a bill (HR 1885) enabling hundreds of thousands of undocumented
immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency without first returning home.
The bill applies to undocumented immigrants who entered the United States before
Dec. 21, 2000, and who had secured a family or employer sponsor before Aug. 15.
The bill must be reconciled with a similar Senate measure.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (HR 2341) to shift most class action lawsuits to the
federal judiciary from state courts, where juries historically have been
sympathetic to plaintiffs. At present, class actions are assigned to federal
court only when all plaintiffs are from different states than all defendants.
Under the bill, federal courts would gain jurisdiction over claims exceeding $ 2
million when at least one plaintiff and one defendant are from different states.
A similar bill is pending in the Senate.

Supporters, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of
Manufacturers, said the bill would keep trial lawyers from "forum shopping"
suits of questionable merit to friendly state courtrooms. Foes, such as the
Association of Trial Lawyers of America and Public Citizen, said it would
deprive consumers of basic legal protections against harm inflicted by corporate
mistakes.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) - * -

Cummings (D) - * -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) - * -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The House rejected an amendment to HR 2341 (above) that sought to deny transfer
of class action suits to federal court if the defendant were found to have
altered or destroyed documents. Backers cited the alleged destruction on a mass
scale of Enron Corp. documents. Foes called that argument off base because
shareholder suits against Enron and the Arthur Andersen accounting firm already
were assigned to federal court.

A yes vote was to make document destruction grounds for keeping class action
suits in state court.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) - * -

Gilchrest (R) - * -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) - * -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) - * -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (H 2146) imposing a mandatory life sentence on repeat
sexual offenders 18 and older who are convicted of committing a sex crime on a
minor on federal property, such as a national park, reservation or military
base. The bill went to the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The Senate voted to strip an energy bill (S 517) of higher fuel-efficiency
standards for cars and trucks and require a two-year government study on the
effect of tougher standards on auto-industry jobs and highway safety.

The underlying bill called for increasing efficiency to a combined-fleet average
of 35 miles per gallon or greater for cars, sports utility vehicles and light
trucks by model year 2015. The government currently requires automakers to
average 27.5 mpg for cars and 20.7 mpg for SUVs and light trucks.

A yes vote was to remove fuel-efficiency requirements from a bill setting energy
policy.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * - -

Warner (R) * - -

The Senate refused to impose federal standards that would greatly increase the
production of renewable energy. The amendment to S 517 (above) required that
renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, be expanded to account for 20
percent of domestic electricity production by 2020. At present, they account for
about 3 percent

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) - * -

Warner (R) - * -

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              38 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T30

LENGTH: 742 words


The House passed a bill (HR 1885) enabling hundreds of thousands of undocumented
immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency without first returning home.
The bill applies to undocumented immigrants who entered the United States before
Dec. 21, 2000, and who had secured a family or employer sponsor before Aug. 15.
The bill must be reconciled with a similar Senate measure.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (HR 2341) to shift most class action lawsuits to the
federal judiciary from state courts, where juries historically have been
sympathetic to plaintiffs. At present, class actions are assigned to federal
court only when all plaintiffs are from different states than all defendants.
Under the bill, federal courts would gain jurisdiction over claims exceeding $ 2
million when at least one plaintiff and one defendant are from different states.
A similar bill is pending in the Senate.

Supporters, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of
Manufacturers, said the bill would keep trial lawyers from "forum shopping"
suits of questionable merit to friendly state courtrooms. Foes, such as the
Association of Trial Lawyers of America and Public Citizen, said it would
deprive consumers of basic legal protections against harm inflicted by corporate
mistakes.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) - * -

Cummings (D) - * -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) - * -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The House rejected an amendment to HR 2341 (above) that sought to deny transfer
of class action suits to federal court if the defendant were found to have
altered or destroyed documents. Backers cited the alleged destruction on a mass
scale of Enron Corp. documents. Foes called that argument off base because
shareholder suits against Enron and the Arthur Andersen accounting firm already
were assigned to federal court.

A yes vote was to make document destruction grounds for keeping class action
suits in state court.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) - * -

Gilchrest (R) - * -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) - * -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) - * -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (H 2146) imposing a mandatory life sentence on repeat
sexual offenders 18 and older who are convicted of committing a sex crime on a
minor on federal property, such as a national park, reservation or military
base. The bill went to the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The Senate voted to strip an energy bill (S 517) of higher fuel-efficiency
standards for cars and trucks and require a two-year government study on the
effect of tougher standards on auto-industry jobs and highway safety.

The underlying bill called for increasing efficiency to a combined-fleet average
of 35 miles per gallon or greater for cars, sports utility vehicles and light
trucks by model year 2015. The government currently requires automakers to
average 27.5 mpg for cars and 20.7 mpg for SUVs and light trucks.

A yes vote was to remove fuel-efficiency requirements from a bill setting energy
policy.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * - -

Warner (R) * - -

The Senate refused to impose federal standards that would greatly increase the
production of renewable energy. The amendment to S 517 (above) required that
renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, be expanded to account for 20
percent of domestic electricity production by 2020. At present, they account for
about 3 percent

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) - * -

Warner (R) - * -

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              39 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: FAIRFAX EXTRA; Pg. T25

LENGTH: 676 words


The House passed a bill (HR 1885) enabling hundreds of thousands of undocumented
immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency without first returning home.

The bill applies to undocumented immigrants who entered the United States before
Dec. 21, 2000, and who had secured a family or employer sponsor before Aug. 15.

The bill must be reconciled with a similar Senate measure.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (HR 2341) to shift most class action lawsuits to the
federal judiciary from state courts, where juries historically have been
sympathetic to plaintiffs. At present, class actions are assigned to federal
court only when all plaintiffs are from different states than all defendants.
Under the bill, federal courts would gain jurisdiction over claims exceeding $ 2
million when at least one plaintiff and one defendant are from different states.
A similar bill is pending in the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) - * -

Cummings (D) - * -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) - * -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The House rejected an amendment to HR 2341 (above) that sought to deny transfer
of class action suits to federal court if the defendant were found to have
altered or destroyed documents. Backers cited the alleged destruction on a mass
scale of Enron Corp. documents. Foes called that argument off base because
shareholder suits against Enron and the Arthur Andersen accounting firm already
were assigned to federal court.

A yes vote was to make document destruction grounds for keeping class action
suits in state court.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) - * -

Gilchrest (R) - * -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) - * -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) - * -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (H 2146) imposing a mandatory life sentence on repeat
sexual offenders 18 and older who are convicted of committing a sex crime on a
minor on federal property, such as a national park, reservation or military
base. The bill went to the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The Senate voted to strip an energy bill (S 517) of higher fuel-efficiency
standards for cars and trucks and require a two-year government study on the
effect of tougher standards on auto-industry jobs and highway safety.

The underlying bill called for increasing efficiency to a combined-fleet average
of 35 miles per gallon or greater for cars, sports utility vehicles and light
trucks by model year 2015. The government currently requires automakers to
average 27.5 mpg for cars and 20.7 mpg for SUVs and light trucks.  A yes vote
was to remove fuel-efficiency requirements from a bill setting energy policy.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * - -

Warner (R) * - -

The Senate refused to impose federal standards that would greatly increase the
production of renewable energy. The amendment to S 517 (above) required that
renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, be expanded to account for 20
percent of domestic electricity production by 2020. At present, they account for
about 3 percent.

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) - * -

Warner (R) - * -

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              40 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: ANNE ARUNDEL EXTRA; Pg. T10

LENGTH: 743 words


The House passed a bill (HR 1885) enabling hundreds of thousands of undocumented
immigrants to apply for permanent U.S. residency without first returning home.
The bill applies to undocumented immigrants who entered the United States before
Dec. 21, 2000, and who had secured a family or employer sponsor before Aug. 15.
The bill must be reconciled with a similar Senate measure.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (HR 2341) to shift most class action lawsuits to the
federal judiciary from state courts, where juries historically have been
sympathetic to plaintiffs. At present, class actions are assigned to federal
court only when all plaintiffs are from different states than all defendants.
Under the bill, federal courts would gain jurisdiction over claims exceeding $ 2
million when at least one plaintiff and one defendant were from different
states. A similar bill is pending in the Senate.

Supporters, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of
Manufacturers, said the bill would keep trial lawyers from "forum shopping"
suits of questionable merit to friendly state courtrooms. Opponents, such as the
Association of Trial Lawyers of America and Public Citizen, said it would
deprive consumers of basic legal protections against harm inflicted by corporate
mistakes.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) - * -

Cummings (D) - * -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) - * -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) * - -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The House rejected an amendment to HR 2341 (above) that sought to deny the
transfer of class action suits to federal court if the defendant were found to
have altered or destroyed documents. Backers cited the alleged destruction on a
mass scale of Enron Corp. documents. Foes called that argument off-base because
shareholder suits against Enron and the Arthur Andersen accounting firm already
were assigned to federal court.

A yes vote was to make document destruction grounds for keeping class action
suits in state court.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) - * -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) - * -

Gilchrest (R) - * -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) - * -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) - * -

T. Davis (R) - * -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) - * -

Cantor (R) - * -

The House passed a bill (H 2146) imposing a mandatory life sentence on repeat
sexual offenders 18 and older who are convicted of committing a sex crime on a
minor on federal property, such as a national park, reservation or military
base. The bill went to the Senate.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * - -

Cardin (D) * - -

Cummings (D) * - -

Ehrlich (R) * - -

Gilchrest (R) * - -

Hoyer (D) * - -

Morella (R) * - -

Wynn (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * - -

T. Davis (R) * - -

Moran (D) - * -

Wolf (R) * - -

Cantor (R) * - -

The Senate voted to strip an energy bill (S 517) of higher fuel-efficiency
standards for cars and trucks and to require a two-year government study on the
effect of tougher standards on auto-industry jobs and highway safety.

The underlying bill called for increasing efficiency to a combined-fleet average
of 35 miles a gallon or greater for cars, sports utility vehicles and light
trucks by model year 2015. The government currently requires automakers to
average 27.5 mpg for cars and 20.7 mpg for SUVs and light trucks.

A yes vote was to remove fuel-efficiency requirements from a bill setting energy
policy.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) - * -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * - -

Warner (R) * - -

The Senate refused to impose federal standards that would greatly increase the
production of renewable energy. The amendment to S 517 (above) required that
renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, be expanded to account for 20
percent of domestic electricity production by 2020. At present, they account for
about 3 percent

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * - -

Sarbanes (D) * - -

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) - * -

Warner (R) - * -

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              41 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 24, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

An Immigration Opportunity

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 489 words


WHEN PRESIDENT Bush traveled to Mexico last week he couldn't bring one thing he
had hoped to show President Vicente Fox: congressional approval of a measure
that would allow some illegal immigrants to remain with families or jobs in the
United States while applying for legal status. It would have been a step in the
direction of the goal both men embraced last year when they pledged to work
toward humane treatment and legal security for Mexican migrants to the United
States. But passage of the provision was thrown off track by the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. At the president's urging, it was added to a border security
bill that the House passed on March 12. Senate action, however, was blocked last
week by Sen. Robert Byrd, who has been objecting to the broader border bill and
who took to the floor last Monday to denounce the immigrant provision as well.
Labeling the measure an amnesty, he declared that it is "sheer lunacy" for the
administration to ease requirements on some illegal immigrants at the same time
it issues security alerts and wrestles with an overloaded and dysfunctional
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The House rightly rejected similar
arguments: The Senate needs to do the same when members return.

Lawmakers should act because this is an effort to keep families together and to
encourage those illegal immigrants who qualify for permanent residency to step
out of the shadows and seek to legalize their status. Applicants would be
subject to background checks, including exchanges of information with the FBI
and CIA. Sen. Byrd argued that relying on the INS to supervise these
investigations is no substitute for inquiries by consular officials in the
applicants' home countries, but that's a false choice. Immigrants already here
can simply remain underground, subject to no investigation at all. Bringing
these residents into the system would be a step forward, even though it would
increase the burdens on INS. At least the $ 1,000 fine each applicant would pay
would help generate some of the income needed to address the agency's needs.

Sept. 11 revealed urgent security needs: U.S. border controls must be
strengthened, and officials must improve their ability to both screen and keep
track of those who come into the country. But the immigration issues that
existed before Sept. 11 haven't disappeared, including the fact that roughly 8
million illegal immigrants are living in the United States, about 5 million of
whom, according to a new study by the Pew Hispanic Center, hold jobs. About 60
percent of those immigrants are from Mexico and another 20 percent from Central
American countries. The economy depends in part on them and on the free flow of
goods across borders both north and south. Lawmakers need to grapple with all
these issues: A bill combining border security initiatives with a provision that
will encourage some immigrants to seek legal status is a good start.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              42 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

If They Are Illegal . . .

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 433 words


I read with interest the March 18 Metro article about the illegal immigrant
family whose members could not open a bank account, get a driver's license or
register their child for school because of strict new requirements by agencies.

My son recently moved back home from San Francisco and will be staying with us
for a few months until he gets his own apartment. In the meantime, he needs to
buy a car. Because he has no proof that he lives in our house (no utility bills
or lease in his name) he cannot open a bank account, get a car loan, obtain a
Virginia driver's license in exchange for his valid California license or do a
number of other everyday things. We have to wait until he receives mail
forwarded to our house to prove he lives here.

My son is a graduate of Thomas Jefferson High School, holds a master's degree,
has never had a ticket, will start a new job April 1 and is a taxpayer.

I cannot feel sorry for someone who is here illegally and cannot get the same
things my son cannot get. Rules are for everyone and should not be waived.

Has it been a pain to try to make my son "legal"? Sure! But it is the cost of
freedom.

NANCY COPELAND

Manassas

*

Calling illegal aliens "undocumented immigrants" is analogous to calling a bank
robber an unauthorized withdrawal specialist. Saying someone was "slipping into"
the country makes it sound as though he or she was a teenager sneaking into a
movie theater.

Illegal aliens' first act in entering our country is to break the law. They
should be deported.

The Sept. 11 terrorists were able to obtain fraudulent identification. They were
then able to travel the country and use the IDs to board planes before flying
them into buildings and killing more than 3,000 people. Making it easier for
illegal aliens to obtain ID would enable them to commit more crimes and
terrorists acts.

In regard to the difficulty that the children of illegal aliens have in trying
to enter U.S. schools because they do not have identification, I am reminded of
something Mexican President Vicente Fox said recently: "Mexico now has a
transitory window of opportunity to improve public education. . . . Instead of
struggling just to provide enough teachers and classrooms, Mexico now can
improve the quality of public education."

The reason for the window of opportunity is a falling birthrate and the
outmigration of 300,000 Mexicans annually to the United States. Ironically, we
could be in the position of improving the quality of our schools if they didn't
have to provide for the children of illegal immigrants.

JIM LUDWICK

McMinnville, Ore.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              43 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 18, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Italy, Too, Tries the Hard Line;
Violent Crime, Immigration in Political Spotlight

BYLINE: Daniel Williams, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: ROME May 17


"Zero tolerance." The right to bear arms. "No" to illegal aliens. Suddenly,
Italy is sounding very much like the United States, with periodic outcries over
crime and immigration.

The issues, solidly linked in the public mind, have become the defining theme of
politics here.

This week, right-wing Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi took the trouble to
personally trumpet results from a two-day nationwide crackdown on suspected
street criminals and illegal immigrants. Using rhetoric that in Washington is
reserved for the war on terrorism, Berlusconi told reporters that the roundup of
petty criminals represented his effort to "put an army of good between the
citizens and the army of evil." He dubbed the campaign Operation High Impact.

Operation High Impact extended from the Alps in northern Italy to Sicily off the
toe of Italy's peninsular boot. It netted 240 suspects, including 159
foreigners, ranging from alleged prostitutes to pickpockets to drug dealers. In
addition, 350 undocumented migrants were arrested, and they face deportation,
Berlusconi said.

Berlusconi's performance was a vivid example of the anti-crime, anti-immigration
mania sweeping Europe. On Wednesday voters in the Netherlands made the far-right
Pim Fortuyn's List, named for the anti-immigration politician murdered on May 6,
the country's second largest parliamentary grouping. In Spain, the government of
Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar has put into action a plan to increase arrests
of illegal migrants; almost 90 percent of people in pretrial detention in Spain
are foreigners.

In France this week, President Jacques Chirac announced establishment of 28 new
police squads to enter high-crime neighborhoods -- populated largely by North
African immigrants -- and restore order. Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy made
the announcement in a Paris neighborhood where two policemen had been ambushed
in their vehicle by masked, stone-throwing youths.

Crime and immigration became incendiary issues in France during the recent
presidential election campaign, when far-right candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen
rocked the country's politics by eliminating Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin
in the first round. Le Pen lost soundly to Chirac in the runoff. Legislative
elections take place next month.

Italy has been in the vanguard of crime and immigration politics in Europe.
Berlusconi, leader of the Forza Italia party, won election a year ago partly on
a pledge to provide "security for all." His two major coalition partners, the
National Alliance and the Northern League, favored a hard line against the
influx of foreigners. Scores of municipal elections are scheduled for May 26,
and aides to Berlusconi made no secret of the political relevance of the
anti-crime and anti-alien drive. "The answer to the call for greater security is
the central theme of political debate in all Europe," said Berlusconi's
spokesman, Paolo Bonaiuti.

Just this week, Berlusconi's government produced an avalanche of public safety
proposals. Defense Minister Antonio Martino advanced a plan to make it easier to
get personal gun permits. Interior Minister Claudio Scajola proposed that police
fingerprint all foreigners.

The governing coalition is presenting to Parliament stringent new rules on
immigration and the granting of work permits. Support for a tough line on
immigration came Thursday from Carlo Ciampi, the country's nonpartisan
ceremonial president. He told a conference in Morocco that Italy possessed a
"limited capacity to welcome" immigrants.

For all the outcry, crime is on the decline in Italy, according to recent
surveys. Yet a quarter of Italians feel less safe than a year ago, Panorama
magazine reported.

Italians have grown alarmed by anecdotal reports of vicious crime methods once
little known in Italy, including the shooting of robbery victims and gang
shootouts in the streets. The country's changing landscape includes parades of
prostitutes who line country roads and, in some cities, downtown thoroughfares.
In Naples, Via Umberto I, a wide boulevard leading from the train station, is
packed nightly with prostitutes and drug-pushing pimps from Eastern Europe.

Immigration numbers are smaller in Italy than in France, Germany or Britain, but
the influx has had an impact nonetheless. New ghettos of foreigners have formed
around train stations across the country. Ships deliver hundreds of illegal
migrants to Italy's shores each month.

For Italy's opposition parties, crime and immigration pose a dilemma. Leftists
typically support legal protection for criminal suspects and social welfare for
newcomers, but are fearful of ceding the hard-line advantage to Berlusconi. On
Thursday, leftist leaders offered their own solutions under the slogan "Conquer
fear, save liberty." The opposition proposed tax breaks for businesses that
install security equipment, larger police forces and more support for crime
victims.

At a news conference, Piero Fassino, secretary of the Democratic Left party,
chided Berlusconi for "establishing a correlation between immigration and
security, as if all the problems derive from immigration."

Francesco Rutelli, the former mayor of Rome who lost the prime minister's race
to Berlusconi last May, said that when he was in office, he tried to pay
attention to the rights of immigrants while fighting crime. "I don't see the
contradiction," he said.

Rutelli criticized the government's call for "zero tolerance," an echo of former
New York City mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's strategy of cracking down on minor
criminal offenders as a means of reducing bigger offenses. "I don't like that
expression," Rutelli said. "Tolerance is one of the highest expressions of the
culture of human rights."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              44 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 24, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mexicans Caught at Border in Falling Numbers

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: JACUME, Mexico May 23


The number of Mexicans caught trying to cross the border illegally has fallen to
levels not seen since the early 1990s, the beginning of a decade-long surge that
brought millions of illegal immigrants into the United States.

In 2000, more than 1.6 million people were apprehended on the U.S.-Mexican
border, the highest number ever recorded. That number dropped to 1.2 million
last year. It's on target to fall below 1 million this fiscal year, according to
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. About 526,000 people have been
picked up between Oct. 1, 2001, and April 30, half the number of those
apprehended during that period two years before.

The apprehension figures, considered a key measure for gauging the number of
migrants trying to enter the United States, suggest an ebbing of what had been a
relentless flow of people from Mexico and Central America

Fewer jobs in the United States, along with increased air and land patrols on
the border following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have discouraged many people
from attempting to cross, according to migrants interviewed in this desert
border post, 50 miles east of Tijuana. Some also cite TV commercials aired in
Mexico stating that one migrant a day dies while trying to cross the border.

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar said in a telephone interview that he believed
this was part of a long-term trend. "It probably will never rise to the level it
was," he said.

Ziglar said U.S. border communities, once flooded with people sleeping in bushes
and waiting for an opportunity to dart across the international boundary are
reporting a decrease in "environmental damage" caused by migrants. "Whether it
is trash left or fires set or vandalism, that has all clearly diminished rather
dramatically," he said.

But Gabriela Ayala, 27, said the drop in migration means more unemployment and a
lot less business in her grocery shop in Jacume. "Two years ago there were tons
of people walking around the town, buying food and water," she said. "Today I
only saw three carloads" of illegal migrants.

Jacume is a town of 150 families in the rocky hills right up against the border
with California. The streets are made of sand, and beyond the cluster of homes,
Laura's hamburger joint and the tiny school with Winnie-the-Pooh painted on its
door, there is nothing much except rattlesnakes and coyotes.

For $ 20 a person, Ayala said, drivers still pick up migrants from the closest
paved road nine miles south of here, and bring them into Jacume -- and, more
importantly, within a few feet of the town across the border, Jacumba, Calif.

Until the mid-1990s there was nothing but a wire fence to separate the two
towns, but by then hundreds of migrants a day had discovered this place. So U.S.
officials built a tall, black wall on the boundary, right at the edge of Agustin
Rodriquez's farm. Then after Sept. 11, the helicopters and lights arrived. All
day long, Rodriquez can look out beyond his chickens and see a U.S. Border
Patrol car parked on a hill.

"There has been a big change. Just two years ago, groups of migrants came to my
house every day, looking for food or water," said Rodriquez. "Now maybe someone
comes once a week, maybe twice."

Now anybody looking to cross the border illegally must walk far south of town
into the mountains where the fence ends, and cross in more dangerous places.

Everyone here constantly talks of Sept. 11 -- the day U.S. officials closed the
border gate. That entryway through the wall had allowed residents with legal
papers, jobs or school in the United States to walk or drive across. Ayala's two
children had a 10-minute commute to their school on the other side. Now it is
locked and the closest legal entry point is in Tecate, 25 miles away. With bad
roads and traffic backups, it can now take three hours to cross into the United
States. Ayala had to send her two boys, 10 and 11, to live with their
grandmother in Jacumba. "Everything changed September 11," she said.

One positive change has been a drop in migrant deaths. In 2000, 377 people died
trying to cross the U.S.-Mexican border. In 2001, 336 migrants died. Ninety-nine
deaths were reported between Oct. 1, 2001, and May 14, compared with 140 deaths
in the same preceding period.

But summer is the deadliest time, when the desert temperature climbs beyond 130
degrees. One year ago today, 14 migrants died in the heat east of here, near
Yuma, Ariz.

Ziglar, the commissioner, flew to several points along the border today to
announce that the INS was installing six 30-foot-tall rescue beacons near the
site of that tragedy. The beacons are equipped with strobe lights and rotating
mirrors and visible five miles away. If a migrant in distress can make it to the
beacon and push a button, a rescue helicopter will be dispatched. Ziglar also
announced that more helicopters would be flying over the area and new boats
would patrol irrigation waterways and canals in California where migrants have
been drowning with alarming frequency.

Mexican officials announced Wednesday that they were building 10 rescue towers
on this side of the border.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              45 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Search Finds 585 Deportee 'Absconders'

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 426 words


Federal authorities have apprehended nearly 600 illegal immigrants in the past
four months through an organized effort to find foreign nationals who have
ignored deportation orders, Justice Department officials said yesterday. Some of
the deportees were wanted for sexual assaults and other serious crimes,
officials said.

But authorities acknowledged that the program, known as the "Absconder
Apprehension Initiative," has been hampered by a lack of resources in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and other agencies.

Officials also said the roundup has not located any known terrorists or their
associates, which was one of the key justifications for the effort when it was
outlined by Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson and other officials.

The program focused initially on more than 5,000 foreign nationals from
countries, mostly in the Middle East, identified as having a significant al
Qaeda terrorist presence.

The INS estimates that 314,000 foreign nationals may be in the United States
illegally after ignoring deportation orders. So far, 585 people on the list have
been caught, officials said.

Officials familiar with the program said one of the obstacles is the need to
pore over individual case files to check the list's accuracy. About 15 percent
of the names checked have been removed from the list for various reasons,
whether because they are in a U.S. jail on unrelated charges or because they
have already left the country, authorities said.

"It's a success in the sense that it has yielded the apprehension of many very
dangerous aliens who should not be in the country," a Justice Department
official said. "The pace is certainly a concern. But we're not going to
sacrifice accuracy just to do it faster."

Among the criminals swept up in the dragnet, officials said, are a Sudanese man
wanted in connection with the rape and sodomy of a 4-year-old girl in
Philadelphia and a Jordanian man in Chicago who had been convicted on arson and
explosives charges.

In those cases and a limited number of others, authorities have dispatched
federal and local agents to find and arrest the deportees.

But in most cases, the names of absconders are simply being entered into the
National Crime Information Center database, which is used by law enforcement
agencies to check on individuals during traffic stops and other encounters.

As a result, officials said, the initial number of arrests is relatively low
compared with the overall number of absconders because the program depends on
police encountering those on the list.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              46 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 16, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Muslim Linked To 'Dirty Bomb' Suspect Is Held

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE: MIAMI June 15


A South Florida Muslim leader with ties to "dirty bomb" suspect Jose Padilla has
been arrested by a federal counter-terrorism task force and is being held on an
alleged immigration violation, Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman
Rodney Germain said today.

Adham Hassoun, 40, was one of the leaders of the al-Iman mosque in Broward
County, which Padilla attended when he was converting to Islam in the early and
mid-1990s.

Hassoun also is the founder of the Florida chapter of a large Muslim charity,
Benevolence International Foundation. U.S. officials alleged in court documents
in April that the Illinois-based foundation has been intimately connected to
Osama bin Laden for years and has moved large sums of money to fund the
operations of his al Qaeda network around the world.

FBI spokeswoman Judy Orihuela said Hassoun was arrested Wednesday by the South
Florida Joint Terrorism Task Force, which includes the FBI, the INS and other
law enforcement agencies.

Padilla, who is being held at a Navy brig in South Carolina, is accused of
plotting with al Qaeda leaders to detonate a radioactive bomb in the United
States.

-- Manuel Roig-Franzia

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              47 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 23, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

EU Agrees on Curbs On Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Keith B. Richburg, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 771 words

DATELINE: SEVILLE, Spain June 22


European Union leaders wrapped up a two-day summit today by agreeing to new
measures aimed at deterring illegal immigration and offering fresh assurances to
10 applicant countries that talks to expand the group to 25 members should be
completed this year.

But the summit was also notable for the issues left unsettled: the tough
question of how to extend lucrative farm subsidies to incoming members and the
dispute between Greece and Turkey that is blocking the launch of Europe's joint
military "rapid reaction force" designed to give the continent a defense
identity independent of the United States.

And on this final day of the summit, which brought together the leaders of the
15-member union, car bombs in southern and northern Spain served as a reminder
of the ever-present threat of terrorism, already a top-priority issue for the
bloc since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. The two
bombings, and three on Friday, were blamed on the Basque separatist group ETA.
"Terrorists have threatened to create a climate of fear and a landscape of
destruction," said Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar, who survived an ETA
car bomb before he became prime minister. "The terrorists are attacking in a
Europe in which they know they have no part."

ETA has blamed the European Union for ignoring the Basque campaign for an
independent homeland. By targeting several coastal cities popular with European
tourists, ETA also seemed to be trying to strike at the Spanish economy; tourism
accounts for about 12 percent of that economy.

Summits like these are always measured by who "won" and who "lost," particularly
in the view of the continent's media. The early consensus from this meeting is
that French President Jacques Chirac won big. The headline on the weekend
edition of Britain's Financial Times was "Chirac Dominant at EU Summit."

Chirac appeared here alone, without his prime minister at his side, for the
first time in five years. When power in Paris was split between the rightist
Chirac and the Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, both had to attend these
summits together, creating awkward scenes. But since Chirac's allies won a solid
majority in Parliament last week, and he now has a government of his choosing,
Chirac alone can be the voice of French foreign policy.

Chirac won a major concession from his European partners by obtaining more
flexibility to bring the French budget out of deficit. Under a "stability pact"
agreed to by the 11 members who use the euro common currency, France's budget
was supposed to be almost balanced by 2004. Chirac won agreement that the
deadline would be enforced only if the French economy grows at least 3 percent
before then -- a feat that appears highly unlikely.

Chirac needed the budget flexibility to implement some of the costly promises he
made during his reelection campaign this spring, including a 30 percent tax cut
-- with 5 percent of that coming immediately -- and more spending on police and
security forces to combat rising crime. In a rare display of how EU membership
now constrains the financial decisions of national governments, France did agree
that any future tax cuts would be offset by reduced spending.

Chirac also blocked a German and British initiative to allow some decisions at
EU summits to be reached by majority vote. Currently, any member state can veto
an EU rule, and France has used its veto to stop the deregulation of its
state-controlled energy market.

Chirac also prevailed again over his colleagues from Britain, Spain and Italy in
toning down the language on illegal immigration. British Prime Minister Tony
Blair wanted language threatening economic sanctions against countries that
failed to stem the flow of immigrants from their territory. France, backed by
Sweden, was concerned about its relations with former colonies, such as Algeria
and Morocco, being affected by a hard-line EU stance. Those two countries are a
major source of illegal migrants to Europe.

"You are not going to solve problems by brandishing a sword, especially a wooden
one," Chirac said.

In a major decision, the union said it was "determined" to complete negotiations
with applicant countries -- mostly former communist states from the Eastern Bloc
-- by December when the next summit is held in Copenhagen. The pledge keeps the
EU on track to add as many as 10 new members by 2004, in time to participate in
elections for the European Parliament.

The new members are likely to be Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia,
Slovakia, Cyprus, Malta and the three Baltic countries -- Latvia, Lithuania and
Estonia.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              48 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 26, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

An Entry Card for Immigrants;
Illegal Residents Gain Access to U.S. Services With Mexico-Issued ID

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1221 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE


It wasn't hard for Hector and Uriel to sneak over the U.S. border recently. It
wasn't hard for the two Mexicans to find work in Virginia's construction
industry. But one thing has become harder for illegal immigrants since Sept. 11:
getting an ID.

That's why the two friends joined scores of other immigrants last weekend at a
fluorescent-lighted church hall in Charlottesville. There, Mexican diplomats
were issuing a new, high-tech ID for Mexicans living in the United States -- a
card that has quietly emerged as a key U.S. document for a huge group of illegal
immigrants.

So far this year, the Mexican government has distributed about a half-million of
the cards, known as matriculas consulares. In recent months, the cards have been
recognized as official identification by nearly 200 U.S. police departments in
such cities as Los Angeles, Chicago and Houston, according to the Mexican
Embassy. Dozens of banks and city governments accept them. Now the cards are
starting to appear in the Washington area.

Supporters say the cards help hardworking immigrants who must present an
official photo ID for basic necessities, from cashing a check to registering a
child for school. Obtaining such an ID has become much more difficult since
Virginia and other states, reacting to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, stiffened
requirements for issuing driver's licenses and other identification.

Critics, however, say the Mexican government is trying to issue credentials for
its citizens here, undermining the U.S. identification system and aiding
lawbreakers.

"It's part of a creeping amnesty," said Mark Krikorian, of the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington. "What we're seeing with illegal immigrants is
a growing institutionalization of their status."

The consular IDs do not allow immigrants to live or work legally in the United
States. But for the estimated 4.5 million undocumented Mexican immigrants, the
cards are useful in other ways. Bank of America and Citibank recently decided to
accept the cards to open accounts. Mexicans also have used the photo IDs --
which, unlike passports, include a local address and are wallet-size -- to do
everything from buying beer to filing a police report.

"We can cash our paychecks or do the paperwork to rent an apartment. That's
what's so difficult," said Uriel, 22, who immigrated three months ago hoping to
earn enough money to buy a house back in Mexico. He and other immigrants who
were interviewed did not give their last names because of their illegal status.

The Mexican government has issued consular IDs for more than a century. But it
was not until last summer, as state and local governments were grappling with
the consequences of a swelling population of undocumented immigrants, that the
cards' popularity began to grow.

One of the first agencies to support use of the matriculas was the police
department in Austin, which was alarmed to find that half of its burglary
victims were Latinos.

"We knew that one of the biggest reasons this community was getting robbed was
because they carried huge amounts of money," said Assistant Police Chief Rudy
Landeros. Many immigrants lacked the IDs to open bank accounts, he said. So
Austin police helped persuade the Wells Fargo bank chain to accept the cards.

Use of the cards soon began to spread, especially after Sept. 11. The Mexican
government, through its 45 U.S. consulates, increasingly has urged local
officials and banks to accept the cards. "We want our compatriots to have an ID
document . . . to distinguish those people who contribute to and live in this
society from those who have other interests" such as terrorism, said Carlos
Felix, who is in charge of immigrant issues at the Mexican Embassy.

In recent months, consulates have been overwhelmed by immigrants seeking the
cards. About 488,000 were issued in the first half of this year -- a 76 percent
increase from the same period in 2001, Felix said. Mexico has also stepped up a
program of "mobile consulates" in which its diplomats travel to far-flung areas
to provide the cards.

It was a mobile consulate that issued matriculas to Hector and Uriel in
Charlottesville last weekend. They were among 200 immigrants who trooped to the
parish center of a Catholic church, where Mexican diplomats had set up a
makeshift office.

They included construction workers and restaurant cooks from Charlottesville,
apple harvesters from Lovingston and grape pickers from Virginia wineries. They
form part of an ethnic Mexican population in Virginia that is relatively small
but has doubled in a decade, to nearly 74,000, according to the Census Bureau.

Filomena, 35, a migrant farm worker, was so eager to get a matricula that she
arrived at the church hall at 4:30 a.m. She hoped the document would help her
cash the checks she received from her winter job picking oranges in Florida.

"They say that you can put money in a bank and save it" with the ID, said
Filomena, who makes $ 6 an hour and supports two children in Mexico. She hoped
the card would eventually lead to bigger things, such as a driver's license.
However, Virginia does not accept the matricula to grant a driver's license.

To get the ID cards, which incorporate anti-fraud features, each immigrant had
to pay $ 29 and present a birth certificate and an official Mexican photo ID.

The matriculas have perhaps had the greatest impact in allowing illegal
immigrants into the U.S. banking system. Wells Fargo had opened 35,000 accounts
based on the consular IDs through the end of March, the latest data available,
said bank spokeswoman Miriam Galicia Duarte.

Some local governments have also decided the cards are useful and are permitting
those who hold them to attend government meetings, check out library books and
take advantage of other services.

For police, the cards make it easier to confirm the identities of victims and
witnesses. "It's very critical in law enforcement to be able to verify who the
person says he is," said Landeros, the assistant chief in Austin. He
acknowledged that some citizens have criticized the authorities' acceptance of
the card. However, he noted, enforcing immigration law is a federal
responsibility.

"Our response is, 'Hey, our job is to protect and serve regardless of a person's
immigration status,' " he said, adding that police did not want immigrants to be
afraid to report crimes. "It all boils down to public safety."

In the Washington area, the Mexican government has just begun to promote the
cards and has approached Riggs Bank about accepting them, embassy officials
said. About 30 Mexicans a day are requesting matriculas from the consulate here,
the officials said.

Local authorities in the District, suburban Maryland and Northern Virginia said
they had no policies yet on the matriculas. About 65,000 people of Mexican
heritage live in the Washington area, a small but fast-growing community,
according to the Census Bureau.

Sgt. Joe Gentile, a spokesman for D.C. police, noted that D.C. residents are not
required to carry identification in public.

Many immigrants applying for the cards seemed eager to have a credential with a
U.S. address, in case they are stopped as part of heightened security measures.

"You have to be more careful these days," said Hector, 34. "September 11 has
hurt all of us."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              49 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 26, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

An Entry Card for Immigrants;
Illegal Residents Gain Access To Services With Mexican ID

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1221 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE


It wasn't hard for Hector and Uriel to sneak over the U.S. border recently. It
wasn't hard for the two Mexicans to find work in Virginia's construction
industry. But one thing has become harder for illegal immigrants since Sept. 11:
getting an ID.

That's why the two friends joined scores of other immigrants last weekend at a
fluorescent-lighted church hall in Charlottesville. There, Mexican diplomats
were issuing a new, high-tech ID for Mexicans living in the United States -- a
card that has quietly emerged as a key U.S. document for a huge group of illegal
immigrants.

So far this year, the Mexican government has distributed about a half-million of
the cards, known as matriculas consulares. In recent months, the cards have been
recognized as official identification by nearly 200 U.S. police departments in
such cities as Los Angeles, Chicago and Houston, according to the Mexican
Embassy. Dozens of banks and city governments accept them. Now the cards are
starting to appear in the Washington area.

Supporters say the cards help hardworking immigrants who must present an
official photo ID for basic necessities, from cashing a check to registering a
child for school. Obtaining such an ID has become much more difficult since
Virginia and other states, reacting to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, stiffened
requirements for issuing driver's licenses and other identification.

Critics, however, say the Mexican government is trying to issue credentials for
its citizens here, undermining the U.S. identification system and aiding
lawbreakers.

"It's part of a creeping amnesty," said Mark Krikorian, of the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington. "What we're seeing with illegal immigrants is
a growing institutionalization of their status."

The consular IDs do not allow immigrants to live or work legally in the United
States. But for the estimated 4.5 million undocumented Mexican immigrants, the
cards are useful in other ways. Bank of America and Citibank recently decided to
accept the cards to open accounts. Mexicans also have used the photo IDs --
which, unlike passports, include a local address and are wallet-size -- to do
everything from buying beer to filing a police report.

"We can cash our paychecks or do the paperwork to rent an apartment. That's
what's so difficult," said Uriel, 22, who immigrated three months ago hoping to
earn enough money to buy a house back in Mexico. He and other immigrants who
were interviewed did not give their last names because of their illegal status.

The Mexican government has issued consular IDs for more than a century. But it
was not until last summer, as state and local governments were grappling with
the consequences of a swelling population of undocumented immigrants, that the
cards' popularity began to grow.

One of the first agencies to support use of the matriculas was the police
department in Austin, which was alarmed to find that half of its burglary
victims were Latinos.

"We knew that one of the biggest reasons this community was getting robbed was
because they carried huge amounts of money," said Assistant Police Chief Rudy
Landeros. Many immigrants lacked the IDs to open bank accounts, he said. So
Austin police helped persuade the Wells Fargo bank chain to accept the cards.

Use of the cards soon began to spread, especially after Sept. 11. The Mexican
government, through its 45 U.S. consulates, increasingly has urged local
officials and banks to accept the cards. "We want our compatriots to have an ID
document . . . to distinguish those people who contribute to and live in this
society from those who have other interests" such as terrorism, said Carlos
Felix, who is in charge of immigrant issues at the Mexican Embassy.

In recent months, consulates have been overwhelmed by immigrants seeking the
cards. About 488,000 were issued in the first half of this year -- a 76 percent
increase from the same period in 2001, Felix said. Mexico has also stepped up a
program of "mobile consulates" in which its diplomats travel to far-flung areas
to provide the cards.

It was a mobile consulate that issued matriculas to Hector and Uriel in
Charlottesville last weekend. They were among 200 immigrants who trooped to the
parish center of a Catholic church, where Mexican diplomats had set up a
makeshift office.

They included construction workers and restaurant cooks from Charlottesville,
apple harvesters from Lovingston and grape pickers from Virginia wineries. They
form part of an ethnic Mexican population in Virginia that is relatively small
but has doubled in a decade, to nearly 74,000, according to the Census Bureau.

Filomena, 35, a migrant farm worker, was so eager to get a matricula that she
arrived at the church hall at 4:30 a.m. She hoped the document would help her
cash the checks she received from her winter job picking oranges in Florida.

"They say that you can put money in a bank and save it" with the ID, said
Filomena, who makes $ 6 an hour and supports two children in Mexico. She hoped
the card would eventually lead to bigger things, such as a driver's license.
However, Virginia does not accept the matricula to grant a driver's license.

To get the ID cards, which incorporate anti-fraud features, each immigrant had
to pay $ 29 and present a birth certificate and an official Mexican photo ID.

The matriculas have perhaps had the greatest impact in allowing illegal
immigrants into the U.S. banking system. Wells Fargo had opened 35,000 accounts
based on the consular IDs through the end of March, the latest data available,
said bank spokeswoman Miriam Galicia Duarte.

Some local governments have also decided the cards are useful and are permitting
those who hold them to attend government meetings, check out library books and
take advantage of other services.

For police, the cards make it easier to confirm the identities of victims and
witnesses. "It's very critical in law enforcement to be able to verify who the
person says he is," said Landeros, the assistant chief in Austin. He
acknowledged that some citizens have criticized the authorities' acceptance of
the card. However, he noted, enforcing immigration law is a federal
responsibility.

"Our response is, 'Hey, our job is to protect and serve regardless of a person's
immigration status,' " he said, adding that police did not want immigrants to be
afraid to report crimes. "It all boils down to public safety."

In the Washington area, the Mexican government has just begun to promote the
cards and has approached Riggs Bank about accepting them, embassy officials
said. About 30 Mexicans a day are requesting matriculas from the consulate here,
the officials said.

Local authorities in the District, suburban Maryland and Northern Virginia said
they had no policies yet on the matriculas. About 65,000 people of Mexican
heritage live in the Washington area, a small but fast-growing community,
according to the Census Bureau.

Sgt. Joe Gentile, a spokesman for D.C. police, noted that D.C. residents are not
required to carry identification in public.

Many immigrants applying for the cards seemed eager to have a credential with a
U.S. address, in case they are stopped as part of heightened security measures.

"You have to be more careful these days," said Hector, 34. "September 11 has
hurt all of us."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              50 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 28, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Texas Police Find 2 Dead In Rig Hauling Immigrants

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: ANNA, Tex. June 27


Two bodies were found in a tractor-trailer that had apparently hauled dozens of
illegal immigrants for several hours in 90-degree heat today, police said.
Several people were hospitalized for heat-related injuries.

The rig was found parked at a truck stop in this small town about 40 miles north
of Dallas. Witnesses said one man stumbled from the trailer and was
hospitalized.

"Once our troopers got there, we found two apparent illegal aliens confirmed
dead and one injured," Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman Tom Vinger
said. "Whether the driver knew they were there is still under investigation."

The driver and another man in the cab were taken into custody, Vinger said.

Authorities thought it was the same rig that was in a Dallas truck stop earlier
in the day, where witnesses said about 40 people poured out, some fleeing into
neighborhoods, seeking help.

Authorities said the truck, carrying medical supplies, had traveled to Dallas
from El Paso -- about a 10-hour drive. Some ran to homes asking for water, and
the truck left the scene before police arrived.

At least 14 people were hospitalized for heat exhaustion and possible heat
stroke. Authorities said at least five were in critical condition.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              51 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 13, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Arrests Close Down Ring of Child Smugglers

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 315 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has broken up an international ring
that smuggled hundreds of children into the United States from Guatemala, El
Salvador and Honduras, agency officials said yesterday.

The ring began operating in 1994 and mainly brought to the United States
children whose parents already were in the country illegally. Parents paid the
smugglers $ 5,000 a child, INS officials said.

The ring was the largest child-smuggling operation ever broken up by the INS.

INS special agents from Los Angeles and Washington arrested three alleged ring
members -- Ana Karina Cruz Rivas, Juan Orlando Servellon De Leon and Andrea
Giron -- in Houston on Friday. All three are charged with conspiracy to commit
alien smuggling. Last month, the INS agents arrested alleged ring leader Berta
Campos in Los Angeles. Alleged ring member Guillermo Antonio Paniagua was
arrested in Houston in June.

"It was a mean-spirited criminal enterprise, driven by greed and criminal
profit," said Johnny Williams, head of field operations for the INS, in
announcing the arrests. "When I hear about children crying throughout the night,
I know it wasn't a pleasurable trip."

The child-smuggling ring was broken up in Guatemala in April when seven buses
were intercepted by local authorities. Officers found 53 children, ages 2 to 17.
Twelve smugglers were arrested.

INS officials said the ring would take children from their native countries,
bring them to Mexico and then smuggle them into the United States. All of the
children passed through Los Angeles before going to different parts of the
country, according to the INS.

Campos and Paniagua have been sent to Washington to face charges. The three
people arrested last week in Houston will have preliminary hearings in Houston
and be tried in Washington. Those arrested face 10 years in prison and/or a $
250,000 fine, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              52 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 31, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

1 Million Gained U.S. Residency;
Applications Backlog Fell in 2001, INS Says

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 315 words


The number of foreigners legally becoming U.S. residents broke the million mark
for the first time last year, an increase the Immigration and Naturalization
Service attributed yesterday partly to reductions in application backlogs.

The INS said it recorded 1,064,318 new legal permanent residents between October
2000 and September 2001.

That number rose from 849,807 recorded the year before.

Sixty-one percent, or 653,259, of the new permanent residents already were
living in the United States as temporary employees, refugees, students or under
asylum and simply adjusted their status.

Others were in the country illegally. The INS did not know how many people had
been in the country illegally and became permanent residents through various
programs.

The rest of the new residents -- 411,059 -- entered the country on a visa. That
is an increase from fiscal year 2000, when 407,402 new arrivals became legal
permanent residents.

The INS is processing the applications adjusting immigrants' status to permanent
resident faster, completing 48 percent more applications. The immigration agency
completed 653,259 cases in fiscal 2001, up from 442,405 completions the year
before.

Nationally, such applications take an average of 11 months, down from 30 months
at the beginning of 2000. INS said it still has 847,000 applications pending.

"Last year the president declared his goal was to reduce the processing times to
six months by 2004 and this just shows we're on track to do that," INS spokesman
Bill Strassberger said.

Processing times vary by city. In New York, the wait for completion of a legal
permanent residency application is 17 months. But in San Antonio, Newark and San
Diego, the wait is four months, INS said.

INS statistics show the biggest increases in new legal permanent residents are
among immigrants sponsored by family members or relatives of U.S. citizens.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              53 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 31, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Notary Convicted in ID Scam;
Immigrants Bought False Documents

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 702 words


An Arlington notary public was convicted yesterday of immigration fraud and
money laundering in a case that exposed a thriving illegal market in Virginia
driver's licenses and sparked promises of reform at the state's Department of
Motor Vehicles.

An Alexandria federal jury deliberated for less than an hour before finding
Jennifer Wrenn guilty of producing false identification documents, encouraging
aliens to reside unlawfully in the United States and five other counts. Wrenn
faces a maximum of 20 years in prison when she is sentenced Nov. 16.

According to testimony, Wrenn, who had offices in Falls Church and Manassas,
helped thousands of undocumented immigrants exploit a Virginia legal loophole to
obtain driver's licenses and identity cards even though they lived as far away
as New York and Massachusetts.

"The defendant basically took the Commonwealth of Virginia to the cleaners day
after day after day and got rich doing it," Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton
said. "We are pleased with the jury's verdict."

The law enforcement officials who investigated the case said Wrenn is part of a
much larger phenomenon, and they criticized the DMV for not quickly closing the
loophole.

DMV spokeswoman Anne Atkins said the department is reviewing the forms Wrenn
exploited but has found it difficult to weed out false applicants without
putting unnecessary barriers in the way of legal immigrants.

Unlike most states, the Virginia DMV does not require applicants to show an
electric bill, lease or other form of documentation that they actually live in
the state. Likewise, applicants do not have to present a passport or other
identity documents. Instead, they can provide a notarized residency form
co-signed by a Virginia resident or a notarized identity form co-signed by a
lawyer.

Wrenn's office did a thriving cash business in both forms, according to trial
testimony. She and her employees not only notarized the forms but also provided
false Virginia addresses and coached applicants on how to navigate the DMV
process. Wrenn also paid a lawyer, Michael Ford, to sign batches of blank
identity affidavits and then filled them out and sold them.

After DMV agents raided her Falls Church and Manassas offices, they found a safe
deposit box containing $ 170,000 in cash.

Wrenn's attorney Harvey Volzer agreed that his client had notarized the DMV
forms, but he argued that others -- including several local lawyers -- were
doing the same thing. "Ms. Wrenn was given the impression by the DMV and all the
attorneys that what she was doing was okay," he said.

Thousands of undocumented immigrants are traveling to Northern Virginia to buy
falsified identity and residency forms and then go to the DMV to get legitimate
identity cards, law enforcement officials said. Then, they go home and begin to
build a legal identity. A driver's license and a fake Social Security number can
be used to open bank accounts and as proof of a valid work permit.

"There is such a serious problem with [the residency] form," said Blas Martinez,
a recently retired DMV special agent who said he first alerted his superiors to
the falsified affidavits in 1998. "You'd point out the problems, and [DMV
officials] didn't listen."

Frustrated DMV agents enlisted the help of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the IRS and federal prosecutors, who brought the case against Wrenn,
said Martinez and law enforcement sources.

Eleven people have been convicted in connection with Wrenn's operation,
including Ford and three of Wrenn's employees. Six people who acted as van
drivers or facilitators for out-of-state immigrants have also pleaded guilty to
immigration fraud charges.

After Wrenn's arrest, DMV officials made plans to drop the use of the residency
form but then learned it was required by state regulations and could not be
changed without a public comment period, Atkins said. DMV officials also want to
eliminate the identity form and instead accept a broader range of foreign
documents as proof of identity. She said the changes should be in place by early
next year.

"We're trying to balance the legitimate needs of people . . . against the
problem of fraudulent documents," Atkins said.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              54 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 31, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Woman Convicted In ID Scam;
Notary Helped Immigrants Obtain Driver's Licenses

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 702 words


An Arlington notary public was convicted yesterday of immigration fraud and
money laundering in a case that exposed a thriving illegal market in Virginia
driver's licenses and sparked promises of reform at the state's Department of
Motor Vehicles.

An Alexandria federal jury deliberated for less than an hour before finding
Jennifer Wrenn guilty of producing false identification documents, encouraging
aliens to reside unlawfully in the United States and five other counts. Wrenn
faces a maximum of 20 years in prison when she is sentenced Nov. 16.

According to testimony, Wrenn, who had offices in Falls Church and Manassas,
helped thousands of undocumented immigrants exploit a Virginia legal loophole to
obtain driver's licenses and identity cards even though they lived as far away
as New York and Massachusetts.

"The defendant basically took the Commonwealth of Virginia to the cleaners day
after day after day and got rich doing it," Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton
said. "We are pleased with the jury's verdict."

The law enforcement officials who investigated the case said Wrenn is part of a
much larger phenomenon, and they criticized the DMV for not quickly closing the
loophole.

DMV spokeswoman Anne Atkins said the department is reviewing the forms Wrenn
exploited but has found it difficult to weed out false applicants without
putting unnecessary barriers in the way of legal immigrants.

Unlike most states, the Virginia DMV does not require applicants to show an
electric bill, lease or other form of documentation that they actually live in
the state. Likewise, applicants do not have to present a passport or other
identity documents. Instead, they can provide a notarized residency form
co-signed by a Virginia resident or a notarized identity form co-signed by a
lawyer.

Wrenn's office did a thriving cash business in both forms, according to trial
testimony. She and her employees not only notarized the forms but also provided
false Virginia addresses and coached applicants on how to navigate the DMV
process. Wrenn also paid a lawyer, Michael Ford, to sign batches of blank
identity affidavits and then filled them out and sold them.

After DMV agents raided her Falls Church and Manassas offices, they found a safe
deposit box containing $ 170,000 in cash.

Wrenn's attorney Harvey Volzer agreed that his client had notarized the DMV
forms, but he argued that others -- including several local lawyers -- were
doing the same thing. "Ms. Wrenn was given the impression by the DMV and all the
attorneys that what she was doing was okay," he said.

Thousands of undocumented immigrants are traveling to Northern Virginia to buy
falsified identity and residency forms and then go to the DMV to get legitimate
identity cards, law enforcement officials said. Then, they go home and begin to
build a legal identity. A driver's license and a fake Social Security number can
be used to open bank accounts and as proof of a valid work permit.

"There is such a serious problem with [the residency] form," said Blas Martinez,
a recently retired DMV special agent who said he first alerted his superiors to
the falsified affidavits in 1998. "You'd point out the problems, and [DMV
officials] didn't listen."

Frustrated DMV agents enlisted the help of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the IRS and federal prosecutors, who brought the case against Wrenn,
said Martinez and law enforcement sources.

Eleven people have been convicted in connection with Wrenn's operation,
including Ford and three of Wrenn's employees. Six people who acted as van
drivers or facilitators for out-of-state immigrants have also pleaded guilty to
immigration fraud charges.

After Wrenn's arrest, DMV officials made plans to drop the use of the residency
form but then learned it was required by state regulations and could not be
changed without a public comment period, Atkins said. DMV officials also want to
eliminate the identity form and instead accept a broader range of foreign
documents as proof of identity. She said the changes should be in place by early
next year.

"We're trying to balance the legitimate needs of people . . . against the
problem of fraudulent documents," Atkins said.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              55 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 4, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Fox Says Reform Of Immigration Will Take Years

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Sept. 3


President Vicente Fox said today he expects it will take four to six years to
complete a comprehensive U.S.-Mexico immigration reform, including legalization
for some undocumented Mexican workers in the United States.

Hopes had been high -- especially in Mexico, where immigration is the top
foreign policy priority -- that intense negotiations underway for the last six
months might yield substantive new agreements to announce when the Mexican
president makes his first state visit to Washington this week. But political
realities in Washington have set in, and Fox's prediction was a recognition that
they cannot be ignored.

"We are aware of what we can do and what we cannot do in the short term," Fox
said in an interview. "So no rush. . . . We have time to build. President Bush's
administration is just beginning. Mine is just beginning. I think that our
estimate is that within the next four to six years we would then have something
really worthwhile."

Bush and his advisers have warned recently that immigration reform will have to
proceed slowly, perhaps divided into pieces for consideration by Congress. They
say that any real change may have to wait until after the 2002 midterm
elections. Some say the U.S. Congress may never approve granting residence to
workers who entered the United States illegally, which critics see as rewarding
a crime.

Fox said, however, that he is "absolutely not disappointed" that he and Bush
will not have any substantive announcement to make this week, declaring that
both leaders have time to get the job done.

Fox needs a victory on the immigration front to quiet increasingly vocal critics
here who say he has promised much but delivered little since taking office last
Dec. 1. And Bush, whose personal ties with Fox have been a hallmark of his
foreign policy, is counting on Fox to help him woo the fast-growing Hispanic
vote in the United States, which is seen as critical to his reelection chances
in 2004.

Fox arrives in Washington Tuesday night. He will be the guest of honor at Bush's
first state dinner Wednesday evening. The two presidents also plan a week of
public appearances designed to underscore their personal chemistry and
increasingly close relations, including a visit to Mexican Americans in Toledo.

Mexico has sought to concentrate on the immigration issue for years. But it has
long been overshadowed by U.S. insistence on focusing bilateral talks on trade
and drug trafficking. But since their elections last year, Fox and Bush have
pressed immigration to the top of the agenda.

When they met in February on Fox's Mexican ranch, the two presidents started a
negotiation that included the possibility of expanded guest worker programs, as
well as an element that Mexico considers crucial: legalizing the status of at
least some of the 3 million to 4.5 million undocumented Mexicans now living in
the United States and already paying U.S. taxes.

Speaking at Los Pinos, the forested presidential compound here, Fox said that he
sees legalization as an important part of any agreement. He stopped short of
saying that he would reject a deal that did not include at least some
legalization, but noted that the United States "has benefited from migration
since the founding of the country." So, he said, legalization of those already
there makes sense.

"I want to appeal to U.S. citizens that in this subject we can find real
opportunities for both of our countries," he said.

Conservatives in the U.S. Congress, including Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.), have
said they would block any legalization effort. Fox addressed the critics by
saying that undocumented Mexican workers have been an important part of U.S.
economic growth in recent years.

"It's very difficult for me to understand how the United States could have grown
at rates of 5 1/2 to 6 percent in the recent past" without Mexican immigrant
labor, Fox said. "For the American people, for the United States' economy,
Mexican immigration has been very important for development."

Fox also said reforms he has instituted since taking office in December --
ending the Institutional Revolutionary Party's seven unbroken decades of often
corrupt rule -- have given Mexico a new moral authority in international
affairs. He said despite a sluggish economy, foreign capital is flowing into
Mexico at record rates, projected to top $ 15 billion this year -- up from $ 10
billion to $ 12 billion a year. Fox said that demonstrates that "more and more
we're building trust and confidence in our country."

In that new environment, Fox appealed to the United States to see Mexico as a
"partner for prosperity" and accept Mexican immigration as an opportunity.

"Trust is key, and if anything, what we're going to be doing these next three
days in Washington is building up trust -- Americans should trust Mexico," Fox
said. "Mexico is on its way to modernization. It's undergoing a deep transition
in political, economic and social terms. And trust is critical for our
discussions related to migration, drug trafficking or any other issue."

Fox's long-term vision, for the next 30 or 40 years, includes a gradual
softening of the U.S.-Mexico border, allowing for freer flow of people, goods
and capital. He has said he envisions Mexico, the United States and Canada
joined in a North American alliance similar to the European Union. Part of that
would be a common development fund, in which the wealthy northern countries
would contribute billions of dollars toward Mexico's development.

Fox said today he still supports that idea in the long term. But immediately he
would like to see an expanded role for the North American Development Bank,
which was created as part of the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement to
handle environmental problems along the border. He said part of that expansion
could include a new system of "border bonds" to fund border-area infrastructure.
For example, it could help pay for improvements of natural gas and electricity
transmission equipment to improve the flow of energy between the two nations, he
said.

Fox said the spirit of cooperation already underway in border communities is a
model for what the binational relationship should be. "This spirit we want to
enlarge and take to all over the U.S.," Fox said. "We not only want to be
friends and neighbors, we want to be partners."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              56 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 6, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Fox Presses for Immigration Agreement;
Mexican Leader Seeks Pact With U.S. by Year's End

BYLINE: Dana Milbank and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1557 words


Mexican President Vicente Fox yesterday used his prominence as President Bush's
first state visitor to call for an immigration agreement between the United
States and Mexico by year's end, surprising his American hosts, who favor a more
cautious approach to the status of at least 3 million undocumented Mexican
immigrants.

"The time has come to give migrants and their communities their proper place in
the history of our bilateral relations," Fox declared on the South Lawn of the
White House during an arrival ceremony complete with 21-gun salute and military
honor guard. "We must, and we can, reach an agreement on migration before the
end of this very year."

In a meeting with Washington Post editors and reporters earlier yesterday
morning, Fox said he wants a "first formal agreement that would start giving
concrete solutions to the problem" by the end of 2001. The agreement -- which
aides suggest would be a combination of temporary worker privileges and
permanent residency for undocumented Mexican immigrants -- would be implemented
gradually over four to six years.

Bush administration officials, who had been seeking to lower expectations on the
politically thorny issue of immigration, declined to endorse Fox's year-end
deadline. Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, addressing reporters after a joint
meeting of the U.S. and Mexican cabinets, said an agreement would come at "the
earliest possible time," but cautioned: "I cannot forecast an exact time."

National security adviser Condoleezza Rice also would not commit to Fox's
deadline. "It has to be done right, not just quickly," she said.

Fox's surprising remarks came on the first day of his visit. Treated to a state
dinner last night that featured pepita-crusted bison, he will fly with Bush
today to Toledo, Ohio -- he has relatives in the city, which has a growing
Hispanic population -- after addressing a joint session of Congress.

A senior Bush official said the administration learned on Tuesday that Fox would
start his Washington trip by calling for an agreement by year's end aimed at
legalizing all Mexicans in this country and stopping further illegal immigration
within four to six years. The official said Fox was seeking to add urgency to
negotiations after earlier comments by the Mexican president indicated the
agreement, rather than the agreement's implementation, would take years to
complete.

Administration officials and their Mexican counterparts have been discussing
since early this year an arrangement that would allow those working illegally in
the United States to gain some form of legal status as part of an immigration
overhaul. The Bush administration is eager to enact such a plan to please
Hispanics and employers seeking workers, and officials had originally hoped to
have an agreement in time for Fox's visit. But because of concerns in Congress
and in public about the scope of such a plan, the two sides settled for an
expression of "principles" this week.

Fox, in his meeting with The Post, made clear that he is still determined that
the agreement include a broad legalization of undocumented Mexican workers in
the United States, a position that may conflict with Bush's ruling out of any
amnesty plan. "What I expect," he said, "is that for every single Mexican that
is in the United States that he would have a legal status, that he would not
have to be hiding away, that he would have this regularization or advance to a
legal status."

Fox aides hinted that the ultimate solution is likely to be a complex formula
that is a hybrid between permanent legalization for some and temporary
guest-worker privileges for others. A senior Fox adviser said the goal is that
Mexicans in this country now or in the future "all have papers," though not
necessarily permanent residency.

The forceful remarks by Fox added an element of surprise to a visit designed to
highlight the close relations between Bush and Fox and a growing bond between
the United States and Mexico. "This is a recognition that the United States has
no more important relationship in the world than the one we have with Mexico,"
the president declared in welcoming Fox. "We have a chance to build a century of
the Americas."

Fox reviewed an honor guard containing reminders of another time: flags bedecked
with battle ribbons, including two commemorating the Mexican War battles of
Contreras and Cerro Gordo in 1847, when U.S. Gen. Winfield Scott defeated
Mexico's Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, producing thousands of Mexican casualties
and prisoners.

Yesterday's ceremony, however, was all about friendship. Fox, wearing a gold
lapel pin with the Aztec emblem of Mexico -- an eagle atop a cactus -- viewed
the Army Fife and Drum Corps, in colonial red coats, marching to "Yankee
Doodle." Bush, in his remarks, cited a Mexican proverb: "He who has a good
neighbor has a good friend." Fox, returning the gesture, cited a Benjamin
Franklin aphorism: "A brother may not be a friend, but a friend will always be a
brother."

The goodwill continued at a State Department luncheon yesterday, when Secretary
of State Colin L. Powell, toasting Fox, noted that the Mexican had visited so
often that the secretary had already taken him to eight different diplomatic
dining rooms. "Next time he comes to visit we are going to the cafeteria,"
Powell joked.

Fox is a hero to many Hispanics in the United States because of his victory last
year over a party that had been entrenched in Mexican power for 71 years. Bush
aides see Fox's friendship as crucial to winning Hispanic support for Bush's
reelection. Fox, in turn, hopes a liberalization of U.S. immigration and an
infusion of American investment will boost his reforms at home.

In his wide-ranging discussion at The Post, Fox warned that Mexico would
retaliate if Congress succeeds in blocking the entrance of Mexican trucks into
the country under the North American Free Trade Agreement. "If Mexican trucks
don't come in the United States, United States trucks will not go into Mexico,"
he said. Fox said the truck matter "is a commitment that comes from NAFTA and we
should comply with commitments."

Fox also voiced disagreement with anti-globalization demonstrators. "Mexico is
the country that has more trade agreements, open trade agreements, than anybody
else in the world," he said. "So we have the experience, we live the experience,
and on balance I would say that it's been fruitful, it's been good to us."
Still, he said the demonstrators make "good points" that questions of poverty
and income distribution should be faced in the world economy.

More broadly, Fox said he seeks a larger place for Mexico on the world stage.
"We would like to see a Mexico that is enrolled and committed in world affairs,
that is one of those 10, 12, 15 nations that take decisions with responsibility,
that conduct humanity in the world," he said. "We want to be part of that select
shared group and for that we need to build up moral authority, we need to be
consistent and brilliant in our ideas and participating in world affairs."

On the subject of immigration, Fox said he would like to see those Mexicans
working, paying taxes and obeying the law to have "all their legal rights when
they're living here in the United States." While saying that does not
necessarily mean amnesty or U.S. citizenship, Fox indicated that the Bush
administration is moving in the negotiations toward legal rights for the
undocumented immigrants. "It's moving toward that direction," he said.

Ashcroft yesterday said Fox's stated objective is consistent with the principles
agreed to by U.S. and Mexican officials: "treating people with dignity,
recognizing their contribution, developing a capacity to have an orderly process
for migration in which people are a part of a legal structure so that
individuals are documented and not undocumented, and that we not only respect
the law, but we respect the dignity, integrity, and safety and security of
people."

Fox said the year-end agreement should start "putting in black and white the
advances that we have" from this year's talks. He outlined an agreement that
would include trade, investment and economic development and cooperation over
drugs and crime. He said negotiators are discussing development programs for
high-emigration areas in Mexico that would boost education and economic
opportunities to keep residents from leaving.

The Mexican leader added a note of realism. "Many people expected spectacular
results out of this state visit and that was built up by maybe public opinion or
media," he said. "We know that we have to have a pace." He also acknowledged
there "has been a change of mood" in Congress because of the slipping economy
and rising unemployment. Still, he added, "We are committed to advance step by
step and to really keep our eye on the long-term future."

With White House backing, Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.)
worked yesterday to clear the way for action during Fox's visit on a bill
favored by immigration rights groups as a first step toward broader reforms. The
legislation would revive and extend a recently expired program allowing close
relatives of immigrants with permanent status in this country to apply for green
cards without leaving the United States.

Staff writer Helen Dewar contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              57 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 7, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Fox, Bush Urge Route to Legalization for Immigrants

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1198 words


Mexican President Vicente Fox appealed to a joint session of the U.S. Congress
yesterday to support President Bush's call for broad changes in immigration law,
although Fox acknowledged the idea might seem "risky and perhaps even unwise" to
some lawmakers.

Bush, speaking later, did not commit to meeting Fox's demand for action by
year's end, a deadline Fox sprang as an unwelcome surprise as he began his
three-day state visit Wednesday.

Bush said they had made great progress during their "ojo a ojo" -- eye to eye --
meetings, which culminated Wednesday night with the administration's first state
dinner.

"I hope we can come up with a solution; I want to accommodate my friend," Bush
said, appearing with Fox on the South Lawn of the White House before they flew
together to Ohio.

Bush, calling for "a direct and honest assessment of reality," made it clear for
the first time that he hopes to create a route to legalization for some of the
more than 3 million undocumented Mexicans living in the United States. The idea
is vigorously opposed by some Republicans.

"There are many in our country who are undocumented and we want to make sure
that their labor is legal," Bush said. "The truth of the matter is that if
somebody is willing to do jobs others in America aren't willing to do, we ought
to welcome that person to the country and we ought to make that a legal part of
our economy."

Administration officials said the treatment of undocumented migrants poses the
biggest obstacle to a politically viable immigration policy. The officials said
they will try to make an amnesty provision more palatable to opponents in
Congress by adding requirements that might include English proficiency or the
payment of a certain amount of taxes or employment for a specified length of
time.

A senior administration official said the type of legal status Bush is
considering would be likely to allow now-undocumented workers to travel back and
forth to Mexico.

"Some folks in this pool will become green-card eligible," the official said.
"Where the line will be, we haven't decided."

A green card confers legal, permanent residency and puts an immigrant on track
for citizenship.

Both sides had hoped they would be able to use the state visit to announce their
plans for immigration changes, but they released only a joint statement that
included general principles for new law, including the goal of "forging new and
realistic approaches to migration to ensure it is safe, orderly, legal and
dignified."

Late yesterday, the Senate passed a bill -- which had been delayed by Republican
action -- to extend by a year the deadline for illegal immigrants to apply for
visas. The House has passed a bill that would extend the deadline for four
months.

Democratic officials said Bush's delay in submitting a proposal to Capitol Hill
makes him politically vulnerable, especially since his administration is making
a concerted effort to attract Hispanic voters in the 2002 and 2004 elections.

"He has clearly not convinced members of his own party that this is good
politics and good policy," a Democratic Senate leadership aide said.

Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) told reporters there "appears
to have been some backtracking" by Bush on immigration. "I'm disappointed in the
lack of progress we've been able to make so far," he said.

Daschle said he wants new policy to apply beyond Mexicans and include such
workers as Nicaraguans, Hondurans and Asians. "We think it ought to be
universally applied, not country-specific," he said.

Bush has said he wants to consider that, and national security adviser
Condoleezza Rice said Wednesday that the scope of the new policy will be worked
through.

"I think that it is obvious that, with a border, the issues are sometimes more
intense and more immediate than with countries with which we do not share a
border," she said.

Bush, indicating the frustration he and his advisers feel in finding a plan that
Congress will accept, referred several times to the complexity of the issue.

"To make matters even more complicated, we've got to work with the Congress, and
we've got to come up with a solution that Congress can accept," he said.

The president acknowledged the complaint of some lawmakers that new amnesty
rules for undocumented immigrants would be unfair to people who have applied for
green cards.

"There are a lot of people who have stood in line, who have said, 'I'll abide by
the laws of the United States,' " Bush said. "We're trying to work through a
formula that will not penalize the person who's chosen the legal route and at
the same time recognizes the contribution that the undocumented has made."

Turning to another sensitive border issue, Bush repeated his pledge to veto a
transportation appropriations bill that includes tough safety requirement for
incoming trucks from Mexico.

Bush also urged Congress to change the annual evaluation of Mexico's
anti-narcotics efforts, a law dating to 1961 that applies to drug-producing
nations and includes the provision of sanctions against those that fail the
process.

Mexican officials chafe at the requirement. Bush said it "sends the wrong signal
to our friends to the south."

Fox, speaking a few hours earlier at the rostrum of the House, won applause as
he spoke directly to lawmakers' reservations about "regularization," or
temporary legal status for undocumented immigrants.

"Let me be clear about this: Regularization does not mean rewarding those who
break the law," Fox said. "Regularization means that we will provide them with
the legal means to allows them to continue contributing to this great nation."

Fox, speaking alternately in Spanish and English, told Congress he realizes
"many on both sides of the border would rather stick to the old saying that
'good fences make good neighbors.' "

Fox called for cooperation between the nations issues besides migration,
including the enforcement of drug laws.

"Members of this honorable Congress, give trust a chance," He said. "Many among
you have a parent or a grandparent who came into this country as an immigrant
from another land."

Fox drew an enthusiastic response, although some conservative Republicans had
reservations, especially about legalization of undocumented immigrants.

Sen. Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind.), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, said attendance by lawmakers -- often sparse during speeches by
foreign dignitaries -- was unusually high, reflecting what Lugar called a
"quantum leap" in relations between the United States and Mexico.

Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), a conservative, praised Fox's speech but disagreed with
Fox's proposal for a quick agreement on immigration, saying he thought it was
"in error."

The joint statement from the presidents said U.S.-Mexican relations "have
entered their most promising moment in history." The two formed a public-private
group called Partnership for Prosperity, the slogan from Bush's visit to Mexico
in February, to spur economic growth throughout Mexico. The group is supposed to
report recommendations next March.

Staff writers Helen Dewar and Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              58 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mexican President Urges Immigration Law Changes

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 208 words


Mexican President Vicente Fox appealed to a joint session of the U.S. Congress
Thursday to support President Bush's call for broad changes in immigration law,
although Fox acknowledged the idea might seem "risky and perhaps even unwise" to
some lawmakers.

Bush, speaking later, did not commit to meeting Fox's demand for action by
year's end, a deadline Fox sprang as an unwelcome surprise as he began his
three-day state visit Wednesday.

Bush, calling for "a direct and honest assessment of reality," made it clear for
the first time that he hopes to create a route to legalization for some of the
more than 3 million undocumented Mexicans living in the United States. The idea
is vigorously opposed by some Republicans.

Administration officials said the treatment of undocumented migrants poses the
biggest obstacle to a politically viable immigration policy. The officials said
they will try to make an amnesty provision more palatable to opponents in
Congress by adding requirements that might include English proficiency or the
payment of a certain amount of taxes or employment for a specified length of
time.

Fox called for cooperation between the nations on issues besides migration,
including the enforcement of drug laws.

-- Mike Allen

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              59 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 18, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Tougher Enforcement by INS Urged;
Lawmaker Wants Continual Checks of Visa Holders' Status, More Staff at Borders

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 967 words


The brutal attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center have reignited a
debate about whether the country's borders are too open, with some key lawmakers
calling for tighter control of immigration and analysts predicting a slowdown in
the Bush administration's drive for a new foreign guest-worker program.

Authorities are still investigating how the terrorists entered the country
before commandeering four jets for kamikaze missions. One U.S. government
official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said yesterday that most entered
on business or tourist visas.

"We're going to have to do a better job of making sure we know who comes into
the country, how long they're supposed to be here and whether they've left or
not," said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), a member of the House immigration
subcommittee.

In recent days, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has dispatched
additional Border Patrol agents to U.S. airports to tighten security, and its
agents on the borders are scrutinizing people's documents more closely.

Information on the hijackers' entry to the United States is still fragmentary.
Two of the men believed to have crashed a plane into the Pentagon, Khalid
Al-Midhar and Nawaq Alhamzi, were on a U.S. government watch list of suspected
terrorists, law enforcement sources said. Both entered the country before their
names were posted on the list.

Fifteen of the 19 hijackers came into the country on tourist or business visas,
according to the U.S. official who did not want to be identified. Also, at least
one of the terrorists entered on an M-1 vocational-training visa, apparently to
attend flight school, the official said. There was no information on how the
other three arrived.

FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III told reporters last week that some of the
hijackers were "out of status," a phrase meaning that they had either stayed
beyond the limits of their visas or sneaked into the country. He provided no
further details.

In addition, 49 people who are related in some way to the investigation are in
custody for possible immigration violations, the Department of Justice announced
yesterday.

Rep. George W. Gekas (R-Pa.), chairman of the House immigration subcommittee,
said that illegal immigration had already been a major concern. He predicted
that there would be "more enforcement of the existing [immigration] laws [and]
tightening of our borders."

"Restructuring the INS [and] toughening the law enforcement portions of it . . .
take on a new urgency," he said.

However, he added that he saw no reason to drop from the House's agenda a
pro-immigrant measure expected to be considered soon. The measure, known as
245(i), would allow undocumented immigrants with family or business sponsors in
the United States to apply for permanent residency here instead of returning
home first. The Senate has approved a similar bill.

Smith, who has long favored a tougher line on immigration, said the U.S.
government should augment controls on the Canadian border. Officials are
investigating whether some of the hijackers crossed over from Canada.

"The checkpoints often aren't even staffed," Smith said. In addition, he said,
Congress needs to improve the system to ensure that visitors eventually return
home. He noted that about 40 percent of all undocumented immigrants are people
who came to the United States with visas but didn't leave when the visas
expired.

The number of people entering the United States to study, visit or work for
short periods has soared in recent years, thanks to lower airfares and an
increasingly globalized economy.

From fiscal 1981 until 1998, the latest data available, the number of annual
admissions of visitors with visas nearly tripled to about 30 million, according
to INS data. Millions more didn't need visas, such as Canadians, or crossed into
the country illegally.

The government has tried to control the flow of arrivals by more than doubling
the number of agents on the southern border and making visas and passports
harder to forge. In general, immigration agents monitor the license plates of
vehicles crossing the two land borders, check the passports of Mexicans and
Canadians, and run the names of non-North American visitors through a computer
to see if there are any problems.

But several experts cautioned that the vast number of visitors and the long U.S.
borders with Mexico and Canada make it difficult to keep out terrorists.

"Even if we were to shut down Detroit, and investigate every individual who
comes on every truck and bus and car, and do the same thing in the other 30 or
so crossings between the U.S. and Canada, that still leaves over 8,000
kilometers [5,000 miles] of U.S.-Canada border that will be essentially
unprotected," said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, director of the Migration Policy
Institute, a Washington think tank.

He and other experts said the key to protecting the country is better
intelligence to identify terrorists before they reach U.S. soil.

The attacks in Washington and New York came less than a week after President
Bush welcomed Mexican President Vicente Fox for a state visit that was intended
to showcase a new spirit of cooperation on immigration. The two sides have been
negotiating an agreement that could allow hundreds of thousands of Mexican
"guest workers" into the United States. It had seemed to be the beginning of a
new era, with Democrats urging the Bush administration to extend immigration
benefits to non-Mexicans as well.

But the terrorist attacks clearly will sap the momentum from that effort,
according to analysts and politicians.

"Obviously what happened is going to make our job harder. People are going to
jump to conclusions" about immigrants, said a Democratic aide in the Senate, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              60 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Senators Question an Anti-Terrorism Proposal

BYLINE: John Lancaster, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 616 words


A Bush administration proposal that would permit the indefinite jailing of
noncitizens suspected of having ties to terrorist groups goes well beyond
existing law and may be unconstitutional, several key senators said yesterday.

As part of its proposed anti-terrorism bill, the administration wants to
"enhance the authority of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to detain
or remove suspected terrorists from within our borders," Attorney General John
D. Ashcroft told the Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday.

Ashcroft said the provision would apply only to foreigners who already are
subject to deportation proceedings for violations of immigration law. But
several senators questioned that interpretation. They said the measure would
allow the government to jail any noncitizen deemed threatening to national
security, without revealing proof and whether or not the detainee was subject to
deportation on other grounds.

"Many of us have serious concerns about the administration proposal to detain
someone indefinitely on the mere suspicion" of involvement in terrorism, said
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who chairs the immigration subcommittee of the
judiciary panel.

The immigration proposal has emerged as one of the most contentious elements of
the administration's anti-terrorism bill, a hastily drafted response to the
Sept. 11 jetliner attacks on New York and Washington. The bill would also
strengthen the ability of law enforcement agencies to conduct domestic
surveillance and promote the sharing of information among law enforcement and
intelligence agencies.

President Bush used a brief appearance at FBI headquarters in Washington to
lobby for the package. "Ours is a land that values the constitutional rights of
every citizen, and we will honor those rights, of course," Bush said. "But we're
at war . . . and in order to win the war, we must make sure the law enforcement
men and women have got the tools necessary, within the Constitution, to defeat
the enemy."

During a lunch with Republican senators at the Capitol, Vice President Cheney
asked the lawmakers to try to get the legislation through Congress no later than
Oct. 5, a Republican leadership aide said.

Lawmakers generally share the desire for haste, and the tone of yesterday's
hearing was cordial. Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.), the Judiciary Committee
chairman, said he agrees with a number of administration requests, including one
that would permit law enforcement agencies to monitor cell phone and e-mail
communications among suspected terrorists, as well as those transmitted over
ordinary telephones. Such "roving wiretaps" are currently permitted for
investigations into certain kinds of criminal activity, but not terrorism.

Also at yesterday's hearing, senators questioned Ashcroft about bureaucratic
missteps that may have played a role in the attacks. Noting that two of the 19
suspected hijackers had been placed on an FBI "watch list" of potential
terrorists, Leahy asked whether their names had been shared with the Federal
Aviation Administration. Ashcroft said the names had not been passed on.

Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), the ranking Republican on the committee, said he
had no problem with the administration bill, calling it "a measured, targeted
response to what we're facing here," and one that is "long overdue."

Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) joined Kennedy in raising doubts about the
immigration-related proposal, saying it appeared to permit the detention of
noncitizens "without any evidentiary basis." Ashcroft said he was open to
suggestions. "Obviously, we need to clarify this because we don't want something
to have an effect which we don't intend," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              61 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 29, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Girds for Mexican Border Backup

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO Sept. 28


Officials along the U.S.-Mexico border, already grappling with unprecedented
traffic backups, braced today for more disruption due to the expiration of
perhaps 1.5 million permits that allow border residents from Mexico to come
north to shop, visit relatives and see a doctor.

The cards -- a staple of border life from Brownsville, Tex., to San Diego --
were to be replaced by a new generation of high-tech visas by Sunday night.

But many residents have yet to replace the old cards, creating the possibility
that thousands will show up holding an outdated document.

"We're trying the best we can to put the word out on the border that these
things won't be any good, so please, please, don't even come," said Tomas
Zuniga, spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's regional
office for Texas and New Mexico.

It is possible Congress will extend the deadline, and immigration officials --
responsible for deciding who can enter the country -- were seeking last-minute
ways to avert the lapse.

In the meantime, INS officials said border inspectors plan to turn away people
holding expired cards, except in emergencies or for those holders whose renewals
have been approved.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              62 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 12, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS Stumped on How Some Hijackers Entered the U.S.

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 510 words


At least nine hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks were in the United States on
valid visas, and three more had entered legally but stayed beyond their visas'
expirations, a top U.S. immigration official said yesterday. He said that
authorities are still mystified about how others got in.

The statement by James W. Ziglar, commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, was the first official announcement of how the alleged
hijackers positioned themselves in the United States to carry out the suicide
attacks that killed more than 5,000 people in New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania.

"Six we can find no record of, period," Ziglar told the House subcommittee on
immigration. "We don't know if those were their names or not."

Ziglar's comments came as the immigration and visa-issuing systems are under
intense scrutiny, with legislators calling for stricter controls to keep out
potential terrorists.

A subcommittee member, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Tex.), said Ziglar's
information pointed to the "mounting problem [of] the issuance of visas in an
appropriate manner."

Visas are granted by the State Department through its consulates abroad. The
visas are then checked by INS inspectors at airports, seaports and border
crossings where foreigners enter the United States.

In a letter to the subcommittee released yesterday, Ziglar said at least nine of
the alleged hijackers had visitors' visas, which are given to foreigners coming
to the United States for short business or pleasure trips.

He identified them as Khalid Almihdhar, Majed Moqed, Nawaf Alhazmi, Salem
Alhazmi, Mohamed Atta, Abdulaziz Alomari, Marwan Al-Shehhi, Ahmed Ibrahim A. Al
Haznawi and Ahmed Alnami.

Of those, Nawaf Alhazmi was identified as having stayed beyond his visa's
expiration. He arrived in the United States in January 2000, the letter said.
The others had entered the United States since May 2001.

In addition, Ahmed Alghamdi and Hani Hanjour were admitted on student visas.
Alghamdi had stayed beyond the limit on his visa, the letter said, adding it was
unclear whether Hanjour's visa was still valid.

Two other men, Waleed M. Alshehri and Ziad Samir Jarrah, were identified simply
as nonimmigrants, with no information on their visa category. Alshehri arrived
in June 2000 and stayed beyond his visa limit, the letter said, while Jarrah
arrived in July and held a valid visa.

The Post previously quoted a U.S. official as saying all 19 hijackers had been
issued business or tourist visas. Officials said yesterday that some men may
have received visitors' visas abroad, then changed them to student visas.

Justice Department officials said they had found no records on how two of the
hijackers had arrived. On four more, they found men with similar names but
couldn't confirm they were the same people. Officials speculated that some of
the men could have used false or stolen identities or sneaked across the border.
It is also possible that some men's names were accidentally not entered in the
immigration system's computers when they arrived.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              63 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 13, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Tighten Up The Borders

BYLINE: Lamar Smith

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 617 words


Our nation has endured a terrible tragedy. The human suffering is immense; the
damage extensive. Suddenly, the most prosperous and most powerful country in the
world is more vulnerable than we ever thought.

One reason is the relatively free access foreign nationals have to the United
States.

Less than two years ago, at an immigration subcommittee hearing I chaired, I
publicly warned of the danger of our lax border security. Referring to the
explosion in the World Trade Center's garage in 1993, I stated, "The time to act
is now before either [Canada or the United States] has another World Trade
Center bombing." I wish that prediction had not been accurate.

According to the Justice Department, only nine of the 19 suspected terrorists
were legally in the United States. And the INS has detained 160 foreign
nationals thought to be connected to the terrorist attacks. Our land borders are
too porous and offer an open invitation to those who want to harm us.

As a result, our immigration policy will change. Talk of more open borders will
subside. Theoretical and utopian views will give way to more realistic and
practical approaches.

On one hand, we should resist the urge to overreact. On the other, we should
hasten to enforce laws and pass new ones that will make our country safer. Some
examples:

* Strengthen border security. Hire more Border Patrol agents and Customs
personnel. Consider using the National Guard in a backup capacity.

* Monitor those who enter on temporary tourist or work or student visas to make
sure they depart as expected. More than one-third of all illegal aliens entered
legally but overstayed their allotted time.

* Prohibit granting asylum to those who have ties to terrorist organizations.

* Make it easier to gather evidence on suspected terrorists. Non-citizens are
not always entitled to the same constitutional rights as citizens.

* Expedite the deportation of illegal aliens who have committed crimes. Increase
the deportation of other illegal aliens rather than ignore them or release them
repeatedly.

* Require certain immigration documents to have biometric identifiers, such as
fingerprints, so they can't be used fraudulently.

* Don't allow immigrants who became eligible to be admitted legally to adjust
their status while in the United States. They should apply from their home
country, where embassy personnel can conduct a background check and, if
necessary, deny them a visa.

* Reconsider allowing illegal aliens to "regularize" their status and become
legal. We need to give those who have violated our immigration laws more
scrutiny, not a free pass.

The heart of the problem is that it is too easy to cross our borders. On the
Canadian front, many of the entry points are not even staffed after midnight. At
the busiest locations, drivers are routinely waved through.

To the south, hundreds of thousands of people wade across the Rio Grande every
year undetected. In places, the river is only a few inches deep.

Others, for the cost of an airline ticket, board a plane in a foreign country
using a false ID, land in the United States and then disappear.

Immigration laws must be better enforced, and new ones must be implemented.
Additional infrastructure will have to be built so that legitimate international
trade will not be hampered. More facilities also will be needed to allow for the
opportunity to stop individuals from coming to America for the wrong reasons.

The threat is not only from incoming missiles but also from inbound terrorists
who can take advantage of a weak immigration system. Congress should respond
immediately to protect the public safety.

The writer is a Republican representative from Texas.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              64 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Guarding the Borders

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 515 words


IN THE WAKE of last month's terrorist attack Congress is looking for ways to
shore up America's system of immigration controls. Some useful first steps
toward guarding the borders were included in the anti-terrorism bills that moved
through the House and Senate at week's end. Among them were increased staffing
along the U.S.-Canada border, so that crossing points can be manned around the
clock, and provisions for better information-sharing, so that consular and
border officials have a better chance of identifying visa applicants with
criminal backgrounds. More can be done, including ensuring that U.S. embassies
have adequate staff and resources to carefully check applicants seeking to
visit, do business or study in the United States. Lawmakers can help give border
personnel more time to do their jobs by requiring airlines to submit the names
of arriving passengers on international flights before landing. Such a program
is now voluntary, and while most airlines participate, not all do. Those opting
out include several carriers from the Middle East.

The investigation into the attack has also revived pressure for INS to do a
better job of keeping track of visa holders once they are in the country. These
are not new issues: The Iranian hostage crisis brought the first demand for
better monitoring of the location and status of foreign students in the United
States. The 1993 World Trade Center bombing helped drive legislation cracking
down on immigrants who commit crimes or have criminal records, as well as an
effort to collect better information about aliens' entries and exits from the
country. An electronic system to monitor the status of foreign students was
supposed to be fully operational this year but is in place in only a few
schools. The requirement for tracking noncitizens' border crossings was rolled
back last year after a fierce lobbying campaign from local governments and
businesses concerned about its effect on commerce. The departure records that
are kept are on paper, giving INS no real-time notice if a foreign visitor fails
to depart when the visa requires.

So lawmakers are moving to speed installation of the student monitoring system
and to push ahead with an electronic system to track visa-holders' entries and
exits from the country. The basic impulse, to know who is coming into the
country and who is failing to abide by the terms under which he or she was
admitted, is the right one. But as this effort proceeds two cautions should be
kept in mind. One is that even with tighter monitoring, intelligence will still
be the critical ingredient. It's a long way from knowing who has overstayed a
visa or failed to show up at school to determining which of those individuals
might be someone who actually means to do harm. The other, perhaps even more
important caveat can be found in the history of INS reforms that foundered for
lack of resources, lack of will or failure to fully think through their
implications. Congress should consider its next steps carefully and be prepared
to back up its choices with both resources and oversight.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              65 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 18, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Moves to Tighten Security on Borders;
In Wake of Terrorist Attacks, Congress and INS Are Changing Their Priorities

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 619 words


Congress and federal agencies are moving to strengthen border security in the
wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, with steps such as new technology to
identify arriving foreign visitors and a planned tripling of guards on the
Canadian border.

Bigger changes appear likely. At congressional hearings over the past two weeks,
legislators have promised to provide more money for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and called on the agency to implement plans to track
foreign visitors and students that have languished for years.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), chairman of the Senate Judiciary immigration
subcommittee and a longtime champion of pro-immigrant policies, signaled the
change in tone yesterday when he told a hearing: "Clearly, the screening of
foreign nationals who seek entry into the U.S. must be improved."

Kennedy and Sen. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) are expected to announce legislation in
the next few days that would fund systems to track foreign students and visitors
and require additional training for U.S. officers who issue visas.

Until Sept. 11, the U.S. immigration system had focused less on terrorism than
on barring foreigners seeking to work here illegally. With demand for workers
rising during the economic boom of the late 1990s, the government was
considering expanding the number of temporary immigrants allowed into the
country.

But the FBI's conclusion that 19 foreign nationals carried out the deadly
airplane hijackings in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania has transformed the
politics of immigration. The hijackers all apparently were issued non-immigrant
visas at U.S. consulates. At least three stayed in this country beyond their
visa deadlines, according to the INS.

Steps taken recently to tighten the immigration system include:

* Anti-terrorism bills passed last week by the House and Senate calling for
tripling the scant Border Patrol forces on the Canadian border and spending $ 50
million more on technology to help them.

* A reexamination by the State Department of six countries in the "visa waiver"
program, which allows citizens from 29 nations to enter the United States
without review by a U.S. consulate abroad for a visa. Mary A. Ryan, the
assistant secretary for consular affairs, did not identify the six countries "of
concern" to the State Department.

* New access for immigration inspectors to a State Department database that
includes photos of all visa applicants. The information helps detect passport or
visa fraud. INS Commissioner James Ziglar said INS inspectors would have access
to the database within three months.

Experts said the steps are only the beginning of what are likely to be
far-reaching changes in an attempt to prevent terrorists from abusing the
immigration system.

"This clearly represents a refocusing of attention on border security," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Washington-based Center for
Immigration Studies, which favors reduced immigration. "What I find dismaying is
that Congress acknowledged the importance of border security in fighting
terrorism in the 1996 legislation" aimed at tightening the immigration system
after the bomb attack on the World Trade Center. "Then that emphasis was allowed
to languish," he added.

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, co-director of the Washington-based Migration Policy
Institute, said changes to the immigration system could take years to carry out
because they may involve training new employees and negotiating treaties.

But he said moves such as tripling the 334-strong INS contingent on the northern
border were important symbolically.

"It tells people . . . that our people on the Hill, our leaders, are determined
to do better," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              66 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 20, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Atta Skillfully Evaded Authorities in the U.S.;
Terrorist Ringleader Did 'Everything Right' In His Dealings With INS and Other
Entities

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 685 words


Mohamed Atta, the suspected ringleader in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
clearly knew how to steer his way past U.S. authorities.

He had all the answers when confronted by immigration inspectors. He shrugged
off the official indignation that followed his abandonment of a disabled plane
on a runway at Miami International Airport. He even seems to have known he could
skip a court appearance on a traffic ticket without being arrested.

Atta's closest call may have come on Jan. 10, when he landed at Miami
International Airport on his return from a trip to Madrid. He had a tourist visa
but told immigration officials that he had started taking flying lessons in the
United States. To do that, he needed to apply for "M-1 status," the proper
category for a student seeking vocational training.

An inspector for the Immigration and Naturalization Service took Atta aside and
sent him to a colleague for what is called a "secondary inspection," which
consists of more extensive questioning and record checks.

Atta, as it turned out, had done "everything right," INS spokesman Russ Bergeron
said yesterday. He had already started pilot training at a flight school in
Venice, Fla., in July 2000, but he had also applied for a change of status so he
could stay in the United States as a student.

"Published reports that Immigration officers improperly allowed terrorist
Mohamed Atta to enter the United States at Miami International Airport are
factually incorrect," the INS said in a statement yesterday. The agency was
reacting to a report in the Miami Herald that the INS had missed a chance to
stop the 33-year-old Egyptian before last month's hijackings.

INS records show that Atta first entered the United States with a tourist visa
at Newark International Airport on June 3, 2000. That day, an immigration
inspector who questioned him about the purpose of his visit authorized him to
stay until Dec. 2.

The INS said Atta formally applied for a change of status, from visitor to
student, in September 2000. His request was still pending when he returned from
Madrid in January. It finally was approved in July, the agency said.

"It routinely takes that long," said Bergeron, noting that many thousands of
such changes are approved each year.

Although Atta's tourist visa required him to leave the country by last Dec. 2,
Bergeron said the filing for a change of status automatically extended his visit
"until such time as a decision is made on the request."

During the prolonged inspection on Jan. 10, Bergeron said, the INS questioned
Atta more closely and determined that he had "a valid, pending, legal request to
change status." Inspectors also checked a computer database, the Interagency
Border Inspection System, to see if there was any indication that Atta had a
criminal history or known association with terrorist groups. The INS said no one
in the agency, including its inspectors in Miami, had any such indication.

Atta flew to Spain again this past summer for a 12-day visit, returning July 19
at Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, where an INS inspector said he
could stay until Nov. 12.

The terrorist leader had two other brushes with authority. The first took place
last December, when he and fellow hijacker Marwan Al-Shehhi flew one of their
flight school's Cherokee Warrior planes to Miami International and stalled the
aircraft's engine on a runway after landing. Instead of contacting the control
tower for instructions, they got out of the plane and walked off the tarmac.

The flight school, Huffman Aviation, learned of the incident from an angry
telephone call by the control tower chief. But apparently the only action the
school took was to post a notice warning students, as one of them recalled, that
"under no circumstances are any aircraft to be taken to Miami."

Atta also got a traffic ticket in Broward County last spring for driving without
a license. He was ordered to appear in court on May 28. When he didn't show up,
a bench warrant was issued for his arrest. But like thousands of such warrants
in many jurisdictions, it never caught up with him.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              67 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyers Say Terrorist's Entry Into U.S. Could Have Been Barred

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 804 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service should have sent terrorist ringleader
Mohamed Atta back to Germany last January instead of permitting him to reenter
the United States to continue his flight training, immigration lawyers and
specialists say.

Under the law, they add, INS inspectors could have canceled Atta's visa when he
landed Jan. 10 at Miami International Airport on a flight from Madrid. He was
admitted as a tourist on a "B" visa even though INS officials say he told the
inspectors that he was taking flying lessons in the United States, a step that
called for "M-1" status as a student.

"Nine times out of 10, they would have told him to go back and file [for that
status] overseas," said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "You're not supposed to come in as a visitor
for pleasure and go to work or school."

INS officials defend the decision to let Atta back into the country as perfectly
proper. They say he had a valid "B" or tourist visa and had formally applied
months earlier to change his status from tourist to student.

Atta "had a valid, pending, legal request to change status from a visitor to a
student," the INS said in a statement when the issue first arose this month. "He
was admissible with a visitor's visa under these circumstances."

Immigration experts outside the agency dispute the INS position vigorously.
Under long-standing INS policy, they point out, Atta had "abandoned" his change
of status request by leaving the country. The rule was reemphasized last June in
a memo that was sent to INS officials throughout the country to eliminate any
doubts.

"INS officers are reminded that an alien on whose behalf a change of
nonimmigrant status has been filed and who travels outside the United States
before the request is adjudicated is considered to have abandoned the request
for a change of nonimmigrant status," Acting INS Assistant Commissioner Thomas
Cook said in the memo. "This has been, and remains, the INS's long-standing
policy."

Had Atta been sent back to Germany, where he obtained a multiple-entry tourist
visa in 2000, experts said, U.S. consular officials in Berlin would have taken a
close look at his application for a student visa, especially because there would
have been a notation in his record that he had been turned away at Miami. They
would at least have asked him why he did not apply as a student to begin with,
because he began pilot training little more than a month after he first arrived
in the United States.

"It's very hard to predict what would have happened," said Washington
immigration lawyer Lynda Zengerle, who said Atta's quick conversion from tourist
to student smacked of "visa fraud." Had Atta's tourist visa been canceled in
Miami last January, "that would have been a giveaway" to officials in Berlin.
Atta, she said, was "obviously very determined, but the effort might have thrown
him off his timetable."

"INS denies entry to thousands of visitors to the U.S. each year on valid
tourist visas when it appears that they are living or studying in the U.S.,"
said Michael Guignard, a retired foreign service officer and chairman of the
National Capital Area Paralegal Association's Immigration Network. "INS dropped
the ball on this one."

Atta obtained his tourist visa from U.S. consular officials in Berlin and first
entered the United States on June 3, 2000. He and fellow hijacker Marwan
Al-Shehhi started shopping around for a flight school and began pilot training
in Venice, Fla., on July 6. Atta applied for a change of status to student in
September.

The INS had authorized him to stay in the United States until Dec. 2, but INS
spokesman Russell Bergeron said Atta's request for a change of status extended
his visit until a decision was made on the request.

Bergeron called suggestions that Atta's was a clear case of visa fraud
"ludicrous," because INS would have had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that
he intended to go to flight school when he got his tourist visa in Berlin. The
INS spokesman said Atta's candor in admitting he was going to flight school on
return from Madrid on Jan. 10 was a factor in his favor.

It is not known what Atta did on his six-day trip to Europe that month, but
Czech officials confirmed Friday that Atta had contact with an Iraqi
intelligence officer on a trip to the Czech Republic this year.

Despite the Cook memo, Bergeron said, "we don't necessarily agree" that Atta
abandoned his change of status request by leaving the country Jan. 4. But
Stephen Yale-Loehr, co-author of a 20-volume treatise on immigration law, said,
"It's been clear for a very long time" that such applications are "deemed
abandoned."

Zengerle said: "They just don't want to tell you they blew it. They should just
admit they made a mistake."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              68 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 30, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Seeks Tighter Rules on Entry;
Plan Would Track Students, Step Up Efforts to Deport Suspects

BYLINE: Mike Allen and Eric Pianin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1145 words


President Bush, changing the direction of his immigration policy, said yesterday
that he wants to tighten immigration laws and requirements for student visas to
deter would-be terrorists from entering the country.

Bush said the government will step up efforts to deport foreign nationals
suspected of supporting terrorism. Lawmakers working with the administration
said measures being considered include using technology to track foreign
students as they travel around the United States and to check immigrants' palm
prints at airports and borders.

Sixteen of the 19 terrorists who hijacked planes last month were visiting the
United States legally, according to a Justice Department official. One of the
other three hijackers had a student visa but was not in school.

Bush outlined his immigration goals, avoiding specifics, at the inaugural
meeting of his Homeland Security Council, which he said will be responsible for
protecting "the American people from any threat whatsoever."

Charging that some noncitizens have "taken advantage" of America's "generous"
immigration rules, he named a Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force to recommend
specific changes in laws and procedures.

"We're going to tighten up the visa policy," Bush said. "That's not to say we're
not going to let people come into our country; of course we are. But we're going
to make sure that when somebody comes, we understand their intended purpose and
that they fulfill the purpose."

Bush singled out student visas, saying that some recipients never attend
classes, and perhaps never have that intention.

"We're going to start asking a lot of questions that heretofore have not been
asked," Bush said. "We're generous with our universities, we're generous with
our job opportunities. . . . Never did we realize then that people would take
advantage of our generosity to the extent they have."

The review of immigration laws is the latest legislative response to the Sept.
11 suicide hijackings. On Friday, Bush signed a bill giving law enforcement
agencies broad powers to pursue terrorists through search warrants and
eavesdropping. He also has signed a bailout for the airline industry and
recovery funds for the areas where the planes crashed, and he is seeking an
economic stimulus package.

The new approach to immigration follows Bush's earlier effort to make it easier
for citizens of Mexico to work in the United States legally. Bush has not
abandoned that goal, but it is now on the back burner, administration officials
said.

"By far, the vast majority of people who have come to America are really good,
decent people -- people that we're proud to have here," Bush said. "There are
some who are evil. And our job now is to find the evil ones and to bring them to
justice."

According to a "fact sheet" distributed by the White House, "Improving legal
immigration remains a priority for the Bush administration, but the Bush
administration is committed to ensuring that our immigration policies and
practices do not allow terrorists to enter or remain in the United States."

Marlene Johnson, executive director of the Association of International
Educators, which promotes exchanges of students and scholars, said her group
supports inquiries into the validity of student visa requests. But she added,
"It is not good for the country to think that it solves the intelligence issues,
which are clearly at the root of terrorism."

The White House said the task force would coordinate federal efforts to deny
entry into the United States of people who are "associated with, suspected of
being engaged in, or supporting terrorist activity" and to "locate, detain,
prosecute, or deport any such aliens already present" in the country.

White House officials said they have bipartisan support for such measures. In
particular, Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) plan to
introduce a bill this week to set up an automated system for tracking foreign
students and give the State Department and Immigration and Naturalization
Service electronic access to FBI and CIA "lookout lists" of potential criminals
and terrorists.

The measure would call for sophisticated identification technology, such as
instant fingerprinting and hand imaging, at all customs ports. "Congress stands
ready to give the administration whatever additional authority may be needed to
protect our borders," Kennedy said yesterday.

Congress last passed a series of anti-terrorist immigration laws in 1996,
following the Oklahoma City bombing. As a result, the number of INS detainees
skyrocketed. The laws required the detention of asylum seekers arriving in the
United States without documents and broadened the definition of a felony,
applying the change retroactively.

In June, however, the Supreme Court ruled that the government may not imprison
immigrants indefinitely, that legal residents are entitled to have their cases
reviewed by a court before facing deportation, and that new deportation rules
could not be applied retroactively.

Lawmakers, troubled by injustices wrought by the 1996 laws, also introduced
bills to overturn some of the harshest provisions. After Mexican President
Vicente Fox's visit to Washington in early September, it seemed likely that
policies would be adopted to help thousands of undocumented families regularize
their status. But that was before Sept. 11.

Immigration experts suggested that any effort to improve tracking of foreigners
would require tightening identification requirements for visa seekers, probably
by recording a visitor's fingerprints or other unique physical characteristics,
known as biometrics.

"This is the way to go, and the technology is there now," said Don Hamilton,
deputy director of the National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of
Terrorism. Biometric identification would tie visa applicants to a single
identity and a single passport, he said.

For foreigners living in the United States, the ramifications could be even
greater, especially if biometric identity checks were linked to employment.
Hamilton predicted that this would be a more difficult change because
immigration advocates and employers seeking cheap labor would object.

The State Department plans to announce today that it is reviewing six of the 29
countries whose citizens are allowed to visit the United States for short
periods without obtaining visas. The countries under review -- Argentina,
Belgium, Italy, Portugal, Slovenia and Uruguay -- could be dropped from the list
of "visa waiver" countries.

The countries have problems ranging from economic crises to passport fraud and
theft. One official said the review had been scheduled before the Sept. 11
attacks but is now on an accelerated schedule and could result in
recommendations by year's end.

Staff writers Guy Gugliotta and Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              69 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Rules Tightened;
Ashcroft Expands List of Groups Whose Members Will Be Barred;
Critics Call Policy Too Broad

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 944 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft yesterday announced new measures designed to
keep terrorists out of the United States, including an expansion of the list of
foreign groups whose members will be automatically barred from entering the
country.

"America will not allow terrorists to use our hospitality as a weapon against
us," Ashcroft said at an afternoon news conference.

The 19 terrorists who carried out the deadly Sept. 11 attacks entered the United
States on temporary visas obtained at U.S. consular offices overseas. The ease
with which they entered the country and stayed here undetected has prompted
criticism of immigration policies and intelligence practices.

Ashcroft yesterday asked Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to add 46 groups to
the list of terrorist organizations whose supporters are not allowed to visit
the United States. Powell's approval, considered a formality, would bring the
total number of groups to 74.

However, Ashcroft promised to aggressively target an even larger pool of people
who can be denied entry to the United States under the far-reaching
anti-terrorism legislation approved last week.

The law allows authorities to exclude members of any group allegedly connected
to terrorism. And it doesn't apply solely to extremists themselves; people who
contribute money or support to such groups -- even for innocent activities --
can be kept out of the country.

Civil libertarians and immigration advocates have expressed concern that people
unrelated to terrorism could be tarred by the law.

"The government has shifted focus from the actual terrorists . . . to people who
merely have some sort of political association with a proscribed or disfavored
group," said David Cole, a constitutional law scholar at Georgetown University.

"I don't think it's fair to treat someone who sends medicine to a hospital as a
terrorist, simply because the hospital is connected to an organization we've
designated as a proscribed group," he added.

The alleged terrorist groups posted by Ashcroft yesterday included organizations
that have already been named by the White House and the Treasury Department as
alleged backers of terrorism, or by the State Department in its annual terrorism
report. Many are Middle Eastern groups, but there are also organizations focused
on Rwanda, Ireland and other countries.

Several of the groups are linked to Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda terrorist
network, which President Bush has blamed for the Sept. 11 attacks that killed
nearly 4,700 people in New York, the Pentagon and Pennsylvania, Ashcroft said.

To date, 1,087 people have been arrested or detained in the investigations of
the Sept. 11 attacks, including 182 charged with immigration violations, the
Justice Department said yesterday.

Ashcroft said foreigners who use their prominence to endorse terrorist activity
will also be kept out of the United States. That appeared to be a reference to
people such as Omar Abdel Rahman, an Islamic cleric accused of inspiring the
terrorists who bombed the Word Trade Center in 1993.

Ashcroft also said new security measures would be imposed to tighten the system
under which foreign visitors obtain U.S. visas. While he gave few details,
officials said applicants for visitors' visas would have to fill out an extra
form that asks for more biographical and other information, such as past travel.

Normally, U.S. diplomats abroad approve or reject foreigners' applications for
visas, based on documents and a check of an automated database of suspected
criminals and terrorists. Many applicants are also interviewed.

In some cases, foreigners' applications are sent back to Washington for extra
screening. That often happens to citizens of countries considered sponsors of
terrorism, such as Iran or Iraq.

The attorney general announced that Steven C. McCraw, an intelligence official
at FBI headquarters, will head a new task force focused both on keeping foreign
terrorists out of the country and detaining those who have already arrived.
McCraw's task force will try to coordinate the work of federal agencies that
have guarded their intelligence reports in the past. The lack of
information-sharing also has been criticized in the wake of the Sept. 11
attacks.

Mary Ryan, head of the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs, which
oversees visa issuance, reiterated at a congressional hearing yesterday that her
staff had no information that any of the 19 alleged hijackers was considered a
security risk at the time they sought travel documents.

"We have the best system in the world," Ryan said, referring to her department's
automated computer system of criminal and terrorist suspects. But the system,
she said, is only as good as the information in it.

"We have to get better information from our law enforcement and intelligence
agencies," she said.

Ryan and Michael Becraft, acting deputy commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, came under fire yesterday at the hearing held by two
House subcommittees examining the student visa system.

Legislators criticized the INS for being unable to track foreign nationals who
entered the country on student visas but didn't show up at their schools. One of
the alleged hijackers, Hani Hanjour, held a student visa but never attended the
school he had applied to. The other 18 alleged hijackers were issued tourist and
business visas.

Becraft said a computerized system to keep track of foreign students could be up
and running by next summer. The system was mandated by Congress in 1996 but has
faced opposition from universities and members of Congress.

Staff writer Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              70 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 8, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Obituaries

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 278 words


Maurice Aaron Roberts, 91, a former chairman of the Justice Department's Board
of Immigration Appeals and editor emeritus of Interpreter Releases, a weekly
periodical on immigration and naturalization law, died Nov. 2 at his home in
Arlington after a stroke.

Mr.

Roberts worked for Justice's Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1941 to
1968. While heading the immigration litigation unit, he argued cases before the
Supreme Court. From 1968 to 1974, he was chairman of the Board of Immigration
Appeals.

He was editor-in-chief of the journal Interpreter Releases from the mid-1970s to
the mid-1990s and continued to contribute articles.

Mr. Roberts was a native of Newark and a 1932 summa cum laude graduate of
Rutgers University law school.

He practiced law in New Jersey before joining the INS in Philadelphia in 1941.
He settled in the Washington area in 1949.

His memberships included Beth El Hebrew Congregation in Alexandria.

His wife of 55 years, Lillian Orbach Roberts, died in 1995.

Survivors include a daughter, Joan Singer of Fairfax, and a grandson.

Arlen Carol Colley, 63, who was coordinator of volunteers at Navy Relief Society
headquarters in the late 1980s, died of cancer Oct. 1 at Bethesda Naval Medical
Center. She lived in Springfield.

Mrs. Colley was a native of Los Angeles who attended Portland State University
in Oregon. She accompanied her husband to Navy posts that included Guam and
Hawaii.

Survivors include her husband, retired Vice Adm. Michael C. Colley of
Springfield; two daughters, Kendall Rogers of Fairfax and Allison Bollschweiler
of Denver; her father, Edward Schneider of Beaverton, Ore.; and two
grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              71 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Announces Reform Plan for INS;
Enforcement, Service Functions Would Be Split

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A45

LENGTH: 697 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft announced a plan yesterday to overhaul the
Immigration and Naturalization Service by separating its enforcement and service
functions.

The plan is an attempt to fulfill President Bush's campaign pledge to
"fundamentally reform" an agency beset by backlogs in processing applications
and deficient in tracking foreigners who enter the United States. It will be
introduced in Congress today.

"The Immigration and Naturalization Service has struggled to perform . . . and
has suffered from insufficient accountability," Ashcroft said at a news
conference.

The goal of the restructuring, officials said, is to make the agency more
accountable, improve customer service and foster cooperation between the INS and
law enforcement agencies. But the organizational change is not a "panacea" for
all of the agency's troubles, Ashcroft warned.

Under the plan, a new Bureau of Immigration Services would process applications
for naturalization, green card renewals, asylum requests and immigration
petitions. A new Bureau of Immigration Enforcement would be responsible for
border patrols, investigations, intelligence and inspections.

Each bureau would be headed by an executive commissioner, who would report to
INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar. Ziglar, who took over the agency in August,
said the idea of separating its service and enforcement functions "has been
talked about and studied" for years. He has supported the idea, as long as both
functions remain the responsibility of a single agency.

"We think it makes sense to divide the two," he said. "It's important that we
move forward and move forward quickly."

The reorganization calls for the agency's local, district and regional field
offices to be replaced by separate offices for enforcement and immigration
services. Area offices for immigration services would be established in Laguna
Niguel, Calif.; Dallas; Milwaukee; Vancouver, Wash.; Burlington, Vt.; and Tampa
or St. Petersburg, Fla.

Nine area offices for enforcement would be created, in Seattle, San Francisco,
San Diego, El Paso, Denver, Chicago, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Atlanta and New York.

Officials plan to create an ombudsman position and a customer relations office
in the immigration enforcement bureau. An Office of Juvenile Affairs also would
be established.

The reforms, many of which require congressional approval, could begin in the
next 30 days and take two years to complete, Ashcroft said. The restructuring
would cost about $ 100 million, including the addition of more than 500
positions, according to a senior INS official.

The announcement of an overhaul comes as Congress continues to weigh its own
make-over of the agency. Two key House Republicans have called for a more
thorough revamping of the INS, describing it as "the most dysfunctional federal
agency around."

Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), chairman of the Judiciary Committee,
said Ashcroft's restructuring plan is inadequate.

"It does not go far enough for the rescue mission that is needed, both on the
enforcement side and immigration services side," Sensenbrenner said. "I fear
this proposal will follow its administrative restructuring predecessors in
making little impact and possibly making things worse at the agency."

Sensenbrenner introduced legislation last week calling for the agency to be
split into two separate entities and for the creation of an associate attorney
general for immigration affairs. That legislation is expected to be discussed at
a committee hearing today.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) said the Bush administration's plan "provides
for fundamental change" in the INS while maintaining "strong overall leadership
to ensure uniformity and decisive action in a crisis."

Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.), chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus's
immigration task force, said the primary goal must be improving services to
immigrants.

"Any restructuring proposal should be designed first and foremost to achieve the
objective of enhanced and expedited services for immigrants . . . especially
those millions of people who have long awaited action on their pending
applications," Gutierrez said.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              72 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. and Mexico to Resume Talks on Immigration Policy;
Issue Will Be Recast as One of National Security;
Daschle, Gephardt to Meet With President Fox

BYLINE: Mary Jordan and Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A40

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Nov. 14


Mexican and U.S. officials are relaunching talks on immigration reform that
stalled after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, recasting the issue more as a matter
of national security in light of Washington's new priorities.

Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) and House Minority Leader
Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo.), who will travel to Mexico on Friday for a meeting
with President Vicente Fox, said today in Washington that their basic commitment
to immigration reform had not changed since the attacks.

Daschle said that identifying and legalizing "hard-working, taxpaying" Mexican
workers in the United States could enhance national security because they would
be subject to an FBI background check.

"We must not let the terrorists who took advantage of our open society stall
progress for immigrants who pay taxes and contribute to our country in so many
ways," Gephardt said.

Fox in recent days has returned to publicly advocating changes in immigration
policies, saying last weekend that he hoped that "we will pick up the agenda
where it was left before September 11 and continue advancing with it."

Only days before the attacks, when Fox was feted at a White House state dinner,
immigration reform also seemed to be one of President Bush's top priorities. But
momentum to grant legal status to some of the millions of Mexicans illegally in
the United States vanished on Sept. 11.

Since then, Fox has tread lightly on the issue. Washington has been focused
almost exclusively on the war against terrorism, and sentiment is growing,
including in Congress, that immigration and border controls should be tightened
in the name of national security.

In response, Fox's government is drawing distinctions between foreign terrorists
who come to the United States and impoverished Mexicans who enter illegally to
fill modestly paying jobs in fields such as construction and child care. Mexican
officials are also arguing that one way for the United States to get a better
handle on who is in the country is to document people working in the shadows.

"We would like to relaunch the agenda and recast it in the aftermath of
September 11," Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda said in an interview.

Mid-level officials from both countries will resume talks on immigration in
Washington on Tuesday. The talks will continue the dialogue begun when Bush and
Fox created an immigration panel in February headed on the U.S. side by Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, and on the
Mexican side by Castaneda and Interior Minister Santiago Creel.

The day before the meeting, Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, Fox's national security
adviser, will meet in Washington with Tom Ridge, director of the White House
office of homeland security. Aguilar Zinser will be joined by at least 10 other
Mexican officials, including the heads of the top intelligence agency and the
immigration and customs agencies.

Bush has said he wants U.S. customs and immigration officials to work more
closely with their counterparts in Canada and Mexico, to share information and
synchronize visa policies with the aim of creating a "security perimeter" around
North America. Officials here said the meetings between Aguilar Zinser and Ridge
would explore those areas, as well as how to improve technology, laws and
financing to help create region-wide customs and immigration databases.

Mexican officials also say they are striving to balance security concerns with
the need to keep trade moving freely across the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border.
One idea being explored would establish immigration checkpoints in Mexico far
from the border where U.S.-bound goods could be sealed and certified, reducing
bottlenecks created by heightened security at the border.

"Security has to take its central place in the agenda, but not at the expense of
displacing everything else," Aguilar Zinser said in an interview today.

Since the terrorist attacks, anti-immigration groups in the United States say
they have gained support for the view that the country has been too generous in
admitting foreigners.

The change in the public's mood has worried immigrants like Esperanza Chacon, a
Mexican who moved to New York 11 years ago and works with an immigrants' rights
group there. She said the hope many undocumented immigrants had earlier this
year to become legalized has evaporated.

"There's now a strong anti-immigrant feeling," she said. "There are 6 [million]
to 8 million undocumented immigrants. Just because 14 or 15 are terrorists
doesn't mean all of them are."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              73 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Spin

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A46

LENGTH: 137 words


For Tom Daschle and Dick Gephardt to make what is blatantly illegal legal and
call it immigration reform is spin [news story, Nov. 15]. To say that giving
amnesty to millions of illegal aliens will ensure that they have had background
checks is a lie.

Those who had their illegal status adjusted in the last amnesties were never
given FBI or any other kind of background checks. With the Immigration and
Naturalization Service already incredibly backlogged and unable or unwilling to
do its job, background checks won't be done in the future any more than they
have been done in the past. Instead, we will be left with millions more people
about whom we know nothing, and we will be sending a message to the world that
it is business as usual. One would have thought that Sept. 11 made an impact.

JAN TOUMA

Durham, N.C.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              74 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 27, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Rebuffed on Tanzanian Scouts;
Agency to Appeal Ruling on Detention of 4 Who Fled in Va.

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 409 words


A federal immigration judge has ruled that four Tanzanian teenagers who left an
international gathering of Boy Scouts in Virginia in July were improperly
detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and has terminated the
agency's attempts to deport them.

Judge Walter Durling in York, Pa., found that the youths are in this country
legally because they hold tourist visas valid until Jan. 22. They should be
allowed to apply for asylum if they choose, he ruled. The four, ages 15 to 17,
have said in interviews with lawyers and Tanzanian officials that they wish to
stay here to further their educations.

"The decision found that they have the right to stay and apply for asylum," said
Steven Schulman, a Washington lawyer who has represented the teenagers. "There
are no grounds for them to be deported."

In his ruling last week, Durling said the youths should not have been subjected
to detention or had deportation proceedings before an administrative law judge
-- a process usually reserved for foreigners who have broken the law. Instead,
the judge said, the teenagers should be granted an interview with an INS officer
for asylum proceedings. Attorneys for the four, who have also asked that they be
placed in foster care, said they planned to file for asylum immediately.

But INS officials said they planned to appeal Durling's ruling, which means the
teenagers must stay in detention in Pennsylvania. The officials have rejected a
foster-care placement in Richmond, even though it is generally cheaper than
detention. The INS must make its appeal within 30 days.

"This case is not over yet," said Niki Edwards, a spokeswoman for the INS office
in Philadelphia. "We will proceed with an appeal."

The teenagers left the National Scout Jamboree at Fort A.P. Hill, Va., on July
29 with the help of a brother of one of the Scouts, court records show. They
were found on New York Avenue in the District the next day after hitchhiking and
walking 80 miles and sleeping alongside the road. They were sent to the
detention facility Aug. 2. They now say they fear being "persecuted and
tortured" on their return home, court documents say.

Officials for the Tanzanian Embassy, who asked in early August that the
teenagers be returned to their scoutmaster, continued to say yesterday that the
four have nothing to fear from the government. The trip to the jamboree was
state-sponsored and paid for jointly by the families and the government.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              75 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Palestinian-Born Man Deported to Jordan;
Technician Accused of Immigration Fraud;
Lawyer Fears Torture in Amman

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 932 words


U.S. immigration officials have deported a Palestinian-born man charged with
immigration fraud from Texas to Jordan, where his U.S. lawyer fears he will be
tortured by Jordanian authorities investigating his alleged ties to terrorist
groups.

Ghassan Dahduli, 41, a computer technician and father of five from suburban
Dallas, was accompanied by U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents on
a flight to Jordan on Tuesday, said his Texas lawyer, Karen Pennington. Dahduli,
who had been battling INS authorities over his status for more than a year, was
arrested 11 days after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Although Dahduli has never been charged with any terrorist-related crime, he has
acknowledged being friends in the 1980s with a close associate of terrorist
mastermind Osama bin Laden.

Members of his family who were at the Amman airport to greet him Tuesday watched
as he was escorted off the plane by INS agents and blue-suited Jordanian
security men, Pennington said.

"All this raises concerns in my mind about whether [U.S. officials] are there to
supervise his interrogation by the Jordanians using methods impermissible under
U.S. law," she said.

Messages left at the Jordanian Embassy here were not returned this week. Human
rights groups said the Jordanians have tortured some suspected terrorists and
provided their statements to U.S. officials.

U.S. government officials, while declining to comment on Dahduli, denied
arranging the torture of anyone.

"This is not an allegation that holds any merit," said INS spokesman Karen
Kraushaar. "In this country we won't be involved in any form of torture. It's
against the Constitution." She added that the agency requires agents to
accompany deportees to the receiving country "if they're a flight risk or a risk
to public safety."

Dahduli had been in this country for 23 years and worked for Freddie Mac, the
federally chartered mortgage firm. He had been engaged in a year-long legal
struggle with the INS, which accused him of fraud in obtaining his visa. Federal
agents tried to persuade him to infiltrate terrorist groups for them, but he
declined, Pennington said.

At one point an FBI agent told Dahduli "you'll be treated a lot better by us
than by the Jordanians," Pennington said.

Dahduli was arrested at his home in Richardson, Tex., on Sept. 22 and was
ordered held without bond. Last month he agreed to be deported to Jordan, hoping
he would be allowed to live free there, Pennington said.

Last year, authorities had stepped up their investigation of Dahduli after
agents spotted his name in the address book of Wadih Hage, a close aide to bin
Laden who earlier this month was sentenced to life in prison for his role in the
1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, Pennington said.
Dahduli and Hage had known each other only slightly from the 1980s, when they
both lived in Tucson, she said.

But terrorism researcher Steven Emerson said the pair were close, fellow members
of a Tucson Islamic center that raised funds for a bin Laden group then fighting
the Soviets in Afghanistan. Some of the center's members went on to become key
bin Laden operatives, Emerson said; one was Wa'el Hamza Jalaidan, who U.S.
Treasury officials say was one of three founders of bin Laden's al Qaeda group
and is now its "logistics chief."

For years Dahduli also was a leader of an Illinois-based organization called the
Islamic Association for Palestine (IAP), which Israel, some members of Congress
and former FBI counterterrorism officials say is a front for Hamas, the
Palestinian terrorist group. Some speakers at IAP events have taken extreme
anti-Jewish and anti-American positions.

A number of IAP's members have been questioned by the FBI over the years. But
the IAP's chairman, Sabri Samirah, said the FBI has never targeted the IAP in
any probe. "We deny any connection to Hamas," he said. "It's misinformation
taken from pro-Israel Zionist groups." He acknowledged that the group's
publications, Web sites and conferences have praised Hamas but said IAP is
conveying the views of many Palestinians, adding, "it doesn't mean we support
Hamas."

Samirah praised Dahduli as "a good family man who has no connection to terrorism
and is suffering an injustice. . . . We fear for his safety and health in
Jordan."

Jordanian officials have routinely tortured suspected terrorists, including
alleged bin Laden associates on trial for allegedly planning bombings in Israel
and Jordan during the millennium, Amnesty International said in a recent report.
Some of the defendants said Jordanian security officers extracted confessions by
beating suspects on the soles of their feet or hanging them upside down with
their hands tied behind their backs, the Amnesty report stated.

Hanny Megally, head of the Middle East office of Human Rights Watch, said
Dahduli's case is reminiscent of another, that of Hani Sayegh.

A Saudi man who U.S. and Saudi officials believe was involved in the 1996
bombing of a U.S. Air Force dormitory in Saudi Arabia that killed 19 American
airmen, Sayegh was arrested in Canada in 1997. He then was brought to the United
States after agreeing to testify.

But he reneged. Civil libertarians say U.S. officials, hoping the fear of being
beheaded in his home country would prompt a confession, sent him to Saudi Arabia
in 1999. Now he's in prison there facing bombing-related charges both in that
country and in the United States.

Jaafar Allagany, spokesman for the Saudi Embassy, said any suggestion that the
Saudis would torture Sayegh or anyone else is "nonsense."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              76 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Dangles Citizenship To Entice 'Cooperators'

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 997 words


The Justice Department announced plans yesterday to coax information about
terrorists from foreign nationals by offering them help in obtaining legal
residency or U.S. citizenship.

Unlike other anti-terror efforts launched since Sept. 11 -- which have included
detentions of hundreds of people and possible deportation for violations of
immigration laws -- the new program provides tangible incentives to immigrants
otherwise afraid to come forward with information, officials said.

Under the "Responsible Cooperators Program," the rewards would be offered to
noncitizens "who have useful and reliable information" about terrorists,
according to a directive issued to the FBI, Immigration and Naturalization
Service and U.S. attorneys' offices.

"They may rest assured that the United States welcomes any reliable and useful
information that they can provide to help us save lives in the future," Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft said at a news conference. "In return, we will help
them make America their home."

The program marks the latest tactic by frustrated U.S. officials who have sought
to identify and capture terrorists and collaborators since the attacks on New
York and Washington. A nationwide dragnet since Sept. 11 has ensnared hundreds
of foreign nationals, but law enforcement officials and court papers indicate
that only about a dozen, if that many, are suspected of involvement in Osama bin
Laden's al Qaeda terrorist network.

The incentives highlighted yesterday, all of which are available to authorities
under current statutes, could apply to any noncitizen. But officials hope they
will be particularly useful in securing cooperation from immigrants already in
detention or from thousands of others that federal authorities are seeking to
interview.

Some could qualify for special visas that would allow them to stay in the United
States for as long as three years, while others might have deportations put on
hold. People overseas who offer valuable information might be offered easier
routes toward securing entry visas, officials said.

Ashcroft said the plan would open a "pathway to citizenship" for participants.
But many immigration experts said that the steps were limited and that they
would help relatively few foreign nationals become U.S. citizens.

And the incentives did little to soothe Arab American leaders and civil
liberties groups that have criticized Ashcroft for his anti-terrorism tactics.

"I welcome a carrot rather than a stick approach, but there are some real
caveats here," said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "I think the attorney general needs to give a
lot more assurances before he gets any real cooperation from people."

Federal prosecutors, with help from the FBI and local law enforcement officials,
have begun conducting interviews with more than 5,000 young male visitors to the
United States who come from countries deemed to have significant terrorist
populations. The list of about two dozen countries includes European nations
such as Germany, where several of the Sept. 11 hijackers had lived, but most of
the subjects are of Middle Eastern descent.

Although Ashcroft has said the interviews are voluntary and the men are not
criminal suspects, Justice and INS officials have acknowledged that they might
jail interviewees without bond if they are found in violation of immigration
laws. Interviewers have been instructed to ask about immigration status.

Arab American and civil liberties groups have decried the effort as racial
profiling, and several police departments and universities have declined to
help. The American Civil Liberties Union has begun distributing a "bust card" to
inform immigrants of their rights if confronted by a law enforcement officer.

"The trust between the U.S. government, including law enforcement agencies, and
the Arab community has been eroded over the past few weeks," said Khalil E.
Jahshan, vice president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.

James Zogby, president of the Arab-American Institute, said that while he
supports efforts to gather information about terrorists, he fears the new
incentives might reward those with terrorist ties while punishing those with
none.

"We are deporting good people just because they're out of status, but here we
might be rewarding truly awful people because they're involved with terrorists
and have information to trade," Zogby said. "I would like to see incentives, but
they should be fair to everyone."

Some Arab American experts also complained that a common Arabic translation of
the word "cooperators" -- part of the plan's title -- could be construed to mean
"collaborators." Jahshan called it "a short-sighted public relations gimmick
that is guaranteed to fail."

Two provisions are at the heart of the initiative. The first is focused on the
"S" nonimmigrant visa -- nicknamed the "snitch visa" by law enforcement
officials -- which allows subjects to stay for up to three years if they have
provided crucial information about organized crime or terrorist groups and fit
other criteria.

More than 100 such visas were issued in fiscal 2001, and no more than 250 can be
issued in a given year. The visa can result in permanent resident status, or a
"green card," a precursor to citizenship.

In addition, Ashcroft has directed authorities to halt deportation proceedings
and allow entry to foreign nationals if they have valuable information but do
not qualify for an "S" visa. Such deferments could be granted indefinitely.

People in that immigration category are not eligible for a direct route to
permanent residency or citizenship, officials acknowledged. But Justice and INS
officials said they could still gain citizenship if sponsored for residency by a
family member or employer.

For people who are complying with their visa requirements, the program would
offer the possibility of a longer stay in the United States, Ashcroft said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              77 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Clients Tied to Sept. 11 A Dilemma for Lawyers;
Attorneys Confront Media Storm, Public Hostility

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1181 words


When a federal court clerk asked Drewry Hutcheson Jr. whether he could take an
extra immigration fraud case, the criminal defense attorney said sure -- he
routinely represents indigent clients assigned by the court.

It was only when he got back to his Alexandria office that Hutcheson realized
that Khalid Al-Draibi was a client like none he had before.

Al-Draibi, a Saudi Arabian citizen, had been picked up the night of Sept. 11
with Arabic flight manuals and fake identification cards just 15 miles from
Dulles International Airport, where the hijacked jet that hit the Pentagon
originated. Authorities had charged him with falsely claiming to be a U.S.
citizen but clearly suspected him of a lot more.

"It caused me some anxiety, and I thought about calling and begging off,"
Hutcheson said. "But I decided I had a job to do."

Attorneys across the country are facing similar dilemmas. The probe into the
Sept. 11 hijackings of four commercial jetliners has spawned a massive Justice
Department dragnet and ensnared more than 1,000 people, many of them immigrants
with little understanding of the U.S. criminal justice system. More than 100
people have been charged criminally, and some 600 are in federal custody.

Many criminal lawyers have not flinched from these cases, saying their
profession must protect the rights of those caught up in the investigation -- no
matter how unpopular and heinous the crime. But some have balked very publicly.

On Monday, when Alexandria attorney Greg English realized midway through a
hearing that the FBI was alleging that his court-appointed client, Agus Budiman,
had links to several Sept. 11 hijackers, he stopped the proceedings and asked to
be taken off the case.

"I agree intellectually that everyone is entitled to a lawyer, but I decided
when this happened that I would never take a terrorism case," English said. "I'm
a former Army officer, and my wife works for the Department of Defense.
Terrorism and espionage are attacks on the country."

Taking on a case that appears to be related, however tangentially, to the Sept.
11 hijackings can be a professional nightmare, attorneys involved said. Not only
are they facing white-hot media scrutiny and public opprobrium, but solid
information is also hard to come by. Language barriers and sheer fear make
attorney-client trust more difficult, and the government has not been sharing
all its information, some attorneys said.

To make matters more complicated, the stakes in what should be routine
immigration or fraud cases are so high because the Justice Department has been
using low-level charges to put pressure on those they suspect of knowing about
the al Qaeda terrorist network.

"I have been accused by the INS and others of being un-American. My non-Middle
Eastern clients have been told that I represent terrorists. Right now I'm very
frightened," said Karen Pennington, a Dallas lawyer who has several clients
caught up in the probe. "I wish I had the expertise to represent these clients
at the level they deserve."

Alexandria attorney Jeffrey Zimmerman said he is usually loath to talk to the
media when he has just started a case. But when he was handed the work of
defending Luis A. Martinez-Flores on identification document fraud charges, he
quickly realized he needed to speak out, and quickly.

Martinez-Flores is charged with meeting two hijackers in a parking lot and
helping them fraudulently obtain Virginia driver's licenses.

But in his initial FBI interviews, he told fantastic tales that overstated his
involvement with the terrorists, sources said.

By the time Zimmerman was appointed, the stories had leaked into the press and
made it sound as if Martinez-Flores had been a U.S. guide for the terrorists.

"The case [was] taking on a life of its own," Zimmerman said. "People were
forming opinions about the client, and there was an additional concern about his
safety because he's incarcerated in an institution where televisions are blaring
his name all the time."

So the lawyer took to the airwaves to emphasize that his client was connected
only tangentially -- and unwittingly -- with the hijackers.

Zimmerman's colleague, Joseph Bowman, was used to calls from the media because
he already had been appointed by the court to represent a high-profile client --
Gregory D. Murphy, charged with a 2000 unprovoked knife attack on an 8-year-old
boy.

But nothing matched the national media storm he encountered when he was assigned
the Sept. 11-related case of Mohammed Abdi, a naturalized U.S. citizen from
Somalia, charged with forging his landlord's signature on rent subsidy checks.
The FBI wants to know why his name and phone number were found in a car left at
Dulles by one of the hijackers.

Bowman said he has no personal qualms about representing Abdi. "I've convinced
myself he didn't know anything, so I'm just going to defend him on these forgery
charges, and for a trial attorney, that's a simple thing," he said.

For lawyers who feel less sure, the ethical responsibilities are complicated,
law professors said. Some say an attorney who accepts court-appointed cases
should not be able to pick and choose clients based on subject matter. But
others say that it is equally unethical for an attorney to represent a defendant
if his or her heart is not in the case.

After all, said New York University law professor Stephen Gillers, "there's a
certain kind of high-profile lawyer who would see [this kind of case] as an
opportunity and a professional responsibility."

New Yorker Stanley L. Cohen is one of those attorneys. He has represented a
leader of the hard-line Islamic Resistance Movement, known as Hamas, as well as
a Laurel cleric interviewed by prosecutors in connection with the Sept. 11
attacks and the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

"Lawyers have a special obligation to vigorously represent every client that
they are assigned to," Cohen said. "You can't wave a flag at a particular class
of cases and say, 'That's not what I do.' "

Still, attorneys said that once they got into a terrorism-related case, they
were staggered by the complicated questions that they faced.

Hutcheson, for example, knew the FBI had little more than suspicions about his
client. Al-Draibi, meanwhile, assured his lawyer he knew nothing about the
attacks, despite the flight manuals and fake IDs.

If he advised his client to take an FBI polygraph, it might clear Al-Draibi's
name. But if the client failed, the FBI would have new ammunition to build a far
more serious case.

"Any miscalculation I might make could lead to evidence against him in the worst
crime of the century," Hutcheson said. "Thankfully, he was telling the truth,
and I was the second happiest person in the world [after Al-Draibi] when he
passed."

When Al-Draibi pleaded guilty to visa fraud last month, Assistant U.S. Attorney
John T. Morton told the judge that the government no longer suspects Hutcheson's
client of involvement in the attacks.

"It's been kind of exciting, but I'm glad my career in this will be short,"
Hutcheson said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              78 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Clients With Sept. 11 Links Pose Problems for Lawyers

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1181 words


When a federal court clerk asked Drewry Hutcheson Jr. whether he could take an
extra immigration fraud case, the criminal defense attorney said sure -- he
routinely represents indigent clients assigned by the court.

It was only when he got back to his Alexandria office that Hutcheson realized
that Khalid Al-Draibi was a client like none he had before.

Al-Draibi, a Saudi Arabian citizen, had been picked up the night of Sept. 11
with Arabic flight manuals and fake identification cards just 15 miles from
Dulles International Airport, where the hijacked jet that hit the Pentagon
originated. Authorities had charged him with falsely claiming to be a U.S.
citizen but clearly suspected him of a lot more.

"It caused me some anxiety, and I thought about calling and begging off,"
Hutcheson said. "But I decided I had a job to do."

Attorneys across the country are facing similar dilemmas. The probe into the
Sept. 11 hijackings of four commercial jetliners has spawned a massive Justice
Department dragnet and ensnared more than 1,000 people, many of them immigrants
with little understanding of the U.S. criminal justice system. More than 100
people have been charged criminally, and some 600 are in federal custody.

Many criminal lawyers have not flinched from these cases, saying their
profession must protect the rights of those caught up in the investigation -- no
matter how unpopular and heinous the crime. But some have balked very publicly.

On Monday, when Alexandria attorney Greg English realized midway through a
hearing that the FBI was alleging that his court-appointed client, Agus Budiman,
had links to several Sept. 11 hijackers, he stopped the proceedings and asked to
be taken off the case.

"I agree intellectually that everyone is entitled to a lawyer, but I decided
when this happened that I would never take a terrorism case," English said. "I'm
a former Army officer, and my wife works for the Department of Defense.
Terrorism and espionage are attacks on the country."

Taking on a case that appears to be related, however tangentially, to the Sept.
11 hijackings can be a professional nightmare, attorneys involved said. Not only
are they facing white-hot media scrutiny and public opprobrium, but solid
information is also hard to come by. Language barriers and sheer fear make
attorney-client trust more difficult, and the government has not been sharing
all its information, some attorneys said.

To make matters more complicated, the stakes in what should be routine
immigration or fraud cases are so high because the Justice Department has been
using low-level charges to put pressure on those they suspect of knowing about
the al Qaeda terrorist network.

"I have been accused by the INS and others of being un-American. My non-Middle
Eastern clients have been told that I represent terrorists. Right now I'm very
frightened," said Karen Pennington, a Dallas lawyer who has several clients
caught up in the probe. "I wish I had the expertise to represent these clients
at the level they deserve."

Alexandria attorney Jeffrey Zimmerman said he is usually loath to talk to the
media when he has just started a case. But when he was handed the work of
defending Luis A. Martinez-Flores on identification document fraud charges, he
quickly realized he needed to speak out, and quickly.

Martinez-Flores is charged with meeting two hijackers in a parking lot and
helping them fraudulently obtain Virginia driver's licenses. But in his initial
FBI interviews, he told fantastic tales that overstated his involvement with the
terrorists, sources said.

By the time Zimmerman was appointed, the stories had leaked into the press and
made it sound as if Martinez-Flores had been a U.S. guide for the terrorists.

"The case [was] taking on a life of its own," Zimmerman said. "People were
forming opinions about the client, and there was an additional concern about his
safety because he's incarcerated in an institution where televisions are blaring
his name all the time."

So the lawyer took to the airwaves to emphasize that his client was connected
only tangentially -- and unwittingly -- with the hijackers.

Zimmerman's colleague, Joseph Bowman, was used to calls from the media because
he already had been appointed by the court to represent a high-profile client --
Gregory D. Murphy, charged with a 2000 unprovoked knife attack on an 8-year-old
boy.

But nothing matched the national media storm he encountered when he was assigned
the Sept. 11-related case of Mohammed Abdi, a naturalized U.S. citizen from
Somalia, charged with forging his landlord's signature on rent subsidy checks.
The FBI wants to know why his name and phone number were found in a car left at
Dulles by one of the hijackers.

Bowman said he has no personal qualms about representing Abdi. "I've convinced
myself he didn't know anything, so I'm just going to defend him on these forgery
charges, and for a trial attorney, that's a simple thing," he said.

For lawyers who feel less sure, the ethical responsibilities are complicated,
law professors said. Some say an attorney who accepts court-appointed cases
should not be able to pick and choose clients based on subject matter. But
others say that it is equally unethical for an attorney to represent a defendant
if his or her heart is not in the case.

After all, said New York University law professor Stephen Gillers, "there's a
certain kind of high-profile lawyer who would see [this kind of case] as an
opportunity and a professional responsibility."

New Yorker Stanley L. Cohen is one of those attorneys. He has represented a
leader of the hard-line Islamic Resistance Movement, known as Hamas, as well as
a Laurel cleric interviewed by prosecutors in connection with the Sept. 11
attacks and the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

"Lawyers have a special obligation to vigorously represent every client that
they are assigned to," Cohen said. "You can't wave a flag at a particular class
of cases and say, 'That's not what I do.' "

Still, attorneys said that once they got into a terrorism-related case, they
were staggered by the complicated questions that they faced.

Hutcheson, for example, knew the FBI had little more than suspicions about his
client. Al-Draibi, meanwhile, assured his lawyer he knew nothing about the
attacks, despite the flight manuals and fake IDs.

If he advised his client to take an FBI polygraph, it might clear Al-Draibi's
name. But if the client failed, the FBI would have new ammunition to build a far
more serious case.

"Any miscalculation I might make could lead to evidence against him in the worst
crime of the century," Hutcheson said. "Thankfully, he was telling the truth,
and I was the second happiest person in the world [after Al-Draibi] when he
passed."

When Al-Draibi pleaded guilty to visa fraud last month, Assistant U.S. Attorney
John T. Morton told the judge that the government no longer suspects Hutcheson's
client of involvement in the attacks.

"It's been kind of exciting, but I'm glad my career in this will be short,"
Hutcheson said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              79 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 16, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 486 words


HACKENSACK, N.J. -- The state is scrapping a new regulation that made it harder
for legal immigrants who are not U.S. citizens to obtain driver's licenses.

Last month, the state Division of Motor Vehicles began requiring such immigrants
to apply for licenses and state identification cards at four regional service
centers that have computer links to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service database.

DMV officials said the tougher requirements were designed to stop illegal
immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses. But critics said only one of the
centers is located where large concentrations of immigrants live.

Dana Sullivan, a DMV spokesman, said on Friday that the new rule is being
dropped because many of the applicants are well-established residents.

PORTLAND, Ore. -- A 19-year-old woman returned home to wait for a new donor
yesterday after her plans to undergo a rare triple transplant were canceled
because a donated lung contained traces of pneumonia.

Brandy Stroeder, who has been fighting the Oregon Health Plan for the right to a
lung and liver transplant, had been flown to a hospital in Palo Alto, Calif.,
for the surgery after being told early Friday that the organs and a new heart
were available.

She had been in the hospital for several hours when the Friday transplant was
called off.

While her heart is healthy, doctors had planned to replace it because
cardiopulmonary organs are easier to transplant collectively rather than
individually.

Stroeder has cystic fibrosis, a disease that chokes her lungs with mucus and
causes other organ damage. The Oregon Appeals Court has not ruled in her case. A
community effort has raised $ 300,000 for her medical costs.

MIAMI -- A federal jury on Friday convicted two members of the Gambino crime
family in the slaying of a stripper they wrongly thought was an FBI informant.

Ariel Hernandez was accused of strangling Jeanette "Jade" Smith in a hotel room
two years ago, and Frederick J. "Fat Freddie" Massaro, a restaurant owner who
oversaw the Gambinos' South Florida operations, allegedly ordered her killing.
They were convicted of murder, conspiracy, fraud and other crimes. Both face
mandatory life sentences.

A third man, Anthony "Tony Pep" Trentacosta, head of the Gambino crime family's
Florida operations, was convicted of racketeering conspiracy and faces 20 years
in prison. He was acquitted of taking part in Smith's slaying.

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- A woman who registered her pet poodle as a voter is no
longer facing felony voter fraud charges.

Prosecutors have agreed not to charge Wendy Albert on the condition that she
stays out of trouble for the next year. The third-degree felony carries a
maximum five-year prison term and a $ 5,000 fine.

Palm Beach County was home to the infamous butterfly ballot and the focus of
legal battles and protests in the 2000 presidential election.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              80 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Detains Muslim Man In Michigan

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: DETROIT Dec. 17


-- A Muslim who serves on the board of a group suspected of funding terrorism
was detained by federal immigration officials on a visa violation, his attorney
said today.

Attorney Ashraf Nubani said his client, Rabih Haddad, was detained by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service on Friday, the same day federal agents
raided the offices of the Global Relief Foundation of Bridgeview, Ill.

Haddad, 41, is on the group's board of trustees.

INS officials refused to comment on the case, and the FBI referred all questions
to the immigration agency.

Nubani said INS officials told him Haddad, a Lebanese native who lives in Ann
Arbor, Mich., would be held without bond or a detention hearing.

Nubani said Haddad came to the United States in 1998 on a tourist visa that has
since expired. He said Haddad has applied for permanent residency and blamed the
detention on the post-Sept. 11 political climate.

Michael Steinberg, legal director of the ACLU of Michigan, called Haddad a
beloved member of the community.

"In my view, the federal agents are destroying any trust that exists between the
law enforcement and the Arab community," Steinberg said.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              81 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Drops Terrorism Charge For 3 Held in Immigration Case

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: DETROIT Jan. 7


A federal prosecutor said today the government tried to build a terrorism case
against three men accused of having illegal immigration papers but did not have
enough evidence.

The government intended to seek a revised indictment charging Karim Koubriti,
Ahmed Hannan and Youssef Hmimssa with terrorism, Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard
Convertino said during a bond hearing for the three. But prosecutors have not
yet received responses to subpoenas or reports on the suspects from foreign
governments and therefore lacked a case to take before a grand jury, Convertino
told U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen.

Convertino did not give the government's reasons for seeking terrorism charges,
did not say who had been subpoenaed and did not name the foreign governments. He
said afterward a gag order prevented him from discussing terrorism charges.

Rosen agreed to schedule the trial of the men on illegal-documents charges for
late March or early April. He said the delay would give both sides time to
compile more evidence, and for publicity surrounding the arrests -- made six
days after the Sept. 11 attacks -- to subside.

The men are being held without bond.

During the Sept. 17 raid on Koubriti and Hannan's apartment, federal agents said
they found a planner that contained notations in Arabic that they believe were
plans for attacks on the Alia airport in Jordan and a plot to kill former
defense secretary William S. Cohen during a visit to Turkey.

The arrests came as authorities were looking for another man, Nabil al-Marabh,
whose name was on the apartment mailbox. Al-Marabh was later arrested in Chicago
and has been jailed in New York.

Al-Marabh is a former Boston cab driver who was licensed in Michigan to haul
hazardous materials. He has been linked with a man authorities say is an
associate of Osama bin Laden.

Koubriti and Hannan have denied knowing al-Marabh.

Hmimssa was arrested later in Iowa. His photo, with the alias Michael Saisa, was
found on documents in the raided apartment.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              82 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 14, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

UPDATE;
On the News

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 758 words


For five years, Adelaide Abankwah has been struggling to reclaim her name, in
what the Germantown resident and U.S. immigration officials describe as a
bizarre case of identity fraud. Now, she has won an important victory.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service recently granted Abankwah lawful
permanent resident status, the first step to U.S. citizenship. "It's good that I
have it," said the 28-year-old Ghanaian immigrant. But she worries that her
troubles aren't over.

Abankwah was attending Montgomery College in 1997 when another woman arrived at
John F. Kennedy Airport with a passport bearing Abankwah's name and personal
data. That woman appealed for asylum, claiming she couldn't return to Ghana
because she had been chosen "queen mother" of her tribe and faced genital
mutilation.

Politicians and celebrities, including Hillary Rodham Clinton, rallied around
the woman, and she won an asylum appeal. But a subsequent probe by the INS --
and an investigation by The Washington Post -- found she was really a former
Ghanaian hotel worker named Regina Norman Danson.

INS officials have since recommended that Danson be prosecuted for fraud. A
spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in New York declined to comment on
whether charges would be pressed. In an interview in December 2000, Danson
acknowledged her original name but stood by other parts of her story.

The real Adelaide Abankwah, meanwhile, had been facing mounting problems.
Abankwah's attorney, I. Jay Fredman, said her family in Ghana was harassed by
people who thought she was bringing shame to her homeland with a story about
genital mutilation, which is outlawed there. Her friends here wondered who she
really was. Worst of all, Abankwah feared she would have to leave the country
because the INS had been trying to deport the other woman. She dropped out of
school to try to set things straight.

Abankwah's attorney said Danson may have gotten hold of an old passport of his
client's that disappeared years ago.

With the help of the INS and her lawyer, the real Abankwah is resuming her life.
She works as a software engineer for a local firm that sponsored her for
permanent residence, said Fredman. And she has signed up for college again.

"We were quite pleased that during the holiday season we were able to return to
Miss Abankwah her true identity and grant to her lawful permanent resident
status," said Edward J. McElroy, director of the New York District Office of the
INS.

Abankwah worries, however, that she may face more unpleasant surprises. "I don't
know what's going on with [Danson], what she was able to do with my identity
when she had it," Abankwah said.

-- Mary Beth Sheridan

The Charles County Board of Commissioners has scheduled a final public hearing
tomorrow on a traffic relief proposal for Route 301, where congestion has been a
growing problem for years.

The commissioners intend to endorse a plan by March 25, a decision they hope
will end more than a decade of debate over whether to upgrade the highway or to
build a bypass around Waldorf.

Population growth projections in Southern Maryland suggest the amount of traffic
crossing Charles and Prince George's counties on Route 301 will nearly double in
the next 20 years. Waldorf is expected to be especially jammed, with traffic
overwhelming the highway at 11 intersections.

The final hearing is to be at 7 p.m. at Thomas Stone High School in Waldorf.

In recent years several groups have recommended differing solutions to Route 301
congestion. In 1996, a state-appointed task force recommended the construction
of a bypass west of Waldorf. But last year, after several federal agencies
suggested such a bypass might be denied environmental approval, a citizens
advisory committee recommended an extensive upgrade of Route 301.

That committee's recommendation would create a six-lane interstate-style highway
through Waldorf, with interchanges eliminating stoplights between Cedarville
Road on the north and Billingsley Road on the south. One-way frontage roads
would be built to provide access to roadside businesses.

But as the commissioners prepare to decide which option to pursue, public
opinion remains divided. Many members of the county's business community have
supported a bypass or a moderate upgrade instead of an extensive upgrade. They
argue that an extensive upgrade would tear apart the county's only significant
commercial artery.

Those supporting an extensive upgrade have argued that anything less would fail
to address the problem.

-- Monte Reel

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              83 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 19, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS Speeds Process, Grants More Residency Requests

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 485 words


The number of immigrants granted permanent legal residence in the United States
increased 30 percent between fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2000, Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials said yesterday.

The agency attributed the increase in legal immigrants -- from 646,568 to
849,807 -- to a reduction in its backlog of pending cases.

"It's no surprise, because they finally have people who are moving the
applications through the process," said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the
National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group. "We're not letting in more
people. These are people who should have gotten their residency a couple of
years ago."

Kelley predicted that the number of legal immigrants will "level off" or decline
once the backlog is cleared up. But Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the
National Council of La Raza, doubts the backlog will ever be completely
eliminated.

"If the INS were to catch up on all of its backlogs, there are a lot of people
in the immigrant communities who would be very surprised," Munoz said.

The INS has been faulted for years for backlogs and delays in processing
immigrants who apply for residency or citizenship. The backlog in granting
permanent residence to applicants began several years ago when the agency
redeployed staff to reduce a backlog in citizenship applications, advocates
said.

"It's almost a shell game what they do with their staff," Kelley said.

In early 1999, it took 33 months to get a decision on an application for
permanent residence -- technically known as an "adjustment of status."
Citizenship applications languished for an average of 28 months, and asylum
applications took two months, INS officials acknowledged.

But an increase in resources, including staff and improved technology, has
reduced the time it takes to review an adjustment of status application to 12 to
15 months, they said. The agency is developing a plan to determine how to cut
the backlog to six months, a goal INS officials hope to reach by September, the
end of this fiscal year.

Still, there were 1 million adjustment of status cases pending at the end of
fiscal 2000, officials said.

Citizenship applications now take six to nine months from submission to
approval. Asylum applications continue to take two months, INS officials said.
Lawmakers approved $ 100 million this year earmarked for backlog reduction.

Nearly 40 percent of those granted legal permanent residence in the United
States in 1999 and 2000 were from five countries: Mexico, China, the
Philippines, India and Vietnam, according to the INS. Sixty-nine percent --
584,100 -- of legal immigrants in 2000 were sponsored by family members; 13
percent were employment preferences; and 8 percent were asylum-seekers or
refugees.

Sixty-six percent of those granted legal permanent residence in 2000 lived in
California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas, INS officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              84 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 25, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Visas Created For Victims Of Slavery

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 311 words


U.S. Attorney General John D. Ashcroft approved new rules yesterday creating
special immigration visas for people smuggled into the United States and forced
into prostitution, domestic service or farm labor.

These "T-visas," created under a federal law passed in 2000, will allow victims
to remain in the United States if they can persuade immigration authorities they
would face "extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm" if returned to
their native countries.

After three years, victims can apply to remain in America permanently. In most
cases, they also can apply to have their spouses and children join them in the
United States. Applicants under 21 may ask to have their parents join them.

"America will not stand idly by as those who seek to profit from modern-day
slavery ignore the humanity of their prisoners and show their disdain for the
rule of law," Ashcroft said.

Ashcroft said as many as 50,000 people -- mostly women and children -- are
brought into the United States this way each year, although the government can
approve only 5,000 of the new visas annually under the law. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service is setting up a waiting list if more than 5,000 victims
apply.

Ashcroft had promised that the first applicant for these new visas would be
Phanupong "Got" Khaisri, 4, an AIDS-stricken Thai boy used in a human
trafficking ring in Los Angeles. The INS had denied Got asylum, but a federal
judge blocked his deportation last summer.

Justice spokesman Dan Nelson said two people have been convicted so far under
the human-trafficking law and authorities are investigating 91 other cases.

Visa applications cost $ 200, plus $ 50 for each family member, to a maximum of
$ 400. Applicants also must pay $ 50 to have their fingerprints run through a
criminal background check. The government said fee waivers are available.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              85 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 1, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Judges Seek Independence From Justice Dept.

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 313 words


The nation's immigration judges want Congress to remove their courts from
Justice Department control and create a new agency to make them more
independent, according to a report by the union that represents the judges.

The 20-page "position paper" of the National Association of Immigration Judges
-- the first time the organization has taken a public position on an issue since
its inception more than 20 years ago -- argues that removing the courts from the
Justice Department will improve their accountability and help bolster public
confidence that the judges are independent of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

"There's a lot of concern about accountability in the process," said San
Francisco Immigration Judge Dana Marks Keener, president of the union that
represents the 220 administrative judges, who handle more than 260,000 cases in
52 courts each year. "One of our concerns is that public perception seems to
believe immigration courts are part of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. That's part of the problem."

The group argues that Attorney General John D. Ashcroft serves as supervisor of
both the INS, which prosecutes immigration cases, and the immigration judges,
who adjudicate them. Having a presidentially appointed director oversee an
independent immigration court will protect due process "without the mission
conflict of prosecutorial and law enforcement responsibilities," according to
the report.

The Justice Department, however, would oppose the request "principally because
the immigration courts and Board of Immigration Appeals exercise the authority
of the attorney general to enforce the immigration laws of the United States,"
said spokesman Dan Nelson. Immigration courts were part of the INS until 1983,
when the Justice Department created a separate agency, the Executive Office of
Immigration Review, to oversee them.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              86 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 7, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Moves to Cut Immigration Appeal Backlog

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 525 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft announced new rules yesterday aimed at
reducing a backlog of thousands of immigration appeal cases.

Ashcroft said he will issue new regulations to speed the review of cases before
the Board of Immigration Appeals, which hears appeals of decisions made by
immigration judges or Immigration and Naturalization Service officials. The
administrative rule change will "eliminate" the backlog of more than 56,000
cases and reduce the time it takes to decide such cases, he predicted. At least
34,000 of the cases have been pending for more than a year; 10,000 cases are
more than three years old.

"It's often said that justice delayed is justice denied," Ashcroft said at a
news conference. "But when a case takes seven years, justice isn't merely
denied; it's derailed."

Ashcroft blamed the immigration board yesterday for contributing to several
dramatic problems within the U.S. immigration system, including adding to the
number of fugitives who have disappeared after being ordered deported. Ashcroft
said slow processing of appeals encourages immigration attorneys to file
frivolous claims, causing further delays and increasing the chances that the
immigrants in question will ignore deportation orders.

The attorney general's proposed changes would create tougher guidelines for
filing and deciding appeals and would require all immigration appeals to be sent
to a single board member instead of the three-member panel. A larger panel could
be used in some instances, such as appeals on matters of national importance.

Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, an immigration lawyer and professor at Cornell Law
School, said officials will have to "rush through those cases" to slash the
backlog to six months, a move that could harm due process.

Ashcroft's announcement was made an hour before a House hearing on the Board of
Immigration Appeals and drew immediate criticism from lawmakers who questioned
whether Ashcroft intentionally tried to undermine the hearing.

"This is very troubling," said Rep. John Conyers Jr. (Mich.), the ranking
Democrat on the immigration subcommittee, who suggested that the appeals board
be removed from Justice Department control.

The new rules also would cut the board from 23 to 11 members, a decision that
lawmakers and several former immigration judges and appeals board members
questioned.

"A reduction to 11 is not the correct magic number," said Lauren R. Mathon, a
former immigration judge who also served on the board. "It's too few."

Mathon recommended the board be reduced to 16, that a "specific time limit" be
set for a board member to write a separate opinion or dissent, and that
sanctions be imposed for those who fail to meet the deadline. She also suggested
that officials set a goal to complete adjudication of the backlog and hire more
lawyers to assist in writing decisions.

Ashcroft's proposed changes would take effect in April and be implemented over
the following six months. They are part of a broader, ongoing overhaul of the
nation's immigration system, which has been plagued for years by backlogs and
delays.

Staff writer Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              87 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 7, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Open Up

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 353 words


TEN DAYS after the Sept. 11 attacks, the administration instructed its
immigration judges to keep certain proceedings closed. Not only would hearings
be conducted in secret with "no visitors, no family, and no press" present, but
the "record of the proceeding [was] not to be released to anyone" either --
including "confirming or denying whether such a case is on the docket or
scheduled for a hearing." The Justice Department has since been conducting its
Sept. 11-related immigration cases under these indefensible rules, though the
cases thus far have not involved classified evidence.

Last week two Detroit newspapers, Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) and the American
Civil Liberties Union challenged in court both the policy generally and the
closure of one immigration case in particular -- that of a man named Rabih
Haddad. Mr. Haddad, the co-founder of a Muslim charity suspected of terrorist
links, was detained on immigration charges. Whatever the merits of the case
against him, he has a lot of supporters, and they -- along with the press --
want to attend his immigration trial. Yet, officially, there is nothing to
attend. It doesn't matter that no sensitive or classified information has been
discussed at the hearings to date, the plaintiffs claim. Public access has been
nonexistent anyway.

Department officials say that because lawyers for the potential deportees get
full access and can talk about their cases, the secrecy isn't total and
deportees' rights aren't compromised. But public access is an important value
not fully served by secondhand reporting by attorneys. Preexisting rules already
allowed immigration judges to close a hearing if necessary to protect sensitive
information. But sealing cases in their entirety -- including the mundane
procedural details that reveal the cases' existence -- is a different matter.
Immigration cases carry enormous consequences for people's freedom. They should,
like criminal trials, be open for public scrutiny and criticism unless there is
a compelling reason to the contrary. Holding trials in secret is a tactic
unworthy of a great legal system.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              88 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 13, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Pledges to Admit More Refugees

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 294 words


U.S. officials told worried senators and aid groups yesterday that the
government was working to fully revive its program to admit refugees, which has
been crippled since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

"We are moving aggressively to resume that process," said James W. Ziglar,
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, at a hearing of the
Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.

He pledged that the immigration service would make a "better than good-faith
effort" to reach the ceiling of 70,000 refugees the Bush administration had
agreed to receive this fiscal year.

Another official, Arthur E. Dewey, the assistant secretary of state for
population, refugees and migration, also vowed to try to reach that goal.
However, he said, "it may take a miracle."

The refugee program was the only immigration flow shut down after Sept. 11.
About 22,000 people already approved as U.S. refugees waited abroad, many in
crowded camps, as the U.S. government considered new steps to screen out
possible terrorists and protect its refugee officers.

The program resumed slowly in late 2001, but only 2,800 refugees have arrived
since the fiscal year began in October. That compares with more than 14,000
admitted by this point last year, subcommittee officials said.

In January, the State Department asked Congress to drop the number of refugees
authorized to arrive this year to about 50,000, the lowest level in decades,
because of processing delays under new security guidelines, subcommittee members
said.

But Ziglar said that wouldn't be necessary. He promised that the INS would ramp
up refugee admissions by adding staff, trying to expand the number of U.S.
airports where refugees can be processed and seeking safe interview sites
overseas.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              89 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 25, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Visa Tracking Limited By Lack of Personnel;
INS Agents Focus Only on Most Serious Cases

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1479 words


With great fanfare, the Bush administration has pledged to fortify the nation's
anti-terrorism protections by spending hundreds of millions of dollars on new
computer systems to keep tabs on millions of foreign students and visitors.

But even if that complex effort succeeds, immigration officials and experts say
there is a gaping hole in the strategy: Because of a shortage of investigators,
there are few people to chase foreigners flagged by the computers for
overstaying their visas or dropping out of school.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has 2,000 agents to enforce
immigration law inside U.S. borders. The enormous workload requires them to
focus on the most serious cases, such as the deportation of immigrant felons,
leaving no time to round up student no-shows and others who abuse the terms of
their visas, agents say.

"How do you cope with the identification and questioning and perhaps
apprehension of a couple hundred thousand people when you don't have the
resources trained or in place to do it? That's the void. You've got a nice car
but no engine," said Tom Fischer, a retired INS district director whose Atlanta
office oversaw a test of the student tracking system.

The nation's approximately 600,000 foreign students have come under particular
scrutiny since the Sept. 11 attacks because one of the 19 alleged hijackers,
Hani Hanjour, used a student visa to enter the United States. He never turned up
for class.

One of the men convicted in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing also came to the
United States on a student visa but dropped out of Wichita State University.

Such revelations have outraged President Bush and Congress.

"If a person applies for a student visa and gets that visa, we are going to make
sure that person actually goes to school," Bush said on Oct. 29. Days earlier,
he had signed the USA Patriot Act, which provides $ 36.8 million to set up a
computer system to collect up-to-date information on foreign students.

Last month, the president announced that the government would also intensify its
efforts to track down tourists and business travelers who overstay their visas.
The government is spending $ 13.3 million this year on the first phase of an
"entry-exit" system to monitor foreigners' arrivals and departures, according to
the INS. Bush has proposed an additional $ 362 million in the fiscal 2003 budget
to continue building the system.

Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers stayed on after their visitors' visas lapsed.

A look at a local INS district office shows how ill-prepared the system is to
follow up on the estimated 3 million foreign students, tourists and business
travelers who remain here, often to take jobs, after their visas have expired.

On a recent morning, the Alexandria office that houses INS investigators was
nearly deserted. The office is authorized to have 25 special agents; because of
transfers and other personnel issues, it has only 17, spokesman Bill Shaw said.
Of those, four are away working with other agencies on special drug and
terrorism task forces.

"There are [local] police departments we service . . . that have more resources
than I have from an investigative standpoint," said Warren Lewis, director of
the INS district headquarters, in Arlington, which oversees the District and
Virginia and handles some international cases. Three more agents are based at a
substation in Norfolk.

At a bare wooden desk in the front lobby, a lone agent fielded a stream of
telephone tips and queries from the public and law enforcement agencies. Under
the current system, he takes the call when a university reports that a foreign
student hasn't turned up. Who is in charge of following up on that call?

"Nobody," said Shaw, an investigator who was filling in as press officer for the
district because of personnel shortages.

He said an officer would typically check the database to see whether the missing
student had committed a crime. "If they don't have a criminal history, it's
added to the stack of papers we have," Shaw said.

He admits feeling frustration about such calls. "As an agent, you want to be
able to respond to all these people's inquiries . . . but we don't have the
resources to do it."

The manpower shortage might seem odd in an agency that has tripled its budget
since 1993. But much of that increased spending went to beef up the Border
Patrol, which now has about 10,000 agents, most on the Mexican border.

In recent years, as the economy boomed, the number of undocumented immigrants in
the Unites States soared to 7 million or more. Although there was political
support for a border crackdown, there was no such enthusiasm for INS raids aimed
at rooting out illegal immigrants at workplaces across the country.

With limited staff and facing a sometimes hostile public, the INS leadership
focused its internal enforcement strategy on what it considered the most
dangerous targets: immigrant smuggling gangs, fraud rings and noncitizen felons
due to be deported.

"The location of people who have fallen into illegal status in the United States
is not really one of the high-priority items" set by INS headquarters, said
Lewis, the Arlington district director.

Joseph R. Greene, the INS assistant commissioner for investigations,
acknowledged that it will be difficult for the agency to go after all the
foreigners flagged by the new computer systems.

"There is a real problem in terms of resources," he said. He praised the work of
agents in making big cases, but added: "As these new responsibilities come down
the pike, in an absence of new resources, we are going to have to make some very
tough calls."

That doesn't mean the new computer systems have no value, INS officials and
experts say. The systems will automate handling of information that now is often
incomplete and out of date. The student monitoring system, for example,
currently relies on universities to maintain records on foreigners, and to
provide them to the INS if asked. The universities are not required to tell the
INS if a student fails to show up.

With the new computer system, the INS and the university will be able to
determine quickly if a student doesn't enroll. For the first time in years, the
INS would know how many students failed to show up for school.

"You're really coming up to the late 20th century in terms of trying to get a
handle on the kinds of people that might be in your midst. And you'll get
general profiles," said Demetrios Papademetriou, co-director of the Migration
Policy Institute, a pro-immigration think tank.

However, he added, "this is not about really enabling us to pick out of all
these people the one person who wishes us harm. You won't be able to do it with
anything we're discussing here."

In fact, it's not even clear that the new programs would have stopped Hanjour,
the hijacking suspect. INS officials say the computer systems may allow
officials to use the new database to more quickly spot suspicious individuals.
But Hanjour was apparently not on any watch list that would have set him apart
from the thousands of other foreign students who don't turn up for school.

In the fiscal 2003 budget, the INS investigative unit is slated to receive a
modest increase in staff, including 70 special agents, as the anti-terrorism
campaign intensifies. A bipartisan bill recently passed by the House and headed
for the Senate could provide more staff this year.

But the problem of finding visa violators goes beyond the lack of agents. The
volume of foreign visitors is enormous, with an estimated 31.5 million arriving
in 1999. They move freely through the United States, presenting agents pursuing
undocumented immigrants with a kind of giant game of "Where's Waldo?"

More drastic measures to detect illegal immigrants haven't won much support.
Proposals for a national identity card, for example, have raised concerns about
civil liberties. And INS officials are reluctant to deputize local police to
arrest visa violators because of the complexity of immigration law and concerns
about racial and ethnic profiling.

INS investigators discovered the difficulty of finding foreign student dropouts
in an operation in San Diego in December. They sought the records of local
universities and found about 50 apparent visa violators from countries linked to
terrorism, officials said. When they went looking for the students, they located
only 10, one of whom had his papers in order. Other students weren't home, had
moved or transferred.

And finding visa violators isn't the end of the story.

"You have to make sure . . . once you pick them up, you've got enough detention
space, trial attorneys, immigration courts to keep the whole process moving,"
said David Martin, a law professor and former general counsel of the INS. "You
can't, in our due-process system, just pick people up and put them on
airplanes."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              90 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Justice Dept. to Probe New INS Visa Error;
Ashcroft 'Outraged' at Norfolk Incident Involving 4 Pakistanis Who Disappeared

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 328 words


The Justice Department has launched an investigation into the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and why an immigration official improperly allowed four
Pakistani crewman -- who have now disappeared -- to come ashore.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft said he is "outraged by the INS" and that an
agency official involved in the incident has been reassigned.

William Bittner, a longtime INS employee who oversees the agency's Norfolk field
office, has been reassigned to the Arlington office, an INS official said.

"Individuals are entitled to get visas from time to time, but I am not confident
at all -- as a matter of fact, I believe that these visas were granted in a way
which violated the regulations, that appropriate precautions were not taken,"
Ashcroft told "Fox News Sunday."

The incident began a week ago, when a Russian ship flying a Maltese flag arrived
in Norfolk. The 27 crew members, 19 of whom were Pakistani, were granted a
special waiver that allowed them off the ship, according to an INS official.
When the ship sailed for Savannah, Ga., two days later, four of the crewmen were
missing.

An INS official acknowledged yesterday that an agency inspector failed to follow
protocol before issuing the waivers, including getting a senior-level
administrator to sign off on the waiver allowing the crewmen to enter the
country without first obtaining a visa from the last port of call.

An inspector also entered an improper birth date for one of the four missing
Pakistanis. If the birth date had been entered correctly, INS would have found
that the man had committed an immigration violation in Chicago several years
ago, the INS official said. The error was not realized until the man
disappeared, according to the official.

The latest incident comes on the heels of the INS's belated mailing of student
visa approval notices to two dead Sept. 11 hijackers.

"What's happened in the INS is enough to drive a man to drink," Ashcroft said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              91 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Two Jobs For One INS

BYLINE: Doris Meissner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 845 words


Yes, mailing terrorists' visa approval notices was an inexcusable blunder. But
if the political hurricane that followed fails to summon administration muscle
and congressional approval for restructuring the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS), another chance will have been squandered to place this overworked
agency on the organizational footing required to do its job properly.

Restructuring INS will not eliminate all its performance problems, but it is a
critical element in implementing solutions. President Bush called for it during
his campaign, and in November the administration sent its plan to Congress for
approval. Four years ago, the Clinton administration submitted the same proposal
to Congress. Partisan wrangling strangled it. Today the opposition is similarly
vehement, but this time the antagonists are members of the president's own
party.

The disagreement is about whether INS should be replaced by two new agencies --
one for immigration law enforcement, the other to handle immigration services --
or, as the administration proposes, remain one agency, whose management of
enforcement and services is separated internally.

Given the standoff, some say anything is better than the status quo. That is not
so. How the government is organized to do the nation's immigration business
matters in significant ways, especially in a security-conscious age.

Proponents of two separate agencies argue that the INS's enforcement and
services missions are contradictory and must be split. Superficially, this
sounds sensible, but it misreads the true nature of our immigration system. In
practice, INS's dual missions are complementary and belong in one agency.

The terrorist visas illustrate the point. Changing or extending visas belongs to
the services side of the immigration business. It involves adjudicating millions
of applications annually for naturalization, "green card" eligibility,
employment authorization, student visa changes and a host of other technical
requirements governing both temporary and permanent immigration. The expertise,
training, customer orientation and management strategies needed to do it well
are different from those needed to enforce immigration law, so it should stand
on its own operationally.

But the impact of decisions made on the services side is every bit as important
to the integrity of the immigration system and to national security as the law
enforcement work of patrolling the border in Texas or inspecting travelers at
New York's Kennedy Airport. Enabling the wrong person to come or remain here is
as apt to happen on the services side as on the enforcement side of the house.
In fact, as immigration enforcement steadily improves, legal immigration
pathways -- the services side -- are increasingly under pressure of fraud and
misuse and more and more likely to be the route sought by those seeking to
exploit America's openness to the world.

That vulnerability first came to light in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing
when terrorists manipulated a broken political asylum system. Since then, the
asylum system has been fixed and works effectively to provide protection to
legitimate refugees but screen out malefactors. How? By organizing it as a
distinct entity within INS staffed by qualified, trained professionals who work
exclusively with the asylum caseload but have access to all of INS's law
enforcement information and intelligence resources in their decision-making. The
asylum model is what the one-agency proposals envision for all of the INS's
adjudicative work. It is the best way to deliver good customer service and
incorporate effective enforcement protections.

Creating two agencies runs counter to the call for greater consolidation of
homeland security functions, streamlined information-sharing and command
accountability.

During the 1990s more than 10 million newcomers arrived in this country and
hundreds of millions more came for temporary stays, making it the decade of the
highest immigration in our history in overall numbers. One in nine Americans
today is foreign-born. New immigrant communities are widely disbursed throughout
the nation.

Each of those individuals represents a decision -- sometimes several -- that INS
made. So it should not be surprising that the agency sometimes buckles under its
workload or that reforms, which have been substantial and widespread, have often
been outpaced by unmet demands. With the globalization of the economy, an aging
population and projected labor market needs, the trend toward large-scale
permanent and temporary immigration is unlikely to abate. Against this backdrop,
the nation needs greater immigration policy coherence, not less, and
strengthened structures of accountability, not the fragmented authority two
agencies would create.

Congress needs to act on restructuring quickly. It's become a national security
imperative.

The writer was commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from
1993 to 2000. She is now a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              92 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 2, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Egyptian Deportee Arrested in Miami

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: MIAMI April 1


An Egyptian deportee carrying box cutters was arrested at Miami International
Airport Friday after arriving on an Iberia Airlines flight from Spain, U.S.
immigration authorities said.

Aly Sabra Galal Abdell, 29, was taken into Immigration and Naturalization
Service custody when inspectors discovered he had been deported from New York in
January after entering the United States last summer, said INS spokeswoman
Patricia Mancha.

A search of the man's carry-on briefcase turned up the box cutters.

The case was presented to the U.S. attorney's office for prosecution but no
charges had been filed Monday, said Aloyma Sanchez, spokeswoman for the office
in Miami.

The Iberia Airlines flight landed without incident, an airline spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              93 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 4, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Judge Rejects Rule Closing Immigration Hearings

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK April 3


A Justice Department policy to close immigration hearings deemed of "special
interest" to the investigation into the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks is
unconstitutional, a federal judge in Detroit ruled today.

The strongly worded ruling, in a consolidated lawsuit involving a Lebanese
detainee and Detroit news outlets, represented the first federal decision
against tactics employed by the government in the terrorist investigation, which
has been criticized by civil liberties advocates for its secrecy.

The judge, Nancy G. Edmunds, rejected the government's argument that the closed
hearings were necessary to protect national security and the integrity of the
investigation. Despite the government's arguments, she wrote, "the subtext is
all about the government's right to suspend certain personal liberties in the
pursuit of national security."

"It is important for the public, particularly individuals who feel that they are
being targeted by the government as a result of the terrorist attacks of
September 11, to know that even during these sensitive times the government is
adhering to immigration procedures and respecting individuals' rights," Edmunds
wrote.

The Justice Department has indicated it will appeal. It remained unclear what
immediate effect the ruling would have on the policy, which has led to the
closure of hundreds of immigration hearings of Sept. 11 detainees since it was
laid out in a Sept. 21 memo issued by Chief Immigration Judge Michael J. Creppy.

A Justice Department spokesman, Mark Corallo, said: "We're reviewing the
decision and will decide what steps to take in the near future."

Lee Gelernt, a lawyer who argued the case for the American Civil Liberties
Union, which represented some of the plaintiffs, said he believed that the
decision would have implications beyond the Detroit case. Civil liberties
advocates said they hope a series of recent legal challenges -- including the
Detroit case -- will help shed light on how the investigation of the attacks is
being conducted, who has been detained and how the detainees are being treated.

Since the attacks, authorities have detained about 1,200 people, most of Arab
and South Asian descent, in the investigation. Another 114 are jailed on
criminal charges unrelated to terrorism, government figures show. The Justice
Department has periodically released figures on the number of detainees -- the
number had dropped to 327 by Feb. 15 -- but has refused to release their names.

In a separate ruling last week, a New Jersey judge ruled that under state law,
the government must release the names of hundreds of detainees in New Jersey
jails. The Justice Department, which had intervened in the case, is appealing.
In another case, the ACLU is representing New Jersey news outlets that have
challenged the constitutionality of the closed hearings.

"The larger significance of this ruling is that the judge refused to
rubber-stamp the government's September 11 policies," said Gelernt. "The ruling
sends a clear message that the role of the courts is more, not less, important
in the aftermath of September 11."

The Detroit case revolves around a Lebanese citizen, Rabih Hadad, who was taken
into custody by immigration officials on Dec. 14 and is still jailed. Hadad, of
Ann Arbor, Mich., was held on charges that he had overstayed his visa. On the
same day, authorities raided and closed the offices of the Global Relief
Foundation, a charitable organization founded by Hadad. The government argued
that the foundation had been used to funnel money to the Hamas, a militant
Muslim group that the Bush administration has designated as a terrorist
organization. Hadad and his supporters have denied funneling money to Hamas.

On Dec. 19, with reporters and Hadad's supporters in attendance, Hadad came
before an immigration judge for a bail hearing. However, before the hearing
began, Judge Elizabeth Hacker cleared the court. When Hadad objected, Hacker
stated that the decision had been made by her supervisors and that she did not
have the authority to keep the courtroom open.

The basis for the decision was a document widely referred to as "the Creppy
Memo." In the memo, released by the nation's chief immigration judge, Creppy
issued guidelines for cases "for which the Department of Justice is requiring
special arrangements." Among other provisions, the guidelines stipulated that
only judges with "secret clearance" could handle the special cases and that the
courtroom must be closed -- "no visitors, no family and no press," said the
memo.

In response, Hadad, the Detroit Free Press, other news outlets and Rep. John
Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) filed separate complaints challenging the policy and
calling for the hearings to be opened. Edmunds later consolidated the cases.

In its arguments, the government provided an affidavit from James S. Reynolds,
chief of the Terrorism and Violent Crimes Section of the Justice Department's
Criminal Division, to explain the justification for the Creppy memo. Reynolds
argued that the closed hearings were necessary to prevent "public identification
of individuals associated with them," to encourage detainees to cooperate, to
protect the "direction and progress of the investigation" and avoid stigmatizing
the detainees.

Edmunds rejected those arguments, noting that Hadad's name had already been made
public.

Staff researcher Margot Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              94 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 9, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Tightens Rules for Visitors;
Far-Reaching Changes Involve Length of Stay, Student Visas

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 949 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday announced far-reaching
changes to rules that govern foreign visitors and students, including one
proposal that could limit millions of foreign visitors to 30-day stays in the
United States.

Another new regulation, which takes effect immediately, requires foreign
nationals who want to study here to obtain student visas before beginning
classes, officials said. Currently, foreign students can enroll in U.S. schools
while holding tourist or business visas if they have applied for a change to
student status.

Taken together, the changes are some of the broadest reforms proposed by the
embattled INS since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks exposed the shortcomings of
the system that tracks foreign visitors as they enter and remain in the country.

The agency, long chastised as one of the most dysfunctional in the federal
government, is the subject of proposals that would break it into smaller
components or abolish it altogether. It drew the ire of President Bush, Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft and lawmakers last month when it mailed out approval
notices for changes in the visa status of two of the dead terrorists six months
after the attacks.

"These new rules strike the appropriate balance between INS's mission to ensure
that our nation's immigration laws are followed . . . and our desire to welcome
legitimate visitors to the United States," INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar
said. "While we recognize that the overwhelming majority of people who come to
the United States as visitors are honest and law-abiding, the events of
September 11 remind us that there will always be those who seek to cause us
harm."

The most far-reaching change, which will take effect after a 30-day comment
period, will eliminate the current six-month minimum admission period for
foreigners who come to the United States as tourists and replace it with "a
period of time that is fair and reasonable for the completion of the purpose of
the visit," the agency said.

Tourist and business visitors will be required to explain to immigration
inspectors why they are coming to the United States so the INS can determine an
appropriate length of stay. If the INS cannot determine the time needed to
accomplish the purposes of the visit, it will grant a 30-day admission.

The proposed rule also will reduce from one year to six months the maximum
extension period granted to business and tourist visitors. Exceptions will be
made in some cases, such as retirees who own vacation homes and may want to stay
longer than six months.

"The . . . changes are part of a strategy to improve national security and
reduce the probability that an [illegal immigrant] will establish permanent ties
in the United States and remain in the country illegally," according to the INS.

Theresa Brown, manager of labor and immigration policy for the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said she is concerned that the pending changes will deter legitimate
businesspeople and tourists from coming to this country.

"Any type of additional hurdle . . . and people just aren't going to come,"
Brown said. "It probably will have a significant impact on the tourism and
travel folks."

Ten million people received tourist visas in 2000, according to an INS official.
Seventy-five percent stayed less than a month. As for business trips, 2.5
million people traveled to the United States on business visas and stayed an
average of 13 days, the official said.

All 19 of the hijackers who participated in the Sept. 11 attacks were in the
United States legally, mostly on tourist visas. But at least two had overstayed
the limits of those visas.

In issuing the new regulations, the INS promised to process requests for changes
regarding student status within 30 days. Victor Johnson, associate executive
director for public policy of the Association for International Educators, said
the plan would succeed "if they follow through on their commitment in 30 days.
But the INS doesn't do anything in 30 days."

The decision to make it difficult to switch to a student visa after arriving on
a visitor visa comes only weeks after the INS was blasted for sending out final
status change notifications for terrorists Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi.
The documents were received on March 11 by the Florida flight school that
trained the pair, who are believed to have piloted separate jetliners into the
World Trade Center.

The debacle created a furor on Capitol Hill and prompted Bush to order an
investigation. Ashcroft requested an investigation by the Justice Department's
inspector general.

Another rule change will require a foreign visitor with a final order of
deportation to surrender to the INS within 30 days. Those who ignore the 30-day
rule will be barred from obtaining future immigration benefits, such as asylum
or permanent resident status.

Eight-nine percent of non-detained immigrants with final orders of removal
failed to surrender for deportation when ordered to do so, the INS said.

None of the proposed changes requires congressional approval. The change
prohibiting students from starting school without INS approval will take effect
immediately. The others will become effective after a 30-day public comment
period.

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
rights group, called the proposals a "mixed bag."

"Some of these are common-sense measures, but others can have farther-reaching
consequences," Kelley said.

Ziglar is scheduled to testify today before the House Judiciary Committee on
various immigration issues, including why more than 300,000 illegal immigrants
ordered deported remain in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              95 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 10, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Deportation Case Ruling Reaffirmed

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: DETROIT April 9


A federal judge today denied the Justice Department's request for a
reconsideration of her ruling ordering the release of transcripts of closed
deportation hearings for the detained founder of an Islamic charity.

Government attorneys said they will immediately appeal the order before the 6th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati.

Last week, U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds said the Justice Department
improperly barred the media and the public from the immigration hearings for
Rabih Haddad, a co-founder of the Global Relief Foundation. She ruled that the
transcripts of the hearings must be made public.

The government is investigating the Islamic charity for suspected links to
terrorism.

Haddad, 41 and a citizen of Lebanon, was arrested on Dec. 14 at his Ann Arbor
home on suspicion of overstaying his visa. He appeared at three closed hearings
before an immigration judge in Detroit before he was transferred to Chicago,
where he remains in custody.

Justice Department lawyer Michael Lindemann told Edmunds in a conference call
that making such hearings public would endanger the investigation and aid
terrorists in future attacks. "Public hearings will reveal sources and types of
information," Lindemann said.

Edmunds scheduled a hearing for Wednesday to address possible contempt charges
if the immigration judge does not release the hearing transcripts.

Federal authorities closed the Global Relief Foundation and froze its assets,
saying it aided terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              96 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 18, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Tanzanian Detained After Name Found in Afghan Cave

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 326 words


U.S. immigration officials have detained a Tanzanian citizen and flight school
graduate whose name was listed on a computer printout discovered in a cave in
Afghanistan.

Issaya Nombo was charged with an immigration violation Monday after U.S.
intelligence officials reported their discovery to federal authorities, who
determined that Nombo was living in the United States on an expired student
visa, a federal law enforcement official said yesterday.

Investigators have not determined whether Nombo has any connection to terrorism
or whether his name was simply contained on a printout of an aviation school Web
site home page, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

"There apparently is speculation out there that he's connected, but there's no
evidence," the official said. He cautioned that Nombo's name "was on a public
Web site."

FBI agents and immigration officials are interviewing Nombo, 44, in North
Carolina, where he was detained for overstaying the limits of his visa, which
expired last year. They also are exploring the possibility that someone may
have, without his permission, used his name after noticing it on the Web site of
Voyager Aviation, the Titusville, Fla., flight school where he received a
commercial pilot's license.

The home page of the school's Web site contains the message "Congratulations
Issaya Nombo on completing your ATP," or airline transport pilot license.

Three of the four suicide hijackers believed to have been at the controls of the
aircraft involved in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks were foreign nationals who
trained at U.S. flight schools.

A woman who answered the telephone at Voyager Aviation yesterday evening said
the FBI had contacted the school. "We're aware of the situation," said the
woman, who would not identify herself but added that the school's owner, Gary
Evans, would discuss the matter publicly today.

Staff writer Sue Anne Pressley contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              97 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 20, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Court Papers on Detainee Released;
Justice Dept. Says It Will Still Withhold Information About Others

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 974 words


The Justice Department reluctantly agreed yesterday to release immigration court
documents in the case of a Lebanese activist detained in Michigan after Sept.
11, providing one of the first and most detailed official accounts of the
government's secretive anti-terrorism campaign.

Justice's concession came after stern rebukes from federal judges in Detroit and
Cincinnati, who ruled that documents and hearings in Rabih Haddad's deportation
case must be opened to the public. It also represented an important, if largely
symbolic, victory for civil liberties groups that have criticized the
government's tactics, and for several Michigan newspapers that had sued for
access to the proceedings.

The newly released files show that Haddad is alleged to have frequently met
abroad with leaders of terrorist groups associated with the al Qaeda terrorist
network. The government previously said only that Haddad founded a charity it
accuses of providing financial aid to terrorists.

The skirmishing over Haddad is part of a broader and escalating struggle between
Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and civil liberties and Arab American groups
over the fate of hundreds of immigrants detained in secrecy since Sept. 11.
Yesterday's result was one of the first signs of trouble for the government's
efforts to carry out much of its anti-terror campaign in secret.

Justice officials said yesterday that they viewed the move as a narrow response
to an individual case. They vowed to continue withholding information about the
unknown number of other detainees.

Prosecutors also said they would continue to oppose releasing a classified
dossier on Haddad, who helped found an Islamic charity, the Global Relief
Foundation of Bridgeview, Ill., that U.S. authorities have closed down. The
classified material has been filed under seal with a federal grand jury in
Chicago, which is investigating the organization in a case separate from
Haddad's deportation proceedings in Detroit, officials said.

Immigration and legal experts said yesterday that the Haddad rulings are certain
to provide encouragement for lawyers representing perhaps hundreds of other
immigrants, mostly Arab and South Asian men, who have been detained in
connection with the FBI's Sept. 11 probe. None has been publicly charged with a
crime related to terrorism.

"There are many attorneys who will be looking at this case for ideas on how to
help their own clients," said David Martin, a University of Virginia law
professor who served as general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in the 1990s. "It's getting to be a more defensible position that
everything does not need to be secret."

Under orders from Ashcroft, the chief of U.S. immigration courts ruled in
September that all cases of "special interest" to terrorism investigators would
be closed to the public and that all documents in such cases, including docket
listings, would be sealed.

Earlier this week, the director of the INS issued an order barring states and
counties from naming the special-interest detainees held in their jails.

The move is aimed at derailing legal efforts to identify those being held in New
Jersey, where a judge has ordered the names released. A New Jersey appellate
court yesterday granted a federal request to keep the names secret until the
government completes its appeal.

In the Haddad case, Justice and FBI officials previously argued in court that
releasing the files would cause "severe and irreparable harm" to national
security and could help terrorists planning attacks against U.S. targets.

But in a statement released yesterday, Associate Attorney General Jay Stephens
said prosecutors had concluded that "the release of past transcripts of the
immigration proceedings, as required by court order, will not cause irreparable
harm to the national security or to the safety of the American people."

Herschel Fink, attorney for the Detroit Free Press, one of several Michigan
newspapers that participated in the Haddad lawsuit, said Stephens's remarks show
"that the Justice Department has been lying repeatedly about this case."

"They said over and over again that the release of this information would be a
terrible blow to national security, and now they say it's not," Fink said.

Justice officials said the government's earlier claims applied to all of the
information compiled on Haddad, not just the materials released yesterday.

The Free Press, the Detroit News, the Ann Arbor News, the Metro Times weekly and
Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) sued to open the hearings on Haddad, whose case
has prompted an outpouring of protest from Michigan's sizable Arab American
community. He is accused of overstaying his visa, which expired in 1999.

On April 3, a U.S. District Court judge ordered the government to release the
Haddad files. A three-judge appellate court panel followed suit on Thursday.
Those judges wrote that there was a "slim likelihood" the government would win
its appeal in the end.

According to the documents released yesterday, the FBI contends that Haddad "has
been directly linked with and observed at multiple overseas locations that
housed and supported terrorist organizations associated with the al Qaeda
network."

In addition, Haddad has been seen "in the company of leaders and members of al
Qaeda related terrorist organizations," according to a March 1 filing in the
case.

Haddad's attorney, Ashraf Nubani of Annandale, argued that his client was the
victim of a vengeful government intent on "vilifying Muslim and Arab detainees
without justification."

Nubani said Haddad has been held in solitary confinement for most of his
detention, which began Dec. 14, and portrayed him as a well-liked member of the
community with friends of all faiths.

Staff writer Steve Fainaru in New York contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              98 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 25, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

President Backs House Bid to Split INS;
White House Shift on Legislation Surprises Agency Officials, Others

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 912 words


The Bush administration said yesterday that it will support a House bill that
would dismantle the Immigration and Naturalization Service and split it into two
agencies, a major shift for the White House, which had hoped to revamp the
agency administratively.

The administration's announcement came less than 24 hours before the House was
scheduled to vote on the bill, proposed by Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
(R-Wis.), which has overwhelming support among House members.

"I think the administration saw the merits of the proposal," Sensenbrenner,
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said at a news conference yesterday. "The
bill is going to pass with a huge bipartisan vote."

One administration official said the change of heart was prompted in part by the
continued bungling on the part of the INS, long excoriated on Capitol Hill for a
seemingly endless series of expensive blunders.

Mailings last month to a Florida flight school confirming the student visas of
two of the dead Sept. 11 hijackers and the disappearance of four Pakistani crew
members who jumped ship in Norfolk after a mistake by an official compounded the
problems and inflamed the anger of lawmakers over the slow pace of INS reform.
"The writing was on the wall for this bill," the official said.

The administration's restructuring plan would have broken up the INS into a
bureau responsible for enforcing immigration law and another for helping
immigrants with a variety of services. Both units would have reported to INS
Commissioner James W. Ziglar.

The Sensenbrenner bill, however, would assign the enforcement and service
functions to two separate agencies to be overseen by a presidentially appointed
associate attorney general.

In both cases, the INS -- or its remnants -- would remain within the Justice
Department. Until yesterday, the administration had been urging lawmakers to
give Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and Ziglar time to work out the
restructuring administratively.

White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Bush supports the Sensenbrenner bill,
although he said the administration will push for some improvements as the
measure moves through the House.

"The president believes we need to strengthen our enforcement while at the same
time making America more welcoming of new immigrants," McClellan said. "This
legislation meets both those priorities."

White House officials described the decision as the fulfillment of a promise
made during Bush's presidential campaign, when he vowed to propose legislation
to divide the INS into two agencies. But the officials acknowledged that the
White House recently had been emphasizing support for administrative remedies
rather than legislation, in part because those changes could be made faster.

Sensenbrenner said yesterday that congressional intervention is the only way to
reform the INS, which has been restructured nine times since 1979 but continues
to have myriad problems, including backlogs in the processing of applications.
Five million visa petitions and naturalization applications are pending.

"The INS cannot internally restructure itself," Sensenbrenner said. "Only an act
of Congress can do that."

The legislation may, however, encounter opposition in the Senate, where Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) released a statement yesterday saying that he was
"surprised" by White House support for the Sensenbrenner bill because "I know
the Administration shares my view that significant problems continue to exist
with that bill." Kennedy plans to introduce his own legislation for separating
the INS's service and enforcement functions.

Ziglar, whose job could be in jeopardy if the Sensenbrenner bill becomes law,
was in Australia and could not be reached for comment yesterday. He has said
that he supports keeping enforcement and services under a single agency.

An INS official said the administration's decision to back the Sensenbrenner
bill was a surprise. "Nobody knew," the official said. "This just caught
everybody off guard. We're just all stunned."

T.J. Bonner, president of the U.S. Border Patrol Council, said the union
representing border officers has not endorsed any of the INS restructuring
plans, but he said that the "separation of enforcement and service is something
we strongly support."

Ashcroft, who called a hastily arranged news conference yesterday with
Sensenbrenner to announce his support for the bill, failed to show up. Barbara
Comstock, a spokeswoman for Ashcroft, said that "we just weren't able to work it
out," adding that the attorney general has scheduled another news conference for
today.

The announcement was hailed by critics who believe that dismantling the INS,
rather than merely restructuring it, is necessary to improve border security and
the enforcement of immigration limits. It was also welcomed by some groups that
have criticized the Bush administration for pursuing ways to make it easier for
Mexican nationals to work legally in the United States.

But Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an
immigration rights group, said yesterday's announcement "leaves us scratching
our head."

"Just last week, Ashcroft and Ziglar were standing there with a detailed plan
from the administration, and the week before that they didn't have a plan," she
said. "What this means is that they don't want to be on the sidelines as the
debate moves forward."

Staff writers Mike Allen and Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              99 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 26, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

House Is Emphatic On INS: Goodbye;
405-9 Vote Backs Split Of Agency Into 2 Bureaus

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin and Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 840 words


The House voted yesterday to abolish the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and replace it with two bureaus that would separately handle services for
immigrants and law enforcement.

The 405 to 9 vote signaled Congress's determination to overhaul the nation's
immigration system in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Throughout the
day, lawmakers delivered blistering attacks on the INS, suggesting that blunders
by agency officials helped foreign hijackers achieve their deadly missions last
year.

"It is beyond time to restructure one of the worst-run agencies in the federal
government," said House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
(R-Wis.). "It carries out neither of its crucial missions effectively: enforcing
our immigration laws or providing services to immigrants playing by the rules."

After the vote, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Tex.) exulted over the agency's
demise. "I think we can now pronounce: It is abolished. It is finished," she
said. "Now it needs to be rebuilt."

But the bipartisan bill, which faces a competing Senate proposal and was opposed
by the administration until two days ago, may undergo significant changes before
becoming law. Critics said the proposed structure would provide too much
independence to the new bureau directors and undermine coordination.

Supporters of the House bill argued that by splitting the INS in half and
putting an associate attorney general at the helm, each new bureau could focus
more effectively on its responsibilities.

The bifurcated structure, they said, would provide a clearer chain of command,
allowing one bureau to cope with the tremendous backlog of immigration
applications while the other would monitor the nation's borders.

Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.) said lawmakers concluded after years of experiences
that they had no choice but to separate the agency's two functions. "Its
missions are inherently conflicted," he said. The INS successors would be called
the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services and the Bureau of Immigration
Enforcement.

While Congress has tried since the late 1970s to reform the INS, public outrage
over the agency's recent failures finally provided lawmakers with the political
momentum they needed: An INS service contractor mailed visa change approvals for
two of the dead Sept. 11 hijackers last month, and an agency inspector's mistake
in Norfolk allowed four Pakistani crew members to jump ship and disappear. These
events reinforced the image of the INS as damaged beyond repair.

According to the Judiciary Committee, the agency has 5 million applications
pending, and more than 314,000 aliens who have been ordered deported by the
courts remain in the country.

Lawmakers who voted against the measure said it would not solve the problems
plaguing the embattled agency.

"We're just moving the problem down the hall," said Rep. Melvin Watt (D-N.C.).
"You've got one ineffective, unproductive agency. It seems to me you're going to
end up with two ineffective, unproductive agencies."

Some critics of the House bill have argued that it ignores how enforcement and
services are inextricably linked. Airport immigration inspectors, for example,
must screen for potential terrorists as well as legitimate asylum-seekers.

The administration initially resisted a wholesale reorganization of the agency,
arguing that it could reform it administratively. But with the House bill headed
for certain passage this week, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft embraced the
House plan.

Ashcroft said in a news conference yesterday that the bill "puts us on the road
to real achievement."

Ashcroft's -- and the Bush administration's -- shift in position surprised
officials in the Justice Department. The White House had already named a retired
INS district director to head its effort at administrative reform. That overhaul
was expected to cost $ 100 million and would have taken two years.

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar, who had no immigration experience when he was
tapped in August to run the 34,000-employee agency, will likely lose his job if
the House bill becomes law. But Ashcroft said he would be "delighted" for Ziglar
to continue overseeing the INS or some remnants of it. Ziglar did not return
telephone calls seeking comment yesterday.

The Senate, meanwhile, has its own ideas. Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and
Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) have drafted a bill to replace the INS with enforcement
and service bureaus. Unlike the House bill, however, it would place a director
in charge of both branches whose rank would equal that of the FBI director.

This new director would have more authority over the two bureaus than the
associate attorney general envisioned in the House bill.

Kennedy issued a statement last night saying there are "significant problems
with the House bill, and I am concerned that it does not provide the necessary
leadership and authority to make immigration reform a reality. Now is not the
time to diminish the power of the nation's immigration agency."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              100 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 26, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS Suspends Deportation of Detainees at N.J. Jails

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK April 25


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has abruptly suspended deportations
from two county jails in New Jersey where hundreds of detainees connected to the
federal terrorism investigation have been held.

Andrea J. Quarantillo, the INS district director in Newark, suspended
deportations and removals of detainees who have agreed to leave the country
voluntarily after a state appellate court ordered authorities to maintain the
"status quo" at the two facilities.

The court issued the order while the Justice Department prepares its appeal of a
ruling that would force the government to release the names of all detainees at
the Passaic and Hudson county jails.

The order prohibited the removal of any INS detainee who had not given his
consent and spoken with a lawyer. However, the INS appears to have interpreted
the ruling more broadly, canceling the removal of any detainee, even those who
have given consent and others whose cases are unrelated to the terrorism probe.

Scott Dempsey, a spokesman for the INS district office in Newark, said the
freeze on deportations would remain in effect until the order can be clarified.
"Until that's finalized, we're stuck with having to keep everyone in these two
facilities," Dempsey said.

Immigration lawyers and civil liberties advocates said the freeze has blocked
the removal of detainees who have been held for months while under investigation
in the terrorism probe and are now anxiously waiting to be sent home.

Deborah Jacobs, executive director of the New Jersey branch of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said the ACLU received a complaint from an Egyptian
detainee, Maged Mohammad, who was taken to John F. Kennedy International Airport
for deportation last Friday only to be told that his flight had been canceled.
Mohammad was returned to detention, according to the ACLU, and has not been told
when his deportation will be rescheduled.

Martin R. Stolar, a lawyer representing a detainee at Passaic County Jail, said
he was told by an INS deportation officer this week that the order could affect
his client Anser Mehmood, who is awaiting deportation to Pakistan. Mehmood, 42,
who received a deportation order in late December, has spent six months in jail
-- including 123 days in maximum security -- while being investigated in the
terrorism probe.

"I think it's a complete and utter flouting of the law, rather than a following
of the law," Stolar said.

An INS official said the measures, which include a suspension of all media
interviews, are partially based on security precautions. In addition, the
official said suspending deportations could also ensure that all detainees are
available for interviews by the Justice Department's Office of Inspector
General, which is conducting a review of possible civil rights violations at
Passaic.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon,
authorities have detained about 1,200 people, most of Arab and South Asian
descent. Hundreds are believed to have been held at five New Jersey county
jails: Passaic, Hudson, Middlesex, Bergen and Monmouth. The exact figures are
not known because the Justice Department, which oversees the INS, has conducted
the detentions in almost total secrecy.

In a conference call last week, government officials told the judges that there
were 108 INS detainees at Passaic and 226 at Hudson, said ACLU attorneys who
participated. It was unclear how many of those were detained in connection with
the terrorism probe.

The ACLU filed suit to gain access to the names, arguing that under state law
they are part of the public record. A superior court judge, Arthur N. D'Italia,
ordered the government to release the names last month.

Last Friday, the appellate court granted a stay of D'Italia's ruling while the
Justice Department appealed, but only if the government agreed not remove any
detainee from the Passaic or Hudson county jails. The Justice Department also
issued a regulation prohibiting state authorities from releasing any information
about the detainees.

The ACLU plans to file additional papers Friday morning asking the appellate
court to clarify the freeze order.

Dempsey said the INS interpreted the ruling to mean that no detainee at Passaic
or Hudson can be moved while the litigation is pending. A notice posted at INS
district offices in Newark said the INS is seeking to clarify whether the court
order allows authorities to transport the detainees to their immigration
hearings.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              101 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 27, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS Lifts Deportation Freeze From N.J. Jails;
Agency Struggles to Follow Court Order Regarding Terror Probe Detainees

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK April 26


In a swift reversal, the Immigration and Naturalization Service today lifted a
controversial freeze on all deportations from two county jails in New Jersey
where hundreds of detainees connected to the federal terrorism probe have been
held.

INS officials said the agency concluded that authorities could remove the
detainees and still be in compliance with a recent court order that directed the
INS to maintain the "status quo" at both facilities, the Passaic and Hudson
county jails.

In a related action, attorneys for the Justice Department and the American Civil
Liberties Union of New Jersey agreed to five conditions under which detainees
could be moved from Passaic and Hudson counties while the court order is in
effect. A state appellate court quickly approved the language this afternoon.

The developments ended the latest skirmish between the Justice Department and
civil liberties advocates over the treatment of people taken into custody since
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.

The dispute arose over the interpretation of last Friday's court order. That
directive was designed to give the Justice Department time to prepare an appeal
of a Superior Court ruling that would force the government to release the names
of detainees held at the Passaic and Hudson jails.

The order prohibited the removal of any INS detainee without his consent.
However, Andrea J. Quarantillo, the INS district director for New Jersey,
extended the order to prevent the removal of all detainees, including those who
had agreed to be repatriated and even those who were being transported briefly
to their immigration hearings.

Kerry Gill, a spokesman for the INS district office in Newark, said Quarantillo
ordered the week-long freeze to give the agency sufficient time to clarify the
original court order. Gill said INS counsel ultimately determined that the
agency could remove detainees and still be in compliance with the court order.

Civil liberties advocates said the INS's sudden reversal appeared to be a
response to an impending order from the New Jersey appellate court to lift the
freeze. Deborah Jacobs, executive director of the ACLU's New Jersey branch,
called the move "meaningless" if "within three hours there was a court order
requiring them to do it."

In court papers filed today, immigration lawyers said several Egyptian detainees
were prevented from boarding a flight to Cairo April 19 and were transported
back to the Hudson County jail because of the INS's interpretation of the order.

In its ruling today, the appellate court said it did not wish "to limit unduly
the government's discharge of its essential functions" or, alternatively, to
"tolerate any steps . . . that worsen the procedural lot of the detainees before
the ultimate issues are resolved."

The new conditions permit the removal of any detainee who has voluntarily agreed
to leave the country; who gives his written consent to allow the fulfillment of
a deportation order; who is authorized to be released on bail; or who needs to
be transported to a court hearing or medical treatment.

In keeping with INS policy, Gill declined to say whether any detainees had been
removed under the revised order. He also declined to say how many detainees
remained in the two jails.

Last week, government officials said there were 108 INS detainees at Passaic and
226 at Hudson, according to ACLU lawyers who participated in a conference call.
It was unclear how many of those were detained in the terrorism probe.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              102 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Children Languish as INS Wards;
Some Jailed for Months Without Asylum Hearing

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1165 words


They hunted him with weapons and threatened him with death, willing to do
anything to force him into one of the most notorious paramilitary gangs in El
Salvador. With no place to hide, the teenager believed that his only hope for
safety was with his brother in Arlington, even if it meant crossing into the
United States alone.

So Juan Carlos, 17, frail and frightened, left his mother and other brothers and
sisters and followed a smuggler's promise that he would make it through Mexico
and Guatemala alive. His only hope, he says, was that someone in the United
States would listen to his plight and grant him asylum.

But after being in this country for nearly a year, no one has heard his plea.
For the first five months, Juan Carlos, who asked that his last name not be
used, was in jail, locked up part of the time with teenagers accused of violent
crimes. His cell was windowless, and he never got to talk to immigration
officials, lawyers or advocates about asylum for much of that time, he said.

"I was constantly scared and had no idea what was going to happen to me," Juan
Carlos said through an interpreter about his incarceration at Globe Juvenile
Detention Facility in Globe, Ariz.

Whether Juan Carlos has a valid claim remains in doubt. He has not yet appeared
before an immigration judge, and Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials would not comment about his case. He was released from jail this past
winter and is living with his brother in Arlington while he waits to see the
judge.

For many advocates, immigration lawyers and some federal lawmakers, his
treatment is emblematic of a long-standing problem within the embattled INS:
What to do with the increasing number of unaccompanied children who are detained
by the agency each year. The problem was highlighted last summer when four Boy
Scouts from Tanzania walked away from the quadrennial National Scout Jamboree in
central Virginia and requested asylum. Even though they had valid tourist visas,
they spent eight months in detention before they were released to foster
families in the Midwest. Their asylum requests also have not been heard by a
judge.

"These children come here under the most difficult circumstances, and very often
we find that the INS has never had the capabilities of handling their issues,"
said Robert Hirshon, president of the American Bar Association. "There's a
one-size-fits-all approach that just does not work."

Some lawmakers on Capitol Hill are trying to change that. Sen. Dianne Feinstein
(D-Calif.) has introduced legislation that would create a bureau within the
Department of Justice to handle these cases as a child welfare agency would.

"Only through legislation will we ensure that every unaccompanied child in U.S.
custody has access to an attorney and a child welfare professional able to
assess what is in his or her best interest," Feinstein said. Thirteen senators
signed on as co-sponsors, an immigration subcommittee held hearings on the bill
and the legislation was merged with a bill that would dismantle the INS.

About 35 percent of immigrant children who arrive without a parent are placed in
detention, INS officials said. In many cases, they say, children are put into
jails because they are at risk of being kidnapped by smugglers or have been
disruptive in foster care or other placements. They are detained an average of
45 days. INS policy mandates that children be given attorneys, be placed in the
"least restrictive setting" and receive quick and fair hearings.

"The agency has made excellent strides thus far in providing for the needs of
undocumented children," said Karen Kraushaar, an INS spokeswoman. "This is a
widely varying population who come from dozens of countries and have lots of
different needs."

But as the number of detained unaccompanied minors increases -- it rose from
3,100 in 1997 to 4,900 last year -- concerns about their treatment continue to
draw the attention of lawmakers. Revelations from advocates that as many as 80
percent of these children may not have received counsel in 2000 led Feinstein to
write legislation that would establish the Office of Children's Services within
the Department of Justice and ensure that minors receive legal assistance and
meet with special advocates immediately after they enter the country.

Many advocates point to the case of Malik Jarno, a 17-year-old from Guinea who
is slightly mentally retarded, to make their point. Jarno was left in an adult
INS facility for 15 months, much of the time without legal representation. Jarno
and his attorneys acknowledge that when he arrived at Dulles International
Airport from France in January 2001, he submitted someone else's passport that
indicated he was 24. But once questioned, he said he was a minor fleeing
political persecution.

INS officials, who did not believe that he was a minor, placed him in a
succession of three adult facilities, where he says he was beaten by inmates and
sprayed with pepper spray by a guard; INS officials said he was sprayed because
he was in the way of a guard trying to subdue another prisoner. Last month, the
INS agreed that he was a minor and moved him to a juvenile facility in
Pennsylvania.

"All those months I was alone, I knew they had forgotten about me," Jarno, who
speaks only French and Puhlar, said through an interpreter. He said he was
seeking sanctuary from political persecution that had left his family dead. "I
would tell people who came to see me about my [situation], but they would go
away and never come back," he said.

Advocates say it took nine months to get Jarno a hearing and that the agency
wasted time disputing his retardation.

"The INS is not responding appropriately. [It] consistently refused to listen to
him, in spite of his consistent testimony," said Benoit Jacqmotte, a lawyer who
is representing Jarno. "No one brought him before a lawyer for nine months. He
was literally lost in the system."

Feinstein's legislation would change procedures so that various forms of
evidence would be considered in determining a child's age for purposes of
placement.

In the case of the Tanzanian Boy Scouts, their attorneys argued that they should
have been placed in foster care immediately, especially because they had valid
tourist visas that did not expire until January 2002. The attorneys also said
that the INS treated the boys, now ages 16 and 17, as criminals rather than
valid asylum seekers.

The INS, which said the boys violated the conditions of their visas by leaving
the Boy Scout event, said it had no place for four Swahili-speaking boys and
that they were moved to foster care as soon as a home was found.

"We have consistently argued that the boys should never have been in a secure
facility," said Andrew Morton, an attorney for the boys. "It's a clear example
in our minds that the INS has had trouble handling these kinds of cases and that
significant changes need to be made to ensure that children are given the
protection they need."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              103 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 9, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Orders Haitian Deported

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 239 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft announced yesterday that he has reversed an
immigration appeals board decision and ordered the deportation of a Haitian
woman convicted seven years ago of fatally beating a 19-month-old child.

Melanie Beaucejour Jean, 45, of Plaisance, Haiti, has exhausted her appeals and
is being held in the Camden County Jail in New Jersey pending deportation
proceedings, a Justice Department official said.

"Aliens arriving at our shores must understand that residency in the United
States is a privilege, not a right," Ashcroft wrote in the opinion that reversed
the immigration board decision. "For those aliens . . . who engage in violent
criminal acts during their stay here, this country will not offer its embrace."

Jean was conditionally admitted to the United States as a refugee in November
1994. Four months later, she was charged with punching and shaking a child in
her care who, an autopsy revealed, died from blunt force trauma to the head.
Jean, who was living in Rochester, N.Y., pleaded guilty in August 1995 to
second-degree manslaughter and was sentenced to two to six years in state
prison.

Upon her release, Jean asked the Immigration and Naturalization Service for a
status change from "refugee" to "lawful permanent resident." An immigration
judge denied the request and Jean was ordered deported. She appealed to the
Board of Immigration Review, which reversed the judge's decision.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              104 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 10, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Fox Laments 'Stalled' Relations Between U.S., Mexico;
Leader Says His Credibility Is Being Undermined by Bush's Failure to Speed
Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan and Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 1014 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY May 9


President Vicente Fox said tonight that progress in relations with the United
States has "stalled" and that Washington's failure to deliver concrete results
on immigration reform is undermining his credibility at home.

In a speech in New York to the Council of the Americas, a U.S. business
organization concerned with hemispheric issues, Fox said he and President Bush
have set a positive new tone in relations. But he argued that by now, 18 months
after he took office, Washington should have adopted some fundamental changes in
its immigration policies, including an increased number of permanent visas for
Mexicans and legal status for at least some of the 3 million to 4 million
undocumented Mexicans living in the United States.

"Our progress in turning this conceptual breakthrough into concrete agreements
and policies appears to be stalled," he said, according to Mexican officials who
attended the private speech. "In spite of our ongoing dialogue and our shared
vision of the future, there are still few tangible results."

"There can be no privileged U.S.-Mexico relationship without actual progress on
substantive issues," Fox said. "And there will be no substantive progress
without comprehensively addressing the issue of migration."

Immigration is the single most important issue to Mexico, which shares a
2,000-mile border with the United States. More than 23 million Mexicans and
Mexican Americans live in the United States, and last year they sent home about
$ 9.3 billion in remittances.

More than a year ago, Fox and Bush agreed to the highest-level review ever of
immigration policy, issuing a joint statement saying that they hoped to create a
new framework to make immigration safer and more orderly. At least 325 Mexicans
died trying to sneak into the United States over deserts and mountains last
year.

Fox wants preferential visa status so more Mexicans can enter the United States
legally each year. He also wants more guest-worker programs to allow Mexicans to
legally find temporary work in the United States. Most of all, he wants
Washington to grant legal status to at least some of the millions of
undocumented Mexicans who live and work in the United States, many of whom have
paid U.S. taxes for years.

Bush promised to consider those requests. But progress on bilateral talks slowed
because the two leaders' enthusiasm wasn't shared by some members of Congress,
who have said the United States should be limiting rather than expanding
immigration. After the Sept. 11 terror attacks, the issue was pushed into the
background in Washington.

Mexicans believe that Fox's leverage with Bush is that it is in the U.S.
interest to have a strong ally on its southern border. Fox has been one of
Bush's closest allies, but now he is finding that an alliance that is based on
words and not action is a political liability at home.

"This lack of progress makes it increasingly difficult to maintain political and
public support for what is perceived in Mexico as a shift in our traditional
foreign policy, formerly based on the need to keep the U.S. at arm's length,"
Fox said tonight.

Fox has staked much of his presidency on improving relations with the United
States. But his popularity has plummeted as the Bush administration has not
produced new immigration policy. Critics, especially in the Mexican Congress,
call Fox a lackey who brings home nothing but nice photos with Bush on Fox's
visits to the United States.

"All Fox gets is kisses," said Jorge Montan o, a former Mexican ambassador to
the United States. "We have gotten not even a taco."

The Mexican Senate embarrassed Fox last month by using, for the first time, its
constitutional power to deny presidential foreign travel to keep him from making
a planned trip to the United States. Mexican cartoonists portrayed Fox as a
grounded teenager; "Tonight Show" host Jay Leno called Fox the only Mexican who
could not get into the United States.

In another sign of his sensitivity to the rising criticism, Fox recently
canceled his scheduled May 19 commencement address at the University of Notre
Dame in Indiana, citing "political circumstances" at home.

Fox also said tonight that the lack of progress on the Mexican agenda in
Washington was hurting his credibility and authority in Latin America,
preventing Mexico from taking a more powerful role in crises in Colombia,
Venezuela and Argentina.

He said leaders in the region interpret Washington's lack of progress with
Mexico as an indication of a general reluctance to engage more closely in Latin
America.

A top government official here, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said Fox
decided to air his frustration tonight in a private speech because he is
reluctant to offend a president he considers an ally and close friend.

Bush "is Mexico's best friend," the official said. "We don't want to throw mud
in the face of the administration."

But, he said, "if we wait any longer, we could end up with a complete stalemate
in the relationship," the official said. "All the momentum we've achieved in the
past year could be lost."

Rafael Fernandez de Castro, a leading international relations professor here,
said Fox needs to press harder without sounding fed up, "because that could put
Mexico-U.S. relations in the ice chest."

Fox tonight told the U.S. business group, founded by retired Chase Manhattan
Bank chief executive David Rockefeller, that Mexico has kept its end of the
bargain: Mexico has tightened border security and financial regulations to make
it harder for terrorists to move money. Mexico has also arrested several drug
lords long sought by the United States.

In response, many in Mexico believe they have actually lost ground on
immigration. They cite, for example, a recent Supreme Court decision that
employers do not have the same responsibilities to undocumented migrant workers
as they do to U.S. citizens.

"Fox hasn't lifted his voice," said Carolina Viggiano Austria, a legislator from
the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party. "He hasn't won anything with
his complacent attitude."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              105 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 16, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New Security Checks Swamp INS Offices;
Applications Pile Up Because Workers Lack Database Access, Training

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 760 words


The processing of thousands of immigration applications has ground to a halt in
an unknown number of Immigration and Naturalization Service offices because
workers have not been provided the equipment or training to use a new security
database, INS officials said yesterday.

In a memo Friday, the INS ordered its workers to begin checking the names of
applicants seeking green cards, naturalization and other documents against the
Interagency Border Inspection System (IBIS). That database contains criminal
information and immigration histories supplied by the INS, the FBI, the U.S.
Customs Service and other federal agencies.

But workers in some offices have been stymied because they lack the computers
and know-how to accomplish the task, INS officials acknowledged yesterday.
Thousands of applications already are backing up, they said.

In the New York district office, there is just one computer with IBIS access to
check the more than 1,000 new applications that arrive each day. The Hartford,
Conn., office has no IBIS computer, said INS spokesman William Strassberger.

"We are working to resolve this issue as soon as possible," Strassberger said.
"This is implementation of a new procedure, and there are some initial start-up
problems. We have to get additional equipment to those locations."

The New York office is expected to receive 12 computers today, Strassberger
said. It is unclear when computers will arrive at the Hartford office.

Strassberger and other INS officials declined to say how widespread the problem
is, but Marcia Needleman, chairwoman of the New York chapter of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, said immigration attorneys across the country
have begun to complain about it.

"It seems to be nationwide," Needleman said. "The problem seems to be they don't
have the equipment to do the clearances and the training."

Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) said the problem is more widespread
than just New York and Hartford, though he did not know how pervasive it is. He
has requested a briefing on the matter by the INS next week.

"This is another example of the dysfunctionality of the INS," said
Sensenbrenner, whose bill to abolish the INS and replace it with two Justice
Department bureaus overwhelmingly passed the House last month. "These people
[applicants] are legal aliens in this country who deserve to have a prompt . . .
response."

One INS employee who handles immigration applications said, "You have
applications being checked against a system we don't have access to. We can't
approve anything."

"It's re-creating backlogs that we've worked three years to get rid of," he
said. "It's becoming a nightmare for our office."

Janis Sposato, assistant deputy executive associate commissioner for immigration
services, declined yesterday to say how many workers have not been trained to
use the system or how many offices lack IBIS access. The training is done by
computer, and a test is given at the end of the process, she said.

The INS for years has been criticized for backlogs and delays in processing
immigrants applying for residency or citizenship.

According to the House Judiciary Committee, the agency has a total of 5 million
applications pending.

In recent months, the agency sparked a new round of ire and an investigation by
the Justice Department's inspector general after a string of embarrassing
mistakes. In March, an INS service contractor mailed visa change approvals for
two of the dead Sept. 11 hijackers, and an agency inspector's error in Norfolk
allowed four Pakistani crew members to jump ship and disappear. One later was
caught, another turned himself in, and two remain at large, Strassberger said.

The INS has been checking immigrants who applied for certain benefits since
August 1999. In January, it ordered all applicants checked, but an unknown
number of offices did not receive the equipment and training to comply. In the
Friday memo, the INS repeated its order to check all applicants against IBIS.

Judith Golub, senior director of advocacy with the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, called the inability to access IBIS unacceptable.

"There have to be ways to balance the need for security with the free flow of
people and good," Golub said.

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy
group for immigration, said the latest problem showed the urgent need for
change. "It really does speak to the desperate need to reform the INS," she
said. "There's not a week goes by that that's not confirmed for us."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              106 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 17, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS New York Office to Get Help With Backlog

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 510 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that it will send a
team to its New York district office to help reduce an application backlog that
resulted from employees not getting the equipment or training necessary to use a
new security database.

The team, which will head to New York next week, will install more computer
terminals and help train the workers.

"We're trying to find ways to help them do the job," INS spokesman William
Strassberger said. "If they don't have the knowledge, if they don't have the
computers, we will make the resources available. Whatever we have to do to do
this, we will."

The decision comes a day after The Washington Post reported that the processing
of thousands of immigration applications had been halted in the New York
district office and other INS offices because workers did not know how to use
the Interagency Border Inspection System (IBIS).

The INS last week ordered its workers to begin checking the names of applicants
seeking naturalization, green cards, adjustment of status and other documents
against IBIS. The system contains immigration history and criminal information
supplied by the INS, FBI, the U.S. Customs Service and other federal agencies.

At least 1,000 applications a day are piling up in the New York district office,
according to one employee who handles immigration applications.

"New York is going to have to hold off on making a final decision on a case
until the checks are completed," said William Yates, deputy executive associate
commissioner for immigration services. "Yes, there will be a delay . . . but we
will get beyond this."

Yates said the delay could be several weeks.

Rep. Mark Foley (R-Fla.) said the decision to send a crew to New York is
"another superficial attempt to gloss over a real problem."

"Merely sending a team up to New York is once again the INS putting their finger
in the dike," Foley said. "This should be happening at all U.S. facilities, not
just New York."

INS officials declined yesterday to say how widespread the problem is, but said
they will purchase additional computers, beef up training and hire more
adjudication officers to help with the checks.

The INS has a history of backlogs and delays in processing immigrants'
applications for citizenship or residency. It has 5 million applications
pending, according to the House Judiciary Committee.

For nearly three years, the INS has been checking immigrants who applied for
certain benefits. In January, it ordered all applicants checked, but an unknown
number of offices did not receive the equipment and training needed to comply.
In last week's memo from Yates, the directive was repeated to check all
applicants against IBIS.

But no one checked to ensure that employees were properly trained or had access
to the system.

"We had been doing background checks on naturalization cases . . . and
adjustment of status cases, and we weren't sure we would do the additional IBIS
checks," Yates said. "We know now that we're going to go through some growing
pains with this."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              107 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Loses a Ruling On Secret Detentions;
Judge Rejects Order Closing Hearings

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 991 words


A federal judge in New Jersey dealt a significant blow yesterday to the
government's efforts to hold terrorism suspects in secret, ruling
unconstitutional a directive closing immigration hearings deemed of "special
interest" to the investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks.

If upheld, the ruling would strike down one of the government's primary
investigative tools after the attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center
and possibly shed light on the fate of dozens, if not hundreds, of people who
have been arrested, detained or deported in secrecy.

The judge, John W. Bissell, described as "serious and legitimate" the
government's assertion that opening the hearings could compromise its ability to
prevent terrorism, but he said those concerns could be addressed case by case
and were outweighed by the right of the public and the press to view the
hearings.

"Without an injunction, the government could continue to bar the public and
press from deportation proceedings without any particularized showing of
justification," he wrote. "This presents a clear case of irreparable harm to a
right protected by the First Amendment."

The Justice Department is expected to appeal. "The highest priority of the
Department of Justice is to detect and prevent terrorism while preserving our
constitutional liberties," the department said in a statement. "We will continue
to defend the principle that the Constitution does not require immigration
proceedings to be conducted in a way that provides valuable information to
terrorist organizations or others who wish to harm Americans."

Yesterday's decision was the broadest of a series of recent rulings repudiating
the government's tactics in the terrorism probe. Since Sept. 11, authorities
have detained about 1,200 people, most of Arab and South Asian descent,
shielding their identities and holding most on immigration violations while
determining whether they were terrorists. The Justice Department says there are
now about 104 people detained.

In March, a New Jersey superior court judge, calling secret detentions "odious
to democracy," ruled that state law prohibited the government from withholding
the names of hundreds of people held in New Jersey county jails. In April, a
federal judge in Detroit ruled that it was unconstitutional to close deportation
hearings involving a Lebanese activist. A Cincinnati appellate court later
forced the Justice Department to release transcripts of previous immigration
hearings involving the detainee, Rabih Haddad, that had been conducted in
secret.

That same month, a federal judge in New York ruled that the Justice Department
had illegally used a material-witness statute to detain a Jordanian college
student suspected of ties to the Sept. 11 hijackers.

The Justice Department is appealing each of those rulings.

"What we are seeing is that the federal courts are refusing to accept the
government's contention that after 9/11 the normal constitutional principles do
not apply," said Lee Gelernt, a senior attorney with the American Civil
Liberties Union, which has opposed the government in several cases, including
the one that resulted in yesterday's decision.

Yesterday's decision grew out of a suit brought by New Jersey media
organizations that had been denied access to "special interest" hearings
involving Sept. 11 detainees. The suit revolved around the legality of what has
come to be known as "the Creppy Memo" -- a memo distributed to immigration
courts by Michael J. Creppy, the nation's chief immigration judge, 10 days after
the attacks.

The memo outlined security measures for cases determined by the attorney general
to be of special interest to the investigation. The procedures prohibited
listing of the cases on the court docket and prevented immigration judges from
sharing information about the proceedings outside the court. The hearings,
according to the memo, were to be closed -- "no visitors, no family, no press."

The government argued strenuously that opening the hearings to the public was
potentially harmful to the probe. James S. Reynolds, chief of the terrorism and
violent crimes section of the Justice Department's Criminal Division, and Dale
Watson, executive assistant director of the FBI for counterterrorism and
counterintelligence, submitted declarations stating that open hearings could
provide sensitive intelligence to terrorists and also stigmatize the detainees.

In particular, the Justice Department has stated its concern that revealing the
identities of the detainees could subject them to harm or intimidation or
frighten them into withholding cooperation from authorities.

Bissell, however, supported the contention that the memo was ineffective because
it did not prevent the detainees or their representatives from discussing the
cases publicly. In addition, he ruled, the government still maintained the right
to close specific immigration hearings when sensitive intelligence information
might be revealed.

It remained unclear whether the government is now required to release
transcripts related to previous closed hearings.

In the Haddad case, after the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the right of
news organizations to review such information, officials released thousands of
documents related to the case.

Civil liberties advocates and immigration lawyers say they have no way of
knowing exactly how many people have been detained -- much less how many have
been subjected to "special interest" closed hearings. Yesterday's ruling,
barring a stay, potentially makes public an enormous amount of information
regarding who has been held, why, and how the cases were resolved.

Gelernt, of the ACLU, said the records were important. "We need to build a
history," he said. "These are hundreds of people who have essentially
disappeared. They were tried in secret in detention hearings, held in detention
centers, then put on planes. No one knows what happened."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              108 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 1, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Civics Lessons for Prosecutors

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 638 words


THE JUSTICE Department this week suffered a pair of well-deserved setbacks when
its aggressive legal tactics following the Sept. 11 attacks came up against
federal judges. In New Jersey, Chief Judge John Bissell of the federal district
court slapped down the government's effort to maintain secrecy for its
deportation proceedings related to the investigation. In Norfolk, Judge Robert
Doumar ordered that a battlefield detainee named Yaser Esam Hamdi -- who was
born in Louisiana and is likely an American citizen -- must be given access to a
lawyer. It should not take federal judges to teach the government such civics
lessons. But the government doesn't seem to be learning from repeated judicial
rebuke.

The decision in New Jersey is not the first time the government's secrecy policy
has been held unconstitutional. Since the attacks, the government has detained
large numbers of Arabs and Muslims whose deficient immigration status has come
to light during the probe. It has applied a set of rules to these cases unlike
any others in immigration court: "no visitors, no family, no press." The cases
are kept off of the dockets of the immigration courts. And while they involve no
classified information, so-called special interest cases, for all public
purposes anyway, don't officially exist. Earlier this spring, a federal court in
Michigan forced the government to open the case of a detainee named Rabih
Haddad. Now another court has agreed that the policy cannot be squared with
traditional notions of open government. How many judges have to declare the
policy unlawful before the government stops closing cases with no individual
showing that any information within them is sensitive?

Still more disturbing is the fact that the government of the United States needs
to be told by a federal judge that a likely citizen of this country -- being
held indefinitely and without charge -- must be able to talk to an attorney. Mr.
Hamdi was captured by the military in Afghanistan and initially detained at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He was brought to America when his likely citizenship
became evident, and he has been held incommunicado in Virginia ever since. The
government contends that allowing him "any contacts with outsiders" -- by which
it means lawyers -- could "interfere with the success of the interrogation
effort." But Judge Doumar rightly insisted that "fair play and fundamental
justice" require that people jailed in America get lawyers. Highlighting the
radicalism of the government's current posture, he noted that the government
"could not cite one case where a prisoner of any variety within the jurisdiction
of a United States District Court, who was held incommunicado and indefinitely,
and who had filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, was denied access to
an attorney or the right to file such a petition." He ordered that Mr. Hamdi
have access to the federal public defender and an interpreter "without military
personnel present, and without any listening or recording devices of any kind
being employed in any way."

Faced with such a dressing down, the government, we would have hoped, would back
down and let the man talk with a lawyer. Even terrorist masterminds prosecuted
in this country have gotten to do that, after all. Yesterday, however, the
government filed an emergency petition to stay the ruling -- and block Mr.
Hamdi's access to counsel further -- while it appeals. The court of appeals late
yesterday granted a temporary stay while it considers the issue. The government
is arguing, in effect, that it can hold someone as long as it wants without
either charging him or ruling out charges, and that Mr. Hamdi has no right to
assistance from counsel in challenging the legality of his incarceration. Here's
hoping the court of appeals shows as much backbone as Judge Doumar.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              109 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 2, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Civics Lessons for Prosecutors

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 638 words


THE JUSTICE Department last week suffered a pair of well-deserved setbacks when
its aggressive legal tactics following the Sept. 11 attacks came up against
federal judges. In New Jersey, Chief Judge John Bissell of the federal district
court slapped down the government's effort to maintain secrecy for its
deportation proceedings related to the investigation. In Norfolk, Judge Robert
Doumar ordered that a battlefield detainee named Yaser Esam Hamdi -- who was
born in Louisiana and is likely an American citizen -- must be given access to a
lawyer. It should not take federal judges to teach the government such civics
lessons. But the government doesn't seem to be learning from repeated judicial
rebuke.

The decision in New Jersey is not the first time the government's secrecy policy
has been held unconstitutional. Since the attacks, the government has detained
large numbers of Arabs and Muslims whose deficient immigration status has come
to light during the probe. It has applied a set of rules to these cases unlike
any others in immigration court: "no visitors, no family, no press." The cases
are kept off of the dockets of the immigration courts. And while they involve no
classified information, so-called special interest cases, for all public
purposes anyway, don't officially exist. Earlier this spring, a federal court in
Michigan forced the government to open the case of a detainee named Rabih
Haddad. Now another court has agreed that the policy cannot be squared with
traditional notions of open government. How many judges have to declare the
policy unlawful before the government stops closing cases with no individual
showing that any information within them is sensitive?

Still more disturbing is the fact that the government of the United States needs
to be told by a federal judge that a likely citizen of this country -- being
held indefinitely and without charge -- must be able to talk to an attorney. Mr.
Hamdi was captured by the military in Afghanistan and initially detained at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He was brought to America when his likely citizenship
became evident, and he has been held incommunicado in Virginia ever since. The
government contends that allowing him "any contacts with outsiders" -- by which
it means lawyers -- could "interfere with the success of the interrogation
effort." But Judge Doumar rightly insisted that "fair play and fundamental
justice" require that people jailed in America get lawyers. Highlighting the
radicalism of the government's current posture, he noted that the government
"could not cite one case where a prisoner of any variety within the jurisdiction
of a United States District Court, who was held incommunicado and indefinitely,
and who had filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, was denied access to
an attorney or the right to file such a petition." He ordered that Mr. Hamdi
have access to the federal public defender and an interpreter "without military
personnel present, and without any listening or recording devices of any kind
being employed in any way."

Faced with such a dressing down, the government, we would have hoped, would back
down and let the man talk with a lawyer. Even terrorist masterminds prosecuted
in this country have gotten to do that, after all. Yesterday, however, the
government filed an emergency petition to stay the ruling -- and block Mr.
Hamdi's access to counsel further -- while it appeals. The court of appeals late
yesterday granted a temporary stay while it considers the issue. The government
is arguing, in effect, that it can hold someone as long as it wants without
either charging him or ruling out charges, and that Mr. Hamdi has no right to
assistance from counsel in challenging the legality of his incarceration. Here's
hoping the court of appeals shows as much backbone as Judge Doumar.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              110 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ziglar Says INS Deserves Some Of Recent Blame

BYLINE: Deborah Kong, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The Immigration and Naturalization Service deserves some of the criticism it has
received since the Sept. 11 attacks but shouldn't shoulder all the blame, the
nation's immigration chief said in a talk last week.

"Our services need to be sharper, our enforcement more focused and the
information technology systems substantially modernized," INS Commissioner James
W. Ziglar told the annual conference of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

"I also know that if you try to hold the INS totally at fault for this, that's
not fair either."

Congress and past administrations share the blame "for not paying attention to
this agency," he told the 2,400-person audience on Thursday.

For years, the agency has been criticized because of huge backlogs in
applications for naturalization or permanent residence. Since Sept. 11, the
agency has been even more heavily scrutinized after a series of foul-ups became
public.

Although the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers came on valid visas, several were in the
country illegally at the time of the terrorist attacks. The agency also mailed
notices of visa status changes for two of the hijackers months after the
attacks.

Since Sept. 11, Ziglar said, the INS has "tightened policies and procedures
across the board."

President Bush has recently proposed creating a Cabinet-level Department of
Homeland Security, combining 22 agencies -- including the INS -- to defend
against terrorists.

"We have long recognized the INS has to be restructured," Ziglar said, adding
that he supports the creation of the new department, but "the devil's in the
details."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              111 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 18, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Must Keep Terror Hearings Open, Court Says

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 376 words


A federal appeals court dealt another blow yesterday to the government's efforts
to detain some terrorism suspects in secrecy, ruling that "special interest"
immigration hearings must be open to the public while the Justice Department
continues to wage its legal battle to have them closed.

The ruling by a three-judge panel of the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Philadelphia leaves federal prosecutors with an urgent decision: whether to
appeal the issue further or agree to open hearings that they say must be
conducted secretly to protect national security.

"We are evaluating our options," said Justice Department spokesman Charles
Miller.

The decision is the latest setback for the Justice Department, which last
September asserted the right to hold closed immigration hearings in cases that
arose from the investigation of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Yesterday's ruling followed a May 29 decision by U.S. District Judge John W.
Bissell, who said the September directive from the nation's chief immigration
judge closing "special interest" hearings was unconstitutional. The decision
stemmed from a lawsuit filed by New Jersey media organizations.

Federal prosecutors had sought to continue closing the hearings while they
pursued an appeal of the district court ruling. The appellate panel yesterday
denied that request, but agreed to put the case on a fast schedule.

The Bissell ruling was the broadest in a series of recent court decisions
rejecting the government's detention tactics. Since Sept. 11, authorities have
secretly detained hundreds of foreign visitors, most of Arab or South Asian
descent, while trying to determine whether they were connected to terrorists. In
a court filing for a separate case last week, the government said 74 foreign
nationals remain in detention on immigration charges connected to the Sept. 11
probe.

"What the courts are now consistently telling the government is that they can
accomplish their objectives by closing particular hearings when needed, rather
than a blanket-type policy," said Lee Gelernt, a senior attorney with the
American Civil Liberties Union, which sides with the plaintiffs in the New
Jersey case. "It's a consistent pattern of not accepting the government's
position."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              112 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 22, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Hearings Case Goes to High Court;
U.S. Wants Justices to Block Order Opening Sessions on Terror Probe Suspects

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 959 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK June 21


Arguing that national security is at stake, the Justice Department today asked
the Supreme Court to block a federal judge's order to open immigration hearings
for suspects swept up in the nationwide terrorism investigation.

The request marks the first time the Supreme Court has been asked to rule on a
Sept. 11 case and signals the Bush administration's resolve to protect one of
the primary investigative tools it has employed since the attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"This is an extraordinary case, touching on the nation's very ability to defend
itself against the continuing threat of a hostile attack from myriad and unknown
sources," the government wrote in legal papers submitted by Theodore B. Olson,
the solicitor general.

Under Supreme Court rules, the government's request will be considered initially
by David H. Souter, the justice who represents the 3rd Circuit. Souter can rule
on his own, but legal experts said it was more likely that he would refer the
case to the entire court.

The case centers on the legality of a directive issued by Michael J. Creppy, the
nation's chief immigration judge, 10 days after the attacks. The memo ordered
the closure of immigration proceedings deemed of "special interest" to the
terror probe, a decision that precluded visitors, family and media.

Last month, a federal judge in New Jersey sided with two media outlets, the
North Jersey Media Group Inc. and the New Jersey Law Journal, that argued the
directive violated the First Amendment. The judge, John W. Bissell, described as
the government's concerns as "serious and legitimate," but said they could be
handled case by case and were outweighed by the right of the public and the
press to attend the proceedings.

On Monday, the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia ruled that the
hearings must remain open while the Justice Department appeals. The decision
forced the government to decide whether to open all "special interest" hearings
or request the stay from the Supreme Court.

The Justice Department declined today to reveal how many closed hearings have
been held. Since the attacks, the government has detained hundreds of people,
most of Arab and South Asian descent. The latest figures show that 74 are still
held on immigration charges in connection with the investigation, but it is
unknown how many have been deemed "special interest" cases.

Immigration attorneys have charged that in recent days the government has used
administrative tactics to circumvent the court orders and keep the hearings
closed. In a separate decision in April, a federal judge in Detroit ruled that
the government must open immigration hearings for a Lebanese man detained after
Sept. 11. A lawyer for Rabih Haddad, an Ann Arbor, Mich., activist, said this
week that the immigration judge has continued to postpone the hearing to avoid
opening it to the public.

Another immigration judge in a New Jersey case has postponed the hearing of two
Jordanian immigrants. Immigration judges are employees of the Justice
Department, a situation that many judges themselves acknowledge is a conflict of
interest.

"They're trying to avoid what seems to be a tide" of court decisions, said
Ashraf Nubani, who represents Haddad. "It's a political game they're playing."

A Justice Department spokesman declined comment.

In its filings to the appellate court, the government decribed special interest
cases as "imminent" but did not specify how many are pending.

Although the Supreme Court is unlikely to rule on the case's merits at this
point, the decision on the government's request for a stay will be closely
watched, legal experts said. Before granting the request, the court must
determine that denying it would cause "irreparable harm," weigh whether four
justices would vote to review the case if the appellate court upholds the order
and whether the court would then set the order aside.

The decision on the stay could send a signal about how the Supreme Court is
leaning. "There will certainly be a lot of reading of the tea leaves with regard
to what the court does here," said Eugene Volokh, a specialist in constitutional
law at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Law.

In its documents, the government argued strenuously that opening the hearings
would endanger American lives. Terrorist organizations would have access to
information about the investigation, including the identities of detainees,
evidence of their links to terrorism and "other leads that may well not be
discernible by the press, individual immigration judges, or even the individual
aliens concerned," Olson wrote.

The government said that discovering access to the information could lead
terrorists to accelerate the timing of a planned attack or even switch to an
alternate "cell" to carry it out.

"It is possible that the disclosure of even a single piece of information
concerning the case of a special interest alien that might appear innocuous . .
. could be of vital importance to the sophisticated terrorist groups that are
monitoring the government's efforts to investigate the Sept. 11 attacks and
prevent their recurrence -- and thus could have devastating consequences for the
nation," Olson wrote.

Lee Gelernt, a senior staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union,
which brought the suit on behalf of the New Jersey media organizations, said the
case does not challenge the government's right to close specific hearings in the
interests of national security, only its right to close all of them.

"We do not believe that this is a case where the First Amendment and national
security are irreconcilably at odds," Gelernt said. "This, at bottom, is about
whether a blanket closure is necessary."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              113 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 29, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Court Allows Closed Immigration Hearings to Continue

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 908 words


The government may continue to hold secret immigration hearings for people
detained in its anti-terror dragnet while an appellate court determines whether
the policy is legal, the Supreme Court said yesterday.

In its first decision on a matter related to the Sept. 11 attacks, the high
court blocked an order to immediately open the hearings. That order was issued
last month by a federal judge who had ruled that the closed hearings were
unconstitutional.

The Justice Department has appealed the decision, arguing that the issue touches
"on the nation's very ability to defend itself against the continuing threat of
hostile attack."

The Justice Department has refused to disclose how many secret hearings are
scheduled or have already been held, but immigrant rights advocates estimate
that they number in the hundreds.

Because the justices merely issued a brief order allowing the sealed hearings to
continue, legal experts said it is impossible to assess the Supreme Court's view
of the case. Many expect the high court to ultimately decide the issue after the
3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rules on the matter.

"This was about keeping the barn door closed while we wait and see whether we
have to decide to open it," said Erik S. Jaffe, an appellate attorney in the
District.

Still, the ruling was a blow to civil liberties advocates who have challenged
the legality of the hearings since the nation's chief immigration judge, Michael
J. Creppy, acting on behalf of Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, issued a
blanket security directive 10 days after the Sept. 11 attacks for cases deemed
of "special interest" to the terrorism investigation.

The Justice Department has vehemently argued that open hearings could compromise
the continuing terrorism probe and provide critical information to terrorists.

Last month's ruling by U.S. District Judge John W. Bissell in Newark that the
sealed hearings violate the First Amendment was not the only judicial decision
on the matter. Another federal judge in Detroit ruled in April that it was
illegal for the government to hold secret immigration hearings for a Lebanese
activist who had been detained in the investigation.

"We're disappointed, but we remain optimistic," said Lee Gelernt, a senior staff
attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents the plaintiffs
in both lawsuits. "The only two federal courts that have looked at the merits
have both concluded that the policy is unconstitutional."

A Justice Department spokeswoman said U.S. officials would not comment on
yesterday's Supreme Court decision.

The order from the high court was a one-sentence statement. It said that Justice
David H. Souter, to whom the government's application was directed, had referred
the matter to the entire court, and that the court had granted a stay of the
district court order opening the hearings pending the outcome of the
government's appeal.

At issue is a linchpin of the government's policy of conducting the terrorism
investigation in secret, as well the fate of dozens and perhaps hundreds of
detainees, most of Arab and South Asian descent, who have been swept up in the
probe.

According to the most recent government figures, 74 foreign nationals are still
being held on immigration charges related to the Sept. 11 attacks. At least 700
people have been detained on immigration charges since Sept. 11, and many have
been deported.

In recent weeks, immigration attorneys say, the government has acted
inconsistently in deciding whether to close individual hearings -- postponing
some while holding at least one open hearing in California.

Regis Fernandez, an attorney for two Jordanian cousins in New Jersey charged
with overstaying their visas, said he expects his clients' hearings to remain
closed because of yesterday's Supreme Court decision. "What the government
really fears is that people will be allowed to attend these hearings for
themselves and see that nothing is going on," Fernandez said.

The government has not disclosed the criteria for closing the special interest
hearings.

Yesterday's announcement by the Supreme Court stemmed from a lawsuit filed in
March by a group of New Jersey newspapers against Ashcroft and Creppy after
reporters were barred from special interest hearings.

The legal justification for the restrictions was presented in Creppy's memo,
which barred the public, including family members and the press, from
courtrooms.

To support its argument that open hearings would endanger national security, the
government submitted a 10-page affidavit from Dale L. Watson, the FBI's
executive assistant director for counterterrorism and counterintelligence.
Watson said open hearings and disclosure of other information might allow
terrorists to follow the investigation and find ways to impede it.

The New Jersey media outlets argued that the 1952 Immigration and Nationality
Act, which consolidated most immigration laws, provides the government
sufficient latitude to protect sensitive information and national security by
closing parts or all of any immigration proceeding.

They argued that immigration proceedings should not be closed even when the
government is trying sensitive criminal terrorism cases in public -- a reference
to the federal court cases of Zacarias Moussaoui, the alleged 20th hijacker, and
Richard Reid, who is accused of trying to blow up a jetliner in December with
explosives hidden in his shoes.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              114 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 30, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

High Court Allows Closed Immigration Hearings to Continue;
Appeal of Sept. 11 Detainees' Suit Pending

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 618 words


The government may continue to hold secret immigration hearings for people
detained in its anti-terror dragnet while an appellate court determines whether
the policy is legal, the Supreme Court said Friday.

In its first decision on a matter related to the Sept. 11 attacks, the high
court blocked an order to immediately open the hearings. That order was issued
last month by a federal judge who had ruled that the closed hearings were
unconstitutional.

The Justice Department has appealed the decision, arguing that the issue touches
"on the nation's very ability to defend itself against the continuing threat of
hostile attack."

The Justice Department has refused to disclose how many secret hearings are
scheduled or have already been held, but immigrant rights advocates estimate
that they number in the hundreds.

Because the justices merely issued a brief order allowing the sealed hearings to
continue, legal experts said it is impossible to assess the Supreme Court's view
of the case. Many expect the high court to ultimately decide the issue after the
3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rules on the matter.

"This was about keeping the barn door closed while we wait and see whether we
have to decide to open it," said Erik S. Jaffe, an appellate attorney in the
District.

Still, the ruling was a blow to civil liberties advocates who have challenged
the legality of the hearings since the nation's chief immigration judge, Michael
J. Creppy, acting on behalf of Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, issued a
blanket security directive 10 days after the Sept. 11 attacks for cases deemed
of "special interest" to the terrorism investigation.

The Justice Department has vehemently argued that open hearings could compromise
the continuing terrorism probe and provide critical information to terrorists.

Last month's ruling by U.S. District Judge John W. Bissell in Newark that the
sealed hearings violate the First Amendment was not the only judicial decision
on the matter. Another federal judge in Detroit ruled in April that it was
illegal for the government to hold secret immigration hearings for a Lebanese
activist who had been detained in the investigation.

"We're disappointed, but we remain optimistic," said Lee Gelernt, a senior staff
attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents the plaintiffs
in both lawsuits. "The only two federal courts that have looked at the merits
have both concluded that the policy is unconstitutional."

A Justice Department spokeswoman said U.S. officials would not comment on
Friday's Supreme Court decision.

The order from the high court was a one-sentence statement. It said that Justice
David H. Souter, to whom the government's application was directed, had referred
the matter to the entire court, and that the court had granted a stay of the
district court order opening the hearings pending the outcome of the
government's appeal.

At issue is a linchpin of the government's policy of conducting the terrorism
investigation in secret, as well the fate of dozens and perhaps hundreds of
detainees, most of Arab and South Asian descent, who have been swept up in the
probe.

According to the most recent government figures, 74 foreign nationals are still
being held on immigration charges related to the Sept. 11 attacks. At least 700
people have been detained on immigration charges since Sept. 11, and many have
been deported.

The government has not disclosed the criteria for closing the special interest
hearings.

Friday's announcement by the Supreme Court stemmed from a lawsuit filed in March
by a group of New Jersey newspapers against Ashcroft and Creppy after reporters
were barred from special interest hearings.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              115 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 20, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 481 words


House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) said yesterday that Rep. James A.
Traficant Jr. would be better off resigning than waiting for the House to vote
on whether the Ohio Democrat should be expelled.

A House committee has already decided that Traficant should be ejected for
ethics violations related to his bribery, tax evasion and fraud conviction. His
fate is now up to the full House.

"It would certainly help him if he resigned," Hastert said before speaking at a
Sandwich, Ill., fundraiser, outside Chicago.

Prosecutors have recommended that Traficant serve at least 7 1/4 years in prison
on the criminal charges. Sentencing has been scheduled for July 30.

A group of law enforcement officers in Florida will be given the ability to
enforce immigration laws in cases involving terrorism and national security,
Justice Department officials announced.

Most local law enforcement officers do not have the authority to detain or
arrest a person solely on immigration charges.

Immigration advocacy groups and many police departments have long fought against
police having that power, arguing that illegal immigrants would be reluctant to
call police for help out of fear they might be arrested or deported.

Florida and the Justice Department agreed on July 2 that 35 "experienced,
seasoned law enforcement personnel" could receive formal training from the INS
on various aspects of federal immigration laws and the enforcement of those
laws, according to Justice Department officials.

After the completion of that training, which began on July 9, the officers will
be assigned to seven regional domestic security task forces across Florida.

John Alcorn, an immigration attorney in Irvine, Calif., said: "This will chill
the immigrant community and lead to less people willing to report crime."

Supporters of expanding police power say the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, with 2,000 agents, lacks the staff to track suspected terrorists, much
less an estimated 8 million illegal immigrants scattered throughout the country.

At Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's direction, the Pentagon is trying to
determine who leaked a highly classified planning document that outlined in
detail how the U.S. military might go about toppling Iraq's Saddam Hussein,
officials said.

The unannounced probe is being conducted by the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations, whose primary missions are criminal investigation and
counterintelligence, meaning efforts to counter any threat to Air Force or
national security posed by hostile intelligence services and terrorist groups.

The Pentagon public affairs office would not comment, but the investigation of
the leak to the New York Times was confirmed by officials who said they had been
questioned in their offices this week by agents of the Office of Special
Investigations.

Compiled from reports by the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              116 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 23, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hispanic Group Assails INS Enforcement Plan;
La Raza Says Fla. Pact Stirs Immigrant Fears

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH July 22


The National Council of La Raza thought this tropical resort city would be a
perfect venue for its yearly conference, but today organizers said a number of
smaller groups representing Latinos had called in the days leading up to the
event to say people were afraid to come.

A Bush administration proposal to deputize local police to seize illegal
immigrants as part of the war against terrorism scared them off, said Michele
Waslin, the La Raza analyst who took the calls from affiliates in Iowa and
Arizona. The proposal, disclosed in news reports in April, has become a formal
agreement between the Justice Department and the state of Florida.

"Generally, people are just really concerned," Waslin said in an interview at
the Miami Beach Convention Center, where 10,000 people have convened since
Friday. "The undocumented community has been in fear since Sept. 11. It's
increasing the level of stress, fear and anxiety they already have. It's driving
the undocumented population deeper underground."

On Friday, the Department of Justice announced that it had signed an agreement
with Florida under which the state would provide 35 "experienced, seasoned law
enforcement personnel" for training on immigration law from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. After training, those officers will be assigned to seven
regional domestic security task forces around the state.

The Justice Department said the agreement was "deliberately mindful of the
constitutional rights afforded to all persons living in the United States" and
that the local officers "will not be involved in immigration enforcement
activities that do not involve terrorism or domestic security issues."

The fear at this year's La Raza conference is a dramatic contrast from the hope
at the organization's conference in Milwaukee last year, after President Bush
announced his intent to allow illegal Mexican immigrants the right to earn
citizenship by working in the country for several years and living by the rules.

"We are angry," said Raul Yzaguirre, president of La Raza. "We are outraged.
Eight million people work without their papers. Our economy depends on them.
That issue got moved to the back burner."

In a speech at the conference today, House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt
(D-Mo.) said the agreement between the Justice Department and Florida was a "bad
idea" that would destroy the relationship between police and the communities
they serve.

Gephardt also said he would recommend that the House Democratic Caucus introduce
legislation within two weeks that would provide earned legal residency to
illegal immigrants who work in the United States for two years and obey the law.

"President Bush talked about immigration reform, but there has not been enough
action to match the rhetoric, in my opinion," Gephardt said.

The speech was an undisguised Democratic appeal to Hispanics, who have been
courted intensely by Republicans since the 2000 presidential race. Democrats
want to recruit them into the core of the party, where crossover Latino votes
could strengthen an attempt to take control of the House.

La Raza is the largest civil rights organization representing Hispanic
Americans, with affiliates in 37 states that reach 3.5 million people, the group
said. The group is poised to one day equal the NAACP in clout: In the 2000
census, the population of Latinos nearly equaled that of African Americans, who
make up about 12 percent of the U.S. population.

But Latinos are hardly the cultural monolith that Republicans and Democrats
sometimes perceive them to be. Among the crowd at the convention were white,
brown, black and Asian faces, all those of people who identify themselves as
Hispanic.

They are descendants from nations and cultures that speak the same language, but
often with a different pitch and cadence -- and they sometimes openly oppose one
another. Even the name "La Raza," which translates as "the race," has been
debated.

Jorge Herrera and Chris Pineda, two Mexican American student-government leaders
in New York and Texas, respectively, led a seminar at La Raza's youth leadership
conference to help young Latinos find ways to overcome their differences.

At Columbia University, said Herrera, "the Mexicans were on one side, doing
their thing, and the Puerto Ricans were on the other side. If you come together,
you build the numbers, you accomplish so much more."

In an interview later, he said, "We're all Latino. We should make it a big, safe
haven for all of us. Go sit at the Puerto Rican table. Talk to Colombians. Find
out what they're doing."

Maria Luisa Plasencia listened intently from her seat in the back of the room.
The U.S.-born Venezuelan said members of the Latino student union at her school,
the University of Massachusetts, turned their noses up at her because of her
light complexion, thinking she must be a creida, or "conceited one." But they
soon learned that she was a Latina activist and held no biases based on skin
color.

Plasencia, who worked at bake sales and other fundraisers to attend the
conference, ignored the call of the outdoors and the hedonism of nearby South
Beach to sit in day-long seminars.

"I'm leaving on Tuesday," she said over the weekend. "I have little time, so I
want to get everything in. There is tomorrow, but tomorrow there are also
workshops. I worked so hard putting this trip together. How can I back out on
this, on these people?"

The conference continues through Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              117 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 31, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Fraud Case May Reach Beyond Va.;
Arlington Lawyer Accused of Filing Bogus Labor Forms

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 772 words


The Arlington lawyer accused last week of immigration fraud in Virginia by
filing false documents is being investigated for submitting thousands of similar
forms in other states, a federal prosecutor said yesterday during a hearing in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

"There are thousands of other applications filed by [Samuel G.] Kooritzky in
other states that we are pursuing," including Pennsylvania, Assistant U.S.
Attorney John Morton told a magistrate.

Kooritzky, 63, was arrested at his Capital Law Centers office on Wilson
Boulevard in Arlington last week after a Labor Department probe found that he
had filed about 2,700 requests for labor certification on behalf of immigrants
since last year. Kooritzky's applications claimed that individual restaurants
could not find American workers and needed the immigrants, but the Labor
Department said the restaurants did not even know of the applications.

Yesterday's hearing was for Ronald W. Bogardus, 65, a contract engineer for the
State Department who is accused of being Kooritzky's accomplice. During a search
of Bogardus's Arlington apartment, agents found a suitcase stuffed with what
they believed was $ 500,000.

But Labor Department Special Agent Andrew H. Shea testified yesterday that the
suitcase did not have $ 500,000. It had $ 940,000, mostly in tightly wrapped
bundles of $ 100 bills, and $ 60,000 was elsewhere in the apartment, Shea said.
Agents also found that Bogardus had three passports, two train tickets to New
York and $ 2.5 million in a bank account.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Welton Curtis Sewell ordered Bogardus held without bond
until trial, saying, "He has every incentive and so far he gives every
indication that, if prosecuted, he will flee."

Last week, Sewell froze all assets of Bogardus and Kooritzky, but he freed
Kooritzky once he surrendered his passport. Kooritzky did not return a telephone
call yesterday seeking comment.

Morton told Sewell that Kooritzky charged $ 8,000 to $ 20,000 to guide an
immigrant through the labor and immigration processes. Investigators estimate
that Kooritzky and Bogardus may have made $ 11 million to $ 21 million over the
past 18 months.

Those numbers could soar if the applications in other states turn out to be
fraudulent, Morton said.

Thousands of immigrants who went through the process with Kooritzky's Capital
Law Centers are terrified of what may happen to their status in the United
States. When a noncitizen obtains a certification from the Department of Labor
stating that a company wants to hire him and that no American workers are
available, he may then take the certification to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and get a "status adjustment" -- from illegal to legal
immigrant -- and a permanent visa, or green card. It was unclear yesterday how
many people Kooritzky has helped land green cards or, subsequently, U.S.
citizenship.

"I know he has harmed many, many Korean American lives in the United States,"
said Yun Jung Yang, a Wheaton immigration lawyer who was in the courtroom
yesterday. Yang said that she did not know whether the criminal charges are true
but that immigrants "are entitled to a benefit, which they sought through him.
He's allegedly taken that away by filing the fraudulent labor certifications."

Yang said Kooritzky advertised heavily in the Asian community, offering not only
his legal services but also help in finding an employment sponsor.

Finding potential employers apparently was Bogardus's job with Kooritzky,
according to a 60-page affidavit Shea filed last week. At least one restaurant
manager, at a Chili's in Springfield, recalled that Bogardus came in twice and
talked about hiring cooks and visa issues.

The manager's name and signature later showed up on more than 100 labor
certification applications, but she had not filed any, Shea wrote. The Silver
Diner in Arlington and an Applebee's in the Alexandria area each had 184 false
applications filed by Kooritzky, authorities allege.

At the hearing, Shea said Bogardus, the former chief fire marshal of California,
married a 28-year-old Thai woman in February 1999 but did not divorce his first
wife in Ventura, Calif. "The defendant is a bigamist," Shea said, claiming that
Bogardus created a phony Arlington divorce decree with scissors, tape and a
photocopier.

Bogardus did not speak during the hearing. Alan H. Yamamoto, one of Bogardus's
attorneys, said that Bogardus suffers from a heart condition and high blood
presure and that "he's not going anywhere. Whatever this incident is, at most
it's an aberration and certainly nothing he's ever going to do again."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              118 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 31, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Fraud Case May Reach Beyond Va.

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 772 words


The Arlington lawyer accused last week of immigration fraud in Virginia by
filing false documents is being investigated for submitting thousands of similar
forms in other states, a federal prosecutor said yesterday during a hearing in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

"There are thousands of other applications filed by [Samuel G.] Kooritzky in
other states that we are pursuing," including Pennsylvania, Assistant U.S.
Attorney John Morton told a magistrate.

Kooritzky, 63, was arrested at his Capital Law Centers office on Wilson
Boulevard in Arlington last week after a Labor Department probe found that he
had filed about 2,700 requests for labor certification on behalf of immigrants
since last year. Kooritzky's applications claimed that individual restaurants
could not find American workers and needed the immigrants, but the Labor
Department said the restaurants did not even know of the applications.

Yesterday's hearing was for Ronald W. Bogardus, 65, a contract engineer for the
State Department who is accused of being Kooritzky's accomplice. During a search
of Bogardus's Arlington apartment, agents found a suitcase stuffed with what
they believed was $ 500,000.

But Labor Department Special Agent Andrew H. Shea testified yesterday that the
suitcase did not have $ 500,000. It had $ 940,000, mostly in tightly wrapped
bundles of $ 100 bills, and $ 60,000 was elsewhere in the apartment, Shea said.
Agents also found that Bogardus had three passports, two train tickets to New
York and $ 2.5 million in a bank account.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Welton Curtis Sewell ordered Bogardus held without bond
until trial, saying, "He has every incentive and so far he gives every
indication that, if prosecuted, he will flee."

Last week, Sewell froze all assets of Bogardus and Kooritzky, but he freed
Kooritzky once he surrendered his passport. Kooritzky did not return a telephone
call yesterday seeking comment.

Morton told Sewell that Kooritzky charged $ 8,000 to $ 20,000 to guide an
immigrant through the labor and immigration processes. Investigators estimate
that Kooritzky and Bogardus may have made $ 11 million to $ 21 million over the
past 18 months.

Those numbers could soar if the applications in other states turn out to be
fraudulent, Morton said.

Thousands of immigrants who went through the process with Kooritzky's Capital
Law Centers are terrified of what may happen to their status in the United
States. When a noncitizen obtains a certification from the Department of Labor
stating that a company wants to hire him and that no American workers are
available, he may then take the certification to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and get a "status adjustment" -- from illegal to legal
immigrant -- and a permanent visa, or green card. It was unclear yesterday how
many people Kooritzky has helped land green cards or, subsequently, U.S.
citizenship.

"I know he has harmed many, many Korean American lives in the United States,"
said Yun Jung Yang, a Wheaton immigration lawyer who was in the courtroom
yesterday. Yang said that she did not know whether the criminal charges are true
but that immigrants "are entitled to a benefit, which they sought through him.
He's allegedly taken that away by filing the fraudulent labor certifications."

Yang said Kooritzky advertised heavily in the Asian community, offering not only
his legal services but also help in finding an employment sponsor.

Finding potential employers apparently was Bogardus's job with Kooritzky,
according to a 60-page affidavit Shea filed last week. At least one restaurant
manager, at a Chili's in Springfield, recalled that Bogardus came in twice and
talked about hiring cooks and visa issues.

The manager's name and signature later showed up on more than 100 labor
certification applications, but she had not filed any, Shea wrote. The Silver
Diner in Arlington and an Applebee's in the Alexandria area each had 184 false
applications filed by Kooritzky, authorities allege.

At the hearing, Shea said Bogardus, the former chief fire marshal of California,
married a 28-year-old Thai woman in February 1999 but did not divorce his first
wife in Ventura, Calif. "The defendant is a bigamist," Shea said, claiming that
Bogardus created a phony Arlington divorce decree with scissors, tape and a
photocopier.

Bogardus did not speak during the hearing. Alan H. Yamamoto, one of Bogardus's
attorneys, said that Bogardus suffers from a heart condition and high blood
presure and that "he's not going anywhere. Whatever this incident is, at most
it's an aberration and certainly nothing he's ever going to do again."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              119 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 3, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME &;
JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 601 words


THE REGION

Former lawyer sentenced for fraud: A disbarred Washington lawyer was sentenced
yesterday to six years in prison for running an immigration fraud scam.

Sylvia Anita Ryan-Webster, 47, was convicted by a federal court jury in
Alexandria in May of immigration fraud, conspiracy and using false and forged
immigration documents for submitting forged labor certification applications to
federal and state agencies in Virginia, Maryland and the District, then using
those certifications to obtain visas for immigrants.

Ryan-Webster charged aliens $ 3,000 to $ 15,000 for her legal services, though
she was disbarred in Washington in 1996. The scheme collapsed when a Maryland
labor examiner noticed problems with her applications.

U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III ordered Ryan-Webster to repay her clients $
390,000.

VIRGINIA

Jail for passport falsehoods: An Annandale man, who was denied entry to Israel
after authorities suspected him and another man of terrorist intentions, was
sentenced yesterday to four months in jail for lying on his passport
application.

Mohammed Osman Idris, 24, a U.S. citizen born and raised in Northern Virginia,
flew from New York to Tel Aviv with another Fairfax County man. The two
attracted attention because they paid cash for their tickets, carried $ 2,000 in
cash and had no checked baggage or hotel reservations. In the carry-on bag of
Idris's friend was a letter in Arabic that referred to "jihad" and "traveling to
Allah."

Idris and his friend were returned to the United States, and Idris was charged
with making false statements on his passport application. The friend was not
charged. In May, Idris pleaded guilty, acknowledging that he falsely claimed to
have lost his passport. Federal sources said they found no links between Idris
and terrorism.

15 arrested in gang attack: Fifteen men suspected of being members of the MS-13
gang were arrested in Leesburg on Wednesday and charged with an act of violence
by a mob and malicious wounding, police said.

One of the men -- who are from North Carolina and Fairfax and Arlington counties
-- hit a 25-year-old Leesburg man in the right ear and shoulder with a machete,
Leesburg police spokesman Clagett Moxley said.

The fight was the first significant gang-related incident in Leesburg, Moxley
said.

The 15 men are being held in the Loudoun County detention center without bond. A
17-year-old male involved in the fight at the Glen Apartments was charged with
malicious wounding and association with a gang; he is being held at the Loudoun
County Juvenile Detention Center.

THE DISTRICT

Guilty plea in fatal stabbing: A Southeast Washington man pleaded guilty to one
count of manslaughter while armed Thursday for stabbing a man to death at an
Amoco station in November 2000.

Ned Jones, 22, of the 1900 block of D Street SE, could receive as much as 30
years in prison when he is sentenced Sept. 19. Prosecutors said Jones began
fighting with Michael Caviness at the gas station, at Rhode Island Avenue and
3rd Street NW, after Jones tried to talk to Caviness's girlfriend. During the
fight, Caviness was fatally stabbed, prosecutors said.

MARYLAND

Prince George's homicides: Tyrone Emanuel Whitman, 23, of the 6500 block of
Hil-Mar Drive, Forestville, was found shot to death in an apartment there, and
an unidentified 21-year-old man was wounded. Wayne Wheeler, 24, of the 2700
block of Iverson Street, Temple Hills, was arrested and charged with
first-degree murder in the shooting. Two other suspects are being sought.
Wheeler is being held without bond.

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              120 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 3, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME &;
JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 614 words


THE REGION

Former lawyer sentenced for fraud: A disbarred Washington lawyer was sentenced
yesterday to six years in prison for an immigration fraud scam.

Sylvia Anita Ryan-Webster, 47, was convicted by a federal court jury in
Alexandria in May of immigration fraud, conspiracy and using false and forged
immigration documents. Authorities say she submitted forged labor certification
applications to federal and state agencies in Virginia, Maryland and the
District, then used those certifications to obtain visas for immigrants.

Ryan-Webster charged aliens $ 3,000 to $ 15,000 for her legal services, though
she was disbarred in Washington in 1996. The scheme collapsed when a Maryland
labor examiner noticed problems with her applications.

U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III ordered Ryan-Webster to repay her clients $
390,000.

THE DISTRICT

Guilty plea in fatal stabbing: A Southeast Washington man pleaded guilty to one
count of manslaughter while armed Thursday for stabbing a man to death at an
Amoco station in November 2000.

Ned Jones, 22, of the 1900 block of D Street SE, could receive as much as 30
years in prison when he is sentenced Sept. 19. Prosecutors said Jones began
fighting with Michael Caviness at the gas station, at Rhode Island Avenue and
Third Street NW, after Jones tried to talk to Caviness's girlfriend.

SE man charged in knife death: D.C. police arrested Maurice Wardell Lee, 42, of
the 1100 block of Fourth Street SE, on Wednesday and charged him with
second-degree murder while armed in the recent fatal stabbing of a 38-year-old
man.

Melvin Hairston, of no fixed address, was found stabbed in the chest July 24 in
the 1200 block of T Street NW and was pronounced dead after being taken to
Howard University Hospital.

MARYLAND

Prince George's homicide: Tyrone Emanuel Whitman, 23, of the 6500 block of
Hil-Mar Drive, Forestville, was found shot to death in an apartment there, and
an unidentified 21-year-old man was wounded. Wayne Wheeler, 24, of the 2700
block of Iverson Street, Temple Hills, was arrested and charged with
first-degree murder in the shooting. Two other suspects are being sought.
Wheeler is being held without bond.

VIRGINIA

Jail for passport falsehoods: An Annandale man, who was denied entry to Israel
because authorities suspected him and another man of terrorist intentions, was
sentenced yesterday to four months in jail for lying on his passport
application.

Mohammed Osman Idris, 24, a U.S. citizen born and raised in Northern Virginia,
flew from New York to Tel Aviv with another Fairfax County man.  In the carry-on
bag of Idris's friend was a letter in Arabic that referred to "jihad" and
"traveling to Allah."

In May, Idris pleaded guilty to making false statements on his passport
application. Federal sources said they found no links between Idris and
terrorism. The friend was not charged.

15 arrested in gang attack: Fifteen men suspected of being members of the MS-13
gang were arrested in Leesburg on Wednesday and charged with an act of violence
by a mob and malicious wounding, police said.

One of the men -- who are from North Carolina and Fairfax and Arlington counties
-- hit a 25-year-old Leesburg man in the right ear and shoulder with a machete,
Leesburg police spokesman Clagett Moxley said.

The fight was the first significant gang-related incident in Leesburg, Moxley
said.

The 15 men are being held in the Loudoun County detention center without bond. A
17-year-old male involved in the fight at the Glen Apartments was charged with
malicious wounding and association with a gang; he is being held at the Loudoun
County Juvenile Detention Center.

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              121 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 22, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Con Artist Turns Up In New Fix;
Va. Fraud Case Leads To Arrest of 'Lawyer'

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 807 words


The colorful antics of Ronald Carl von Neumann, once a flamboyant "lawyer" who
dined with Washington's power set and toted his fluffy white dog everywhere,
have now intersected with a vast immigration fraud investigation and landed him
in jail without bond on a federal charge of extortion.

Von Neumann, 69, never attended law school, was never a lawyer, and was last in
the news in 1998 -- on his way to prison in Virginia for 18 months for
practicing law without a license. Before his earlier arrest, he worked for the
Arlington law firm of Samuel G. Kooritzky. And after his release, he returned to
Kooritzky's practice at the Capital Law Centers, which specializes in
immigration law.

Kooritzky and a colleague, Ronald G. Bogardus, were charged with fraud last
month for allegedly filing thousands of phony labor and immigration
applications. Authorities allege the two men made $ 11 million to $ 21 million
in an 18-month span. Kooritzky was released on bond, but Bogardus, arrested with
$ 1 million in his apartment, was jailed without bond as a flight risk.

Now, Bogardus is cooperating with investigators, and the first person he has
publicly fingered is von Neumann.

An affidavit filed last week by Labor Department Special Agent Andrew H. Shea
identified a confidential witness as a U.S. citizen in federal custody on labor
certification fraud charges, with no prior record, all of which fits Bogardus.
In July 2000, the witness told Shea, a former client filed a $ 10 million
lawsuit against Kooritzky, claiming that he had failed to get the client a visa
and had filed fraudulent documents in the process.

The witness and von Neumann hired a private security firm to investigate the
former client in an effort to intimidate him into dropping the lawsuit, the
affidavit says.

On Sept. 6, 2000, according to Shea's affidavit, von Neumann and the witness
provided a postcard to the investigator to be delivered to the former client.
The postcard had a photo of the FBI Academy on the front and a message in Arabic
on the back that said: "You made a big mistake. Please move quickly to get your
life back and save yourself from all the grief."

Six days later, the affidavit said, von Neumann and the witness mailed a second
message to the former client in English. "You face arrest and deportation with
no return," the note said. "Save yourself while you can."

At Bogardus's detention hearing July 30, Shea said Bogardus had hired a private
security firm to threaten a client who had sued Kooritzky and sent a note in
Arabic on an FBI Academy postcard. Kooritzky is not charged in the extortion
scheme. He did not return a phone call seeking comment. Bogardus's attorney,
Matthew Wartel, declined comment.

Christopher Amolsch, von Neumann's attorney, said Bogardus had a grudge against
his client.

Von Neumann was born Reufus Leinson Cail in Jacksonville, Fla., and has a record
of theft and fraud convictions dating to the early 1950s, authorities said. He
changed his name in 1962, according to a 1998 Washington Post profile, and said
he was the son of German nobility and had an Ivy League education, Marine Corps
experience and ties to the CIA.

Despite not having a law degree, he persuaded the D.C. Bar Association to give
him a bar card, and in 1993, he joined Kooritzky's firm. He also somehow
ingratiated himself into Washington's high society, chatting with senators,
lunching with judges and carrying a small, fluffy white dog named Sara around
with him.

In 1994, the Virginia Bar obtained a cease-and-desist order against him, but he
continued to take on clients from his desk in Kooritzky's office.

Finally, in 1997, Arlington authorities charged him with practicing law without
a license. He pleaded guilty. Most recently, according to Shea's affidavit, he
appears on the letterhead of Kooritzky's law firm as "Ronald C. von Neumann, MD,
D.C.," implying that he is licensed in Maryland and the District.

At von Neumann's detention hearing yesterday, Shea testified that he found two
credit cards in the name of von Neumann's dog.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton said von Neumann told his pretrial services
interviewer that he was a lawyer, that he was the illegitimate son of a former
governor of Florida and that he was German. "The man is a fraud," Morton said,
"and has been living a life of deceit and lies for 50 years."

In arguing for von Neumann's release on bond yesterday, Amolsch said von Neumann
had cancer and was not a flight risk or a danger to the community.

Morton said von Neumann had been using four Social Security numbers: his own,
one belonging to a 70-year-old Florida woman, and two belonging to dead people.
He also noted that von Neumann had been a fugitive after being charged with
impersonating a lawyer.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry R. Poretz denied von Neumann bond.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              122 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 22, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Fraud Case In Va. Leads To Arrest of Con Artist

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 725 words


The colorful antics of Ronald Carl von Neumann, once a flamboyant "lawyer" who
dined with Washington's power set and toted his fluffy white dog everywhere,
have now intersected with a vast immigration fraud investigation and landed him
in jail without bond on a federal charge of extortion.

Von Neumann, 69, never attended law school, was never a lawyer, and was last in
the news in 1998 -- on his way to prison in Virginia for 18 months for
practicing law without a license. Before his earlier arrest, he worked for the
Arlington law firm of Samuel G. Kooritzky. And after his release, he returned to
Kooritzky's practice at the Capital Law Centers, which specializes in
immigration law.

Kooritzky and a colleague, Ronald G. Bogardus, were charged with fraud last
month for allegedly filing thousands of phony labor and immigration
applications. Authorities allege the two men made $ 11 million to $ 21 million
in an 18-month span. Kooritzky was released on bond, but Bogardus, arrested with
$ 1 million in his apartment, was jailed without bond as a flight risk.

Now, Bogardus is cooperating with investigators and the first person he has
publicly fingered is von Neumann.

An affidavit filed last week by Labor Department Special Agent Andrew H. Shea
identified a confidential witness as a U.S. citizen in federal custody on labor
certification fraud charges, with no prior record, all of which fits Bogardus.
In July 2000, the witness told Shea, a former client filed a $ 10 million
lawsuit against Kooritzky, claiming that he had failed to get the client a visa
and had filed fraudulent documents in the process.

The witness and von Neumann hired a private security firm to investigate the
former client in an effort to intimidate him into dropping the lawsuit, the
affidavit says.

On Sept. 6, 2000, according to Shea's affidavit, von Neumann and the witness
provided a postcard to the investigator to be delivered to the former client.
The postcard had a photo of the FBI Academy on the front and a message in Arabic
on the back that said: "You made a big mistake. Please move quickly to get your
life back and save yourself from all the grief."

Six days later, the affidavit said, von Neumann and the witness mailed a second
message to the former client in English. "You face arrest and deportation with
no return," the note said. "Save yourself while you can."

At Bogardus's detention hearing July 30, Shea said Bogardus had hired a private
security firm to threaten a client who had sued Kooritzky and sent a note in
Arabic on an FBI Academy postcard. Kooritzky is not charged in the extortion
scheme. He did not return a phone call seeking comment. Bogardus's attorney,
Matthew Wartel, declined comment.

Christopher Amolsch, von Neumann's attorney, said Bogardus had a grudge against
his client.

Von Neumann was born Reufus Leinson Cail in Jacksonville, Fla., and has a record
of theft and fraud convictions dating to the early 1950s, authorities said. He
changed his name in 1962, according to a 1998 Washington Post profile, and said
he was the son of German nobility and had an Ivy League education, Marine Corps
experience and ties to the CIA.

Despite not having a law degree, he persuaded the D.C. Bar Association to give
him a bar card, and in 1993, he joined Kooritzky's firm.

In 1994, the Virginia Bar obtained a cease-and-desist order against him, but he
continued to take on clients.

Finally, in 1997, Arlington authorities charged him with practicing law without
a license. He pleaded guilty. Most recently, according to Shea's affidavit, he
appears on the letterhead of Kooritzky's law firm as "Ronald C. von Neumann, MD,
D.C.," implying that he is licensed in Maryland and the District.

At von Neumann's detention hearing yesterday, Shea testified that he found two
credit cards in the name of von Neumann's dog.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton said von Neumann told his pretrial services
interviewer that he was an attorney, that he was the illegitimate son of a
former governor of Florida and that he was German.

In arguing for von Neumann's release on bond yesterday, Amolsch said von Neumann
had cancer and was not a flight risk or a danger to the community.

Morton noted that von Neumann had been using four Social Security numbers.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry R. Poretz denied von Neumann bond.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              123 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 27, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Court Calls For Open Detainee Hearings;
U.S. Chastised on Immigration Case Secrecy Policy

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 944 words


A federal appeals court ruled yesterday that the press and public must be
allowed to witness immigration hearings for suspects detained in the Sept. 11
investigation, strongly rebuking the Bush administration for its policy of
maximum secrecy in the war on terrorism.

A three-judge panel of the Cincinnati-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th
Circuit concluded that the news media and ordinary citizens have a
constitutional "right of access" to deportation proceedings that was violated by
a Sept. 21, 2001, Justice Department order that closed hearings deemed of
"special interest" to the terrorism investigation.

Under the order, "The Executive Branch seeks to uproot people's lives, outside
the public eye, and behind a closed door," Senior Judge Damon J. Keith wrote in
the opinion for the court. "Democracies die behind closed doors. The First
Amendment, through a free press, protects the people's right to know that their
government acts fairly, lawfully, and accurately in deportation proceedings."

The ruling in the case of Michigan activist Rabih Haddad marked the first time
since Sept. 11 that a major component of the Bush administration's legal
approach to the anti-terrorism campaign has been declared unconstitutional at
the appeals court level, which is a step below the Supreme Court in the federal
judicial hierarchy.

The 6th Circuit's ruling is not the last word on the issue. The Justice
Department, which had argued that there is no right of access to administrative
hearings such as those conducted by immigration judges, may appeal the case
either to the full membership of the 6th Circuit or directly to the Supreme
Court.

"The Justice Department disagrees with the Court's conclusion that the
Department's guidelines for determining which proceedings should be closed are
too broad," said Barbara Comstock, a spokeswoman for Attorney General John D.
Ashcroft. "The Justice Department has an obligation to exercise all available
options to disrupt and prevent terrorism within the bounds of the Constitution
and will review today's opinion in light of our duty to protect the American
people."

Department lawyers also might wait to shape their full legal strategy until the
Philadelphia-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit decides a similar
case.

Solicitor General Theodore B. Olson has characterized the issue as "touching on
the nation's very ability to defend itself against the continuing threat of a
hostile attack from myriad and unknown sources."

Under the "Creppy memo," issued by chief immigration judge Michael J. Creppy on
Sept. 21, 2001, the Justice Department considers all immigration hearings
involving terror suspects off-limits to the press and public, including the
detainee's family.

The most minor disclosure of information could help terrorist groups understand
how much intelligence information the government has, Justice Department
officials have said, undermining the anti-terror effort.

But Keith wrote that the government had failed to show that secrecy was
necessary to protect national security in every case.

"Without question," he wrote, "the events of September 11, 2001, left an
indelible mark on our nation, but we as a people are united in the wake of the
destruction to demonstrate to the world that we are a country deeply committed
to preserving the rights and freedoms guaranteed by our democracy."

If the 6th Circuit's approach were to prevail, current and future deportation
hearings would be presumed open, unless the government could convince a federal
court that the proceeding had to be completely or partially closed to protect
sensitive intelligence.

More than 750 of the 1,200 people detained after Sept. 11 were held on
immigration charges. Most have already been deported, released or criminally
charged, leaving fewer than 100 in custody, according to the government's latest
figures.

Yesterday's ruling does not apply to another small group of detainees who are
being held as material witnesses. Only one detainee in custody in the United
States, Zacarias Moussaoui, has been formally charged as a conspirator in the
Sept. 11 attacks that took more than 3,000 lives in New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania.

Civil liberties groups praised the ruling as a strong indication that the courts
are concerned that the administration has laid claim to unchecked power in the
name of protecting national security.

"The court's opinion reaffirms that civil liberties must be protected during all
times, including times like this, and that public scrutiny of executive branch
activity is particularly important where you have a vulnerable group of people
who are facing a loss of liberty and may be without counsel," said Lee Gelernt,
a senior staff attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union.

Haddad, 41, was charged with overstaying a tourist visa. He was arrested Dec.
14, the same day that federal agents raided the Illinois offices of the Global
Relief Foundation, an Islamic charity that Haddad helped found and that the U.S.
government suspects of links to terrorists. He is being held in Chicago without
bail.

In court papers, U.S. officials have accused Haddad of ties to groups and
individuals associated with al Qaeda. Supporters, including Rep. John Conyers
Jr. (D-Mich.), who was denied access to one of Haddad's closed hearings, say
Haddad could be a victim of an overzealous government crackdown.

Haddad, joined by Conyers and four Michigan newspapers, sued in federal court
earlier this year and convinced a judge that the restrictions imposed by
Creppy's memo were unconstitutional. The government appealed that decision to
the 6th Circuit.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              124 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 28, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Dying Behind Closed Doors

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 531 words


WHEN A FEDERAL judge in Michigan ruled earlier this year that the Justice
Department's policy of blanketing its post-9/11 immigration cases in secrecy
could not be squared with the open government practiced in this country, we
offered a modest suggestion: Don't appeal. The government, however, pushed on.
In the months since, a second district court -- this one in New Jersey -- has
issued a similar ruling (which the government also appealed). And now, a
unanimous panel of the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals -- ruling in the Michigan
case, which concerns a man named Rabih Haddad -- has also determined that the
systematic closure of 9/11-related cases violates the First Amendment. "The
Executive Branch seeks to uproot people's lives, outside the public eye, and
behind a closed door," wrote Judge Damon Keith for the court. "Democracies die
behind closed doors."

No more judges should have to rule on this obnoxious policy; it's time that the
Justice Department got the message. In the wake of the attacks, authorities
rounded up large numbers of Arabs and Muslims whose immigration status had been
revealed as deficient in the context of the terrorism probe. Many of these
people surely had nothing to do with terrorism. Yet the government slapped on
their "special interest" deportation proceedings a particularly rigid set of
rules: "no visitors, no family, no press." The cases are kept off the books.
While they involve no classified information, they officially -- at least in
public -- don't exist.

The government contends that the secrecy is needed to prevent the revelation of
information concerning the direction of the investigation -- information
including who has been arrested, as well as specific facts that might be
disclosed within a given proceeding. But department officials have also argued
that the secrecy isn't total, because lawyers for the accused get full access to
the proceedings and are entitled to talk about them. As the court pointed out,
the ability of the potential deportees to communicate with the outside world --
through their lawyers, family and the press -- renders any secrecy ineffective,
as the most sensitive material can be disclosed anyway. It is hard to imagine
that those few detainees who are actually al Qaeda operatives need open
proceedings to make their capture known.

The public, however, does need open proceedings to get a sense of what its
government is doing. And the fact that lawyers can report on the subject does
not solve the problem; the public's access to important governmental proceedings
is not served by permitting biased secondhand reporting by advocates for one
side. If specific information needs to be protected, immigration judges are free
to close the proceedings. But that determination must be made on a case-by-case
basis, not in advance for an entire group of cases. As Judge Keith put it, "When
government begins closing doors, it selectively controls information rightfully
belonging to the people. Selective information is misinformation. The Framers of
the First Amendment . . . protected the people against secret government." He's
right; the Justice Department should stop litigating and accept it.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              125 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 29, 2002 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Visa Forms Are Being Shredded;
Investigative Use Seen For Failed Applications

BYLINE: Ted Bridis, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 628 words


Despite a post-Sept. 11 emphasis on sharing information, the government each
year shreds millions of unsuccessful immigration applications containing
personal details and photographs that some officials say could help in the war
on terrorism.

Many applicants are from countries the U.S. government considers sponsors or
harborers of terrorists, officials said.

Senior counterterrorism and law enforcement officials said they were unaware of
the State Department's practice and believe the information should be preserved
for potential use in terrorism investigations.

Immigration lawyers are worried about the privacy implications.

"All the people in homeland security should eventually have the capacity to sift
through these," said Rep. George W. Gekas (R-Pa.), chairman of the Judiciary
Committee's immigration subcommittee.

State Department officials said they have been using high-speed shredders in
Kentucky they call "Igor One" and "Igor Two" to destroy the records of
immigrants who fail to win entry after applying through a special visa lottery
system.

Millions apply, but only about 50,000 are picked randomly each year. Each
one-page application includes the person's name, photograph, address and place
of birth, as well as the same information and photographs for all immediate
family members. Winning applicants are asked further about the dates and
locations of any schools or jobs.

Applications from the 50,000 winners each year are retained and checked against
lists of terror suspects and known criminals. The rest are destroyed under the
State Department's rules for the 1990-era diversity immigrant visa lottery.

Edward Dickens, a spokesman for the Bureau of Consular Affairs that runs the
program, said the State Department would be willing to change its rules to share
the forms with the FBI and the CIA.

"We'd be happy to mail them to the CIA if they wanted," he said. "They're not of
particular use to us."

Law enforcement and counterterrorism officials told about the shredding by the
Associated Press said they could see an investigative use for the information.

In the most recent lottery, the government received 8.7 million applications. It
awarded visas to citizens of the seven countries the United States considers
state sponsors of terrorism -- Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria and
Yemen -- as well as Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and 178
other countries.

Recent winners included the family of Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, 41, an Egyptian
accused of killing two people July 4 at Los Angeles International Airport,
officials said. Hadayet had been under deportation orders in 1997 when his wife
won the visa lottery, allowing the entire family to remain in the United States.

A top Bush administration counterterrorism official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said the documents would be useful to investigators tracing
biographical information about people living overseas who are trying to enter
the United States.

Immigration lawyers and other experts oppose plans to keep and distribute the
applications.

Kathleen C. Walker of the Kemp Smith law firm in El Paso, Tex., said the
government should spend money instead on improving databases.

"I don't see the fact that some terrorist applied for a diversity visa 15 times
really does us that much good," she said. "How does that really help us much?"

Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell University, said
storing the information from unsuccessful applications would create "yet another
ineffective database."

"A terrorist is not going to be applying for a green card through the lottery,"
Yale-Loehr said. "In terms of trying to find a needle in a haystack, there's no
need to make that haystack that much bigger."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 07, 2002



CORRECTION: In an Aug. 29 Federal Page article about the shredding of
immigration files, the Associated Press incorrectly reported that Yemen was on a
list of seven countries that the United States considers state sponsors of
terrorism. Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria and Sudan are on the
list.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              126 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 16, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

12 Arrested for False Badges;
Illegal Aliens Got Access to Secure Areas at Miami Airport

BYLINE: Don Phillips, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A38

LENGTH: 265 words


Federal agents on Friday arrested 12 illegal aliens who falsely obtained
security badges to work at Miami International Airport, the Transportation
Department's inspector general said yesterday.

A day earlier, an employee of the identification section of the airport, Jemma
N. James, pleaded guilty to making false security badges for two co-workers.

Another employee of the same office has pleaded guilty to making false
identification documents and similar charges are pending against a former intern
in the office.

Federal sources said there is no indication of any connection between the
arrests and the hijacking of four aircraft Tuesday, two of which were crashed
into the World Trade Center and one of which was rammed into the Pentagon.

The 12 illegal aliens arrested Friday all appeared to have come from South
American countries, and they worked as passenger-service representatives,
aircraft mechanics, construction workers, cargo agents and custodians.

Eleven of them are charged with using false Social Security cards and alien
registration cards to obtain security passes that gave them access to secure
areas of the airport, including the baggage area and the ramp area where planes
are parked and serviced. The 12th arrest involved a construction worker who
fraudulently applied for a temporary U.S. Customs badge.

Eleven of the illegal aliens were discovered by the U.S. Customs Service when
they applied for U.S. Customs badges, which would give them access to additional
secure areas of the airport. The Miami airport has a history of similar
security-badge fraud.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              127 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A44

LENGTH: 230 words


TUCSON -- The illegal entrants being caught by the Border Patrol in the Arizona
sector of the border are increasingly from nations other than Mexico, officials
said.

Total illegal-entrant apprehensions in the Border Patrol's Tucson sector
declined by 26 percent, from 601,879 last year to 443,910 this year.

At the same time, the number of non-Mexican detentions grew by 42 percent, from
2,032 last year to 2,886 this year.

Most of the non-Mexican migrants are from El Salvador and other parts of Central
America.

A spot check of U.S. cities shows a widespread lack of local plans to avert or
deal with terrorist attacks, especially among small and medium-sized
communities.

The National League of Cities faxed questionnaires about local plans for dealing
with terrorism to 1,800 cities and towns after the Sept. 11 attacks.

About one-third of the 456 communities that responded in the following week said
they had no plans in place for averting or reacting to terrorist attacks. About
one in eight said they were still developing plans. Just over half said their
terrorism response blueprints were in place.

Larger cities appear to be more prepared. More than eight in 10 communities with
more than 100,000 people said they have outlined how they would handle a
terrorist threat. Only six in 10 medium-sized cities and four in 10 small towns
had such plans.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              128 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 21, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Couple Convicted Of Enslaving Teenager;
Pair Brought Nanny to U.S. Illegally

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 468 words


A Silver Spring couple was found guilty yesterday of enslaving a teenager from
Cameroon by forcing her to work long hours as a housekeeper and nanny for three
years without pay.

After nearly two weeks of trial, a federal jury in Greenbelt found Louisa Satia,
36, and Kevin Nanji, 40, guilty of charges of holding the girl in involuntary
servitude, conspiracy to bring an illegal alien into the country and harboring
an illegal alien for financial gain. Satia also was found guilty of passport and
marriage fraud for arranging unions between American men and Cameroonian women.

"It's a great day for this victim and all victims who have been held in
involuntary servitude," said Steve Smitson, a lawyer for CASA de Maryland, an
immigrant services group.

"It sends a very strong message to other victims that it's possible and it's
prudent to defend your rights, and traffickers should know that they'll be held
accountable for their actions."

Federal officials have said that thousands of domestic workers are brought into
the United States by their employers, often from their native country, and
abused. Last year, a Gaithersburg man who kept a Brazilian woman in his home for
nearly 20 years was sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison for violating immigration
laws.

Satia and Nanji were being held without bond, in part because the judge
considered them a flight risk. Sentencing is scheduled for March.

The girl, whose name is being withheld because the prosecutor alleges she also
was molested, testified during the trial that she was verbally and physically
abused.

Robert Bonsib and Timothy Maloney, who represented the couple, said they planned
to appeal.

During the trial, the teenager, now 18, testified that the couple used a bogus
passport to bring her into the United States from Cameroon in December 1996.

She said her family expected that she would work as a domestic while attending
high school.

Instead, she testified, she was ordered to work round-the-clock as a housekeeper
and nanny.

The girl ran away in November 1999 after a beating and called a friend for help,
according to court papers.

Satia and her husband were arrested in December 2000 along with Satia's sister,
Vivian, and her husband on charges of harboring illegal aliens after they
allegedly brought the young woman and another teenager from Cameroon and forced
them to work as domestic servants without pay.

Vivian Satia and her husband, Etiondem Daniel Achamorfaw, of Germantown, pleaded
guilty in February on related charges and have been ordered to pay $ 150,000 in
restitution to the other undocumented teenager.

Smitson said that both young women have temporary resident status in the United
States until May. He said they are exploring their immigration options and have
filed civil claims against the couples.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              129 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 21, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Pair Convicted Of Enslaving Housekeeper;
Md. Couple Brought Teen From Cameroon Illegally

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 469 words


A Silver Spring couple was found guilty yesterday of enslaving a teenager from
Cameroon by forcing her to work long hours as a housekeeper and nanny for three
years without pay.

After nearly two weeks of trial, a federal jury in Greenbelt found Louisa Satia,
36, and Kevin Nanji, 40, guilty of charges of holding the girl in involuntary
servitude, conspiracy to bring an illegal alien into the country and harboring
an illegal alien for financial gain. Satia also was found guilty of passport and
marriage fraud for arranging unions between American men and Cameroonian women.

"It's a great day for this victim and all victims who have been held in
involuntary servitude," said Steve Smitson, a lawyer for CASA de Maryland, an
immigrant services group.

"It sends a very strong message to other victims that it's possible and it's
prudent to defend your rights, and traffickers should know that they'll be held
accountable for their actions."

Federal officials have said that thousands of domestic workers are brought into
the United States by their employers, often from their native country, and
abused. Last year, a Gaithersburg man who kept a Brazilian woman in his home for
nearly 20 years was sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison for violating immigration
laws.

Satia and Nanji were being held without bond, in part because the judge
considered them a flight risk. Sentencing is scheduled for March.

The girl, whose name is being withheld because the prosecutor alleges she also
was molested, testified during the trial that she was verbally and physically
abused.

Robert Bonsib and Timothy Maloney, who represented the couple, said they planned
to appeal.

During the trial, the teenager, now 18, testified that the couple used a bogus
passport to bring her into the United States from Cameroon in December 1996.

She said her family expected that she would work as a domestic while attending
high school.

Instead, she testified, she was ordered to work round-the-clock as a housekeeper
and nanny.

The girl ran away in November 1999 after a beating and called a friend for help,
according to court papers.

Satia and her husband were arrested in December 2000 along with Satia's sister,
Vivian, and her husband on charges of harboring illegal aliens after they
allegedly brought the young woman and another teenager from Cameroon and forced
them to work as domestic servants without pay.

Vivian Satia and her husband, Etiondem Daniel Achamorfaw, of Germantown, pleaded
guilty in February on related charges and have been ordered to pay $ 150,000 in
restitution to the other undocumented teenager.

Smitson said that both young women have temporary resident status in the United
States until May.

He said they are exploring their immigration options and have filed civil claims
against the couples.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              130 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 29, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

How Mexico's Immigration Stance Shifted;
Brothers' Vision Guides Fox's Approach to U.S.

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan and Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1708 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Aug. 28


Andres Rozental, a top Mexican diplomat, could not believe what he saw in his
newspaper that morning back in February 2000. The AFL-CIO was saying the U.S.
economy needed immigrant workers -- which Rozental saw as a major shift in the
United States and a new opportunity for Mexico.

On the other side of Mexico City, Rozental's younger half-brother also spotted
the news and had the same reaction: The time might finally be right to press the
United States for changes on immigration policy.

Now, 18 months later, the brother, Jorge G. Castaneda, is Mexico's foreign
minister and Rozental is one of his key troubleshooters. Together, they have
played leading roles in engaging the United States and Mexico in their most
serious negotiations in decades aimed at reforming their immigration policies.

The talks, which Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox will continue when the Mexican
leader makes a state visit to Washington next week, are a rare effort by these
two nations to manage the flow of workers across their borders. "This is really
one of the first times there is a negotiation of this sort on immigration
between two countries," Castaneda said in an interview.

An unusual convergence of factors led to the negotiations, including the
election of a U.S. president from Texas who was familiar with the issue and new
U.S. census figures showing huge growth -- and new political clout -- among U.S.
residents of Mexican origin. Sensing an opportunity, Mexico for the first time
took the offensive on an issue it had long considered a political non-starter
with U.S. administrations.

"That caught people by surprise, because normally Mexico is more reactive than
proactive," said Jorge Montano, former Mexican ambassador to the United States.
"When the U.S. sets the agenda, it's about drugs. This time we said let's talk
about immigration."

While the talks involve many people in both nations, many here say they might
never have started if not for the brothers -- Rozental, who worked quietly
behind the scenes, and Castaneda, one of Mexico's most visible emissaries --
whom Fox has described as "two for the price of one."

Castaneda, 48, and Rozental, 56, share the same mother -- a Russian immigrant to
Mexico -- and deep understanding of the United States. Castaneda graduated from
Princeton in three years and earned a doctorate in political economy from the
University of Paris. Rozental holds a master's in economics from the Wharton
School at the University of Pennsylvania. He has served as Mexico's ambassador
to the United Nations, Britain and Sweden and has headed the Foreign Ministry's
North American division.

Both have followed U.S.-Mexico relations closely for decades, Rozental as a
foreign service officer and now international business consultant, and Castaneda
as a best-selling author, journalist and professor at New York University and
other American schools.

Castaneda, whose father was also foreign minister, is the intellectual author of
much of Fox's thinking about the world. A one-time leftist who has moved
steadily toward the political center, Castaneda has deeply influenced Fox's
policies with his writing and analysis of issues from immigration to a European
Union-style North American alliance.

Fox and Castaneda have traveled widely, promoting the image of a more democratic
and globally involved Mexico. Named ambassador-at-large while continuing his
consulting business, Rozental is often on the road, too, working on such issues
as relations with Colombia and Mexico's quest for a seat on the U.N. Security
Council.

Rozental's dual role has led to questions about whether his work on behalf of
the government is benefiting his consulting clients. Rozental said he has kept
the two completely separate.

The brothers have markedly different personal styles. Rozental is formal and
reserved. Castaneda is mercurial, famous for his self-assurance and sharp
tongue. They do not always agree, but they form a duet of complementary skills.

"The combination of the two of them is unique. There is no other person or team
in any other country in the world who knows us [Americans] as well as these two
people," said Demetrios Papademetriou, an immigration specialist in Washington.
"I have never been confused about how close the two half-brothers are. It's
clear to me that when I speak to one of them, I am speaking to them both."

In his private office overlooking the heart of Mexico City, Rozental agreed: "We
are each other's best friend," he said. "I don't think many people know how
close we are."

A look at the origins of the immigration proposals being debated in Washington
leads first to Rozental, who organized a binational panel that essentially
drafted them, and then to Castaneda, who has been promoting similar ideas for
years and is now Fox's point man in negotiations with the Americans. Castaneda's
frequent trips, perfect English and forceful style are making him increasingly
well-known in the United States.

Following the AFL-CIO's change of position last year, as well as a speech by
Chairman Alan Greenspan of the Federal Reserve that cited the economic
importance of immigrant labor, Castaneda said, "it began to be less impossible"
to think about negotiating with Washington on immigration. Both countries were
about to elect new presidents and Castaneda and Rozental agreed it was important
for a bilateral panel to develop a new plan for the new leaders.

As Castaneda mulled over the issue with Fox, then a presidential candidate,
Rozental began organizing a commission involving academic, church and labor
leaders in both countries. Rozental first approached Rafael Fernandez de Castro,
a prominent international relations specialist at the Autonomous Technological
Institute of Mexico, or ITAM, who signed on immediately, arranged for ITAM to
co-sponsor the work and secured funding from the Ford Foundation.

Rozental then buttonholed Thomas F. "Mack" McLarty, President Bill Clinton's
former chief of staff, at a black-tie dinner at Tavern on the Green in New York
and persuaded him to co-chair the U.S. side of the commission. And he got
Papademetriou, then at the Carnegie Foundation for International Peace in
Washington, to join the group. Carnegie became the U.S. co-sponsor.

In mid-October, Castaneda, a close aide to Fox, brought in the president-elect
for a two-hour briefing with the entire 22-member panel. A former governor of
Guanajuato state, the origin of large numbers of immigrants to the United
States, Fox was already familiar with many of the issues. "But it was extremely
important that he learn the American position and learn what was politically
feasible there," Rozental said.

The panel issued its report in February, weeks after Bush took office and just
before a first summit between Bush and Fox at Fox's ranch in Guanajuato.

The document recommended more conciliatory language on the volatile immigration
issue, terming it a "shared responsibility." It called for Washington to
legalize some of the undocumented Mexican workers paying taxes in the United
States, create more temporary guest-worker visas and improve border safety. It
said that Mexico, for its part, should crack down on human smuggling rings and
improve living conditions in the poor areas where most migrants come from.

Four days before the summit, Fox received the report over a dinner of steak and
tequila at Castaneda's home in the cobblestoned Mexico City neighborhood of San
Angel. The report essentially turned into Fox's immigration policy. Castaneda
and others present said the meeting that night became a strategy session about
how hard to press Bush on the issue. As Fox and others in the room puffed Cuban
cigars that President Fidel Castro had presented Fox at his inauguration in
December, Castaneda argued that the time was right for Mexico to press hard. Fox
agreed.

About the same time in Washington, McLarty went to the White House and handed a
copy of the report to Andrew H. Card Jr., Bush's chief of staff, and John F.
Maisto, senior director for Western Hemisphere affairs on the National Security
Council. McLarty said he handed over the report in his old office -- it was the
first time he had been back.

In their one-on-one meetings in Guanajuato, Fox told Bush the two new presidents
had a "historic opportunity" to expand on successes in trade to create a new
mechanism for safe and orderly immigration. Castaneda said Bush was "enormously"
receptive. The two presidents appointed a team led by cabinet officials to
continue the negotiations: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft for the United States, Castaneda and Interior Secretary
Santiago Creel for Mexico.

Castaneda said Bush deserves credit for moving the immigration debate forward.
He said that last year, when Fox, then president-elect, met with Bush and his
Democratic rival, Vice President Al Gore, Bush was "much more forthcoming and
much less negative than Gore" about Fox's vision for border issues and
immigration reform.

Although news of the Guanajuato agreement was largely overshadowed by a U.S.
military airstrike on Iraq that day, with a single handshake the two new leaders
agreed to attack an issue that most of their predecessors had largely ignored.

"There's clearly a change now," Castaneda said. "Up to a point it's a new era,
so for once the overdone cliche may have something to it. If Fox and Bush can
get this done, it would be an enormous achievement."

The political realities of achieving those goals are starting to set in, and any
real change may be months -- or longer -- away. There is no strong consensus in
the U.S. Congress for fast action on immigration reform. And Bush's allies have
signaled recently that the process may have to be slow and piecemeal, with no
wide-ranging changes until after the 2002 midterm elections.

Although there were hopes that Fox and Bush might be able to announce a
breakthrough next week, both sides now say a more modest reaffirmation of
intentions is likely.

"We would like some sort of conceptual announcement," Castaneda said. "If we
have numbers, we would like it even more. But we are perfectly willing not to
rush things. This is too important for both countries."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              131 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 1, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bush's Mexican Guest Worker Plan to Push English;
But White House Won't Have Proposal Ready in Time for State Visit of President
Vicente Fox

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 901 words


President Bush is developing a Mexican guest worker program that would encourage
participants to learn English but will not have a plan ready when Mexican
President Vicente Fox visits next week, administration and congressional
officials said yesterday.

Bush is considering a guest worker program that would be limited to temporary
visits, as well as a more controversial version that would provide a road to
permanent residency status for some of the 3 million to 4 million undocumented
Mexican immigrants in the United States. The administration has said it has no
intention of proposing blanket amnesty.

The president will announce his goals for the program while Fox is in Washington
for the first state dinner of the Bush administration. But White House officials
said hopes for reaching a specific agreement have been dashed by the difficulty
of working out the mechanics, and by opposition on Capitol Hill to broad amnesty
for illegal workers.

"The immigration issue is one that is a complex issue," Bush said yesterday as
he demonstrated the new White House Web site. "We've made progress on
principles."

The slow pace comes as an acute disappointment to some of those close to Bush,
who developed ties to Mexico as Texas governor. Republican officials also
believe that a successful guest worker program could help make inroads with
Hispanic voters, a top priority of the White House political apparatus.

The White House announced yesterday that the two presidents will hold a joint
Cabinet meeting, then travel to Toledo, Ohio, which has a large Hispanic
population, as a symbol of their desire to improve a relationship that some U.S.
administrations have been accused of neglecting.

"I'm thrilled at the progress we're making with Mexico," Bush said. "What you'll
see is that our administrations -- mine, and that of Vicente Fox -- are
cooperating better than any administrations in the past, on a wide range of
issues."

The English requirement would be part of an effort to build support for the
program with the U.S. public, including previous generations of immigrants.
"Bush wants the American public to hear, 'These guys are coming here to work,
not to be on the dole,' " a top Bush adviser said.

A congressional official said an assimilation requirement is seen by the
administration as "something which, in order to push this to fruition, they can
give to conservatives and others who would be reluctant to embrace the plan, by
showing these workers share our language and values."

Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) opposes a guest worker plan that leads to amnesty,
permanent residency status or citizenship. Reps. F. James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.)
and George W. Gekas (R-Pa.) have vowed to fight any reform efforts until the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is overhauled.

Bush said Fox, who is pushing for blanket amnesty, realizes that the program
"requires a willing Congress."

"We'll be discussing principles, starting with people need to be treated well
and treated respectfully," Bush said. "And then it makes sense for the United
States to help match a willing employee with a willing employer."

Democrats and labor unions have criticized Bush for focusing on Mexico, but the
Bush adviser said the administration will make it clear the guest worker plan is
"Mexico first, not Mexico only," opening the door for similar programs for other
countries.

Officials said Bush is responding to one of the criticisms of his planned
immigration reforms by ruling out an overly generous shortcut for the
undocumented workers. "He doesn't want to do anything that would put people who
may be illegal ahead of a line, ahead of people who have waited patiently while
being legal," White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said.

The congressional official said workers in the guest program might be able to
get in line for legal status by paying a penalty, or agreeing to work for a
certain period of time, but would not have to leave the country to start the
process.

Fleischer said Bush "does not want to create a program that has incentives for
people to come to the United States illegally." Fleischer said he expects some
issues will remain for discussion between the countries after Fox departs.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
opposes more immigration into the United States, said a delay in reform efforts
may cause a backlash by Hispanics and hurt U.S. relations with Mexico. "This
whole thing has blown up in the president's face," he said.

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, said the delay
could hurt Bush politically. "They're handing the keys over to the Democrats,"
she said. "People have been expecting something."

Also yesterday, Bush announced that his four priorities for the fall are the
economy; education; opportunity, including his "faith-based" legislation; and
security, including defense, Medicare and Social Security. "All of us in
Washington need to be thinking about how to grow the economy," Bush said. "And
I've laid out an economic growth plan, starting with tax relief."

Fleischer said Bush "is going to focus like a laser beam" on his four
categories. The phrase echoed President Bill Clinton, who promised the day after
his 1992 election to "focus like a laser beam on this economy."

Staff writers Mary Beth Sheridan and Cheryl W. Thompson contributed to

this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              132 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 1, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Welcoming Workers to Iowa

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 257 words


I want to point out some inaccuracies in the Aug. 19 news story "Immigration
Foes Find Platform in Iowa."

It is incorrect that there is "an experiment to recruit 310,000 foreign workers
to settle in Iowa over the next 10 years."

There is no such experiment, nor has there ever been.

It is also incorrect that the "model communities" project was "intended to
declare Iowa an 'immigration-enterprise zone' and even seek a state-specific
exemption from federal immigration quotas." These ideas have not been a part of
my administration's model communities project.

Iowa does face a workforce shortage, as was reflected in the article.
Specifically, we are facing a shortage of skilled workers.

While retaining younger Iowans and recruiting former Iowans is the primary focus
of our workforce development efforts, I also have designated three Iowa
communities -- Marshalltown, Mason City and Fort Dodge -- as model communities.
Volunteer committees in each community have been working since January to
develop plans for welcoming newcomers. The goal is for skilled newcomers,
recruited by local employers, to become a welcomed and valued part of their new
communities -- as were the many Iowans who emigrated from Southeast Asia in the
1970s and '80s.

I am very proud of the work that is taking place in these communities. I also
believe it reflects the feelings of the large majority of Iowans who want to
ensure our economic future and build on a long tradition of welcoming people to
our state.

THOMAS J. VILSACK

Governor of Iowa

Des Moines

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              133 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 6, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Requests for Skilled-Worker Visas Fell Short of Limit

BYLINE: Carrie Johnson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E12

LENGTH: 516 words


Demand for skilled foreign workers for the year that ended Sept. 30 didn't meet
the expanded immigration caps Congress set last year at the urging of high-tech
employers.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reported yesterday that it approved
163,200 visa applications filed by U.S. businesses on behalf of overseas
candidates during the period. Under intense pressure from the tech industry,
Congress had increased the number of available work permits to 195,000 per
fiscal year through 2003. Last year the limit was 115,000.

Comparing the latest figures for the H1-B visa, which covers jobs that require a
bachelor's degree or its equivalent, is complicated. This year, for example,
Congress for the first time exempted from the visa cap people who work for
colleges and universities, research institutions, and some nonprofit groups.

The latest figure also does not include about 29,000 applications that the INS
was unable to finish reviewing by Sept. 30, or 30,000 applications that were
filed between March 2000 and Sept. 30, 2000 -- after permits for that federal
fiscal year had been exhausted early, an INS spokeswoman said.

The visa issue is a source of friction between businesses and some native-born
workers, who believe that the technology industry too often looks overseas for
cheap labor rather than considering older and more ethnically diverse U.S.
candidates.

Workers who enter the nation on H1-B permits can stay for up to six years. The
vast majority of permit holders come from India and China and fill computer and
engineering jobs, according to INS surveys.

Immigration experts said INS did not release enough detailed information to draw
solid conclusions about the recent need for overseas workers.

The new data suggest to Theresa Cardinal Brown, manager of labor and immigration
policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, that "the H1-B program's still robust
and healthy."

Sandy Boyd of the National Association of Manufacturers said member companies
reported that demand for skilled foreign workers remained strong until this
summer, when the economy began its downturn. "I'm not surprised the numbers were
high, because the first three quarters were all pretty good," Boyd said.

Despite the layoffs that hit Internet and telecommunications firms,
manufacturing companies and biotechnology concerns still search for technical
employees in the United States and abroad, according to Brown and Boyd.

But Rep.  Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) introduced legislation last week that would
roll back the visa cap to 65,000 per year and limit it even further if U.S.
unemployment rates rise.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that seeks to reduce immigration, said the sluggish economy and the Sept.
11 attacks could add momentum to the argument for new visa limits, though
government officials have said none of the hijackers came to the United States
under employment visas.

"When you have a combination of recent terrorism and an economic slowdown,
that's a recipe for reexamining immigration policy," Krikorian said.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              134 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 20, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

International Visitors Staying Away;
11 Percent Drop in Visas Attributed to Attacks and Economy

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1426 words


The number of foreign citizens traveling to the United States appears to have
dropped across a range of categories since Sept. 11, with fewer coming to
sightsee, learn English or even eke out a living working illegally as a busboy
or maid.

The decline may last only a few months, but it is causing distress to families
and to businesspeople who have catered to the growing wave of foreigners
arriving in recent decades.

The slowdown is clearly visible in the Washington area, a magnet for immigrants
and tourists alike. Spooked by the terrorist attacks or discouraged by the
slowing economy and immigration clampdown, many foreign visitors have stayed
away, numerous interviews show.

"September 11 is huge. The airport was closed. Then the anthrax," said Ana Lado,
whose English-language school based in Georgetown has experienced a 10 percent
drop in enrollment. "We definitely feel it."

Celia Rivas, who runs an immigration clinic in Gaithersburg, normally sees a
different kind of traveler: recently arrived Latin Americans seeking to obtain
legal papers. Since Sept. 11, the stream of laborers has dried up.

"People are scared of the conditions this country is living [under] at this
time," Rivas said.

The decline in foreigners cuts across numerous categories:

* There was a 11 percent drop in U.S. visas issued to foreign tourists, business
travelers and students from Sept. 11 to Oct. 25, compared with the same period a
year earlier. "Basically, it's fewer people applying for visas," said a State
Department official, who said 777,498 visas were granted in the recent period.

* The Immigration and Naturalization Service reported its sharpest monthly
falloff in arrests of illegal immigrants on the southern border, with 43,013 in
October, half as many as a year earlier. A spokeswoman said the figure appears
to reflect a plunge in crossings by foreign nationals without visas.

* The number of foreign tourists, initially expected to grow 4 percent this
year, is forecast instead to dive 13 percent because of terrorism fears,
according to the Travel Industry Association of America.

* Even the flow of refugees has stopped -- though not by their choice. Up to
10,000 refugees from Africa, the Middle East and other areas who had expected to
move to the United States since Sept. 11 have been stymied as the U.S.
government conducts a security review of the program, said Jana Mason, of the
U.S. Committee for Refugees. The delay has worried the refugees' relatives and
assistance groups. "Some are in harm's way or in desperate financial
conditions," Mason said.

Susan Martin, director of Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of
International Migration, said the decline in arrivals appears to be a temporary
phenomenon. She noted that other slowdowns occurred during recessions or U.S.
conflicts but that the traffic eventually bounced back.

From 1990 to 1998, the annual number of arriving foreigners nearly doubled to
about 30 million, according to the INS.

"The trend line and the long-term prospects are clearly for continued growth,"
Martin said, citing intensifying global economic ties and cheaper travel and
communications.

But the long-term view offers little comfort to people such as Gustavo Cabrera.
On a recent day, the owner of Easy Tours sat disconsolately in his shoe box of
an office in Falls Church. Normally, the Paraguayan-born guide runs at least one
tour of Washington each day for Spanish and Latin American vacationers and
business visitors, whisking them around town in his maroon van to see "los
monumentos."

But, pecking at his computer, he pulled up Easy Travel's schedule for November:
He has given just two tours this month, and new requests aren't arriving.

"This is the only one," he said, pointing to a fax from a Spanish business group
coming Dec. 8.

Cabrera, 36, said that because of exaggerated reports in the foreign media,
international tourists are even more frightened about visiting Washington than
Americans are.

"They say we go around with gas masks here, that we're all staying inside," he
fretted. "People are afraid."

The dip in foreign tourism has hurt hotels, restaurants and shops throughout the
Washington area, which drew 1.5 million foreign travelers last year. Although
the domestic market is bigger, international travelers still spend well over $ 1
billion each year in Washington, the eighth-most-popular U.S. city for visitors
from abroad, according to the Travel Industry Association of America. In total,
about 51 million foreign citizens visited the United States last year.

Businesspeople say the flow of foreign tourists could be off for months.

"Tour groups in particular have canceled through the middle of next year," said
Jim Bischoff, director of sales and marketing for the stately Hotel Washington
on Pennsylvania Avenue, where foreign visitors normally make up about 10 percent
of guests.

The hospitality industry isn't the only one feeling the pinch. Many schools
offering short-term English programs are also suffering.

After a hijacked jet smashed into the Pentagon on Sept. 11, about 15 students
fearful for their safety left Lado International College, the school run by Ana
Lado. Most were Middle Easterners at the school's Arlington campus, she said.
Other students have canceled or postponed their plans to come study.

Lado said she hopes enrollment at her three Washington area campuses will return
to its normal level of about 330 by February. But she fears that the U.S.
government will crack down on students, since one of the 19 hijackers apparently
entered the country on a visa to study English.

"If they clamp down on all kinds of visas, it will be devastating to a business
like ours," she said.

Jon Leyland, director of the American Association of Intensive English Programs,
said he anticipates more cancellations. Many schools with semester-long programs
haven't been hurt yet, since their students were in the country by Sept. 11 or
had already invested in visas and plane tickets. Those schools are nervous,
however, about whether students will arrive for the new term, he said.

"The major impact is going to come in January," he said.

The terrorist attacks apparently have helped decrease legal and illegal arrivals
from neighboring countries. Canadian and Mexican border residents who once drove
into the United States to shop, grab a hamburger or hold a business meeting have
been put off by long delays at some crossings caused by increased scrutiny of
vehicles. The borders have been on the highest state of alert since the Sept. 11
attacks.

The Border Patrol's 43,013 arrests of people crossing illegally from Mexico in
October were 54 percent below last year's level, said Nicole Chulick, an INS
spokeswoman.

Arrests were already down one-quarter for the year, thanks to an increase in
border guards and the softening U.S. economy, she said. The number of jobless
Hispanics has jumped by more than 350,000 in the past year, and word of the
bleaker job prospects has gotten back to the villages of Mexico and Central
America, analysts say.

But the INS believes immigrants may also be wary of the border crackdown.

"The heightened security after Sept. 11 has to be having some impact," Chulick
said.

Several people helping Latino immigrants in the Washington area said fewer
people seemed to be making the trip north. Rivas, who works at the Spanish
Catholic Center in Gaithersburg, said a few dozen recent immigrants used to turn
up each month, pleading for legal help or assistance in getting work papers. Now
they're not coming, she said.

Montgomery County police officer Luis Hurtado, the Latino liaison for the
county, said he has heard that "coyotes" -- those who smuggle immigrants -- had
grown wary about making the crossing.

But Gustavo Torres, director of Casa de Maryland, a group that assists Latino
immigrants, said he is still seeing newcomers. And some immigrants said their
relatives continue to risk the border crossing, despite the enhanced
surveillance and the recent layoffs in some U.S. industries that employed many
immigrants, such as hotels and restaurants.

Eduardo Perez, a Mexican who is a legal permanent resident, pulled at a beer one
recent night in a neon-lighted bar packed with Latino men in Silver Spring. The
house painter's two nephews succeeded in sneaking across the Rio Grande in late
October -- but each had to pay $ 2,500 to a coyote. That was eight times what
Perez paid a decade ago to cross the border.

"They keep coming," Perez said. "It's the hunger."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              135 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 27, 2002 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Hiring of Foreign Workers Frustrates Native Job-Seekers

BYLINE: Carrie Johnson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1031 words


At a time when few technology companies are hiring and many have laid off
hundreds of thousands of workers, the government issued tens of thousands of
coveted H-1B visas that allow foreign workers to hold jobs in the United States
for up to six years.

American tech companies have insisted for years that the visas are essential to
their ability to hire the right people for key jobs, and they have persuaded
Congress to increase the number of visas in the H-1B program several times. But
many out-of-work American engineers and their advocates see it as a giveaway of
jobs to less-expensive foreign labor.

Government statistics on foreign workers are incomplete. But the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said this week that 28,000 skilled foreign workers were
approved for visas during the last three months of 2001, down from 50,000 during
the same period a year earlier, when employers were rushing to submit
applications before a fee increase took effect.

The 28,000 are in addition to the 163,000 applications the INS approved in the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 -- including six months when, economists say,
the recession was in full force.

Immigration analysts suggest that tens of thousands more workers entered the
country in the past fiscal year to work for research institutions, colleges and
other employers that are not included in INS statistics.

The H-1B visas -- more than half of which have been used to fill engineering,
programming and other computer-related jobs -- allow U.S. companies to sponsor
skilled workers from overseas to work here for at least six years. Employers are
supposed to certify that they cannot find qualified Americans to fill the jobs,
but critics of the so-called high-tech visa program say such rules are routinely
flouted.

Georgetown University scholars estimate that as many as 710,000 H-1B permit
holders are in the United States. About 9,500 H-1B employees work in Northern
Virginia alone, according to a report issued by George Mason University in
December.

The latest figures have reignited a debate over immigration limits, especially
among trade groups that represent minority and older workers. Last month, the
Coalition for Fair Employment in Silicon Valley began a campaign to increase the
number of African Americans in technology jobs, pointing to businesses'
dependence on foreign labor as one reason blacks have failed to advance in the
field.

"It's impacting workers of all races," said John Templeton, founder of the
coalition.

Groups such as the Black Data Processing Associates and the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA offer support to members who were laid
off in the past year and have yet to find new jobs.

"The principle behind the H-1B visa is they [foreign workers] would not be
taking the place of permanent residents," said Ned Sauthoff, past president of
the IEEE-USA. "We know that unemployment in fields that we foster has more than
doubled. There's capacity there that's not being applied."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that lobbies for reduced immigration, said of companies' H-1B use: "It's
already too much."

But firms such as Texas Instruments Inc. say that seeking overseas employees is
necessary, even during periods of slow economic growth. Paula Collins, a
lobbyist for the Dallas manufacturing company, said it needs more electrical
engineers than it can find in the United States.

Texas Instruments hired 178 H-1B holders in 2001, a decline from 225 the
previous year. That reflected changes in the economy, Collins said. The company
has brought in about 35 foreign workers through the program so far this year.

Employers such as Texas Instruments say it will take time to fill the pipeline
with qualified American candidates as demand for technology professionals grows.
Employment forecasts by the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate that the number
of technology-related jobs in the United States will rise from 3.3 million in
2000 to 5.5 million in 2010.

What's more, the H-1B program's boosters say, computer firms are not the only
ones to use the visas. Traditional manufacturing companies and those in the
financial services, consulting, health care and biotechnology sectors also rely
on overseas workers.

"There was always this misperception that the H-1B program was exclusively a
tech program," said Sandy Boyd, an assistant vice president at the National
Association of Manufacturers.

The program's critics, including Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who has introduced
legislation to reduce the number of H-1B visas, remain unconvinced.

"We're certainly in a position to rethink the idea and have them prove for us
the need was still there in light of the hundreds of thousands of people who are
unemployed or underemployed," Tancredo said.

One such person might be Chris Williams. He has a master's degree, a family of
six and a dozen years of experience at firms such as IBM and Perot Systems.

What he doesn't have is a job.

Since last May, Williams has searched fruitlessly for a management-level
position. He recently began teaching five courses at a Denver technology school,
for 75 percent less than he earned on his previous job.

The slowdown in technology spending and the waves of layoffs prompt Williams and
others to ask why companies imported so many foreign workers during the
recession.

"That's what happens when you get a mix of politics and labor and economics,"
said Williams, 38.

Williams said he's being recruited from such countries as Switzerland, Germany
and India. "Yet it's hard to get the time of day in Denver," he said.

Meanwhile, advocates for overseas workers say they, too, have suffered in the
economic slump. Amar Veda, a New Jersey computer programmer, said many of his
friends are unemployed and some have left the country because they could not
find jobs.

"See all the job ads?" said Veda, an official of the Immigrant Support Network,
a group of H-1B visa holders. "Many of them now say they want five, six years of
U.S. experience. They also specifically state the people have to have a green
card or citizenship. It's a very lamentable situation."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2002



CORRECTION: A Feb. 27 Business article incorrectly described employers'
obligations under the H-1B visa program. Employers are required to certify that
they could not find American citizens to fill jobs only under certain
circumstances, such as when the employers have previously violated Labor
Department regulations.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              136 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. to Stop Issuing Detention Tallies;
Justice Dept. to Share Number In Federal Custody, INS Arrests

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein and Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 492 words


The Justice Department announced yesterday it will no longer issue a running
tally of the number of people detained around the country as law enforcement
officials investigate the Sept. 11 hijackings and try to prevent further
terrorist attacks.

An official said the department will instead provide two, smaller pieces of
information about its campaign of detentions -- identifying how many people are
being held on charges of violating immigration laws and how many are in federal
custody.

The revised information policy will narrow the picture of the detentions in two
ways. It will omit what federal officials have described as the largest group of
detainees: people who have been apprehended by FBI agents or police on unrelated
state or local criminal charges, some of them minor. In addition, the figures
will reflect only the number of people held on INS or federal charges at any
given time -- not the cumulative total who have been arrested and, in an unknown
number of cases, released.

The decision to narrow the visible picture of the terrorism investigation comes
after senior government spokesmen have in recent days offered conflicting
statements about the pattern of detentions. It also comes as legal, civil
liberties and immigration groups have begun to protest, contending the Bush
administration is being so secretive that it is unclear whether the detentions
are constitutional.

Until now, Justice has given frequent updates on the tally, saying that 1,182
people had been apprehended as of early this week. The department has not
disclosed other basic information, including detainees' names, where they are
being held or the reason for their arrests. Nor has the department said how many
people have been released.

To try to understand the detention campaign, The Washington Post independently
identified 235 of the detainees and found that virtually all of those people
were men from Middle Eastern countries. More than half of the people found were
held on immigration charges, and only perhaps 10 had any known links to the 19
terrorists who carried out the hijackings or to other terrorist activities.
About one-third of the 235 identified detainees had been released.

Yesterday, the Justice official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said
the policy was changing because the old method had placed too much burden on
state and local police departments to notify federal officials of arrests, thus
making the tally prone to errors.

The announcement prompted louder complaints from legal and civil liberties
groups. "If it turns out what they've been giving out is confusing information,
they ought to straighten that out, rather than withholding it," said Kate
Martin, director of the Center for National Security Studies. Said Laura W.
Murphy, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Washington office: "We
should not as a society tolerate a law enforcement apparatus that operates in
virtual secrecy."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              137 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 27, 2001 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Abraham Shuns Position as Spokesman for Arab Americans;
Energy Secretary Focuses On Security Since Sept. 11

BYLINE: Edward Walsh, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 904 words


The secretary of energy's message of the day was of war and tolerance. He was in
a fifth-grade classroom at Patrick Henry Elementary School in Arlington one
recent morning, where the students were about to send e-mail messages filled
with questions to another class of students at a school in Karachi, Pakistan.

Spencer Abraham talked about what has been happening since Sept. 11.

"It's a war against some bad people," he said, "but we're not at war against
people whose religion is Muslim. We want to be friends of people of the Muslim
religion."

The Patrick Henry students were not told this, but Abraham was an apt choice to
deliver this message. He is not a Muslim, but he is an Arab American and he
knows what it is like to be attacked because of his ethnic background.

In 2000, when Abraham was running for reelection to the Senate from Michigan,
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which describes itself as an
"immigration reform organization and watchdog group," launched an expensive
advertising campaign against his candidacy. One newspaper ad featured a picture
of Abraham next to a photo of another man of Middle Eastern appearance. It was
Osama bin Laden, now believed to be the mastermind behind the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon.

The ad accused Abraham, then chairman of the Senate subcommittee on immigration,
of "trying to make it easy for Osama bin Laden to export terrorism to the U.S."

In the days immediately following Sept. 11, there was a concern that Arab
Americans would become the targets of an indiscriminate backlash by other
Americans. President Bush moved aggressively to head off such a development,
meeting with Islamic leaders in Washington and appealing for unity and
tolerance. Abraham and the Cabinet's only other Arab American member, budget
director Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., did not play a prominent role in that effort,
and some wondered why.

"We have a lot of respect for Spencer," said James Zogby, president of the Arab
American Institute. "We would like to be seeing more of him."

But Abraham and others say it was not necessary for him to play a visible role
in those first days because Bush did the job himself.

"I think the president could have used Spencer if he was going to use a
surrogate, but the president did it himself," said Nasser Beydoun, executive
director of the American Arab Chamber of Commerce in Dearborn, Mich. "I don't
think the Arab American community can effectively defend itself better than the
president of the United States can."

"I think the first phase was clearly one that the president needed to be the
principal and central participant," said Abraham, the grandson of Lebanese
immigrants who arrived in the United States about 100 years ago. "The president
was pivotal in that period."

Abraham was en route to his office at the Department of Energy when he received
a call in his car telling him of the attack on the World Trade Center.

"My reaction was the same I think as every other American's reaction -- anger
and outrage," he said.

Abraham said his first act was to order a security "lock down" at his
department's facilities. Trucks carrying nuclear material around the country
were ordered to go to the nearest secure location, he said.

"I'm very confident that within our complex, the Department of Energy complex,
that we are capable of dealing with security challenges," Abraham said of what
has happened since Sept. 11.

The nation's nuclear power plants, which are privately owned, are under the
jurisdiction of the independent Nuclear Regulatory Commission, not the Energy
Department. But he said that other private firms that are in the
energy-production and -transmission business have sought and are receiving
advice from the Energy Department on security issues.

Among steps that are being explored, Abraham said, are ways to ease antitrust
restrictions so that energy-related companies could more easily share
information about security.

Abraham said he has not lost sight of the concerns of the Arab American
community. One of those is how the tough new anti-terrorism laws that Bush
pushed for and Congress quickly enacted will be used.

In the Senate, Abraham was a strong advocate for immigrants, said Ismael Ahmed,
executive director of the Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services
in Dearborn.

"We're seeing some things nobody is happy with -- expansion of secret evidence,
erosion of immigrant rights, expanded detention of immigrants," Ahmed said. "We
assume there is a debate going on between security and freedom. But we've seen
no evidence that [former] Senator Abraham is in any other place than he was
before."

Abraham said his job as a Cabinet officer "is a little different than my job in
the Senate. One has to decide his responsibilities, one has to work within an
administration. I've got a lot of hats to wear, but I'll do my best to try to
help people in the community get their concerns addressed."

Arab Americans, Abraham added, are no different than others as they contemplate
the possibility of more terrorist attacks.

"They ride on the same airplanes, they go to the same office buildings, and they
receive mail," he said. "There's no distinction when random assaults of
terrorists take place. I think the people in the communities that I've talked to
want to be protected as everybody else wants to be."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 2001



CORRECTION: The headline on a Nov. 27 Federal Page article incorrectly stated
that Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham had shunned a role as a spokesman for Arab
Americans. Abraham and others were quoted in the article as saying it was not
necessary for him to play a visible role immediately after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, because President Bush had taken the lead. The same article
incorrectly reported that an advertisement with pictures of then-Sen. Abraham
and Osama bin Laden was published in 2000. It was published in 1999.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              138 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 454 words


President Bush, as early as next week, is expected to approve construction of a
nuclear waste facility beneath Yucca Mountain in the Nevada desert, according to
congressional and administrative sources.

Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham endorsed the project last month, but by law he
had to wait 30 days before giving a formal recommendation to the president.

Nevada Gov. Kenny Guinn (R) and other state politicians who strongly oppose the
project met with Bush at the White House yesterday and urged him to reject
Abraham's recommendation to bury 77,000 tons of radioactive waste in canisters
beneath the mountain.

"I think he really believes sound science should dictate what happens at Yucca
Mountain," Senate Majority Whip Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) said after the 25-minute
meeting. Guinn has vowed to veto the project if it is approved by Bush, which
would then throw the decision to Congress.

The Senate voted 96 to 1 to restore food stamp benefits to legal immigrants who
have been in the country for five years or more, a step President Bush had
called for that affects 260,000 people.

Access to the program, which helps poor people buy food, was denied to
immigrants under the 1996 welfare reform law. About 17.3 million Americans are
enrolled in the program, estimated to cost roughly $ 19 billion this year.

Bush proposed the restoration of food stamps for legal immigrants as part of his
budget plan released on Monday for the fiscal year that will begin Oct. 1.

Rep. Tony P. Hall (D-Ohio) has been offered the job of ambassador to the United
Nations' food and agriculture agencies, and the appointment could come as soon
as next week, government sources said.

Hall, 60, has served in Congress since 1978. He said he has been talking with
the Bush administration for several months about a humanitarian-related job. He
said he will decide soon whether to seek reelection. The filing deadline for
congressional candidates is Feb. 21.

A congressionally appointed panel said that Amtrak is irreversibly flawed and
should be broken up to give the free market an opportunity to improve the
nation's passenger train system.

The Amtrak Reform Council's report, sent to Congress, says Amtrak should be
relieved of policymaking duties and landownership. After a transition period,
private operators should be allowed to compete for contracts to run specific
routes, it says. If enacted, the change would be dramatic. Amtrak, formed in
1971, is the nation's sole provider of intercity passenger train service.

The next step is up to Congress, which is due to vote this year on whether to
authorize Amtrak's continued existence.

-- Compiled from reports by

staff writer Eric Pianin, Reuters

and the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              139 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 9, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Judge Orders Release Of Records of Closed Deportation Hearing;
Justice Department Refusing to Comply

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK April 8


A federal judge today ordered the Justice Department to release records
pertaining to closed deportation hearings for a Lebanese activist who was
detained in Detroit as part of the investigation into the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

The Justice Department still refused to provide the records to news outlets,
however, and another hearing was scheduled for Tuesday afternoon in the first
challenge by a federal judge to the official government secrecy surrounding the
terrorist investigation.

The judge, Nancy G. Edmunds, ruled last Wednesday that the Justice Department's
policy to close "special interest" immigration cases was unconstitutional. The
decision grew out of a consolidated lawsuit involving the detainee, Rabih Hadad,
and Detroit news outlets that were denied access to his hearings.

The scope of Edmunds's ruling remains unclear. The Justice Department has closed
hundreds of immigration hearings connected to the probe, citing national
security and privacy concerns, and civil liberties advocates have protested.

This morning, in a conference call with Justice Department attorneys and lawyers
representing Detroit newspapers, Edmunds ruled that the media should have access
not only to all future hearings involving Hadad but also to transcripts and
records from three previous hearings from which the press and public had been
barred.

"Had they been permitted to attend those hearings, they would have had access to
the documents," said Edmunds, according to an official transcript. She added: "I
am ordering that they be produced."

Immediately after the rulings, news outlets, including The Washington Post,
sought the documents through the office of Elizabeth Hacker, the immigration
judge presiding over the case. However, all requests were referred to the
Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review, where reporters
were told that they needed to file a Freedom of Information Act request and that
it was unclear when, if ever, the records would be made available.

Herschel Fink, an attorney for the Detroit Free Press, said he called Justice
Department attorneys in the late afternoon and was told that the matter was
being discussed by "high-ranking officials." Fink phoned Edmunds to protest the
Justice Department's failure to produce the documents, prompting Edmunds to
schedule a hearing for 3 p.m. Tuesday.

In an interview, Fink accused Justice Department officials of refusing to comply
with a federal court order. "They have more than not complied," Fink said. "They
have, in my view, contemptuously ignored the judge's order of this morning."

Justice Department officials declined to comment.

Lawyers involved in the case said they still expected the government to appeal
Edmunds's decision before Wednesday, when Hadad is next scheduled to appear
before the immigration judge.

In a related move, the Immigration and Naturalization Service today requested a
delay of at least nine days to consider whether to seek further review in the
case.

The Justice Department policy is outlined in a memo released Sept. 21 by Chief
Immigration Judge Michael J. Creppy. The memo calls for the closure of all
immigration hearings "for which the Justice Department is requiring special
arrangements." The guidelines ban the public, the press and the detainee's
family from the courtroom and require all documents related to the case to be
kept secret.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              140 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 11, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 467 words


Senate Republicans accused Democrats of racial discrimination yesterday in
delaying action on Miguel Estrada, a conservative Hispanic judicial nominee seen
as a future contender for a seat on the Supreme Court.

Senate Judiciary Committee Democrats called the charge "preposterous on its
face," noting in a statement that they had already approved three of President
Bush's four other Hispanic judicial nominees. The panel has yet to hold a
confirmation hearing on Estrada, 40, a Washington lawyer picked by Bush nearly a
year ago to be the first Hispanic on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia.

"They [Democrats] don't want Miguel Estrada because he's Hispanic," said Senate
Minority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.).

The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be dissolved under a bill
approved by a House committee yesterday and would be replaced by two new
agencies that would divide immigration enforcement and citizenship services.

The Judiciary Committee voted 32 to 2 to send the House a bill offered by the
committee's chairman, Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.). The overwhelming
endorsement was a sign of congressional discontent with the agency and with the
Bush administration's plan to fix it from the inside. INS Commissioner James W.
Ziglar wants to divide INS functions administratively but keep the agency
intact.

Chief sponsors of the new law tightening campaign finance regulations called on
Federal Election Commissioners Bradley Smith and David Mason to recuse
themselves from rulemaking to implement the law, accusing them of "inappropriate
and ill-advised intervention" to defeat the bill.

The letter from Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) and
Reps. Christopher Shays (R-Conn.) and Martin T. Meehan (D-Mass.) came as the
six-member FEC prepared to hold its first meeting on the law. By aiding the
bill's opponents during House action in February and on other occasions, "you
have impaired your ability to credibly fulfill your duties . . . to fairly write
implementing regulations for this new law," they wrote.

Smith and Mason said they had no intention of recusing themselves. Smith said
the lawmakers should help with the rulemaking rather than taking "public
potshots" at commissioners, and Mason said there was "no legal or other basis
for recusal."

House Republicans unveiled a welfare reform bill that embraces President Bush's
goals of increasing the number of welfare recipients who work and requiring them
to work more hours. The bill, which differs slightly from Bush's plan in an
attempt to enhance state flexibility, builds on the 1996 welfare reform law that
ended traditional relief programs and promoted work. The program expires this
year and Congress must renew it.

-- From staff and news service reports

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              141 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Food Stamp Mischief

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 364 words


PRESIDENT BUSH had the right idea when he proposed earlier this year to restore
legal immigrants' eligibility for food stamps, a benefit that was stripped away
in one of the most ungenerous excesses of the 1996 welfare reform bill. But if
he was serious about this sensible piece of his budget plan, it's time for him
to exert some pressure on its behalf, because there seems to be mischief afoot.
This week House Republican members of the conference committee on the farm bill,
which includes the food stamp program, put forward a much more restrictive
proposal, one that would so severely limit immigrants' eligibility that it would
have allowed lawmakers to divert to other programs most of the $ 2 billion
earmarked for the extension over the next decade. Senate conferees rejected the
proposal, and now committee leaders will have to decide what to do next. At the
very least they should endorse Mr. Bush's original plan, and he should weigh in
to help Republican members make up their minds to go along.

Food stamps, a critical part of the safety net for the poor, are the purest of
the federal aid programs: All a household needs to qualify is a low income. In
1996 Congress stripped legal immigrants of eligibility for food stamps and a
variety of other benefits; President Bush proposed to restore that eligibility
for legal immigrants who have been in the United States for at least five years.
Administration officials estimated that the change would add as many as 363,000
recipients to the food stamp rolls. It's a basic step toward fairness and
equity; conferees could improve on it by accepting language passed in the Senate
that would make immigrant children immediately eligible and allow adults to
shorten the waiting period by showing a four-year history of employment. What
they must not do is head in the direction signaled by the House Republicans,
which would have carved away at the numbers eligible by piling on one
restriction after another. Far too much of the money in this farm bill is
already going to maintain self-defeating subsidies for corporate farms: Members
should at least protect this modest effort to help keep needy individuals from
going hungry.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              142 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 9, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Dash Toward Freedom in China;
7 North Koreans Rush U.S., Japanese Consulates;
5 Caught

BYLINE: Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: BEIJING May 8


Seven people believed to be North Koreans seeking political asylum rushed the
U.S. and Japanese consulates in the northeastern Chinese city of Shenyang today,
including two who scaled a wall and made it into the U.S. mission, diplomats
said.

Chinese police captured the other five, including a toddler, but drew a formal
protest from the Japanese government by allegedly entering its consulate and
dragging two people out without permission. In a meeting with Chinese
counterparts in Beijing, a Japanese diplomat described the act as a possible
violation of the Vienna Convention and "strongly requested" that Chinese
authorities return the detainees immediately.

The incident appeared to be the latest in a series of daring attempts to gain
asylum that have embarrassed China and drawn attention to its refusal to
recognize as refugees North Koreans who slip into the country fleeing hunger and
repression. As many as 200,000 North Koreans are living illegally in China,
humanitarian aid groups say.

China has a treaty with its communist ally that requires it to return these
migrants. But U.N. human rights officials and others have protested the policy,
saying it causes refugees to be sent back to a hard-line government that almost
certainly will punish them severely.

A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy confirmed that two "intruders" scaled a wall
about 2 p.m. and entered the U.S. Consulate in Shenyang, located about 125 miles
inland from the North Korean border. He said no other details were available.

About the same time, five people rushed the Japanese Consulate. Chinese police
grabbed three of them at the front gate, and then entered the consulate's visa
waiting room without permission to seize the other two, a spokesman for the
Japanese Embassy in Beijing said.

He also said the Chinese officers ignored requests by Japanese diplomats not to
remove the North Koreans from the compound. Within hours, the Japanese
government filed a "strong protest" with China's Foreign Ministry and requested
both the return of the individuals and a detailed explanation.

If Chinese police entered the Japanese Consulate without permission, it could
constitute a violation of Vienna Convention articles ensuring the inviolability
of consular missions, the spokesman said.

There was no immediate comment from the Foreign Ministry or police in Shenyang.

The South Korean news agency Yonhap identified the five people detained at the
Japanese Consulate as relatives of seven North Koreans who sought refuge last
June at the Beijing offices of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. After a
brief standoff, the Chinese government allowed those migrants to leave the
country. They traveled to South Korea via Singapore.

In March, China permitted 25 North Koreans seeking asylum who rushed into the
Spanish Embassy to go to South Korea via the Philippines. Three other North
Koreans who sought protection at the U.S. and German embassies in April were
also allowed to leave.

But in recent weeks, Chinese police have increased security around foreign
missions in Beijing and reportedly stepped up detentions of North Koreans hiding
in the country.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              143 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 20, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 478 words


The Senate yesterday approved a compromise on the Crusader artillery system that
would give the Army an opportunity to assess alternatives for its artillery
needs before the $ 11 billion project is officially canceled.

The compromise, drafted by Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl M. Levin
(D-Mich.) and approved by the panel, was included in the defense authorization
bill for next year by voice vote.

Overriding the Army, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld announced last month
that the huge cannon would be scrapped as too big and cumbersome to fit in with
the more agile army of the future. The House included $ 475 million for the
project in its version of the defense bill, but the administration threatened a
veto if Congress tried to constrain the president's ability to cancel the
system.

The Army study would be submitted to Rumsfeld, who would decide how to spend
money previously designated for the Crusader. Crusader supporters are pushing to
save as much as possible of the project's jobs and technologies for use in
developing alternative weapons systems.

The nation's top immigration official said he is willing to consider the
economic impact on the travel industry of an administration proposal to limit
how long foreigners can visit the United States.

James Ziglar, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, agreed
in a House committee hearing to meet with industry members to address their
concerns, as long as Bush administration officials approve and the law allows
it.

The Bush administration wants to eliminate the automatic six-month stay granted
to international tourists when they arrive in the United States. Instead, it
wants inspectors to grant tourists only as much time as needed to complete their
trip, up to six months.

A Colombian guerrilla was brought to the United States to face drug trafficking
charges after Suriname turned him over to U.S. agents, the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration said.

It said Carlos Bolas, a member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia
(FARC), was taken into custody Tuesday after Surinamese authorities arrested him
for immigration violations because he was using a false Peruvian passport.

Surinamese authorities expelled him and turned him over to the DEA, which
transported Bolas to the Washington area. He faces charges in federal court.

Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski will be feted at the White House next
month in only the second state visit of the Bush presidency. White House press
secretary Ari Fleischer announced the July 17-18 visit, complete with the
fanfare of a South Lawn ceremony and black-tie state dinner, saying, "Poland has
become a friend, partner and NATO ally of the United States and is an ardent
supporter in the war on terrorism."

-- Compiled from reports by

staff writer Helen Dewar, Reuters and the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              144 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 27, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Panel Approves Welfare Bill

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 717 words


The Senate Finance Committee approved legislation yesterday to revise the
nation's welfare system. The measure would restore two forms of help to legal
immigrants and provide more money for child care -- although not as much as many
Democrats want.

The 13 to 8 vote, the first test of the Senate's preferences on one of the
dominant domestic issues of the year, made clear that the welfare law Congress
is required to renew by the fall almost certainly will require difficult
compromises between the two chambers.

Compared with a Republican welfare bill that the House passed last month, the
measure adopted by the committee would require people on welfare to work fewer
hours, allow them more time to train and look for a job, and try to reduce
pregnancy among teenagers by teaching about contraception, in addition to
abstinence.

In a sharp difference from the House, the senators voted to reverse a divisive
aspect of a 1996 law redefining the welfare system, which made most immigrants
living legally in the United States ineligible for assistance.

The committee voted to give states the latitude to resume monthly benefit checks
for such immigrants. It also approved an amendment that would let states enroll
immigrant children and pregnant women in two government programs: Medicaid and
the State Children's Health Insurance Program.

Previewing a central point of contention when the bill comes before the full
Senate, committee members struggled to decide how much to subsidize child care
for parents on welfare. Democrats are trying to gain political advance on the
issue, saying the GOP wants to compel poor parents to work longer without
helping them care for their children. Republicans counter that states have ample
money, since the number of families on welfare has plunged by half in recent
years.

The committee voted to increase child care assistance by $ 5.5 billion during
the next five years, compared with $ 1 billion in the House bill. Sen. Jeff
Bingaman (D-N.M.) plans to try to increase that to at least $ 7 billion when the
bill reaches the floor.

Committee Democrats and Republicans were divided over whether larger child care
subsidies are needed -- or budgetarily responsible. "There is a huge need for
more money. The question is, where are we going to get it in a Senate that is so
divided over what to do?" said Sen. John Breaux (D-La.). In an unlikely
alliance, Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Sen. Orrin
G. Hatch (R-Utah) said that they favored the larger child care subsidies but
that more money wouldn't fit in the federal budget.

To register his discontent with the child care subsidy, Senate Majority Leader
Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) voted against the bill. He said his committee vote
"does not diminish my commitment to getting this bill -- including strong child
care provisions -- enacted this year."

A spokeswoman for Daschle said he was working to schedule a vote for after
Congress's month-long August recess. The 1996 law expires Oct. 1, so Congress
must either pass a new version or extend the current one by then.

Despite their differences, the House and the Senate Finance bills would keep the
essential shape the welfare system assumed five years ago, when Congress
replaced a Depression-era federal entitlement to unlimited cash assistance with
a program run by states that provides poor families temporary financial help
while requiring parents to work. Both measures would continue to give states
annual welfare grants of $ 16.5 billion a year, although the Senate version
would give a few more states extra subsidies.

Yesterday's version also would require people on welfare to devote 30 hours a
week to work-related activities, instead of the 40 hours proposed this year by
President Bush and approved by the House. Both would specify that people spend
24 hours a week in jobs. And both would gradually increase to 70 percent the
proportion of welfare recipients who must work, although the Senate would enable
states to seek exceptions.

House Republicans denounced the senators' work, saying it would undermine the
centrality of work and "bust the budget." White House press secretary Ari
Fleischer said the bill "is a significant step backward from our efforts to move
even more people from welfare to work."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              145 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Man Details Immigrant Smuggling Ring

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 741 words


A massive smuggling ring that brought thousands of illegal Chinese immigrants to
the United States, often in appalling conditions, held many of their customers
under armed guard in Alexandria hotels until the full fee for passage could be
collected from the hostages' families.

Details of the ring, which allegedly worked with one of the nation's largest
immigration asylum law firms, emerged yesterday as an Alexandria man was
sentenced to nine years in prison for his role in the decade-long scheme.

Mark Kuang, 34, was initially recruited by the criminal syndicate to deliver a
sales pitch about the glories of the United States to potential customers in
China, according to his attorney, Kenneth Robinson. But Kuang soon became an
organizer, shepherding some of the customers through their lengthy clandestine
journey, serving as an intermediary with the law firm and ensuring that the
immigrants' families made full payment.

Kuang told the court that "I didn't beat up anyone or hurt anyone." But Robinson
acknowledged that his client was well aware that other members of the ring,
known as "snakeheads," were committing violent acts and threatening some of the
hostages.

Would-be immigrants paid the syndicate an escalating price, from $ 18,000 in
1991 to as much as $ 50,000 last year, to be smuggled from China to the United
States on a circuitous route that could take anywhere from six months to two
years, Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton told U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce
Lee.

"This crime was particularly pernicious because of the manner in which the
syndicate brought these people," Morton said. "They weren't free to leave. There
were armed guards. They were disciplined. They were forced to travel in unsafe
conditions. The syndicate had almost no regard for the safety and well-being of
the people."

The smugglers brought at least 2,000 Chinese nationals into the United States,
earning at least $ 60 million, according to a statement of facts filed with
Kuang's guilty plea in federal court in Alexandria. The ring, which included at
least 30 members around the world, initially smuggled customers by air through
Japan and Saipan.

But by 1994, the syndicate had turned to a Caribbean route. The would-be
immigrants -- called "ducks" by the smugglers -- would travel first by
overloaded car or boat to Hong Kong, Cambodia or Vietnam, using false documents
at border crossings. The aliens were then held in "duck houses" under cramped
conditions and armed guards for several months, while the logistics of the next
leg of the trip were worked out.

The snakeheads standing guard routinely beat immigrants who talked too much or
quarreled, Morton told the court.

The immigrants then flew on commercial flights via Europe to one of a series of
Caribbean islands, where they were once again held in duck houses until they
could board another flight to either Miami or San Juan. Once on American soil,
the immigrants applied for asylum, generally through the Porges law firm, court
documents said.

Robert Porges and his wife, Sheery Lu, who allegedly earned more than $ 13
million from their work for smuggling rings, are awaiting trial in New York.
Robert Porges' attorney, Larry Bronson, said: "My client has no knowledge [of
Kuang] . . . . Any allegations that he was involved in smuggling of Chinese
aliens are not based in fact."

But the immigrants' troubles did not end with their arrival in the United
States. Those whose fees had not been paid were held by the snakeheads in
Virginia hotels and threatened with violence, according to court documents.

Kuang admitted helping smuggle at least 100 people and detaining at least 10
such aliens in Virginia in 1999 and 2000. Once the fees were paid, Kuang or his
associates would drive the hostages to New York and release them. The government
presented no evidence that anyone was seriously hurt while being held hostage in
Virginia.

The alleged leaders of the smuggling ring, Chan Hak So and Chan See Min, have
been arrested and are facing prosecution in the U.S. Virgin Islands, according
to the U.S. attorney's office there.

Kuang, an American citizen who also works as a car mechanic, admitted receiving
$ 150,000 from the smuggling ring, according to court documents, but Robinson
told the judge he believed his client earned less than that.

"The defendant has cooperated to an extraordinary level . . . . He wasn't at the
kingpin level," Robinson said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              146 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Man Details Immigrant Smuggling Ring

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 741 words


A massive smuggling ring that brought thousands of illegal Chinese immigrants to
the United States, often in appalling conditions, held many of their customers
under armed guard in Alexandria hotels until the full fee for passage could be
collected from the hostages' families.

Details of the ring, which allegedly worked with one of the nation's largest
immigration asylum law firms, emerged yesterday as an Alexandria man was
sentenced to nine years in prison for his role in the decade-long scheme.

Mark Kuang, 34, was initially recruited by the criminal syndicate to deliver a
sales pitch about the glories of the United States to potential customers in
China, according to his attorney, Kenneth Robinson. But Kuang soon became an
organizer, shepherding some of the customers through their lengthy clandestine
journey, serving as an intermediary with the law firm and ensuring that the
immigrants' families made full payment.

Kuang told the court that "I didn't beat up anyone or hurt anyone." But Robinson
acknowledged that his client was well aware that other members of the ring,
known as "snakeheads," were committing violent acts and threatening some of the
hostages.

Would-be immigrants paid the syndicate an escalating price, from $ 18,000 in
1991 to as much as $ 50,000 last year, to be smuggled from China to the United
States on a circuitous route that could take anywhere from six months to two
years, Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton told U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce
Lee.

"This crime was particularly pernicious because of the manner in which the
syndicate brought these people," Morton said. "They weren't free to leave. There
were armed guards. They were disciplined. They were forced to travel in unsafe
conditions. The syndicate had almost no regard for the safety and well-being of
the people."

The smugglers brought at least 2,000 Chinese nationals into the United States,
earning at least $ 60 million, according to a statement of facts filed with
Kuang's guilty plea in federal court in Alexandria. The ring, which included at
least 30 members around the world, initially smuggled customers by air through
Japan and Saipan.

But by 1994, the syndicate had turned to a Caribbean route. The would-be
immigrants -- called "ducks" by the smugglers -- would travel first by
overloaded car or boat to Hong Kong, Cambodia or Vietnam, using false documents
at border crossings. The aliens were then held in "duck houses" under cramped
conditions and armed guards for several months, while the logistics of the next
leg of the trip were worked out.

The snakeheads standing guard routinely beat immigrants who talked too much or
quarreled, Morton told the court.

The immigrants then flew on commercial flights via Europe to one of a series of
Caribbean islands, where they were once again held in duck houses until they
could board another flight to either Miami or San Juan. Once on American soil,
the immigrants applied for asylum, generally through the Porges law firm, court
documents said.

Robert Porges and his wife, Sheery Lu, who allegedly earned more than $ 13
million from their work for smuggling rings, are awaiting trial in New York.
Robert Porges' attorney, Larry Bronson, said: "My client has no knowledge [of
Kuang] . . . . Any allegations that he was involved in smuggling of Chinese
aliens are not based in fact."

But the immigrants' troubles did not end with their arrival in the United
States. Those whose fees had not been paid were held by the snakeheads in
Virginia hotels and threatened with violence, according to court documents.

Kuang admitted helping smuggle at least 100 people and detaining at least 10
such aliens in Virginia in 1999 and 2000. Once the fees were paid, Kuang or his
associates would drive the hostages to New York and release them. The government
presented no evidence that anyone was seriously hurt while being held hostage in
Virginia.

The alleged leaders of the smuggling ring, Chan Hak So and Chan See Min, have
been arrested and are facing prosecution in the U.S. Virgin Islands, according
to the U.S. attorney's office there.

Kuang, an American citizen who also works as a car mechanic, admitted receiving
$ 150,000 from the smuggling ring, according to court documents, but Robinson
told the judge he believed his client earned less than that.

"The defendant has cooperated to an extraordinary level . . . . He wasn't at the
kingpin level," Robinson said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              147 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 25, 2002 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Tyson Denies Smuggling Workers

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 1515 words


Tyson Foods pleaded not guilty to charges that it conspired to smuggle
immigrants into the United States to work in its factories. The largest U.S.
chicken processor and six company officials are accused of using illegal
immigrants at 15 plants to cut costs. A federal grand jury in Chattanooga
returned a 36-count indictment against Tyson in December, after an undercover
investigation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Dozens of American Airlines pilots want the company to ground its fleet of
Airbus A300 jets until investigators determine why Flight 587 crashed in New
York City last November. The pilots say there is no way adequately to inspect
the European-made planes' tails, which are made of a nonmetallic composite
material. Airbus Industrie, the plane's French-based manufacturer, said there is
no need to look for hidden damage because tests have shown that any problems
that cannot be seen are not severe enough to weaken the tail. American said it
sees no need to stop flying the Airbus.

IBM today will release what it says is the first-ever mainframe running the
free, open-source Linux operating system. The new Z-series mainframe for Linux
is aimed at processing transactions at large businesses, is IBM's first
mainframe computer sold without its z/OS mainframe operating system, the company
said. It costs $ 400,000, a little more than half the cost of its non-Linux
mainframes.

American and America West airlines are calling back employees laid off after the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks as the carriers add flights before the summer travel
season. American is bringing back at least 400 flight attendants effective April
1. America West will recall 75 pilots from mid-February through early March.

Future college students borrowing money from the government would be guaranteed
a low rate under a measure passed by the House. Lawmakers voted to fix federally
backed student loans at 6.8 percent on loans taken out after July 1, 2006. The
rate is currently 5.99 percent, among the lowest levels since the student-loan
program began in the 1960s. The Senate approved the measure last month.

U.S. corporate pension plans that let employees choose how to invest for their
retirement had a 22 percent drop in assets in the year ended Sept. 30, resulting
in the first back-to-back annual losses since such plans were introduced in the
early 1980s, a survey showed. About 83 percent of the 401(k) plans measured in
the survey lost money, after a 0.3 percent drop in the previous year, a survey
by Pensions & Investments magazine said. The survey was based on 98 plans
offered by U.S. companies.

DaimlerChrysler said it will sell part of its financing unit to GE Capital for $
1.14 billion as the automaker concentrates on its core business. DaimlerChrysler
Capital Services finances the purchase of aircraft, commercial real estate and
ships.

Datek Online Holdings committed securities fraud and must pay a $ 6.3 million
fine, the Securities and Exchange Commission said. Separately, the U.S. attorney
said Datek agreed to cooperate in a criminal investigation of the day-trading
business the firm sold in 1998. The day-trading division was charged with fraud
and "widespread violations" of the SEC's recordkeeping and reporting rules from
1993 to 1998, the agency said. Datek consented to the penalty without admitting
or denying wrongdoing.

Japanese consumer prices dropped for the third consecutive year in 2001, a
further sign of stagnation by the world's second-largest economy. Nationwide
consumer prices fell 0.7 percent from the year before, the Ministry of Public
Management said. The ministry also said monthly nationwide prices fell 1.2
percent in December for the 28th straight month of decline.

News Corp., owner of the Fox television network and Sky Global Networks
satellite television services, said Chase Carey, its co-chief operating officer,
resigned. Carey also served as chief executive of the satellite TV unit. He will
remain a director and a consultant to the Sydney-based firm, a company statement
said.

The Washington DC Convention and Tourism Corp. said it has booked one of the
most-sought after African American conventions, following months of meeting
cancellations throughout the city after the September terrorist attacks. The
Ancient Egyptian Arabic Order of the Noble Mystic Shrine is expected to bring
about 20,000 people to its annual convention. It will run Aug. 17 through Aug.
25.

American Home Products made a profit of $ 822.7 million, after a loss of $ 3.82
billion a year earlier, when it had expenses related to settlement of litigation
over fen-phen diet pills. Sales rose 6.9 percent, to $ 3.73 billion from $ 3.49
billion.

Bausch & Lomb, the biggest maker of contact-lens care products, said the
company's fourth-quarter loss widened to $ 8 million, from $ 5 million a year
earlier, because of restructuring costs and discontinued operations.

Bristol-Myers Squibb had a fourth-quarter loss because of costs associated with
its $ 7.8 billion acquisition of DuPont Co.'s pharmaceutical business and $ 1
billion purchase of a 20 percent stake in biotechnology company ImClone Systems.
Bristol-Myers had a loss of $ 1.05 billion, compared with a profit of $ 1.07
billion in the year-earlier period. Sales rose 10 percent, to $ 5.3 billion from
$ 4.8 billion.

Dow Jones, publisher of the Wall Street Journal, turned a fourth-quarter profit
despite a 23 percent decline in sales, to $ 431.5 million. Profit was $ 2.13
million, compared with a loss of $ 274.3 million in the year-earlier quarter.

Eastman Kodak, the largest photography company, had its first quarterly loss in
five years on job-cutting expenses and said it expects a recovering U.S. economy
to bolster results in the second half. Kodak had a fourth-quarter loss of $ 206
million as sales declined 5.6 percent, to $ 3.56 billion.

Eli Lilly said fourth-quarter profit fell 25 percent because of competition from
generic versions of Prozac, once the top-selling antidepressant. Net income fell
to $ 575.4 million, from $ 767.3 million. Sales fell 5 percent, to $ 2.83
billion.

EMC, maker of information storage systems, software, networks and services,
posted a narrower-than-expected loss of $ 70.2 million, while sales fell 42
percent, to $ 1.51 billion.

Georgia-Pacific, the second-biggest U.S. forest-products company, had a
fourth-quarter profit of $ 34 million before $ 221 million in costs to cover
asbestos lawsuits over the next 10 years. Those results compared with a loss
from continuing operations of $ 187 million a year earlier. The asbestos expense
wasn't included in the results because the company isn't sure what the final
figure will be. The expense will be recorded in the company's annual filing.

JDS Uniphase, a maker of optical-networking equipment, said its fiscal
second-quarter loss widened to $ 2.1 billion, from $ 895 million a year earlier.

Kimberly-Clark fourth-quarter net income fell 21 percent as the maker of Huggies
diapers and Kleenex tissue closed five plants and laid off 1,400 workers. Net
income fell to $ 358.3 million, from $ 455.7 million a year earlier. Excluding
the plant closings and other charges, the paper-goods company said its operating
profit slipped 8.5 percent.

McDonald's profit fell for the fifth straight quarter, sliding 40 percent, to $
271.9 million. Sales rose 5.1 percent, to $ 3.77 billion.

Qualcomm, which licenses patents for mobile phones, said it earned $ 139.2
million in its fiscal first quarter. It posted a loss of $ 419.2 million a year
earlier.

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings said fourth-quarter profit fell 11 percent, to $
89 million. Sales rose 4 percent, to $ 2.09 billion.

SBC Communications, the nation's second-biggest regional telephone company, said
fourth-quarter profit fell 3.9 percent, to $ 1.25 billion. Sales slipped 2.5
percent, to $ 11.9 billion.

Safeway's fourth-quarter profit rose 28 percent, to $ 384.1 million. Sales
increased 6.7 percent, to $ 10.7 billion.

Schering-Plough said fourth-quarter profit fell 74 percent as the drugmaker took
reserves to pay as much as a $ 500 million fine to resolve manufacturing
problems that delayed U.S. approval of the successor to its top-selling Claritin
allergy drug. Net income fell to $ 143 million, from $ 571 million a year
earlier. Sales rose 2.2 percent, to $ 2.47 billion.

Starbucks reported a 40 percent jump in fiscal first-quarter earnings, to $ 68.4
million, helped by a $ 13.4 million one-time gain from selling a portion of the
company's investment in Starbucks Coffee Japan.

Tribune Co., publisher of the Los Angeles Times and other newspapers, said its
fourth-quarter profit more than doubled, to $ 106.8 million, aided by a $ 74.9
million pretax gain from the sale of AOL Time Warner stock. Revenue fell 13
percent, to $ 1.32 billion, because of lower advertising sales.

Union Pacific, owner of the largest U.S. railroad, said fourth-quarter earnings
rose 75 percent, to $ 275 million.

Compiled from reports by the Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Dow Jones News
Service and Washington Post staff writers

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 05, 2002



CORRECTION: Datek Online Holdings Corp. did not admit wrongdoing when it settled
a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint involving a subsidiary the
company sold in 1998. A Business in Brief item Jan. 25 described the settlement
incorrectly.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              148 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Groups Find Way to Get Names of INS Detainees;
Presentations on Rights Planned in N.J. Facilities

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 790 words


Two New Jersey civil rights groups have taken advantage of an existing
Immigration and Naturalization Service policy to try to collect the names of
potentially hundreds of people detained in the government's post-Sept. 11
dragnet, effectively getting around the Justice Department's blackout on
information about the detainees.

While authorities still refuse to provide a list of the detainees or any
information about their cases, they say they are powerless to prevent the
American Civil Liberties Union and the American Friends Service Committee from
holding legal presentations in INS facilities to any detainee who would like to
come.

These "Know Your Rights Presentations" are a long-standing tradition at many INS
facilities. Usually dozens or even hundreds of detainees show up, if only to
relieve the boredom of prison routine, or to get free legal advice. Unlike
criminal defendants, INS detainees have no right to legal representation, and
historically about 90 percent of immigrants do not get any.

Until now, finding out information about the post-Sept. 11 detainees held in INS
custody has been a slow and haphazard process. About 112 detainees are held on
federal criminal charges and only their names are public.

But the names of the 725 detainees held in INS custody have been kept secret,
and an INS facility would allow only interested parties to meet with them if
they already had the detainee's name, say from a lawyer or relative.

But these mass meetings would allow the legal groups to easily compile a list of
dozens of detainees, and release them to anyone who was interested. About 460
detainees are still in INS custody, and civil rights groups have estimated that
a high percentage of those are held in New Jersey facilities.

The rest of the 725 have been deported or released.

In hearings and news conferences over the last four months, Attorney General
John D. Ashcroft has stood firm in his refusal to release the identities of the
detainees, despite repeated requests from senators, journalists and civil rights
groups.

To defend his position, Ashcroft has cited privacy acts, the Patriot Act and the
urgency of the war against terrorism.

"When the United States is at war I will not share valuable intelligence with
our enemies," Ashcroft said at a news conference in late November. "We might as
well mail this list to Osama Bin Laden's al Qaeda network as to release it."

But yesterday Justice Department spokesman Dan Nelson said officials would not
try to prevent the groups from entering the New Jersey facilities.

"We regularly allow organizations to give these legal presentations at INS
facilities," he said.

The INS policy has existed for years and applies to any detention facility in
the United States. It is unclear why immigrant advocacy groups have not taken
advantage of it sooner to get more information about post-Sept. 11 detainees.

The two New Jersey groups say they had earlier requested and were denied access
to the Hudson County Correctional Center and the Passaic County Jail, two
facilities with contracts to house INS detainees.

But Kerry Gill, INS spokesman in Newark, said they were denied access to the
facilities because they declined to follow the proper procedure, which requires
them to make the request by letter. The two groups sent a letter on Dec. 28, and
they received routine approval about two weeks later.

The national ACLU sued on Dec. 5 to get the Justice Department to release
information about all the detainees in INS custody.

Yesterday's development was helpful but "does not obviate the government's need
to lift the veil of secrecy," said Emily Whitfield, spokeswoman for the national
ACLU. "The government still has an affirmative obligation to tell us who is
being held where and on what charge."

Advocacy groups have claimed during the four-month terrorist investigations that
the government's excessive secrecy has eroded the legal rights of the detainees,
particularly those in INS custody.

Only one detainee, Zacarias Moussaoui, has been charged in connection with the
attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

Advocates have long suspected that the rest of the INS detainees are held on
minor violations of immigration law, which in a less sensitive time would have
attracted no notice, and are now still being held in strict secrecy although
there is no serious suspicions of their connections to terrorism.

In INS courts, the Justice Department has invoked what has come to be known as
the "mosaic" rationale, telling INS judges that detainees should remain in
custody because although their cases may not look suspicious now, they may form
part of a larger picture of terrorist activity once more evidence is unearthed.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              149 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 14, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Detainees' Legal Limbo Decried;
Many Held in Sept. 11 Probe Denied Basic Rights, Group Says

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK March 13


Large numbers of immigrants detained since the Sept. 11 attacks continue to be
held in a bewildering legal limbo, often without access to family members,
lawyers or even basic information about why they are in jail, a human rights
organization has concluded.

The 40-page report of Amnesty International, to be released today, is the most
comprehensive account of the treatment of the Sept. 11 detainees. It states that
a "disturbing level of secrecy" continues to surround the detentions and
suggests "that a significant number of detainees continue to be deprived of
certain basic rights guaranteed under international law."

In some cases, according to the report, detainees charged with minor immigration
violations have been held in solitary confinement for up to 23 hours a day,
conditions that "appear to be unnecessarily harsh and to constitute cruel,
inhuman and degrading treatment." In others, the report states, detainees have
been held for weeks and even months before being charged with a crime or an
immigration violation.

"These are really issues that cut to the heart of our American understanding of
justice, to say nothing of international standards," said William F. Schulz,
executive director of Amnesty International USA.

Karen Kraushaar, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said she could not comment on the specific concerns raised by the Amnesty report
until she has seen it. However, she said the detentions continue to reflect the
the priority the government is giving to the prevention of further terrorism.

"Anyone who is in our custody has violated our immigration laws," said
Kraushaar. "We have very clearly spelled out standards for how people should be
detained and how they should be treated while in our custody, and we hold
ourselves to those standards."

Authorities have detained about 1,200 people, mostly Arabs and South Asians, in
the United States as part of the investigation into the attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon. On Feb. 15, the Justice Department said 327
people were still being held on charges of immigration violations. Another group
of more than 100 foreign nationals have been charged with criminal conduct
unrelated to the attacks. Last week, The Washington Post reported that the
government has been deporting and releasing hundreds of Pakistani detainees --
Pakistan being the country with the largest number of citizens held in the
probe.

The Amnesty report was based on months of interviews with immigration attorneys,
detainees and their relatives, as well as on visits to two New Jersey jails
where Sept. 11 detainees continue to be held. Most of the organization's
concerns have been raised in news accounts of the massive detentions that
followed the attacks. Amnesty said it withheld the names of many detainees out
of fear of "repercussions from other inmates or authorities" and out of concern
about the security of the detainees' families.

According to the report, the lack of information and difficult conditions have
reduced many detainees to despair.

"I have now been in solitary confinement for three and a half months and by the
time of the next hearing I will have been here for four months," the report
quotes a letter from a detainee held at the Metropolitan Detention Center in
Brooklyn. "If it hadn't been for the Koran and prayer, I would have lost my mind
or had a nervous breakdown. . . . Why am I imprisoned? Why in solitary
confinement? And why under maximum security measures? I have many questions and
no answers. What are they accusing me of? Nobody knows."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              150 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 11, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Employers Look Beyond Borders for Prospects;
Use of Temporary Visa Programs Booming

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1310 words


Walk through the Hilton Washington and glimpse America's new temporary
workforce.

Thomas Harlander, a young German on a three-year professional visa, is the
beverage manager. At the front desk, guests may be checked in by Yuka Okuda, a
Japanese student intern, or her Belgian or French colleagues, recent
hotel-school graduates here on 18-month trainee visas.

Out at the pool, two Czech lifeguards helped keep an eye on swimmers this
summer. And until recently, the pianist was a Costa Rican on an arts visa.

Even as the American and Mexican governments negotiate a new guest-worker
program, the number of such temporary workers in the United States has been
swelling. Although still a tiny part of the labor force, they have become
fixtures in workplaces that have had labor shortages, including resorts, schools
and technology firms.

"Running just a newspaper ad isn't going to fill your positions. You have to
look at different outlets" -- some an ocean away, said Robin Sterrett, the
Hilton Washington's director of human resources.

The U.S. government has offered temporary work visas for decades. But many
companies saw the programs as too time-consuming and expensive.

That has changed, as employers in Washington and across the country faced
rock-bottom unemployment levels during the economic boom. In the past six years,
the number of visas issued for the three main U.S. guest-worker programs has
tripled, reaching about 240,000 in fiscal 2000, according to U.S. government
figures. Those visa programs are H-1B for professionals, H-2A for farmworkers
and H-2B for nonagricultural laborers.

In addition, a growing number of temporary workers are arriving through a
potpourri of other visa programs. In the Washington area, for example, Canadians
with temporary North American Free Trade Agreement visas are filling
engineering, scientific and management-consulting jobs. Hotels employ scores of
young foreigners on cultural-exchange and other visas. There is even a visa to
promote the Irish peace process; among those doing their part for peace is the
swanky Andre Chreky Salon on K Street NW, which hired an Irish employee through
the program.

"I think employers are looking to these programs because they can't fill the
jobs with American workers," said Dawn M. Lurie, chairman of the local chapter
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Lurie and other proponents of an expanded program of temporary workers argue
that the U.S. economy needs them for industries with chronic personnel
shortages. Despite the economic slowdown, which pushed unemployment to 4.9
percent last month, demand for the temporary workers appears to have stayed
relatively strong.

Critics say such programs harm U.S. workers by lowering wages. And some claim
that the foreign workers are vulnerable to poor treatment.

"The problem with [the idea of] temporary workers is it views workers as things,
factors in production," said Steven A. Camarota, research director of the
Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies.

"If we have a tight labor market, we bring folks in. Then what's the implication
when we have a slack market. . . . Do we engage in mass expulsions?" Camarota
said.

The biggest temporary-work program, the H-1B, has lost some of its popularity
among foreigners as the slump in the computer industry has led to widespread
layoffs, leaving some facing the prospect of being forced to return to their
home country.

Nonetheless, the program remains popular. Last year, Congress raised the ceiling
for such professional visas from 115,000 to 195,000. As of late July, 138,000
H-1B visas had been approved and 39,000 applications were pending, according to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Some laid-off high-tech workers have found other jobs. And employment experts
say an increasing number of non-computer firms appear to be taking advantage of
the visas -- like drugstores, for example, desperate for pharmacists.

The Hilton Washington began looking abroad a few years ago. The hotel had always
managed to fill low-skilled jobs, such as housekeeping positions, locally by
recruiting in the region's burgeoning immigrant population. But suddenly it
couldn't find entry-level managers.

"There was a gap. Because the college kids would say, 'Why should I go work for
you for X dollars when I can be a dot-commer and have a Porsche and condo by the
age of 25?' " recalled William H. Edwards, the general manager.

So the Hilton turned to a program under the J-1 cultural-exchange visa that
allowed foreign hotel-school graduates to train in the United States for up to
18 months. The Hilton has been so impressed by its temporary managers that it
continues to hire several each year, even though it's now easier to find U.S.
workers.

Several temporary employees said they were happy to be at the Hilton.

"Working and living here definitely give you a different perspective," said
Harlander, 27, of Munich, the beverage manager. He said he has gained valuable
work experience and learned a new business culture. "In Germany, you have this
superior feeling. Here, even your boss you call by his first name."

The Hilton has also hired part-time workers already in the United States on
temporary visas, including the Czech lifeguards who were contracted for the
summer by a local pool-management company and wanted to moonlight.

The temporary workers have been especially visible in a few U.S. sectors
struggling to find employees, including tourism and education.

In Ocean City, Md., for example, about 2,500 young foreigners held summer jobs
this year -- one out of every five seasonal workers. "We rely heavily on that,"
said Linda Wright, executive director of the city's chamber of commerce. Most of
the foreigners were students from Eastern and Western Europe on four-month
cultural-exchange visas. Nationally, such summer work-travel visas, part of the
J-1 program, increased from 20,752 in 1996 to 56,105 last year, according to the
State Department.

School districts have also increasingly begun to look overseas to solve teacher
shortages. New York City hired about 700 foreign teachers for this school year;
Chicago, Atlanta, Los Angeles and other cities have also recruited overseas.

Locally, several Northern Virginia counties have hired teachers on renewable
one-year J-1 cultural-exchange visas, through the North Carolina-based Visiting
International Faculty Program. Among them is Prince William County, which
recently brought in 15 teachers from Australia, Britain, Chile and other
countries.

"It helps us meet a need for some of the very critical shortage areas we have,
such as math, science and foreign languages," said Rene Campbell, the county
supervisor for secondary-school personnel. The school system also values the
cultural knowledge the teachers share, she said.

Many employers complain that the temporary-worker system is still cumbersome,
involves high fees and is slow-moving. Representatives of industries like
restaurants and nursing homes are unhappy that most of the guest-worker visas
are reserved for college graduates, not the lower-skilled workers they need.

They have formed a group called the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition,
which strongly supports negotiations by the U.S. and Mexican governments that
could result in hundreds of thousands more Mexicans coming each year to the
United States as temporary workers.

John Gay, co-chairman of the coalition, predicted that the need for workers will
continue. Headlines about job losses have tended to focus on professionals shed
by high-tech, telecommunications and manufacturing firms, he said.

"They're not coming to work for us. They're not going to nursing homes,
construction sites, restaurants. They're seeking employment in their own
industries," he said. "You have to look at it sector by sector."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              151 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 3, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Global Migration Trends Reflect Economic Options

BYLINE: Kirstin Downey Grimsley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 589 words


As business moves around the globe, workers are on the move as well, leaving
their home countries to escape economic dislocation or search for better
opportunities, according to a new analysis of migration trends by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

The agency reports that while family reunification remains an important reason
for people to move abroad, people are just as likely to move for employment
reasons today. Latin Americans, Africans and Asians continue to move to the
United States, Australia and Canada, but they are increasingly moving to Europe
as well, particularly the United Kingdom, Norway, Portugal and Belgium,
according to the report.

In some cases, employers are recruiting abroad, the report said. In particular,
the United States and Europe have sought information technology workers from
overseas. But other employers, particularly in areas where the birth rates among
the native-born are falling, have eagerly recruited foreign workers for
agricultural, hospitality and household work.

Some cities and countries are proving particularly attractive to immigrants,
either because of the international work done there or because their governments
have a history of welcoming foreigners. In Brussels, for example, the home of
the European Union, the workforce is almost 27 percent foreign, and in London it
is about 23 percent.

In the United States, about 11 percent of the workforce was born outside of the
country.

The OECD's report also said that many countries are admitting foreign workers
temporarily instead of permanently. In the United States, for example, overall
immigration has fallen in the past three years but changes in immigration law
permit many more highly skilled technical workers to come here for up to six
years. Similar changes have taken place in Germany, France, the United Kingdom
and Australia.

Many governments have taken steps to clamp down on employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants who arrive and then stay.

In Greece, where more than 1 million Albanians were turned away at the border in
recent years, "combatting illegal entries is one of the leading aims" of the
government, the report said. Hungary also is seeking to impose new regulations
on foreign workers and their employers, including requiring a work permit. That
nation has been flooded with foreign workers posing as tourists, brought into
the country on their way to other destinations through organized traffic in
illegal immigration.

The OECD report noted a particularly sharp increase worldwide among women moving
elsewhere for jobs. In the past, women typically moved to follow husbands or
parents overseas, but now many women are moving for personal financial reasons.

The proportion of women immigrating to the United States has increased by about
half a percentage point per year annually since 1990, the report said, and women
now make up about 54 percent of immigrants here.

Meanwhile, women from the Philippines, Indonesia, Peru and Eastern Europe are
heading to Japan and Korea in search of jobs as household workers or in the
health-care field.

The report noted a dark side to these statistics, saying that some of the
increases may be attributable to trafficking of women by criminals. "Organized
prostitution rings and illicit immigration rackets are at the root of a modern
form of slavery, affecting women in particular," the report said, urging that
"international measures of cooperation need to be stepped up to counter and
prevent such exploitation."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              152 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 8, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Pentagon Seeks Curb On Foreign Workers;
Halting Technical Hires May Have Major Impact

BYLINE: Carrie Johnson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 742 words


Non-U.S. citizens would be barred from filling an array of technology jobs if a
new Defense Department proposal takes hold, a change that could have a dramatic
impact on government workers and thousands of contract employees across the
nation.

If approved, the plan would affect untold numbers of Defense Department staffers
working on "sensitive but unclassified" projects as well as legions of workers
at technology firms with contracts to maintain agency databases or revamp
military e-mail systems.

A Defense Department spokesman said yesterday that the change is not yet a "done
deal" but that the rule could be signed within the next 60 to 90 days. The
agency is not certain how many of its own employees would be affected or what
the potential cost would be. The U.S. Navy is studying the scope of the
proposal, the spokesman said.

The text of the proposed rule has not been released publicly. It comes in the
wake of increasing concern about national security after last year's terrorist
attacks. Non-U.S. citizens already lack access to classified information, and
agencies from the Energy Department to the Justice Department have taken steps
to protect sensitive electronic information.

"As we review our security requirements as a nation, we need to ensure all
people with access to sensitive [information technology] systems are cleared and
properly vetted for the material to which they have access," Pete Nelson, the
Defense Department's deputy director for personnel security, said in a
statement.

The Washington area is home to scores of businesses, attracted by the
government's open purse strings, that would be affected by such a change in
rules. Spending by the federal government amounted to $ 28.6 billion in 2000 --
nearly a third of the area's gross regional product, according to a report by
the Greater Washington Initiative.

Technology leaders and government analysts said the proposal, first reported
yesterday by the Los Angeles Times, merits close scrutiny because of its
potentially enormous impact.

During boom times, technology and consulting firms actively sought thousands of
overseas workers with specialized skills. As many as 9,500 foreign-born people
entered the country on temporary visas to work in Northern Virginia alone,
according to a 2001 study by George Mason University. One lawyer noted that the
Defense Department itself has used a visa program to recruit expert scientists
and technicians.

"You've got a recipe for a major workforce meltdown if you prevent non-U.S.
citizens from ever being involved in working with [those] materials," said Paul
Light, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who studies federal employment
trends. "You're creating a nightmare for the contractor."

Dick Hart, a senior manager for recruiting and staffing at CACI International
Inc., an Arlington technology firm that does business with the Justice and
Defense departments, said non-U.S. citizens made up just 3 percent of his
company's workforce. Those employees handle commercial rather than government
assignments.

But, Hart said, the Defense plan would make it more difficult to hire eligible
workers and thus perhaps drive up labor costs.

"Employees will understand they're a hot commodity and ask for higher salaries,"
Hart said. "It's going to exacerbate" the already tight market for workers who
possess clearances to view secret information.

The plan also could make it difficult for foreign-owned companies and smaller
contractors to do business with the government, observers said, because of the
problem of dividing their employment pools between citizens and noncitizens, who
would be ineligible to view documents or maintain government databases.

The proposal could prove counterproductive to government interests, said D.C.
immigration lawyer Michael Maggio.

"They're shooting themselves in the foot," Maggio said. "There's just a vast
number of noncitizens working for the Department of Defense and other
contractors with unique and special skills who will be unable to perform
services for the U.S. government."

Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America,
said more public discussion is needed to help balance national security and
economic concerns.

"The American people should not suddenly become xenophobic because of Sept. 11,"
Miller said. "This is not a minor change in some personnel book. The
implications are clearly much broader than that."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              153 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

D.C. Awards Contract Despite Labor Probe;
Allegations That Landscaping Firm Cheated Mexican Workers Called Irrelevant

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 844 words


Four months after the U.S. Labor Department began investigating whether a Prince
George's County landscaper cheated Mexican workers out of more than $ 100,000
due them for working in District parks, his application to import another group
of foreign workers has been turned down.

But Jeffrey L. Jones, owner of Lawn Restoration Service Inc., has obtained
another lucrative contract with the District government.

On March 6, Jones signed a $ 729,939 contract to have his company maintain
District parks and recreation centers from April to Sept. 30, said Janice Bolt,
a spokeswoman for the District's Office of Contracting and Procurement.

Bolt said Jones's problems with the Labor Department were not considered in the
competitive bidding process.

A conflict between a contractor and his employees would be an issue for Labor
Department officials, not the District, Bolt said.

Neither Jones nor his Washington attorney, Billy L. Ponds, returned telephone
calls last week. A woman who answered the phone at Jones's Upper Marlboro office
said Jones would not comment. In a brief interview last fall, Jones denied
breaking any laws.

The conflict between Jones and the Labor Department remains unresolved.

In a two-page letter dated March 28, Labor officials informed Jones that his
application for a new batch of guest-worker visas was being denied because their
investigators allege that Jones underpaid the guest workers he brought in from
Mexico last spring.

The letter said Labor investigators allege that Jones did not pay his 23 guest
workers the required minimum of $ 9.05 an hour and $ 13.58 an hour for overtime;
did not pay them for time spent training for their landscaping jobs; and did not
pay them for travel time between Jones's company and job sites.

Labor investigators also allege that Jones did not allow his workers a one-hour
lunch break yet routinely deducted an hour's worth of wages for a meal period.

In addition, Labor investigators allege that Jones deducted $ 100 from the
paychecks of 11 workers he fired in July and told them that the money was a
deposit until the men provided their Social Security numbers.

Because the workers came into the country with H-2B visas, they are not allowed
to get Social Security numbers, so the deduction was not legal, Labor
investigators allege.

The letter does not say how much money Labor investigators believe Jones owes
the workers.

Jones has told Labor officials that he disagrees with the findings of the
federal investigators, according to a Labor official who spoke on the condition
of anonymity.

Many cases in which Labor officials investigate allegations of an employer
shortchanging workers end in settlements.

Because Jones is disputing the investigators' findings, federal officials may
file a civil lawsuit against Jones seeking the wages they say he owes the
workers, the source said, adding that Labor officials were surprised that Jones
submitted an application to bring in more workers while he was being
investigated for his treatment of the workers he recruited last year.

The executive director of a Silver Spring organization that advocates for fair
treatment of immigrant workers decried Jones's award of another District
government contract.

"It is appalling that Jeffrey Jones continues to be rewarded with government
contracts after abusing vulnerable guest workers," said Gustavo Torres,
executive director of CASA of Maryland.

Jones's employees perform landscaping work -- mowing, weeding and hedging. To
obtain the 23 guest-worker visas last year, Jones told the Labor Department that
he was unable to find U.S. residents to do the work.

In November, The Washington Post reported that Jones had hired a firm to recruit
23 Mexican workers.

Last April, brimming with optimism, the men piled into a bus in Veracruz and
rode nearly 3,000 miles over three days and nights to reach Washington.

The workers said Jones promised to pay them $ 8 an hour; in his 2001 application
to bring in the workers, Jones told the Labor Department that he would pay them
$ 9.05 an hour.

The workers said Jones told them that they would share two-bedroom apartments,
four men per apartment.

But when they arrived in the District last April, Jones put them into the
unventilated metal cabin of his commercial truck and drove them to a sparsely
furnished four-bedroom house in Anacostia that had no air conditioning.

Jones docked each man's pay $ 175 a month to live in the house. Most of the men
slept on the floor.

Jones had promised the men that they would be employed from April through
December. But in May, a little more than a month after the workers arrived,
Jones fired a dozen of them and told them he was throwing them out of the house.

The owner of the house allowed the men to stay.

In October, when Jones was interviewed by a Post reporter about allegations that
he was abusing the guest workers, he fired all but one of his remaining workers.
Then, the workers said, Jones told them he could not give them their final
paychecks because of the anthrax scare.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              154 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 25, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

D.C. Reconsiders Landscaper's Contract;
U.S. Investigates Allegations of Firm's Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 564 words


District officials are reviewing their decision to award a $ 729,939 contract to
a Prince George's County landscaper under investigation by the U.S. Labor
Department for allegedly cheating 23 Mexican workers out of more than $ 100,000
due them for work in city parks last year.

The contract, signed March 6, is with Jeffrey L. Jones, owner of Lawn
Restoration Service Inc., for maintenance of District parks and recreation
centers from April to Sept. 30. The Labor Department notified Jones in March 28
that his application for visas for workers this year was being denied because of
the problems with his firm last year.

"It's under review," Jacques Abadie III, chief procurement officer for the
District, said of Jones's contract. "We're going back and checking their pay
records. Everyone is concerned about this guy."

Abadie and other city officials said it may be difficult to rescind Jones's
contract unless a court or Labor officials determine that Jones violated federal
labor laws. "It's not a simple thing to undo a contract," Abadie said.

Jones and his attorney, Billy L. Ponds, did not return phone calls. In a brief
interview in October, Jones denied breaking any laws.

Meanwhile, at least two D.C. Council members, the president of the Metropolitan
Washington Council AFL-CIO and the executive director of an umbrella
organization of 39 church congregations have written to Mayor Anthony A.
Williams (D) criticizing the Jones contract. Some, such as D.C. Council member
Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), are urging Williams to rescind it.

"The allegations, if true, constitute at minimum a violation of the D.C. Human
Rights Act," said Graham, whose council ward includes large numbers of
immigrants, many of them Latino.

Council member Adrian M. Fenty (D-Ward 4), whose ward also includes a large
Latino population, wrote to Williams that it is "imperative that any firm that
comes under contract in our city treat all workers in a dignified manner."

Members of various labor and community groups also have sent more than 200
e-mail messages to Williams expressing outrage at the Jones contract and urging
the mayor to rescind it, AFL-CIO officials said.

Tony Bullock, a mayoral spokesman, said: "The mayor doesn't want to do business
with people who violate the laws. At the same time, this is America. Because
you're being investigated doesn't mean you're guilty."

In the March 28 letter, Labor officials informed Jones that department
investigators found that he did not pay the required minimum of $ 9.05 an hour
and $ 13.58 for overtime to the 23 guest workers he employed last year; did not
pay them for time spent training for their landscaping jobs; and did not pay
them for travel time between Jones's company and job sites.

The letter also said that Labor investigators found that Jones did not allow his
workers a one-hour lunch break yet routinely deducted an hour's worth of pay for
one.

Last April, the 23 Mexican workers piled into a bus in Veracruz and rode nearly
3,000 miles over three days and nights to reach Washington. They said Jones
promised that they would share two-bedroom apartments, four men per apartment.
Instead, the men were housed in a sparsely furnished, four-bedroom house in
Anacostia that had no air conditioning. Jones docked each man's pay $ 175 a
month to live in the house. Most of the workers slept on the floor, they said.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              155 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 29, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

For Foreign Workers, Dreams Are Deferred;
Some May Return Home Empty-Handed

BYLINE: Leef Smith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1214 words


For Maris Krepausis, and dozens of other young adults from Eastern Europe, the
chance to work as a lifeguard in the United States this summer while earning
money for college was intoxicating.

Reality has been something else.

Palm Pools Corp., the Woodbridge pool-management company that hired Krepausis,
19, and more than 80 other international youths to work at its many facilities
around the Washington region, promised lodging, inexpensive transportation and a
minimum of 40 hours of work most weeks, according to the Palm Pools contract
that applicants signed.

But some of those hired by Palm Pools said they were put up in crowded
apartments and, in a few cases, required to ride public transportation for hours
to get to their $ 7-an-hour jobs. And, in the beginning at least, 40-hour work
schedules were rare, they say.

Workers on temporary cultural-exchange visas are still a tiny part of the U.S.
labor force, but they are becoming more visible in areas of high turnover, such
as hotels, schools and pools. For companies struggling to find short-term,
low-wage employees, young people from overseas have been a boon. Likewise for
the workers. Some can make more money in one summer here than they can in an
entire year back home.

But several of the foreign lifeguards hired by Palm Pools said that with their
work hours being less than advertised, they are not sure they'll break even
financially when they return to their families this fall.

On top of that, Krepausis and four other Latvians got a lesson in job security
when they were fired June 19, just two weeks after they began working for Palm
Pools. The young men said they were told to clear out of their Fairfax County
apartment, which was rented by Palm Pools and shared by as many as 15
lifeguards, Krepausis said. Lifeguards still working for Palm Pools say the
apartment has been occupied by as many as 20 men and women.

"They said we were fired for lack of work performance," Krepausis said. The
Latvians were taken in by the family of Alicia Oestreich, a former Palm Pools
employee who said she was dismissed in June after reaching out to help the young
men.

"They said we didn't wear our lifeguard clothes," Krepausis said, "that we were
sleeping in the work time. They told us these things, but everything was really
okay."

Palm Pools President Urban Gochoel, visited at his Woodbridge office last week,
said the men did not show up for work and "failed to live up to their
performance standard."

"They didn't do their jobs, so they were terminated," Gochoel said. "Now they
come crying, 'Boohoo-hoo.' That's life."

Gochoel would not comment further on their dismissal or say how many lifeguards
work for Palm Pools, how many pools the company serves or how their employees
get to their jobs. He also declined to answer questions related to living
arrangements or compensation for the lifeguards.

Interviews with 10 Palm Pools lifeguards and documents provided to The
Washington Post indicate that at least nine guards have been fired by the
company this summer. As a result, some of those still working for Palm Pools
said they fear being fired as well, and they would speak about their experiences
only if they were not identified.

A visit to a three-bedroom apartment on North Ripley Street in Alexandria last
week found 14 lifeguards from Palm Pools living there -- four to a bedroom, with
an additional bunk bed set up in the living room. A small television and plastic
patio furniture provided the only other decor.

Asked later about this group-living arrangement, an Alexandria housing official
said that both the number of occupants and the number of people sleeping in the
bedrooms are violations of the city's housing code.

"Worst-case scenario, that [size] apartment could accommodate 11 people," said
Art Dahlberg, director of code enforcement for the city. "It clearly sounds like
we have a violation."

While the prospect of coming to the United States to work is appealing, those
here on temporary visas are easily mistreated and exploited, said Rebecca Smith,
director of the immigrant-worker division of the National Employment Law
Project.

"They have to pay their travel expenses to get here. There are unauthorized
deductions made from their paycheck. Wages go unpaid. Housing is overcrowded and
in poor condition, and promises of work do not materialize," she said. "It's
unfortunately all too common."

Palm Pools' contract with its international lifeguards says they will make $ 7
an hour, and $ 10.50 for any hours over 40 in one week. "Normally, a minimum of
40 hours per week will be required," the agreement reads.

The company agrees to provide housing at no charge other than a $ 100
nonrefundable damage deposit per employee. What the company doesn't publicize,
lifeguards say, is that employees make a minimum of $ 8.50 an hour if they do
not live in Palm-provided housing -- meaning that those who do are, in effect,
paying some rent.

The 14 lifeguards living on North Ripley share an apartment with a listed
monthly rent of $ 1,185. They said $ 10 is deducted from every biweekly paycheck
to cover the cost of local telephone service and basic cable.

Palm Pools is not the only pool company in the area hiring overseas workers.
Century Pools Management Inc. of Kensington has had such a program for three
years, and currently has 450 Eastern Europeans in its workforce of 1,800, said
staffing director Rob Fox. Employees pay Century Pools about $ 950 over the
course of their four-month stay to cover $ 200-a-month rent (four or five
lifeguards usually share a two-bedroom apartment, Fox said), local telephone
service and utilities, training and a refundable $ 50 housing deposit.

However, Fox said, there is a struggle to keep the program affordable. Century
does not make a profit off employees' rent, he said. What's more, the company
supplies utensils, shower curtains, basic cleaning supplies, air mattresses,
pots and pans and, in some cases, cars. The company maintains a fleet of 30
vehicles to allow lifeguards to drive themselves to distant pools.

Of the 14 lifeguards sharing the apartment on North Ripley Street, several
complained of late or partial paychecks. And several said Palm Pools had put
them on lifeguard duty a week before they had completed their certification.
Gochoel would not comment on the allegations.

Asked whether they would have taken the pool jobs if they had better understood
the terms of employment, there was no equivocation.

"No, no way, never," said one 19-year-old, adding that he'll be lucky to return
home with the $ 2,000 he must repay his parents for his round-trip airfare and
visa. "Some people have a very good opportunity to get back to Russia without
any money," he noted.

After Palm Pools let them go, it took several weeks for Krepausis and the four
other Latvians -- Martins Lucaus, 20; and Andris Krastins, Artis Capins and
Lauris Vidzis, all 19 -- to find other jobs. Eventually they did, as overnight
stockers at a Wal-Mart in Prince William County.

"Our plan was to work for the summer," said Krepausis, a student at the Banking
Institution of Higher Education in Riga, the Latvian capital. "We need to earn
money. That's why we came here."

Staff writer Paul Glader contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              156 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 17, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Detainees Offer Glimpse of Life In N.Y. Facility;
3 in Sept. 11 Probe Say They Were Abused in Top Security

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1378 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK April 16


Inside the Special Housing Unit of the Metropolitan Detention Center in
Brooklyn, dozens of detainees held for months in connection with the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks have been confined to their cells nearly 24 hours a day.

The lights are always on, making it difficult to sleep. The prisoners are
subject to body cavity searches after each meeting with their attorneys. They
are transported in shackles, handcuffs and waist chains. In some cases, the
detainees have been subject to harassment by prison guards and rough treatment
that has left them bloodied.

The conditions were described by three detainees recently released from the
Metropolitan Detention Center (MDC) who offered the first public glimpse of life
inside the federal prison's maximum security unit, supposedly reserved for some
of the most important suspects in the government's terrorism investigation.

The facility, run by the Bureau of Prisons, has come under scrutiny recently
because the Justice Department's Office of Inspector General is conducting a
"review" to determine whether authorities violated the civil rights of detainees
held at MDC and another facility, the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, N.J.

Immigration lawyers and advocates have lodged repeated allegations of civil
rights violations involving the detainees at MDC, who over time have numbered
perhaps several dozen of the more than 1,200 people picked up in the
government's dragnet after Sept. 11. A legal group, the Center for
Constitutional Rights, announced today that it planned to file a class action
lawsuit Wednesday against federal officials and unnamed MDC corrections officers
who allegedly committed abuses against detainees.

Although the Justice Department has conducted its investigation in total
secrecy, it appears that none of those held under maximum security conditions
has been charged with a terrorism-related crime. In fact, it is unclear why the
three detainees who spoke to The Washington Post or others at MDC had been
placed in the Special Housing Unit rather than other facilities where hundreds
of detainees connected to the investigation have been kept in conditions that
are far less restrictive.

Officials with the Bureau of Prisons, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and the Justice Department declined to comment on specific cases. One U.S.
official said the decisions on where and how detainees would be confined were
made at "the highest levels of the Justice Department" and were evaluated case
by case.

The decisions, the official said, depended on several issues, including the
nature of the evidence that had been gathered, available space in the detention
facilities and whether the detainee presented a flight or safety risk.

Anser Mehmood, 42, a Pakistani immigrant, said that shortly after his arrival at
MDC, prison guards shoved his face into the wall, bloodying his lip, and
threatened to kill him if he spoke.

After he was strip-searched, Mehmood said, a guard asked him: "Do you know why
you're here?"

"Yes. I overstayed my visa," Mehmood said he replied.

"No," the guard told him. "You are a World Trade Center suspect."

Mehmood said he was held for 123 days in the Special Housing Unit before being
moved into the general population, a transition he described as "going from hell
to heaven. When I came out, it was like I was a human being again."

On April 4, he was transferred from MDC to Passaic County Jail to await
deportation after a judge sentenced him to time served for overstaying his visa
and purchasing a fake Social Security card that he used to gain employment.

Syed Amjad Jaffri, 38, a Pakistani immigrant, said last week that he is still
not certain why he was sent to MDC after investigators arrived at his Bronx
apartment in late September. Jaffri, who said he held Canadian residency status
and was close to obtaining Canadian citizenship, said his landlord allowed
investigators into his apartment after demanding unsuccessfully that Jaffri pay
an additional $ 200 on top of his $ 300 monthly rent.

Jaffri, who is named as a plaintiff in the lawsuit to be filed by the Center for
Constitutional Rights, admitted that he had been working in the New York area,
selling surgical and dental supplies in violation of his tourist visa.

He said that while searching his apartment, investigators found a stun gun that
belonged to one of his landlord's sons and materials for a home course in
private investigation that he had ordered via a television advertisement.

Jaffri said the investigators seemed most interested in the stun gun and tried
to persuade him to admit that it was his. He said he refused. Investigators also
asked about the private investigator course work, he said.

"They kept asking me, 'Why do you want to know so much about the FBI?' " he
said.

Jaffri said he was taken to an INS detention facility in Manhattan. There, he
said, he was questioned again by the FBI. When he asked to see an attorney,
Jaffri said, the agent swore at him and told him: "You're going to learn the
hard way." Jaffri could not identify the agent.

The next day, Jaffri said, he was brought to MDC in a motorcade that included
police cars with sirens blaring. With shackles around his ankles and his hands
cuffed to a heavy chain around his waist, Jaffri said, he was seized by MDC
guards and thrown face first into a wall. The impact, he said, bloodied his
mouth and loosened his teeth.

Jaffri was released and deported to Canada on April 1. Displaying the teeth he
said were loosened by the attack, Jaffri said in the interview that prison
authorities denied his requests to see a dentist or receive a painkiller.

Daniel Dunne, a spokesman for the Bureau of Prisons, referred questions about
cases related to the terror investigation to the Justice Department. But he said
that the Bureau of Prisons investigated all allegations of staff misconduct.

Jaffri said he was placed alone in one of the small cells that prison officials
referred to as "holes." The cell had one window that had been painted over,
blocking the view outside. He received his meals through a slot in the door. He
said for the first month and a half he was not allowed to shave and was given
"two squares" of toilet paper a day.

Jaffri said the lights in his cell were on constantly, making it difficult to
sleep. At night, he said, alarms went off frequently, waking the detainees, and
guards often dragged heavy chains across the door.

He estimated that 60 to 70 other detainees, mostly Pakistanis and Egyptians,
were also in the Special Housing Unit.

Jaffri was released April 1 and deported to Canada, where he was interviewed. He
said prison authorities subjected him to a strip-search before he was taken to
John F. Kennedy International Airport by INS agents and flown to Toronto. He
said he has no intention of returning to the United States.

"They told me I would learn the hard way," he said. "I learned the hard way.
That's the bottom line."

Shakir Ali Baloch, 39, a Canadian citizen and a native of Pakistan, offered a
similar description of life inside the Special Housing Unit. Baloch said he was
taken into custody by FBI and INS officials in late September while attending
classes in Queens to gain his taxi license.

Baloch said he had entered the country illegally from Canada and had illegally
purchased a fake Social Security card to acquire a driver's license. But he said
he is still unsure why authorities decided to put him in MDC.

He said he suspects it had something to do with a paperback military novel
investigators found while searching his apartment. The novel, he said, featured
an advertisement on the back for another book and had a photograph of Osama bin
Laden.

"I think the book was the biggest reason," Baloch said during an interview this
week inside the Passaic County Jail, where he was transferred after months at
MDC. Baloch was deported to Canada one day after the interview.

Baloch said he was kept in solitary confinement until Feb. 14, when he was moved
into the general population at MDC. There, he had access to television, books
and newspapers and was allowed to make phone calls.

Asked whether he was angry about the way he had been treated, Baloch said: "No,
I'm not angry. I just want to go home."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              157 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 9, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Troubled Tales Make Up Inmates' 'Life Stories'

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: METRO; MARC FISHER; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 746 words


Before he can coax a movie script out of a dozen hustlers doing time in the
Montgomery County Detention Center, director Michael Mack has to know whom he's
dealing with.

Mike, 21, is up first. At 16, he says, he left home, moved in with a girl. One
night, someone paged Mike; no phone on him, he stopped by a crack house to
return the call. That's when he saw his girlfriend -- with another guy.

"She smacked me with a bottle," he tells the other inmates who have signed up
for "Life Stories," an acting and screenwriting workshop led by Mack, a TV and
movie actor who teaches at the District's Theatre Lab. "I beat her up. Dude
grabbed me. There was a fight. I left and came back. I shot her through the
door. I thought I'd shoot off the doorknob like in the movies, but it went right
through."

The bullet pierced his girlfriend's hand. Mike ran. Now he's inside. This is no
alien experience for Mike. He's had jobs, working for agencies that care for the
retarded, but he says his main occupation has always been "hustling, robbing
people and stuff."

Over the next eight weeks, Mike and the class in this jail in Potomac will write
and film a story drawn from their own lives. Mack and the head of the jail's
youthful offender unit, Rene Parcover, who calls this the facility's "best
program," are under no illusion that they are training future filmmakers. But
maybe they can foster a sense of achievement. Maybe some guys will learn that,
as Mack says, "the only character you ever really develop is yourself."

"These are young men who haven't bottomed out yet," Mack says. "They are coming
back on the street. We're hoping that they will get to understand themselves
better. It's good for us to understand them, too."

Tink, 21, had just come home to Maryland after two years in a Virginia prison.
He got two jobs and swore to stay away from his old crew. He moved in with his
girlfriend and child. Then he lost both jobs. "I didn't know how to handle it.
So I found myself back -- hustle, rob, whatever, you know what I'm saying."

"No, I don't know," Mack replies.

Tink slowly spells out his line of work. "Talk to some people, do favors, put
people together, someone who wants to buy something."

"Selling drugs," Mack says.

"Mmmm," Tink confirms.

Like most in the room, Tink is the son of a girl, born to a teenager who left
him with a relative. "For a long time, I thought my grandmother was my mother,"
he says. His mother went to prison when Tink was 8. Tink "just went wild." Now,
he faces 50 years.

"Is there anything you always wanted?" Mack asks.

Long pause. "Sports," Tink replies. "Rugby, football. That's it. I never wanted
to be no lawyer or doctor."

Now Tink takes this class and a computer course. And he attends twice-weekly
Alcoholics and Narcotics Anonymous sessions, where most inmates are much older.
"When they were my age, they were doing exactly what I'm doing, and they're at
least 10 years in jail," Tink says. "It's time to stop coming in these walls."

Popular words, but few here see any realistic way to make them come true. "I
grew up all around drugs," says T-Da Man, 19, who describes a crack house
childhood in which dealers on the street "brought me food from the carryout"
because his father was in prison, his mother was on drugs and his grandmother
was ill. T-Da Man was in and out of group homes, but mostly, "I was selling
drugs, going out shooting people, robbing people."

Last year, he was shot nine times. He's here for beating up someone he thought
was involved in his shooting.

Mack wonders whether dealing is worth all the risk for a return that leaves
hustlers where they started -- in decrepit neighborhoods, always in danger of
dying.

T-Da Man says it isn't so simple. "Nineteen years of growing up a certain way
ain't going to change so easy," he says. Hustling, he says, "is for the moment,
get yourself up, decent food supply. I wasn't stacking it, because I was looking
out for my sisters, a niece and nephew. I was hustling for a purpose, not just
for tennis shoes."

"You don't think about saving for a better neighborhood," another inmate pipes
up. "All you know is projects. I didn't want a nice suburban neighborhood. I
looked up to my father, and what he did was go to prison, and I thought that's
where I'd go."

He reached his goal.

This is the second of three columns on the workshop. The first one can be read
at www.washingtonpost.com/fisher. On Thursday: Turning "Life Stories" into a
movie.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              158 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 2, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tanzanians From Va. Scout Event Try to Stop Deportation

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 673 words


Attorneys for four Tanzanian teenagers who left an international gathering of
Boy Scouts last month have asked a judge to block deportation proceedings
against the Scouts, arguing that the boys are in this country legally.

Lawyers said that because the youths, ages 15 to 17, have tourist visas that
don't expire until January, they should not be subjected to detention and a
hearing before an administrative law judge, which is reserved for aliens who
have broken the law. Instead, the lawyers said the teenagers should be granted
an interview with an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer, placed in
foster care and allowed a more exhaustive review of their case.

"We think the best thing for the boys is for both parties to sit and negotiate
their immediate future," said Steven Schulman, a lawyer representing the boys.
"We don't think this should be drawn out in court." A hearing on the issue is
scheduled for Oct. 11.

The boys left the Boy Scout Jamboree at Fort A.P. Hill, Va., on July 29, and
were found on New York Avenue in the District the next day after hitchhiking and
walking the 80 miles and sleeping alongside the road on the trip. They were
found when they asked a police officer for help.

When interviewed by INS officials, the boys said they were hoping to continue
their education in the United States -- a plan one of them confirmed with
officials from the Tanzanian Embassy, according to the ambassador.

The Scouts' attorneys said they would not say whether the boys had planned to
leave the Jamboree before they arrived at the campsite, but did say that they
have a "legitimate fear of going home."

"They have expressed a concern about what might happen to them if they return,"
said Andrew Morton, a lawyer working with the boys.

Officials for the Tanzanian Embassy, who asked that the boys be returned to
their scoutmaster in early August, said the boys have nothing to fear from the
government when going home. The trip to the Jamboree was state sponsored, paid
for partly by the families, partly by the government.

"I know the actions of the children have caused their parents great stress,"
Tanzanian Ambassador Mustafa Salim Nyang'anyi said. "If the boys have a fear,
it's of their parents, not the government."

Last week, attorneys for the boys asked an INS judge during a short hearing in
Pennsylvania to block an order that would begin deportation of the youths. The
INS will have until Sept. 20 to reply to the request in advance of the Oct. 11
hearing.

INS officials did not return calls seeking their comment.

Schulman argued that because the boys had valid visas, they were entitled to an
interview in which they would be asked questions about conditions at home and
the reason for their request to stay in the United States. Instead, they are
being treated as if they had broken the law, Schulman said.

"An interview process would be much more child-friendly," he said.

The youths -- one 15, one 16 and two 17 -- were among nine Tanzanian teenagers
who joined 32,000 Boy Scouts from 23 countries to attend the 10-day National
Scout Jamboree in Bowling Green, Va., which ended Aug. 1.

After the four were found in the District, INS officials moved them on Aug. 3
from a detention center in Alexandria to a facility in Burkes County, Pa., about
75 miles northwest of Philadelphia. Since then, they have been going to school
and participating in athletics with other teenagers.

Lawyers also have asked the INS to transfer the Scouts to a foster home, which
would likely be in Richmond, where the boys could stay with a Swahili-speaking
family. The boys have not officially requested asylum yet.

Immigration officials have said they had little choice in where to place the
youths because the Scouts are minors without family in the United States. Even
though federal officials and state police speculated at first that the boys may
have been encouraged to leave by a brother or other close relative in Maryland,
no relatives have been found, and the boys deny having family here.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              159 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 4, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

'The United States . . . Has Benefited From Migration Since the Founding'

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 641 words


QA lot of people say that the U.S. Congress may never approve legalization for
undocumented Mexicans in the United States. Would you accept an immigration plan
that does not have a legalization component?

AWe have always been aware of reality, and so have our discussions about
migration. The mood, the attitude of both countries has changed to the positive
in recent years. Both countries have witnessed the importance of migration, and
we started to develop a thinking that migration, more than [being] a problem,
could be a big opportunity for both of our countries.

What we are talking about with President Bush's administration is how to deal
with this situation, how to make migration into a positive issue for both of our
countries. And we are advancing. Of course, we don't expect spectacular results
in the short term. We are very well aware of all the political steps that will
have to happen before we reach any conclusions.

Clearly the legalization component is very important. If you don't get that,
then it seems that you don't really get what Mexico wants. Is that correct?

It is to our interest to work on regularization of those who are in United
States, and to work on an orderly program for the future. . . . We are very
aware that this subject deserves not only close attention but also enough time
for the ideas and solutions to mature. . . . We'd rather see that we have a
real, long-term solution than just try to come up with short-term advances.

Do you think that the United States has a moral responsibility to legalize the
status of people who are already there, working hard and paying taxes?

Morals and ethics are part of politics, and the United States is a country of
migrants that has benefited from migration since the founding of the country.
Yes, I think that if we politicians in government want to be responsible and
effective, we must deal with all issues. I'm absolutely convinced that this is a
sensitive issue for President Bush, and for Americans, wherever they are in the
U.S. territory. But that doesn't mean that it's not something we can convert
into real opportunity for both of our countries. So I want to appeal to U.S.
citizens that in this subject we can find real opportunities for both of our
countries.

If you had a chance to talk to Senator Phil Gramm or some of the other people
who are against any kind of legalization, what would you say to them to change
their minds?

Aside from what I already argued, I would add that Mexico is a country going
through a change. We are modernizing, we have thoroughly transitioned into a
full democracy as of July 2. We are fighting hard against corruption and
impunity, and we want the rule of law. We're working with the U.S. to make sure
that we control and reduce the problems of organized crime, drug trafficking and
money laundering, issues that cannot be controlled only by the actions of the
United States. We are contributing, cooperating and working together on these
issues.

You seem to be more popular overseas these days than at home. Why do you think
that is?

We keep some popularity at home. We don't have the same that we had when we
began but it's still very strong. We're enjoying this democratic bonus on one
side, from the recognition by many nations that historic change of July 2 in
Mexico. But at the same time, more and more we're building trust and confidence
in our country. For instance, the flow of foreign investment coming into Mexico
right now is historic. . . . Even with the economic slowdown, we will clearly
surpass $ 15 billion worth of foreign direct investment. In the past we were on
average of 10 [billion] to, at the very best, 12 billion. . . . This is the new
Mexico, this is the modern Mexico. . . . Mexico is getting more and more moral
authority around the world.

Compiled by researcher Laurie Freeman

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              160 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 7, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Fox Strikes Up the Brand for Immigration;
'El Presidente' Puts His Sales Skills to Work for Policy Changes

BYLINE: Dana Milbank, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 836 words

DATELINE: TOLEDO, Ohio Sept. 6


Back home, they call him "El Presidente." In the United States this week,
Vicente Fox seems more like the head of sales for a consumer goods corporation.
His employer: Mexico. His product: Immigration. His assignment: Build the brand.

This morning came the soft sell to a joint session of an American Congress
suspicious of the Mexican president's request to legalize Mexican immigrants.

Trust me, Fox said in promising an improved Mexican product -- using a version
of the word "trust" 33 times in a 30-minute speech.

"Thanks to those democratic changes inaugurated in Mexico last year on July the
2nd, the time has come for Mexico and United States to trust each other," he
said. "Let us foster trust between our societies. Let us build trust along our
common border . . . Members of this honorable Congress, give trust a chance."

Here in Toledo this afternoon, Fox pitched to expatriate Mexicans as if they
were old customers who had changed brands: "I want to tell you not only that we
love you and respect you, but we need you back in Mexico; that we will be
working to welcome all of you back in Mexico to promote the growth of our great
nation."

All politicians, in a sense, know something about salesmanship. But few know as
much as Fox.

He spent 15 years in the employ of Coca-Cola Co., working his way up from route
salesman to sales supervisor to president for Latin America. What worked for
Coca-Cola, he hopes, will work for Mexico.

Substitute "country" for company, "citizens" for customers, and the rest of
Fox's vocabulary seems as applicable to soft-drink sales as to diplomacy. He
speaks of "streamlining" and "dialoguing" and "concrete action plans."

Compounding the effect is Harvard Business School's own President Bush, himself
an old salesman of oil and baseball.

Bush heeded the fellow sales veteran's pitch this week. Today, he promised "100
percent effort" toward an expeditious immigration policy, even broaching the
possibility of green cards for Mexican workers here.

"I want to accommodate my friend," Bush said.

Put the two salesmen in a room together and the result sounds less like foreign
affairs than a Powerpoint presentation by PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Today, the two governments launched a "Partnership for Prosperity," devoted to
"creating jobs and facilitating increased efficiency for small and medium-sized
businesses through use of communications technology to create new and improved
linkages between customers and suppliers."

Fox, it must be said, is a model salesman. Like Bush, he arrives early for
meetings. Unlike Bush, he is frenetic, packing his three-day state visit with
events and speeches.

True, Fox has a comb-over hairdo and a mustache, two traits that might spell
danger in another salesman. On Fox, they convey dignity.

Fox also has a knack -- shared by Bush -- for encouraging audiences to
underestimate him. Midway through an hour-long interview with The Post
Wednesday, which he handled with near-flawless English, Fox begged forgiveness.

"I'm not sure about my English," he apologized.

Fox has plenty of promotional material in his briefcase. At the Post, Fox
pitched his product's value: "United States is doing great business with Mexico.
I mean, no doubt. On all fronts."

On the South Lawn later Wednesday, he pitched the product's usefulness: "Today
Mexico buys from the United States more products and services than from Spain,
Germany, France and Italy combined."

Today, the two salesmen traveled together to Ohio. Toledo was a good choice for
Fox (his grandfather lived down the road in Cincinnati) and for Bush (its
growing Hispanic population is important in this swing state in 2004).

It wasn't the first sentimental journey for a visiting head of state. President
Bill Clinton took British Prime Minister John Major to Pittsburgh, where Major's
grandfather worked in a steel mill. Clinton took the food-loving German
Chancellor Helmut Kohl on a culinary tour of Milwaukee.

Here, before a campaign-style rally of some 5,000 at a University of Toledo
arena, the man from Coca-Cola unfurled his full sales job. He sold "trust"
again. He sold the dignity of Mexican immigrants. He sold the North American
Free Trade Agreement. He sold Mexico's achievements in drug, crime and economic
policy. And he sold Bush.

The last pitch was straight from the marketing textbooks: Flatter the
discernment and judgment of the customer.

Hours earlier, Bush had given Fox much of what he wanted: a promise to act
expeditiously on a plan that would legalize undocumented Mexicans. Fox had
landed a major account, and it was now time to praise the purchaser.

"He is a great friend for truth, work, commitment and the passion for the art of
government," Fox said. "Each day, I gain more and more respect for his
leadership, for his vision, for his hard work . . . I daily thank him for his
friendship."

The deal thus closed, salesman and customer left the stage to press the flesh in
the crowd. The college marching band played "Celebration."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              161 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 8, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

In South Florida, Watching Mexico;
Haitian Americans Follow Debate on Immigrants' Status

BYLINE: Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: MIAMI Sept. 7


Jean-Robert Lafortune, a Haitian American who has lived in South Florida for 21
years, says he is all for granting legal status to millions of Mexican
immigrants living in the United States, as visiting Mexican President Vicente
Fox strongly urged this week. But Lafortune says he cannot help but wonder: What
about Haitians and other groups that have been left behind?

It is a question that thousands of Haitian Americans were asking as they staged
rallies here Wednesday and today, and debated what they see as a glaring and
long-standing inequity in U.S. immigration policy. Once again, they say, they
feel undervalued and forgotten.

"At the center of American democracy is the concept of fairness for all, justice
for all," said Lafortune, chairman of the Haitian-American Grassroots Coalition.
"But if a group of immigrants is similarly situated, it is wrong to give
preference to one and leave the others behind. We want them to extend the same
benefits."

President Bush has said he hopes to grant legal status to more than 3 million
undocumented Mexicans living and working in the United States, a proposal
opposed by some Republicans and fraught with political implications. In a
surprise move this week during his three-day American tour, Fox demanded that
action be taken on the proposal by year's end.

Fox arrived in Miami this afternoon to join other Latin American heads of state
and foreign ministers for the Miami Herald's Americas Conference on trade and
other issues. They were greeted with signs from demonstrating Haitian Americans
that said, "Liberty and Fair Treatment for All."

The demonstrators also hoped to present Fox a letter for Bush reminding the U.S.
president that there are thousands of other illegal immigrants making
contributions to American society while living in fear of deportation.

"Let's give everyone a chance to live with respect, dignity and peace of mind,"
said Marleine Bastien, who heads Haitian Women of Miami Inc.

Bastien left Haiti in 1981 and is now a U.S. citizen. "This is the least we can
do. It is a win-win situation for this country to legalize its hard-working
immigrants," she said.

But Bastien and others contend that Haitians often have been ignored, and they
believe the reasons are centered in racism: Most Haitian immigrants are black.
They say the community also has lacked financial power and political clout, but
that is gradually changing.

There are about 1.5 million Haitians and Haitian Americans living in the United
States, and estimates are that about half are here illegally. South Florida has
the second-largest Haitian community in the country, after New York City, with
about 450,000 residents, Bastien said. Many live in an area of small businesses
and brightly colored homes called "Little Haiti" in Miami-Dade.

For years, Haitians here have watched with mounting frustration as South
Florida's powerful Cuban American community, which numbers 650,000 residents in
Miami-Dade alone, benefited from less restrictive immigration policies.

In 1997, Congress passed legislation that gave Cubans, Nicaraguans and some
other groups living illegally in the United States before December 1995 the
right to apply for legal residency. The next year, the Haitian Refugee
Immigration Fairness Act was passed, but, unlike those in the earlier group,
Haitian applicants were required to provide much more documentation, such as
original birth certificates, said Cheryl Little, executive director of the
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.

Little said the requirements were almost impossible to meet for refugees fleeing
the Duvalier regime and the military governments that followed. Although it was
expected that about 50,000 refugees who fled Haiti in 1991 would apply, only
37,000 did, she said, in part because of a bureaucratic mix-up at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that resulted in an unrealistic deadline.
As of now, fewer than 5,000 Haitians who have applied since the bill's passage
have been approved for legal residency, she said.

For the past four years, legislation has died in congressional subcommittees
that would have righted some inequities involving immigrants from Haiti,
Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, Little said.

"Legislating immigration policies piecemeal does not work," she said, "and in a
community like South Florida, it's very divisive -- it tends to pit one group
against another, which is the last thing this community needs," she said.  Rep.
Christopher H. Smith (R-N.J.), vice chairman of the International Relations
Committee, has introduced the Central American and Haitian Adjustment Act, which
addresses those concerns. A South Florida contingent involving a coalition of 20
groups plans to travel to Washington this month to lobby for Smith's bill.

Local political power also is increasing. A Haitian American from Miami-Dade,
Philippe Brutus (D), is serving in the Florida statehouse. North Miami, Dade
County's second-largest city, has a Haitian American mayor and two council
members. In El Portal, the vice mayor as well as one council member are Haitian
American.

"We have families here, we pay taxes," said Lafortune, now a U.S. citizen. "Our
people have assimilated to American society and contributed to the economic boom
of this country.

"And here they are, living in conditions of near mental slavery, afraid of
having their families broken apart, afraid of being deported at any moment. It
is not fair and it is not right."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              162 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Day in the Sun for Adams Morgan;
Festival Mixes Immigrant Melodies, Homegrown Activism and Business

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 631 words


There were tacos and pad thai and hot dogs. There was the plaintive wail of
Andean flute music and the pulsing beat of Zairian soukous. Some people wore
saris, some donned bold-colored African dresses, others came in jeans.

Jim Dougherty dressed as a tree.

"What's my cause? Klingle Valley Park. We're trying to stop them from paving
paradise," said the Sierra Club activist, who was busily handing out leaflets.

The 24th Adams Morgan Days Festival turned 18th and Belmont streets NW into a
multilingual party this weekend, celebrating one of the city's hippest and most
ethnically diverse neighborhoods.

Organizers estimated that up to 90,000 people thronged the D.C. neighborhood
that is a traditional center of the city's African immigrant and Latino
communities. They nibbled international treats, wandered through an art fair and
visited booths staffed by civic, religious and political groups trying to raise
cash and consciousnesses.

In a reflection of the neighborhood's progressive bent, there was even an
"inner-beauty pageant," open to both men and women.

"This is all ages, all sizes, all colors, all cultures, just mixed up into a
great neighborhood," said Jerry Phillips, a member of the festival steering
committee. "It is certainly the barometer of America."

The festival, once among the District's wildest parties, was reborn in recent
years as a family and cultural affair. Drinking was restricted to restaurants
and sidewalk cafes, and organizers emphasized the arts market and youth
attractions such as moon bounces.

The festival "has come back right-sized. A lot of neighbors participate, but
it's not overwhelming," said D.C. Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), who
attended in an embroidered Salvadoran guayabera shirt.

Visitors came from across the Washington area and from as far away as Baltimore
to spend a hot, sunny afternoon enjoying the foods, crafts and music.

Jay Nocco, a 29-year-old teacher in Fairfax, sat at a cafe on 18th Street and
soaked in the sights and smells of Africa, Asia and Latin America. To Nocco, the
festival was a snapshot of the future: Many of his first-grade students come
from different countries, a result of heavy immigration to the Washington area
in recent years.

"I feel like I'm in my classroom but that the kids are all grown up and are
having a beer," he said.

Dozens of civic and religious groups set up booths to hand out literature and
raise funds. They included immigrant activists, Buddhists and gay and lesbian
organizers.

Dougherty sought a more unorthodox approach, strolling through the crowd in a
cardboard tree trunk about the size of a telephone booth, complete with branches
and leaves.

"An e-mail to the mayor would really help," he urged passersby, handing out
fliers arguing against reopening a road through Klingle Valley Park, located
between Mount Pleasant and Woodley Park.

Much of the food, crafts and music reflected the cultures of African and Latino
immigrants who have given the neighborhood its international flair in recent
decades. But some booths also reflected the changing population of Adams Morgan,
which has drawn an increasing number of professionals.

There was, for example, the booth whose banner read: "Affinity Lab. A Dream and
Action Space." The Lab, above the Diner restaurant in Adams Morgan, rents out
offices to freelancers working in digital media, according to its "vision
architect," Charles Planck, 27.

Another booth sold expensive cigars, including some from Cuba. Such cigars
generally cannot be imported to the United States because of the trade embargo
against the Communist nation. A man staffing the booth, who identified himself
as Bud Joe, of Fairfax, was unconcerned.

"This is the Embassy of Northern Virginia," he grinned. "We're exempt."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              163 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 17, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

FBI Seeks Accomplices, Detains Potential Witnesses;
Suspected Hijacker Took Md. Test Flights

BYLINE: John Mintz and Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1942 words


One of the men suspected of crashing American Airlines Flight 77 into the
Pentagon had flown over the Washington area in small planes at least three times
over the past six weeks, according to law enforcement sources and officials at
the Bowie flight school where instructors unwittingly accompanied him.

Hani Hanjour, 25, was seeking permission to rent a plane from Freeway Airport
and took the flights to try to demonstrate his competence in the cockpit, said
Marcel Bernard, chief flight instructor. But Freeway declined the rental because
the instructors had doubts about Hanjour's abilities and he refused to provide
an address and phone number. FBI agents have pursued numerous other leads in the
Washington area, including a Laurel apartment complex, a Fairfax public library,
a Dulles parking lot and dozens of hotels.

Meanwhile, details emerged about the FBI's failed attempts to locate two other
hijackers of the same flight who had been placed on a watch list on Aug. 23 to
be stopped at the U.S. border. CIA officials had alerted the FBI and the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service that the two were suspected associates of
Saudi fugitive Osama bin Laden. The CIA had already told the INS verbally of its
concern two days earlier, on Aug. 21, officials said.

But a check of immigration records at that time revealed that Khalid Al-Midhar
and Nawaq Alhamzi were already in the United States and had passed through Los
Angeles International Airport on Saudi passports, U.S. officials said.

The pair gave phony destinations to U.S. immigration officials at the Los
Angeles airport, and the FBI was unable to find the men over the next two weeks,
officials said.

"Two weeks is not a lot of time to find two people in a country as big as ours,"
a government official said.

Al-Midhar had been spotted on a videotape provided to the CIA speaking with a
man in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, who was a suspect in last year's bombing of the
destroyer USS Cole in Yemen. The tape is another piece of circumstantial
evidence linking the Sept. 11 attacks to bin Laden, who is suspected of
masterminding the Cole bombing and has been labeled the prime suspect in
Tuesday's attacks. The tape was made in January 2000, months before the Cole
bombing, in which 17 sailors died, officials said.

Law enforcement and intelligence authorities scrambled yesterday to locate
people who had assisted the suicide bombers and to assemble a sharper portrait
of the 19 men the FBI says executed the terrorist strike.

Agents canvassed neighborhoods from Jersey City, N.J., to Laurel, pored over
passenger lists for airline flights and watched people traveling by train.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft suggested that authorities are looking into
whether bin Laden, the multimillionaire scion of a Saudi construction family,
worked with other groups in the devastating attacks. "We are not limiting our
investigation or our effort to any particular network," he said.

Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said the investigation is now
focused mostly on locating accomplices. "The most important thing is to go out
and identify any potential threats and eliminate any threats," Tucker said.

Authorities said they took a man into custody in New York yesterday as a
possible material witness, after the arrest of a man at Kennedy International
Airport who was carrying a phony pilot's license. Another man also had been
picked up as a material witness in recent days.

Federal officials cited grand jury secrecy rules in refusing to provide details.
Law enforcement officials are using a federal grand jury impaneled in Manhattan
to take testimony in the matter.

Authorities investigating Tuesday's attack on the World Trade Center found a
passport belonging to one of the hijackers three blocks from the demolished
110-story buildings, New York City Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik said.
Officials declined to say to whom the passport was issued, but a government
source said that it was a Saudi passport.

Moreover, law enforcement officials said they have a promising lead in the case
of two men who were detained in Texas on Wednesday on possible immigration
violations.

Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47, and Ayub Ali Khan, 51, were picked up Wednesday on
an Amtrak train in Texas carrying $ 5,000 in cash, hair dye and box cutters,
weapons thought to have been used by the hijackers.

Khan and Azmath had boarded a flight from Newark to San Antonio around the time
of the attacks Tuesday morning. Their flight was forced to land in St. Louis
when all U.S. flights were grounded after the attacks. They then boarded an
Amtrak train for Texas.

After two days of questioning in Texas, the men were transported to New York for
further interviews on the hijacking. The men have not been arrested but were
detained on possible immigration violations.

Saturday afternoon FBI agents and police also searched the Jersey City apartment
the two men had been sharing, located in the same neighborhood of some of the
conspirators who plotted the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.

The men, both from India, had lived there for six or seven years, according to
their landlord, Mohamad Abd Rabouh. On their rental application for the $
480-a-month apartment, they said they worked at a stationery store in New York,
said Rabouh.

According to Rabouh, Azmath was recently out of the country for several months.
Neighbors said Azmath and Khan were seen nearly every day, leaving very early
and coming home late, for the past several years until they disappeared about a
week ago. Around noon Saturday, FBI agents and local police stormed the
four-story apartment building where the men lived and took into custody two
other men who were staying in Azmath and Khan's apartment.

Authorities also arrested a third man, Abdoul Salam Achou, 37. Achou's wife, who
is eight months pregnant, said her husband's visa application had expired on
Sept. 1. He is a delivery driver for a Paterson, N.J., bakery.

Investigators also detained three men in Elizabeth, N.J., who were carrying a
large amount of cash and a one-way plane ticket to Syria. Ahmad Kilfat, 45,
Mohammad Mahmoud Al Raqqad, 37, and Nicholas Makrakis, 27, were in a red Pontiac
that matched an FBI description of a vehicle connected to the attacks.

The men were carrying bags that contained $ 9,900, several credit cards, phone
records of calls to the Middle East and a plane ticket from Kennedy airport to
Damascus.

When stopped by police, the men claimed to be Greek, but an officer discovered
they could not speak Greek. Authorities in Greece reported that the passport of
a singer there with the same name used by Kilfat was stolen in July.

In Minnesota, authorities gave scant details about a man who had been arrested
on Aug. 17 for illegally entering the country. Habib Zacarias Moussaoui, 33, had
been held by the INS at the Sherburne County jail in Elk River, Minn., until
Sept. 14, when he was transferred by INS officials to an undisclosed location,
officials said.

Europe 1 Radio in Paris reported that Moussaoui, described variously as being
from France and Algeria, has been identified by French intelligence officials as
a bin Laden operative, the Boston Herald reported. Moussaoui studied to become a
pilot at the Airman Flight School in Norman, Okla., earlier this year but
generated suspicions and the INS check after he tried to buy training sessions
on a commercial airline flight simulator in Eagan, Minn., news services
reported.

Just hours after the attacks Tuesday, British police arrested a man arriving at
London's Heathrow Airport from New York. Scotland Yard said the man was to be
questioned under Britain's new Prevention of Terrorism Act, but it did not
identify him.

London's Sunday Telegraph said the man was Mufti Mohammed Khan, a bin Laden
associate from Pakistan, and that he had traveled to Britain to meet with allies
in London and Birmingham. Khan was to be flown back to New York for questioning
by the FBI, the Telegraph reported.

At the same time that authorities cracked down on the suspected terrorist
operatives overseas, federal agents were pursuing leads in the Washington area.

FBI agents swarmed into Crestleigh Gardens, a Laurel apartment complex, going
door-to-door last week asking neighbors if they recognized two men in photos
that appeared to have been taken by a surveillance camera, residents said. The
agents said the two men were dead.

The complex drew particular attention because it is home to a Muslim cleric who
was identified by FBI agents in Dallas as one of more than 100 people the
government is seeking to question in connection with the hijackings.

Moataz Al-Hallak has lived in Laurel and taught at a local Islamic school for
about a year, but he first attracted FBI notice when he was an imam at a mosque
in Arlington, Tex., after the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania.

In a court hearing in that case, a federal prosecutor described Al-Hallak as a
conduit among members of the group organized by bin Laden's, the suspected
sponsor of both the attacks on Tuesday and those in Africa. Al-Hallak has never
been charged in the conspiracy.

Although authorities described Al-Hallak as missing, his attorney, Stanley L.
Cohen, said his client has been at his home and workplace in Laurel since the
hijackings, and Al-Hallak came to his door when a reporter knocked yesterday. He
referred questions to Cohen.

Cohen said his client is not involved in terrorism and has cooperated with
authorities, testifying three times before a federal grand jury in the embassy
bombings case. "The specter of him being involved in any way, shape or form
related to these events is insane," Cohen said.

Cohen said his client has several connections to bin Laden, but he described
them as attenuated. The cleric once sent money to a member of his Texas
congregation in Sudan who was later convicted in the embassy bombings. Cohen
said his client also put another congregant in touch with a pilot who later flew
a plane from the United States to Sudan, where it was sold to a bin
Laden-controlled operation.

Hanjour, the man who flew planes in Bowie, obtained his pilot's license in April
1999, but it expired six months later because he failed to complete a required
medical exam. He also received flight training for a few months at a private
school in Scottsdale, Ariz., in 1996 but did not finish the course because his
instructors thought he was not proficient.

The Freeway instructors also were skeptical of Hanjour's skills. "They told me
he flew so poorly that they were not willing to give him an endorsement to fly
our planes," Bernard said.

Hanjour's two instructors did not return calls and were not home yesterday, but
Ann Conner, the mother of one of them, said her 19-year-old son, Benjamin, went
aloft twice with Hanjour. They flew the school's routine flight path -- in
half-hour to hour-long segments in oblong loops over the airport -- and did not
stray into the restricted airspace over the Pentagon, flight instructor Bernard
said.

Hanjour "didn't say hardly anything," Ann Conner said after her son told her he
had been interviewed by authorities. "His piloting skills were terrible,
considering" he was licensed to fly multi-engine planes. "He didn't talk at all,
no routine chit-chat."

Staff writers Justin Blum, Dan Eggen, Michael A. Fletcher, Maria Glod, Bill
Miller, Robert E. Pierre, Hanna Rosin, Michael D. Shear, Mary Beth Sheridan,
Leef Smith and Cheryl W. Thompson and correspondents DeNeen L. Brown in Toronto,
T.R. Reid in London and Reem Haddad in Beirut contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              164 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 21, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hijackers Exploited DMV Loophole

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 530 words


Four of the hijackers who crashed American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon
exploited an unusual legal loophole to obtain Virginia driver's licenses even
though they did not live in the state, according to law enforcement sources and
documents.

Virginia officials said they would change their rules today to try to prevent
such abuse.

Khalid Al-Midhar, Majed Moqed, Nawaq Alhazmi and Hani Hanjour took advantage of
a Virginia law that allows people to get driver's licenses without providing
such documents as passports or leases to verify their identity and residence,
said sources close to the investigation.

Maryland and most other states and the District require applicants to present a
passport or out-of-state license to prove identity as well as a utility bill or
lease to prove that they live in the state. Until today, Virginia allowed
applicants to present a notarized residency form cosigned by a state resident
and a notarized identity form cosigned by a lawyer.

The forms were meant to help foreign refugees who did not have the standard
documentation, but they have been widely abused. An Arlington notary public was
convicted last month of immigration fraud for helping thousands of out-of-state
illegal immigrants obtain Virginia driver's licenses.

"We don't want to deny customers with legitimate needs, but we don't want to
continue a situation that is open to abuse," said Pam Goheen, a spokeswoman for
the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles.

The DMV has been contacted by the FBI task force investigating the hijackings of
the four planes that crashed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a
field in Pennsylvania, Goheen said. She said she could not comment on any
connection between the policy change and the investigation.

FBI officials have said they are investigating whether the hijackers assumed
other people's identities, and sources said agents are trying to determine
whether the Virginia licenses were used in that process. It is unclear whether
the hijackers used the Virginia licenses when checking in for the flight they
ultimately took down.

According to a letter sent by the FBI to the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve, Al-Midhar, Moqed and Hanjour used the same address on Leesburg Pike in
Falls Church. Al-Midhar and Hanjour had license numbers one digit apart,
suggesting that they stood next to each other in line. The license numbers held
by Alhazmi and Moqed were three digits apart.

The hijackers on Flight 77 did spend several days, and perhaps weeks, before the
attack at motels, stores and a gym across the river in Laurel, according to
business records and residents who were interviewed by the FBI.

A Virginia resident is being investigated in connection with the driver's
license scheme, a source said. There is no evidence that he knew of the
hijacking plans, but investigators believe that he acted as a facilitator,
helping the hijackers -- and other undocumented immigrants -- navigate the
Virginia system of affidavits.

Investigators do not believe that this facilitator was connected to Jennifer
Wrenn, the Arlington notary public convicted last month, another law enforcement
source said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              165 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Terrorism 'Watch List' Was No Match for Hijackers

BYLINE: Guy Gugliotta, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 1099 words


The "watch list" didn't work. Khalid Al-Midhar and Nawaq Alhazmi, flagged by the
CIA as potential terrorists, identified by immigration agents as having already
entered the country and pursued on two coasts by the FBI, avoided capture before
they climbed aboard American Airlines Flight 77 and flew it into the Pentagon on
Sept. 11.

Federal law enforcement sources said later that they had only a few weeks to
scour a big country for the pair and that "every attempt was made" to find them.

But it was not nearly enough. The FBI's failure to stop Al-Midhar and Alhazmi
underscores the shortcomings of a flawed system for screening and finding
suspected terrorists.

Even as it routinely vacuums thousands of low-income illegals from teeming
border crossings, the immigration system can easily miss the well-heeled and
well-spoken terrorist. Once such individuals enter the country, authorities do
not automatically tell airlines they are being sought, so airlines have no way
of knowing whether suspected terrorists are buying tickets for their planes.

And in this particular case, it was not until two days after the Sept. 11
attacks that the FBI office in San Diego was notified the two men were on the
watch list and being sought. They had lived in the San Diego area as recently as
last year.

The watch list, actually a wide collection of databases from different federal
agencies, is supposed to give federal authorities a chance to keep undesirables
out or to nab them when they try to come in.

It was clear that Al-Midhar and Alhazmi fit that category. Unlike many of the 19
hijackers, who lived quietly and almost invisibly in the United States before
Sept. 11, Al-Midhar had made a mistake.

Early in 2000, he had been spotted on a surveillance videotape from Malaysia
with a known associate of Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden, the suspected
mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks. The CIA learned of the video and on Aug. 21
provided Al-Midhar's name to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, along
with that of Alhazmi, a known associate, a knowledgeable government source said.

The principal portal to the watch list databases is the National Automated
Immigration Lookout System, or NAILS, run by the INS. NAILS contains the
immigration agency's list of deportees and other undesirables, as well as the
State Department's classified tip-off list and leads from other agencies.

The CIA's tip went into NAILS, government sources said, becoming readily
available to the three agencies responsible for shepherding the arrivals and
departures of foreigners into the United States: INS, Customs and the State
Department.

The State Department uses NAILS to vet visa applicants overseas. If the computer
refuses to accept a name, the person by law must be denied a visa, State
officials said.

So if Al-Midhar and Alhazmi had appeared at a U.S. consulate with Saudi
passports in their own names to request visas, State's computer would have found
them out and taken note. State would not, however, necessarily have discovered
who the pair's friends were, let alone what they intended to do in the United
States.

But it was already too late for a consulate to catch Al-Midhar and Alhazmi.
Shortly after INS got the CIA's tip, it found out the two men had already
arrived, unhampered, in the United States.

"Our immigration system is like a football game," said Don Hamilton, deputy
director of the National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism. "If
you get across the goal line, you're almost never tackled in the end zone. Once
you get into the United States, you're in."

The pair were admitted not only because they had arrived before their entry in
NAILS, but because they had also escaped placement on the larger U.S. watch
list, the Inter-Agency Border Inspection System, called IBIS.

IBIS includes NAILS, but also integrates database lists of known offenders from
Customs, the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Agriculture
Department's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

If Al-Midhar or Alhazmi had ever been deported, or been suspects in the United
States for crimes ranging from bringing illegal plants into the country or
forging a passport to selling hashish or kidnapping, chances are they would have
appeared on one of these databases and INS would have caught them.

But sophisticated terrorists rarely make this sort of mistake. They obtain good
documents; there are no paste-up, phony passports like the ones that trip up
restaurant workers in Adams Morgan.

And if they are state-sponsored, well-connected or simply rich, they can get
real documents from a real country. At least 16 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers
were in the United States on valid visas. IBIS passed Al-Midhar and Alhazmi
without hesitation.

"When you start getting into organized crime suspects and terrorists, they
understand how the system works, and they won't risk an important person getting
stopped for an altered passport," said one high-level INS official. "It all
comes back to intelligence: Fundamentally you're only as good as the
intelligence you get."

In the case of Al-Midhar and Alhazmi, INS passed the information they had to the
FBI. There were records indicating they had entered the country in New York and
stayed at a Marriott hotel, one law enforcement source said. There are nine
Marriotts in New York.

INS also found they had entered the country in Los Angeles on an earlier visit
last year, the source said, adding that their entry cards said they were going
to a Sheraton. The FBI started looking in Los Angeles as well.

But it was too late. On Sept. 11, when Al-Midhar and Alhazmi boarded Flight 77
at Dulles International Airport, they were still unnoticed. American Airlines
has no access to government databases and probably didn't check them with their
own security system, called Computer Assisted Passenger Screening, or CAPS.

CAPS is a profiling method that runs passenger information through the airline's
reservation system. It is not mandatory, but most large airlines use it,
including American.

If the information fits a lookout profile, the airline examines the passenger
more closely. However, noted Federal Aviation Administration spokeswoman Rebecca
Trexler, CAPS is used only on passengers who are checking bags: It is designed
to detect bombs.

So passengers with hand luggage don't get profiled, because airport security
X-rays everything that goes to the gates. Al-Midhar and Alhazmi probably easily
surmounted this final hurdle.

Staff writers D'Vera Cohn and Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              166 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 25, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

More Than 350 Held in Probe, Ashcroft Says

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1267 words


More than 350 people have been swept up in the massive dragnet for witnesses and
suspects cast since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington,
and nearly 400 others are still being sought for questioning, Attorney General
John D. Ashcroft said yesterday.

None of the detainees has been charged with a crime directly related to the
attacks, which left nearly 7,000 people missing or dead, Justice Department
officials said. Instead, most are being held on immigration charges and traffic
violations, and virtually none has been publicly identified.

Justice Department officials say that the large number of detentions reflects
the breadth and complexity of the largest criminal investigation in U.S. history
and continued uncertainty about how many people may have aided the 19 hijackers.

In revealing that law enforcement officers have taken into custody many more
people than they had previously acknowledged, Ashcroft said that 98 are being
held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service on alleged immigration
violations, and many of the remaining 254 have been charged with traffic
offenses, identification fraud or other minor crimes.

Beth Wilkinson, a former assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the Oklahoma
City bombing case, called the FBI's tactics "a very aggressive posture to use,
although not one that's illegal, assuming they're following all the strictures
of the law and the provisions of the warrants.

"It's an extraordinary number of people [to detain], but this is an
extraordinary crime and investigation," she said.

In the first arrest of someone charged with aiding the hijackers, an Arlington
man was accused yesterday of helping five of the suspected attackers
fraudulently obtain Virginia driver's licenses or identity cards.

Court documents released yesterday show that five alleged hijackers from three
flights picked up those documents in Arlington on Aug. 2, just 40 days before
the attacks.

In other developments yesterday:

* A government official confirmed that box-cutter knives similar to those used
by the terrorists have been found aboard four planes that either took off or
were grounded Sept. 11 as the hijackings were occurring. They include an
American Airlines flight from San Diego that was kept on the ground when the
attacks occurred and then taken for routine maintenance to Dallas, where the
knives were found.

* The FAA extended its latest ban on crop-dusting for a second day amid fears of
biological or chemical attacks, and a Florida bank president said that one of
the suspected terrorists may have sought a government loan to buy a crop-duster
last year.

* Dozens of undocumented immigrants working at U.S. airports, including Dulles
International Airport, have been detained in recent days as authorities crack
down on security.

An FBI affidavit filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria revealed that on
Aug. 2, a man identified as Herbert Villalobos and a confidential witness signed
notarized forms falsely stating that two Arab men they had met a few minutes
earlier were Virginia residents.

The notarized forms allowed the men to exploit a now-closed Virginia legal
loophole and obtain valid licenses or identification cards even though they did
not live in the state.

According to the affidavit, Villalobos identified five of the hijackers as
having been at the Department of Motor Vehicles that day: Hani Hanjour, Salem
Alhazmi and Majed Moqed, who were all aboard American Flight 77, which hit the
Pentagon; Ahmed Alghamdi, who was on United 175, which struck the World Trade
Center; and Abdulaziz Alomari on American Flight 11, which slammed into the New
York landmark.

Sources and law enforcement documents indicate that two other Flight 77
hijackers, Khalid Al-Midhar and Nawaq Alhazmi, also obtained Virginia licenses
about the same time.

Law enforcement sources said there is no evidence that either Villalobos, who is
being held, or the witness had any advance knowledge of the attacks.
Villalobos's attorney, Mike Lieberman, declined to comment.

New information also emerged yesterday about the discovery of box-cutters on
other U.S. airliners after the terrorist attacks. The Washington Post has
previously reported that the tools were found on two flights in addition to the
ones hijacked, and that investigators were looking into the possibility that
there were knives on two more.

Yesterday, an aviation source said a box-cutter was found on an American
Airlines plane that had been scheduled to fly from San Diego to New York's John
F. Kennedy International Airport at 8:20 a.m. Pacific time on Sept. 11 but did
not leave when all flights were grounded after the attacks.

The instrument turned up Sept. 17, as mechanics at the airline's maintenance
facility in Alliance, Tex., began an overhaul of the plane. As mechanics removed
seat cushions, a dark gun-metal gray box-cutter knife fell to the floor, the
source said. There is dispute about whether the knife was in the seat or taped
to it, the source said.

Officials said it is unclear whether there is an innocent explanation for the
five knives now known to have been found on four flights.

Officials said yesterday that tightened security has led to the detention of
dozens of airport employees in Miami, Denver, Washington and other cities for
lack of proper immigration papers. There was no indication that those detained
were related to the terrorism investigation.

At Dulles, INS officials have detained at least four employees, according to
Argenbright Security, the company that employs them.

One employee detained was a Lebanese immigrant working as a security guard, his
lawyer said. The worker, Abdullah Salim Yassine, had an H-1B professional visa
and was charged with switching employers without informing the INS, said Denyse
Sabagh, the attorney.

Sabagh said Yassine, 45, of Fairfax, was placed in deportation hearings and was
being held without bond, an unusually strict measure. "I think this is probably
happening to a lot of other people from Middle Eastern countries, and other
countries on some list. They are detaining people even if they have nothing to
do with what happened," she said.

A spokeswoman for the local INS office, Ernestine Fobbs, declined to comment.

The Dulles investigation and a similar one in Miami had been planned before the
Sept. 11 attacks, according to the Department of Transportation's inspector
general's office, which conducted the checks.

The Miami probe culminated with the arrest on Sept. 14 of a dozen undocumented
immigrants from South America who worked at Miami International Airport.

Twenty-nine Mexicans working at Denver International Airport were detained Sept.
19 for using counterfeit identity documents and are being sent home, said Nina
Pruneda-Muniz, a local INS spokeswoman. The workers' phony IDs were discovered
when they applied for airport badges required under a new, stricter security
system, airport spokesman Chuck Cannon said.

Also yesterday, a government official said Al-Badr Mohammed H. Al-Hazmi, a
University of Texas radiologist who was arrested as a material witnesses, was
expected to be released.

One chapter of the investigation into the hijackings ended yesterday, as the FBI
concluded its search for wreckage from United Airlines Flight 93, which slammed
into a field in Pennsylvania. Investigators said they found no evidence of an
explosion -- a possibility raised after a passenger told his mother by phone
that the hijackers claimed to have a bomb.

Staff writers Dan Eggen, Don Phillips and Susan Schmidt contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              167 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 28, 2001 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Some Cry Foul As Authorities Cast a Wide Net

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1416 words


On the day after the hijackings, Ali Maqtari drove his wife to basic training at
Fort Campbell, Ky., on the Tennessee border. He is from Yemen, she is from North
Carolina. After they married last spring, she adopted his name, becoming
Tiffinay Nicole Maqtari, and his traditions, wearing a veil.

When they got to her new barracks, Army officers and agents from the FBI and
Immigration and Naturalization Service took him in for questioning, according to
Maqtari's attorney, Michael Boyle. Later that week, Boyle said, the agents told
him there was no evidence connecting his client to the terrorists who had
crashed hijacked jets into the Pentagon and the World Trade Center on Sept. 11.

Yet Maqtari is still being held in a Tennessee jail, on an immigration
violation, with a $ 50,000 bond and months of immigration proceedings ahead of
him.

Since the attacks, federal authorities have pursued the most extensive
investigation in the nation's history. Some civil rights and immigration
advocates worry that federal officials are overstepping their powers; others say
an investigation of such national urgency warrants extraordinary measures.

As they debate, hundreds of people across the country -- many of whose attorneys
say they had nothing to do with the attacks -- are having their lives disrupted.

So far, more than 350 people have been held in the investigation. Most of them
are Arabs, some are new immigrants, and some are American citizens. About 100
have been held on suspicion of violating immigration laws and the rest on other
charges, including traffic offenses and other misdemeanors. Authorities are
looking for 400 more.

So far, they have not announced a single criminal charge related to the attacks.

FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III has said his agency is targeting people
"based on predications that the individual may have information" relating to the
attacks. And yesterday, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft said that when
investigators find that someone has no connection to the hijackers or to
terrorism, and is not subject to arrest for something else, "then they come off
the watch list [and] we apologize for taking their time."

Boyle said Maqtari, a French teacher who lives in New Haven, Conn., had nothing
to do with the attacks, that he is apolitical and that his immigration violation
-- a 10-day period of "unlawful presence" when Maqtari switched from tourist
visa to marriage visa -- is a routine matter that normally would be dealt with
by mail.

"It's scary to me that this list of people they've picked up includes people
like him," Boyle said. "I can't imagine how he's at all relevant to the
investigation."

The list of those detained includes people who have lived next door to the 19
suspected hijackers or shared apartments with them. It includes people connected
to flight schools or who are thought to have some financial connection with the
suspects.

But it also includes people with none of those criteria, in cities to which the
suspects have no known connection -- for example, a group of about a dozen
Mauritanians in Florence, Ky., rounded up by federal agents last Friday and
detained for questioning. Or an Egyptian man living in North Carolina who works
as a cartographer. Or a group of Saudi students in Baltimore whose student visas
were not current -- again, an immigration violation that is normally a routine
administrative matter.

In most cases, FBI agents are merely questioning someone they think might have
relevant information, but even that can have consequences. Brothers Anwar and
Aman Montaser, both U.S. citizens from Yemen, said they were fired after the
principals of the Brooklyn public schools where they worked as custodians were
questioned by FBI agents.

The brothers say they have no connection to the bombing, "but we are just
custodians, so why take the chance?" said Anwar Montaser.

Three Saudi students from George Washington University left for home on Monday,
quitting in mid-semester. They said FBI agents had interrogated them at the
Platinum Club downtown after a cabdriver who drove them there told police three
suspicious men were speaking Arabic.

"It's just too scary, too random," said one of them, Fahad Turki, who has since
returned to Jeddah. "I don't feel this is a place I want to live right now."

Many of the detainees who agreed to be interviewed said FBI agents asked them
not about connections to the hijackers, but about political views -- what they
felt when they heard about the bombings, what they thought of American policy in
the Middle East.

Raid Abdelkarim, a physician, was born in Santa Monica, Calif., and lives in Los
Angeles. His parents are Palestinians, and he writes frequent articles on
newspaper opinion pages criticizing U.S. support of Israel. He said FBI agents
started their interview with him by asking about his political views.

"My political views are well known," he told them. "I write lots of opinion
pieces."

"Can you tell us -- are we the bad guys in this thing?" he recalled them asking.

"I said, 'Who's "we" and what "thing," ' " he said. "I felt like I was in a
B-movie, with this guy holding a folder marked 'SECRET.' I started to say, 'I
speak as an American, and like most American Muslims I was horrified by this,'
but they didn't want to hear that."

Abdelkarim's boss and wife were later questioned by agents, he said, but he was
not detained.

The FBI has obtained a fax it says is circulating widely in Arab communities,
titled "Know Your Rights." "You do not have to talk to the police, FBI, INS or
any other law enforcement agent or investigator," it says. "If you are stopped
on the street, ask if you are free to go."

"You do not have to reveal your immigration status," it continues, and gives
advice on what to do if agents threaten someone with deportation.

At least one person caught up in the investigation is not Arab. Sher JB Singh is
a Sikh -- a member of a faith practiced mostly by Indians and little known in
America. Its adherents wear turbans and beards, much like Osama bin Laden, the
prime suspect in the attacks. The day after the attacks, Singh was returning
home to Leesburg from business in Massachusetts when federal agents and local
police boarded his train in Providence and handcuffed him at gunpoint.

The FBI interrogated Singh and released him that day. But he said the agency,
fearing for his safety, did not announce his release -- so television stations
up and down the East Coast kept rebroadcasting his picture, calling him the
first suspect in the investigation.

In the Arab community, many of those affected are Saudis, because they tend to
have names similar to those of the 19 suspected hijackers.

The day after the bombing, three Saudis in their early twenties traveled to
Boston to visit their father, who was being treated at a hospital there. Their
bill at the Westin Hotel was being paid by the fiancee of one of them -- a man
whose name is similar to that of Mohamed Atta, one of the hijackers. After a
hotel clerk tipped the FBI, agents swarmed the hotel.

An agent saw one of the women outside her room and pointed a gun at her,
according to the family's attorney, Jonathan Shapiro. She tried to run away but
he grabbed her and hit her across the mouth, he said.

The three were released after five hours, and the Saudi Embassy called it a
"humiliation."

The case of Khalid S.S. Draibi illustrates some of the difficulties
investigators face. On the evening of Sept. 11, as he was driving in Manassas
Park, he got a flat tire. Local police spotted him driving on the rim, checked
his plates and pulled him over.

His vehicle matched the description of one the FBI was looking for; they also
were suspicious that he was only about 10 miles from Dulles International
Airport, according to sources. When the police officers stopped him, according
to court documents, they found that he had multiple IDs and a flight manual in
Arabic. They called the FBI, which took him in for questioning.

At least one of the names associated with Draibi seemed to match a name used by
a suspected terrorist, but that match proved to be a mistake.

Last weekend, Draibi passed a polygraph in which he denied any involvement with
the bombing, his attorney said and sources confirmed. Sources say he is not, at
the moment, under suspicion.

Draibi is still in custody, charged with falsely claiming to be an American
citizen during his interrogation.

Staff writer Josh White contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2001



CORRECTION: In a Sept. 28 article about some of the more than 350 people
detained in the federal investigation into terrorism, a quotation was
incorrectly attributed. It was FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III who said that
when investigators found that someone had no connection to the hijackers or to
terrorism, and was not subject to arrest for something else, "then they come off
the watch list [and] we apologize for taking their time."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              168 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 28, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

How Visas Can Perpetrate Terror

BYLINE: W. Wayne Merry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 757 words


The terrorists who attacked New York and the Pentagon, plus their support
networks, entered this country legally. They received visas from a U.S. consul
abroad and were passed by an Immigration and Naturalization Service inspector at
a port of entry. Americans should ask why.

This is not to scapegoat a few overworked visa officers and INS inspectors but
to point out that our first line of defense against terrorism on American soil
is weak. The current buzzword in Washington is "homeland defense," but the shock
troops are lowly vice consuls at embassies and INS personnel at airports and
border crossing points. They need help.

Current U.S. law provides strong barriers to terrorists and criminals coming to
these shores, but it is not strongly enforced. As a result, the terrorists not
only targeted our territory but also used it for training, organization and
logistics. Other terrorist groups, from Irish to Albanians, operate here,
although with targets abroad. Thousands of foreign criminals from Russian,
Chinese, Latin American and other organized crime groups come and go freely with
valid U.S. visas. This is not a secret, but it is a scandal.

Much of the problem lies at the State Department, where visa work is a
low-prestige poor relation to the conduct of diplomacy and always low in budget
priorities. The professional consular corps is often highly competent but is
badly overworked, underfinanced and so few in number as to staff only
supervisory positions.

Most visa officers -- the people who actually decide which foreigners can and
cannot enter the United States -- are diplomatic trainees, first-tour officers
on compulsory visa assignments before going on to better things. Thus, the State
Department entrusts its least-qualified personnel with the power to admit the
worst people to this country. These young diplomats lack training and experience
and rarely think of themselves as law enforcement officers. Too often they are
more sympathetic to their local clients than committed to a demanding
immigration statute. Compounding the problem is "visa shopping," whereby a
dubious applicant travels from consulate to consulate, often far away from his
home country, in search of a susceptible vice consul.

Congress is also part of the problem. Lawmakers tend to regard visa and
immigration issues as clerical work rather than as national defense and for
decades have starved these operations of money for adequate staff, technology
and facilities.

Worse, members of Congress love nothing better than to punch holes in the
immigration statute on behalf of constituents or campaign contributors. Not a
day passes that U.S. consulates are not pressured by Capitol Hill to issue visas
to persons previously denied but who have friends, relatives or friends of
relatives in the United States to pull strings. Some congressional interventions
are legitimate or merely pro forma, but many are outrageous efforts to
circumvent the law. Horror stories abound. The visa section I headed turned down
an acknowledged child molester with two convictions who then used contacts in
the United States to unleash congressional fury on our heads demanding the
worthy young man be given a visa. We held our ground, but why must consuls fight
to keep human slime out of our country? Such struggles are routine and allow
many criminal elements to enter the United States.

As Congress throws billions into counterterrorism and homeland defense, it must
recognize our front trench is the visa window at consulates abroad and INS
counters at ports of entry. Both need reinforcements, in resources and in
political support. Congress must also reverse the perilous but widespread notion
that visas to this country are somehow a right, and demand a significant
widening of the profiles now in use to screen out terrorists and criminals.
Profiling is not pretty, but it is a logical and necessary mechanism of
self-defense.

America can remain a society open to the world with millions of foreign visitors
while maintaining the rule of law at our frontiers. This is not either-or; it's
knowing when and how to say "no." Citizens of countries with advanced legal
systems do not even require visas and, with adequate safeguards, this practice
can continue. But we all now know that many people abroad wish us ill, and we
must promptly strengthen the forward ramparts of American law enforcement and
homeland defense.

The writer, a former State Department and Pentagon official, is a senior
associate at the American Foreign Policy Council.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              169 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 7, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Algerian Man Detained in Bombing Plot

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 232 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE Oct. 6


An Algerian man believed to have helped plot bombings in the United States and
Canada is being held by Canadian immigration officials, the Seattle Times
reported today.

The newspaper quoted law enforcement sources as saying that Samir Ait Mohamed
has been held secretly for several weeks in Vancouver, British Columbia, but
that no charges were pending against him.

Details of his apprehension were not available. Immigration officials and staff
at Canada's Department of Justice declined to comment.

FBI agents from Seattle have testified that Mohamed has ties to Ahmed Ressam,
who was convicted earlier this year of conspiring to attack Los Angeles
International Airport during millennium celebrations, the Times reported.

Ressam, who is awaiting sentencing, has confirmed he was trained in Afghanistan
camps financed by Osama bin Laden. He says a top bin Laden deputy gave him $
12,000 for his operation.

In July, Ressam testified against accomplice Mokhtar Haouari at a trial in New
York. In that case, Ressam said he and Mohamed talked about "blowing up a
neighborhood in Canada where there was an Israeli interest" in the summer of
1999, when they were living in Montreal.

Ressam, who was arrested in Washington state in December 1999 when he tried to
bring explosives into the country from Canada, said Mohamed was aware Ressam
intended a terrorist attack in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              170 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 7, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Potential Bomber Shows Resolve in Trips to U.S.

BYLINE: Gilbert M. Gaul and Mary Pat Flaherty, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 938 words


For Gazi Ibrahim Abu Mezer, a 23-year-old Palestinian and aspiring terrorist,
the third time was the charm.

In 1996, agents for the Immigration and Naturalization Service twice caught Abu
Mezer attempting to sneak into the United States at the Canadian border.
Although he had no identification and a criminal past, he was returned to Canada
without being charged.

In early 1997, Abu Mezer was captured a third time, as he boarded a Greyhound
bus in Bellingham, Wash. This time, he requested asylum in the United States and
was released.

A top INS official later cited the Abu Mezer case as a success because agents
nabbed him on three occasions. What he did not say was that Abu Mezer was
captured by police a few months later as he constructed a pipe bomb to blow up a
New York subway station in the Brooklyn borough. If not for a tip from one of
Abu Mezer's roommates, officials said, he might have succeeded.

The case of Abu Mezer underscores the dramatic lengths to which terrorists have
gone to enter the United States and the frustrations of law-enforcement
authorities working against daunting odds to capture them.

Immigration and law enforcement officials say it is almost impossible to track
determined terrorists, who seize upon loopholes in the law and vulnerabilities
in the immigration system to penetrate U.S. borders.

Those who have tracked a progression of deadly terrorism acts in the United
States over the past decade say that security can be tightened with greater
diligence and improved communication between the United States and other
countries.

The system for monitoring entry to the United States has been so lax that "if
you got in, you were in, and no real attempt was going to be made to locate
you," said Henry DePippo, a lawyer who prosecuted the 1993 World Trade Center
bombing case.

Abu Mezer's entry to the United States took many years and repeated efforts, a
review of of government documents shows.

He lived in Israel in the early 1990s, but routinely battled with West Bank
security police. At least twice, he was held on security charges by authorities
who suspected that he had ties to the terrorist group Hamas, a claim he denied.

In 1993, Abu Mezer entered Canada on a student visa. Authorities did not check
his background, but even if they had, they later told U.S. investigators, it is
unlikely they would have denied him entry.

Abu Mezer's real destination was the United States. Less than two weeks after
arriving in Toronto, he applied for a U.S. visa and was rejected. For three
years Abu Mezer lived in Canada, where he was twice arrested, for stealing
checks and a misdemeanor assault.

In the summer of 1996, Abu Mezer twice attempted to illegally enter the U.S.
along the Pacific Northwest border. Once, he was arrested as he tried to cross
Ross Lake in North Cascades National Park in Washington state. A park ranger
found Abu Mezer suffering from hypothermia and turned him over to the INS. He
was sent back to Canada.

Six days later Abu Mezer was picked up 65 miles west of Ross Lake, "wearing a
Walkman personal stereo as he casually jogged into the United States," a
government account shows. Mezer had U.S. and Canadian money, but no
identification. Again, he was returned to Canada without being charged.

Under law, the INS can detain individuals who enter the country illegally and
start deportation hearings. But officials acknowledge that rarely happens along
some sections of the Canadian border because of the large number of illegal
immigrants and a shortage of jail space.

Agents familiar with the case said they were suspicious of Abu Mezer but didn't
know that he had charges against him in Canada and had been detained in Israel.

"That was an intelligence failure," said Eugene R. Davis, the former INS deputy
chief Border Patrol agent for the area where Abu Mezer was captured. "There
really wasn't an intelligence network in place where we could run his name and
there wasn't close enough coordination with Canada."

On January 14, 1997, a Border Patrol agent in Bellingham working the late shift
noticed Abu Mezer and two others boarding a bus for Seattle. They admitted being
in the United States illegally.

The INS started paperwork to ship Abu Mezer back to Canada and set bail at $
15,000. But this time, Canada refused to accept him. Abu Mezer then applied for
asylum in the United States, claiming that he could not return to Israel. In his
application, he said, "I was not a member of Hamas, but I knew of persons who
were."

INS officials said they had no information to link Abu Mezer to terrorists, and
did not oppose a motion to reduce his bond to $ 5,000.

About the same time, the judge in Abu Mezer's asylum case made a routine request
to State Department's Office of Asylum Affairs, asking if he had any terrorist
ties. The office said it had no information on Abu Mezer.

A senior official in the office later told investigators that he did not have
the resources to check for terrorist activities on the thousands of asylum
requests it got annually.

After his release, Abu Mezer informed the court that he no longer intended to
seek asylum, and disappeared without attempting to redeem his bond.

On July 30, 1997, a roommate tipped off New York City police that Abu Mezer was
building pipe bombs in a Brooklyn apartment and planned to blow up a nearby
subway station.  The next day police raided the apartment and arrested Abu Mezer
and a roommate.

In 1998, Abu Mezer was convicted and sentenced to life in prison. Last year, an
appeals court upheld the conviction.

Correspondent Deneen Brown contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              171 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 8, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A National ID System

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 231 words


We now know that some of the Sept. 11 terrorists obtained false ID cards via the
Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles [Metro, Oct. 2]. That they were able to do
so should come as no surprise.

The systems of decentralized and fragmented resident identification at the state
level facilitate the ability of terrorists, illegal immigrants, criminals and
miscreants to conceal their true status. It is simply too easy to move from one
state to another state and establish a new identity.

It is time that the United States implemented a national ID system. Without such
a system, it will be difficult and much more expensive to launch homeland
preservation, let alone defense. Considering the potential benefits to
Immigration and Naturalization Service enforcement, law enforcement, justice and
anti-terrorism, the costs would be insignificant. It is time to focus more on
prevention.

What is the downside of a national ID system? Some say big brother would be
watching. Personally, I have nothing to hide, and I think big brother should be
more selectively watching if we are to continue to enjoy our freedom. But all
attempts to get a better handle on terrorism, illegal immigration, criminal and
miscreant flight from capture and justice will be hampered by the lack of a
national ID system.

So tell me, why doesn't the government propose such a system?

WILLIAM H. JOHNSON

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              172 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 15, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Attacks Alter Politics, Shift Focus of Immigration Debate

BYLINE: Thomas B. Edsall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1184 words


The recent terrorist attacks have radically altered the immigration debate,
replacing an agenda of amnesty with proposals to remilitarize U.S. borders,
severely limit student visas and increase tracking of foreigners on American
soil.

The economic downturn and declining demand for foreign labor have altered the
politics of immigration. And with the legislative calendar cleared for action on
airline security, new police powers, economic stimulus and other responses to
the Sept. 11 attacks, congressional consideration of many other issues has
become unlikely.

But most of all, according to those involved with the issue, the basic image of
immigrants has changed, with the image of those who hate the United States and
are willing to wreak destruction on its citizens displacing, at least
temporarily, the picture of hard-working men and women in pursuit of the
American dream.

Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a leading advocate of restrictive immigration
policies, said the balance of power on the immigration issue has shifted since
the attacks: "We are winning. That is different."

On Sept. 25, two weeks after the attacks, the House passed an amendment to the
defense authorization bill calling for the use of military personnel to help
patrol the borders with Mexico and Canada.

"How do you defend your home if your front and back doors are unlocked?" Rep.
James A. Traficant Jr. (D-Ohio), the sponsor, told his colleagues. "What do we
stand for if we can't secure our borders? How many more Americans will die? . .
. If 300,000 illegal immigrants can gain access to America every year, trying to
find a better life, do not doubt for one moment that a larger contingent of
people with evil intentions could gain entry into America and continue to kill
American citizens."

In a political development that could resonate through Congress, especially on
the Republican side of the aisle, the immigration issue has propelled an
underdog candidate, Gunner DeLay, into the Republican runoff in a bid to replace
Rep. Asa Hutchinson (R-Ark.), who resigned to head the Drug Enforcement
Administration. DeLay, an adamant opponent of amnesty and a supporter of
military enforcement of border controls, said, "I've taken the lead," and now
all the candidates, Democrat and Republican, "are singing the same tune."

Before Sept. 11, a powerful alliance of Hispanic groups, organized labor,
business, Republican campaign strategists, liberals and religious lobbies had
joined forces with the Bush administration in a bid to enact a major
liberalization of immigration policy.

Republicans aligned with Bush had become convinced that the GOP's past
anti-immigration stands were killing the party's chances to win Hispanic votes
and that Hispanics had become a crucial voting bloc in states as diverse and
important as California, Texas, Florida, Arizona, New York and Illinois.

Businesses, in turn, were desperate for employees willing to work in low-end
jobs in the hotel, restaurant and construction industries and in other
hard-to-fill positions. Organized labor formally abandoned its opposition to
immigration, which had been based on the view that the new arrivals threatened
U.S. workers, instead viewing the surge of legal and illegal workers as a key
source of new members to build unions.

The moment appeared ripe for legislation granting illegal workers some form of
amnesty, perhaps including green cards that could lead to citizenship. "This is
probably one of the most friendly environments for positive immigration reform
that I have seen," Theresa Cardinal Brown, manager of immigration and labor
policy for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, told The Washington Post in August.

Now, the tenor and tone of Brown's comments are very different. Immigration
liberalization, she said, "is not an issue that is going away forever, but it
might be awhile before it gets back to the top of the heap."

Daniella Henry, head of the Haitian American Community Council in Delray Beach,
Fla., was more explicit: "We were moving slowly but surely to do these things,
and all of a sudden everything was crushed, just like the World Trade Center,"
she told local reporters.

"Just a little while ago, people were beginning to see immigrants as hard
workers, willing to do what nobody else would, contributing to the economy, good
family members," a pro-immigration advocate said. "Now, too many people see
immigrants as a threat, a deadly threat."

Rep. Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.), one of the strongest proponents of amnesty and
liberalized immigration policy, said he and allies may be able to revive
proposals to grant legal status to illegal immigrants by using a security
argument.

"An orderly program of earned adjustment, based on work history and continuity
of work, that involves stages of getting full status, lets us know who is here,"
Berman said. "When they go through a process of adjudication, they come out of
the shadows."

The suspects in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, a number of whom used lax
immigration regulations and easy access to student and other visas to enter the
country, have changed the focus of the immigration debate in a number of other
ways.

Before Sept. 11, the focus was largely on the legal and illegal entry of
Hispanics, many with little education, through the Mexican border. Major
supporters of liberalization included low-wage industries and unions.

Since the attacks, the focus has shifted much more to immigration from Asian,
Middle Eastern and Muslim countries. Many of those immigrants have good
educations and are seeking degrees and advanced training through college and
graduate school visa programs.

Students coming to the United States have become a major source of revenue and
prestige for public and private colleges. Many pay full tuition, and elite
colleges often compete for foreign scholars with high test scores to boost the
status and reputation of their own departments, offering full scholarships in
scientific fields. In addition, foreigners educated in U.S. institutions are a
key source of workers, especially in the technology industry.

There are several proposals before Congress to establish a six-month moratorium
on student visas while immigration authorities and education institutions
establish better mechanisms to track those with visas and to be sure those who
have entered the country actually enroll in and pursue academic studies.

Geographically, the immigration debate has shifted from the nation's southern
border with Mexico to the more porous northern border with Canada, which has a
liberal refugee policy.

In the Senate, Democrats are among those leading the charge to tighten the
Canadian border. "All terrorists and smugglers know that the only thing that
precludes them from entering this country in many locations at the northern
border is a rubber cone," Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) told colleagues. Sen.
Patty Murray (D-Wash.), warned, "Many of the world's terrorist groups have
established themselves in Canada, seeking safe haven, setting up operational
bases and attempting to gain access to the U.S."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              173 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 17, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Today in Congress

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 545 words


SENATE

Meets at 10 a.m.

Committees:

Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs -- 9:30 a.m. Nominations of Susan Schmidt Bies
and Mark Olson to Federal Reserve Board of Governors. 538 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 9:30 a.m. Nominations of Phillip Bond as
undersecretary of commerce for technology and John H. Marburger III as White
House science and technology policy director; U.S. Coast Guard promotions;
federal funding for rail transportation. 253 Russell Office Bldg.

Senate-House Conferees -- 3:30 p.m. Education achievement gap. 106 DOB .

Environment & Public Works -- 9:30 a.m. Nominations of William Baxter as member
of board of directors for Tennessee Valley Authority; Kimberly Terese Nelson as
assistant administrator of EPA's Environmental Information Office; & Steven
Williams as director of Interior Department's Fish and Wildlife Service. 406
DOB.

Foreign Relations -- 2:30 p.m. Ambassadorial nominations: Brian Carlson to
Latvia; Joseph DeThomas to Estonia; Bonnie McElveen-Hunter to Finland; John
Ordway to Armenia; John Palmer to Portugal; & Clifford Sobel to the Netherlands.
419 DOB.

Governmental Affairs -- 9:30 a.m. Joint hearing with international security
subc. Bio-terrorism. HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson. 342 DOB.

Intelligence -- 2:30 p.m. Closed. 219 Hart Office Bldg.

Judiciary -- 10:30 a.m. Immigration subc. Immigration controls to prevent
terrorism. INS Commissioner James Ziglar. 226 DOB.

HOUSE

Meets at 10 a.m.

Committees:

Education & Workforce -- 10 a.m. Select education subc. Child abuse and neglect.
2175 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

Energy & Commerce -- 10 a.m. Commerce, trade & consumer protection subc. Tourism
industry. 2322 RHOB.

Energy & Commerce -- 10 a.m. Health subc. Medicare. 2123 RHOB.

Financial Services -- 10 a.m. Financial institutions & consumer credit subc.
Federal deposit insurance system. FDIC Chairman Donald Powell. 2128 RHOB.

Government Reform -- 1 p.m. Criminal justice, drug policy & human resources
subc. Federal law enforcement workforce. INS Commissioner James Ziglar. 2247
RHOB.

Government Reform -- 2 p.m. Technology & procurement subc. E-government. 2154
RHOB.

International Relations -- 10:30 a.m. China's coercive population control. 2172
RHOB.

International Relations -- 2 p.m. Middle East & South Asia subc. Middle East.
2172 RHOB.

Joint Economic -- 10 a.m. Monetary policy. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan
Greenspan. 311 Cannon House Office Bldg.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration & claims subc. Improving INS. 2237 RHOB.

Resources -- 10 a.m. Warm Springs, Ore., & Acoma, N.M., Indian reservations'
land issues; Utah artifacts preservation; Lakehaven, Wash., water reclamation;
Oregon's Chiloquin Dam study. 1324 Longworth House Office Bldg.

Rules -- 3 p.m. Tax incentives for economic stimulus. H-313 Capitol.

Science -- 10 a.m. Cyber-terrorism. Virginia Gov. James S. Gilmore III. 2318
RHOB.

Small Business -- 2 p.m. Depreciation schedules. 2360 RHOB.

Transportation & Infrastructure -- 1:30 p.m. Aviation subc. Flight restrictions.
2167 RHOB.

Transportation & Infrastructure -- 10 a.m. Coast Guard & maritime transportation
subc. Drug interdiction. DEA Administrator Asa Hutchinson. 2167 RHOB.

Ways & Means -- 4 p.m. Family amendments & Borders Security Act. 1100 LHOB.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              174 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 18, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Training for Air Marshals

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A38

LENGTH: 220 words


I am a senior special agent with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS). I have received numerous awards during my more than 16 years of service,
and I have an excellent employment record.

After Sept. 11, I decided to apply for the Federal Air Marshal program. I was
accepted but have decided to pass it by because the INS will not guarantee that
I can have my old job back if I do not complete the air marshal academy.

The Federal Aviation Administration told me that the failure rate at the academy
is high because of its firearms training. I cannot risk being unemployed because
I have a family to support. The training is only five weeks for current federal
agents. The INS could not even announce my old job in five weeks, and it would
cost the INS a lot of money to hire someone to replace me instead of giving my
old position back to me.

I know several agents with the Drug Enforcement Agency, the U.S. Marshals
Service and the INS border patrol who also would like to become air marshals but
cannot risk unemployment.

During this time of heightened security, Americans deserve to have the best
qualified and most experienced agents protecting them while they are flying. We
need a law requiring federal agencies to take back agents who fail the air
marshal academy.

DONALD BUECHNER

Oviedo, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              175 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 19, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 488 words


VIRGINIA

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has set a court date for the four
Tanzanian teenagers who left an international gathering of Boy Scouts with the
hope of continuing their education in this country.

The teenagers hitchhiked to Washington after they left the National Scout
Jamboree at Fort A.P. Hill near Bowling Green on July 29. They have been held at
an INS detention facility outside Reading, Pa., since Aug. 3.

Attorneys for the teenagers say that because they have valid tourist visas, they
are here legally and should not be detained. Andrew Morton, an attorney for the
youths, said he hopes to win them an interview with an asylum officer. He also
hopes to have them moved out of the INS facility and placed in a foster home in
Richmond.

The hearing has been set for Nov. 8.

MARYLAND

Elderly residents were targeted in at least 16 burglaries in Wheaton, Silver
Spring and Bethesda over the past six months, Montgomery County police said.

Detectives have released a composite sketch of a suspect thought to be
responsible for many of the burglaries.

The most recent break-ins occurred in Silver Spring. On Wednesday, an
80-year-old woman reported that someone broke into her home in the 800 block of
Lamberton Drive about 2:30 a.m., police said. A home in the 1200 block of
Ruppert Road, belonging to another 80-year-old woman, was burglarized about 1
a.m. Oct. 12, police said.

Police ask that residents keep an eye on elderly neighbors, and they say anyone
who wants a home-security review by the police should call the nearest police
station. Anyone with information on the burglaries is urged to call Crime
Solvers at 1-800-673-2777.

Montgomery County police have identified the two men who died in a
murder-suicide Tuesday night and Wednesday afternoon.

Police said Troy Matthew Thompson, 39, of the 19500 block of Divot Place in
Gaithersburg, was found dead in the town house he shared with Leonard William
Deserio, 59. Deserio called Frederick County police and told them he had killed
his roommate, authorities said. Deserio then killed himself as Frederick
deputies approached him as he sat in his car on the ramp leading to a scenic
overlook on Interstate 270 in Frederick County.

Police said the motive for the murder was an ongoing dispute.

The former head of Montgomery County police's accident reconstruction team was
sentenced yesterday to five years in jail, all suspended, after pleading guilty
in July to one count of felony theft scheme for taking $ 102,799.96 from the
bank account of the Alliance of Police Supervisors.

Michael Edward Buchan, 47, of Damascus, must make restitution of $ 107,067.91
under the sentence imposed by Circuit Court Judge Ann S. Harrington. Buchan
could have been sentenced to a maximum of 15 years in prison. Buchan admitted
that he used the money to pay gambling debts.

Compiled from reports by staff writers Chris L. Jenkins and Phuong Ly.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              176 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 19, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Feel Attacks' Economic Fallout;
As Tourism, Service Industries Slump, Low-Wage Workers Face Severe Hardships

BYLINE: Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1057 words

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif.


The line of Mexican immigrants began forming even before the makeshift relief
center opened at a small church here a few days ago. Out of work, bewildered by
their sudden change of fortune, they came seeking bags of food, help to pay the
rent and hope for new jobs.

Soledad Garcia, who until a few weeks ago had cleaned rooms at a beach hotel,
said that she lives with eight other immigrants, all of whom also have just been
dismissed. Even before last month's terrorist attacks, she said, they were all
living in or near poverty as housekeepers, cooks, busboys and dishwashers.

Now, they are struggling to survive.

"We are all in the same situation," Garcia said. "I don't know how I can pay any
of my bills."

The relief center, merely a few spare rooms next to the church, is one of
several opening in haste around the country for the growing army of immigrant
workers victimized by the economic aftershocks from the attacks. Tens of
thousands of them have lost their jobs or had their weekly work hours greatly
reduced because business in the nation's service and tourism industries, their
gateway to prosperity, has plummeted.

For those who lack citizenship, it has been a double blow: Their only economic
foothold in the country is crumbling. And their recent hopes of gaining some
form of legal residency are fading because the federal government, which had
been considering loosening the nation's immigration rules, is radically changing
priorities and moving swiftly to tighten the country's borders.

Many of the immigrants out of work speak little or no English and lack skills
for other kinds of jobs. And many, officials say, may not seek help from
government agencies or community groups because they fear deportation.

Tom Snyder, a spokesman for the Hotel and Restaurant International Employees
Union, said the massive layoffs have left many immigrant workers without a
safety net -- no health care, for example -- and could drive some of them into
homelessness. Illegal immigrants who only a month ago were a vital part of the
service industry are the most vulnerable,

"By their very nature, undocumented workers are afraid to make contact with the
public system," Snyder said. "And if they do it's hard to access those benefits
because they're not citizens."

The union estimates that nearly 100,000 of its members -- most of whom are
low-wage immigrant workers -- have either lost their jobs or had their hours cut
in recent weeks. And they say no change in that trend is in sight. Across the
country, hotels and restaurants are still far from full.

In some cities, the rising unemployment toll in the immigrant workforce is
staggering. In the Washington area, officials say nearly 40 percent of the jobs
in the hospitality industry have been eliminated or cut back. Here in Southern
California, about one-third of the 12,000 members in one local union chapter
representing hotel and restaurant employees are jobless or barely working.

Other cities -- Boston, Las Vegas, Honolulu -- report similar waves of layoffs
among low-end immigrant workers. And there's no way of gauging the impact on the
many thousands of immigrants who work as day laborers.

Union leaders and other community and religious groups are urging state and
federal officials to approve emergency aid for immigrant workers and to protect
their health benefits for at least a few more months.

"It's heartbreaking when you see how quickly this happened and how much people
are already hurting," said the Rev. Alexia Salvatierra, who leads a Santa Monica
group trying to assist the workers.

Only a little over a month ago, many of the same groups now rushing to open
relief centers for jobless migrants had new optimism that many would gain legal
residency as guest workers or citizens.

The administration and Mexico, acknowledging the growing role that Mexican
immigrants play in the nation's workforce, were discussing an overhaul of
immigration policies that would grant many illegal workers some form of amnesty.
Now, such changes seem a long way off, at best.

"It's extremely disheartening," said Antonia Hernandez, director of the
Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund. "Immigration has been pushed down the
priority list."

Outside the center, some unemployed workers who are living in the country
illegally said they were disappointed that their chance at citizenship may have
vanished. But most of them expressed much more concern about enduring the
hardships that the economic fallout from the terrorist attacks has created.
Already accustomed to living on the margins and getting by, they still seemed
overwhelmed by their new predicament.

Epolito Morales, who had worked for eight years as a mini-bar attendant at a Los
Angeles hotel, is now among the jobless. He has two children and a monthly rent
of $ 1,000. His frantic search for work in the past few weeks has proved futile
so far.

"There is no other job that I can find," he said. "I don't know what I will do."

Union leader Marina Elena Durazo said three relief centers are opening around
Los Angeles for the newly unemployed. She is enlisting leaders in immigrant
communities to implore workers to come for assistance and stress to them that
the centers will not ask about their residency status.

"We are dealing with crisis numbers we have never seen before," Durazo said.
"And we have to keep them from going into hiding when they are in this kind of
poverty. They need everything."

The turnout at the Santa Monica relief center has heartened community leaders.
As soon as it opened, dozens of immigrant workers -- many of them young mothers
-- crowded into a room and sought help. Brown shopping bags stuffed with food
lined a wall; many of the unemployed workers headed straight for the table where
volunteers were distributing it. Carmen Martinez, who lost her job as a hotel
housekeeper, held her young daughter's hand as she quietly asked for a bag of
food.

Others sought conversation with job counselors. Outside, a few unemployed women
who spoke little English wept as they explained their plight to ministers.

Jesus Alberta, another hotel housekeeper, had lost her $ 5.85-an-hour job. She
was standing beside two bags of food that the center gave her. "This is the only
place for us to go," she said.

Special correspondent Jeff Adler contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              177 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Seer's Tales Of Hexes Strip Poor Of Savings;
Immigrants Trusted Woman With $40,000

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1807 words


One by one, Senora Guadalupe's clients gathered on her doorstep in the drenching
afternoon downpour. They did not meet each other's eyes.

Though strangers to one another, they shared a terrible secret: All were Latino
immigrants with little money to spare, and all had been warned by Guadalupe that
they faced a deadly curse that could be lifted only if they brought her a large
bundle of cash. She would use it in a purification ritual, the ebony-haired
fortuneteller had promised, then return it -- in some cases doubled -- on this,
the appointed day.

Guadalupe had backed up her predictions with persuasive evidence. She had prayed
in a mysterious foreign tongue and read her customers' deepest secrets in her
tarot cards. She had "discovered" the hexes plaguing them by rolling an egg over
their bodies and then cracking it open to reveal blood and worms. One woman, a
Salvadoran cook, handed over $ 2,300. A Guatemalan landscaper gave about $
25,000 -- most of it borrowed.

Now they and the small crowd of others were ready to retrieve their money and
their peace of mind.

But Guadalupe did not answer the door that July evening. Nor the next morning,
when the group gathered again in front of her modest semidetached brick home on
a quiet street in Langley Park. Finally, the landscaper peeked into the living
room window and gasped in horror: Guadalupe's furniture was gone.

Over the ensuing weeks, seven of Guadalupe's victims filed reports with Prince
George's County police claiming a total of more than $ 40,000 in losses. They
also named six other victims who have yet to come forward. Police say they have
little hope of finding Guadalupe, a tall, heavyset woman in her mid-thirties who
signed the lease for the house in June, under the name Ana Ibarra, along with
Jose Ibarra, Carolina Ibarra and Manuel Perez.

Yet her victims continue to search for her -- trading tips almost daily and
calling every fortuneteller they can find in the hope that Guadalupe may still
be working the area under a different name.

Gaudalupe's swindle is "a classic" of the genre, said Tony Zavosky, a retired
detective who investigated similar cases in the early 1990s while with the D.C.
police's check and fraud unit. "Sometimes they'll use an egg, sometimes a tomato
-- it's sleight of hand," he said.

The scam has ensnared countless people in this country. But the Latino residents
of this working-class suburb in Prince George's County proved a particularly
vulnerable target. For if there is one quality that con victims share, it is
their power of imagination -- their ability to conceive of total disaster or
fantastic success in defiance of common sense.

And although the residents of Langley Park are some of the area's hardest
workers, they also comprise some of its most ardent dreamers. Many have left
everything behind in pursuit of a vision of prosperity only slightly more
probable than Senora Guadalupe's prophesies.

She promised help with everything from love problems to alcoholism to impotencia
sexual in the Spanish leaflets she distributed in Langley Park's apartment
complexes.

It was the reference to muscular pain that caught the canning factory worker's
eye. A tiny, gaunt woman of 46, she said she had developed chronic back and leg
aches from years spent peeling vegetables in a refrigerated room. On Guadalupe's
orders, she brought her $ 2,500 wrapped in a pair of underwear "without sin" --
the fortuneteller's term for new.

The 39-year-old Salvadoran cook hoped that Guadalupe would cure her insomnia.
Anxious about the declining number of customers at the "restaurant" she runs out
of her living room and concerned about the welfare of the young sons she had
left in El Salvador, the cook rarely got a good night's sleep. A staunch
Catholic, she said she would not have turned to a psychic's help back in El
Salvador. "But I thought, here in the United States, the treatments are more
advanced. Maybe this will work," she said.

Like Guadalupe's other victims, the cook and the canner are too ashamed to tell
their families that they were swindled, and they spoke on condition of
anonymity. Carlos Moreta, Latino liaison for Prince George's police, and Marcos
Rodriguez, the investigator on the case, confirmed the details of their accounts
and others'.

Moreta arranged for them to make their reports and even wrote out the canner's
statement for her because she has difficulty spelling. It was a depressing tale,
Moreta said, but it seemed not to have shaken her faith in the spirit world.
"When she was done, she looked up and asked if I had a newspaper so she could
check her horoscope," he recalled with a grim laugh.

Many of the victims are illegal immigrants who would have been disinclined to go
to the police if not for the encouragement of Guadalupe's Latino neighbors, who
happened upon them just as they saw that the fortuneteller was gone.

"One woman was sobbing. Another man kept kicking the ground and screaming that
he wanted to find Guadalupe and kill her," recalled Monica Ramirez, a
housecleaner who lives across the street. "Then there was a man who was so
overcome he couldn't speak."

Ramirez and other neighbors offered the victims juice and sympathy. Still,
Ramirez said, she could not help chiding them for being so gullible.

"I asked them, 'Did [Guadalupe] have an altar?' And they said no," Ramirez
recalled with a roll of her eyes. "Well, everybody knows that real
fortunetellers always have an altar!"

Ramirez feels sorriest for the landscaper, a short, muscular 34-year-old from a
small village in northern Guatemala who said he lost the largest amount -- about
$ 25,000.

He had not had an easy life -- leaving school at 13 to help support his family
as a farmhand before sneaking into the United States seven years ago. But since
then, he had managed to earn a steady, if modest, income. He was walking to the
market when Guadalupe called out to him in Spanish, he recalled.

"Oye!" she whispered sharply, "I know your future."

He turned to look at her. She was dark-haired and light-skinned, dressed in a
long, gray skirt and a yellow tank top. A long scar stretched across her left
shoulder.

"I don't have any money," he replied.

"It's only $ 10. For $ 10, I'll read your future," Guadalupe persisted,
following him down the street.

Finally, he sat on the curb beside her. She took his palm and muttered in a
strange, guttural language. Then she stared into his eyes and proceeded to
describe the details of his life with astonishing accuracy -- the girlfriend he
had left behind in Guatemala, his marriage to a new love here in the United
States, the birth of their son.

Suddenly, Guadalupe's expression grew dark. She sensed terrible danger, she
said. Something horrible could happen to his family. But she would save him if
he came to her home that night with three eggs and a paper bag inside a plastic
one. Three hours later, the landscaper rang the doorbell of the home in the 8400
block of 12th Avenue, eggs in hand.

A young, very attractive woman of about 20 ushered him in, introducing herself
as Carolina. She had light skin and dark locks, like Guadalupe, but her hair was
curly, and she was petite and slim.

Neighbors and other victims also saw two men in their mid-twenties in the house,
both light-skinned and dark-haired, one about 5 foot 7, the other 5 foot 2.

Guadalupe and her housemates spoke perfect Spanish and told her clients that
they were Venezuelans of Arabic descent. The taller man also spoke excellent
English, said Carlos Allen, who had rented the house to him and the others in
June. The man introduced himself as Jose Ibarra and said that Carolina was his
wife and that the other woman was his sister Ana. The second man was presented
as Manuel Perez, Ana's boyfriend.

The foursome provided no references, saying they had bad credit. Instead, Allen
said, they offered a month's rent as a security deposit. They were not popular
with neighbors, who wondered at the steady stream of visitors coming to the
house alone, often late into the night.

The landscaper described a far less pleasant experience in a recent interview:

Led by Guadalupe, he entered a small second-floor room furnished with a covered
table and two chairs. There were candles on the table and pictures of Jesus and
the Virgin Mary on the wall. Guadalupe told him to kneel on the floor, then took
one of the eggs and began rolling it over his chest, arms and head while praying
in the foreign language. Then she placed the egg in the bag and smashed it with
her fist.

Tearing open the bag, she let him see the mess inside. Amid the yolk and whites
was an alarming array: live worms, salt, small bones, a tiny human skull, clots
of blood, snippets of dollar bills and dirt.

Guadalupe shrieked and widened her eyes.

The items were a sign that someone had put a curse on him, Guadalupe explained.
He or someone in his family would die very soon unless he appeased the spirits.
He must bring 24 $ 100 bills to Guadalupe for use in a cleansing ceremony that
would double the amount.

Astounded, the landscaper readily accepted Guadalupe's plan. The next day, he
borrowed nearly $ 1,000 apiece from his boss, his wife's aunt and a friend.

When he returned with the $ 2,400, Guadalupe wrapped the bills in one of his
socks, then placed the bundle on top of the worms from his egg. The worms
wriggled -- a clear sign, Guadalupe said, that the spirits were not yet
satisfied.

Over the next several weeks, Guadalupe offered him a series of additional
proofs, each more fantastic then the next. She told him to carry a blank piece
of paper in his pocket for two days, which she then held up to candlelight to
reveal a message predicting his son's imminent death. She gave him a piece of
cotton to press against the child's forehead, then she threw it into a basin of
water and opened it to find blood clots.

After each demonstration, the landscaper brought more cash. He ultimately
borrowed about $ 20,000 from friends and relatives and threw in his entire
savings of $ 5,000.

Now, like many of Guadalupe's victims, he faces the daunting prospect of paying
back those who trusted him. He no longer buys new clothes or anything but the
plainest food. His wife, who had stopped working to look after their son, now
works as a nanny. He has not yet dared to tell her the full amount of their
debt.

But the hardest task is coming to terms with the fact that he was so
effortlessly duped. "I was such an idiot. For Guadalupe, it was like taking
candy from a child," he said.

But this very ease also suggested another possibility to him: Maybe it wasn't
really his fault. Maybe Guadalupe hypnotized him. In fact, maybe she wasn't
entirely human.

"Maybe," he said with a look of gravity, "she was the Devil."

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              178 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' Trust Exacts High Price;
After Weaving Tales of Deadly Hexes and Salvation, Woman Flees With $40,000

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1936 words


One by one, Senora Guadalupe's clients gathered on her doorstep in the drenching
afternoon downpour. They did not meet each other's eyes.

Though strangers to one another, they shared a terrible secret: All were Latino
immigrants with little money to spare, and all had been warned by Guadalupe that
they faced a deadly curse that could be lifted only if they brought her a large
bundle of cash. She would use it in a purification ritual, the ebony-haired
fortuneteller had promised, then return it -- in some cases doubled -- on this,
the appointed day.

Guadalupe had backed her predictions with persuasive evidence. She had prayed in
a mysterious foreign tongue and read her customers' deepest secrets in her tarot
cards. She had "discovered" the hexes plaguing them by rolling an egg over their
bodies and then cracking it open to reveal blood and worms. One woman, a
Salvadoran cook, had handed over $ 2,300. A Guatemalan landscaper gave about $
25,000 -- most of it borrowed.

Now they and the small crowd of others were ready to retrieve their money and
their peace of mind.

But Guadalupe did not answer the door that July evening. Nor was she home the
next morning when the group gathered again in front of her modest semidetached
brick home on a quiet street in Langley Park. Finally, the landscaper peeked
into the living room window and gasped in horror: Guadalupe's furniture was
gone.

Over the ensuing weeks, seven of Guadalupe's victims have filed reports with
Prince George's County police claiming a total of more than $ 40,000 in losses.
They also named six other victims who have yet to come forward. Police say they
have little hope of finding Guadalupe, a tall, heavy-set woman in her
mid-thirties who signed the lease for the house in June under the name Ana
Ibarra, along with Jose Ibarra, Carolina Ibarra and Manuel Perez.

Yet her victims continue to search for her -- trading tips almost daily and
calling every fortuneteller they can find in the hope that Guadalupe may still
be working the area under a different name.

There are few other leads, beyond the fact that Guadalupe and her roommates
spoke an unrecognizable language in addition to fluent Spanish. Several police
officers who specialize in con games speculate that this may indicate that the
four were Roma, people who speak a language called Romany and come from many
regions, including Latin America. The Roma are well known for fortunetelling
and, occasionally, running scams.

Gaudalupe's swindle is "a classic" of the genre, said Tony Zavosky, a retired
detective who investigated a spate of similar cases during the early 1990s while
with the D.C. police's check and fraud unit. "Sometimes they'll use an egg,
sometimes a tomato -- it's sleight of hand," he said.

The scam has ensnared countless people in this country. But the Latino residents
of this working-class suburb of Prince George's County proved a particularly
vulnerable target. For if there is one quality that con victims share, it is
their power of imagination -- their ability to conceive of total disaster or
fantastic success in defiance of common sense.

And while the residents of Langley Park are some of the area's hardest workers,
they also comprise some of its most ardent dreamers. Many have left everything
behind in pursuit of a vision of prosperity only slightly more probable than
Senora Guadalupe's prophesies.

She promised help with everything from love problems to alcoholism to
"impotencia sexual" in the Spanish leaflets she distributed in Langley Park's
apartment complexes.

It was the reference to muscular pain that caught the canning factory worker's
eye. A tiny, gaunt woman of 46, she said she had developed chronic back and leg
aches from years spent peeling vegetables in a refrigerated room. On Guadalupe's
orders, she brought her $ 2,500 wrapped in a pair of underwear "without sin" --
the fortuneteller's term for new.

The 39-year-old Salvadoran cook hoped Guadalupe would cure her insomnia. Anxious
about the declining number of customers at the "restaurant" she runs out of her
living room and concerned about the welfare of the young sons she had left in El
Salvador, the cook rarely got a good night's sleep. A staunch Catholic, she said
she would not have turned to a psychic's help back in El Salvador. "But I
thought, here in the United States, the treatments are more advanced. Maybe this
will work," she said.

Like Guadalupe's other victims, the cook and the canner are too ashamed to tell
their families that they were swindled, and they spoke on condition of
anonymity. Carlos Moreta, Latino liaison for Prince George's police, and Marcos
Rodriguez, the investigator on the case, confirmed the details of their accounts
and others'.

Moreta arranged for them to make their reports and even wrote out the canner's
statement for her because she has difficulty spelling. It was a depressing tale,
Moreta said, but it seemed not to have shaken her faith in the spirit world.
"When she was done, she looked up and asked if I had a newspaper so she could
check her horoscope," he recalled with a grim laugh.

Many of the victims are illegal immigrants who would have been disinclined to go
to the police but for the encouragement of Guadalupe's Latino neighbors, who
happened upon them just as they saw that the fortuneteller was gone.

"One woman was sobbing. Another man kept kicking the ground and screaming that
he wanted to find Guadalupe and kill her," recalled Monica Ramirez, a
housecleaner who lives across the street. "Then there was a man who was so
overcome he couldn't speak."

Ramirez and other neighbors offered the victims juice and sympathy. Still,
Ramirez said, she could not help chiding them for being so gullible.

"I asked them, 'Did [Guadalupe] have an altar?' And they said no," Ramirez
recalled with a roll of her eyes. "Well, everybody knows that real
fortunetellers always have an altar!' "

Ramirez feels sorriest for the landscaper, a short, muscular 34-year-old from a
small village in northern Guatemala who said he lost the largest amount -- about
$ 25,000.

He had not had an easy life -- leaving school at 13 to help support his family
as a farmhand before sneaking into the United States seven years ago. But since
then, he had managed to earn a steady, if modest, income. He was walking to the
market to buy some meat for a barbecue when Guadalupe called out to him in
Spanish, he recalled.

"Oye!" she whispered sharply, "I know your future."

He turned to look at her. She was dark-haired but light-skinned, dressed in a
long, gray skirt and a yellow tank top. A long scar stretched across her left
shoulder.

"I don't have any money," he replied and continued walking.

"It's only $ 10. For $ 10, I'll read your future," Guadalupe persisted,
following him down the street.

Finally, he sat on the curb beside her. She took his palm and muttered in a
strange, guttural language he had never heard. Then she stared into his eyes and
proceeded to describe the details of his life with astonishing accuracy -- the
girlfriend he had left behind in Guatemala, his marriage to a new love here in
the United States, the birth of their 18-month-old son.

Suddenly, Guadalupe's expression grew dark. She sensed terrible danger, she
said. Something horrible could happen to his family. But she would save him if
he came to her home that night with three eggs and a paper bag inside a plastic
one. Three hours later, the landscaper rang the doorbell of 8425 12th Ave., eggs
in hand.

A young, very attractive woman of about 20 ushered him in, introducing herself
as Carolina. She had light skin and dark locks, like Guadalupe, but her hair was
curly, and she was petite and slim.

Neighbors and other victims also saw two men in their mid-twenties in the house,
both light-skinned and dark-haired, one about 5-foot-7, the other 5-foot-2.

Guadalupe and her roommates spoke perfect Spanish and told her clients that they
were Venezuelans of Arabic descent. The taller man also spoke excellent English,
said Carlos Allen, who had rented the house to him in June. The man introduced
himself as Jose Ibarra and said that Carolina was his wife and that the other
woman was his sister Ana. The second man was presented as Manuel Perez, Ana's
boyfriend.

The foursome provided no references, claiming they had bad credit. Instead,
Allen said, they offered a month's rent as a security deposit. They were not
popular with neighbors, who wondered at the steady stream of visitors coming to
the house alone, often late into the night. "They would leave walking very
slowly, very worried," Ramirez said. "I would think, 'What the devil are these
people doing?' . . . I thought it might be prostitution or erotic dancing."

The landscaper described a far less pleasant experience in a recent interview:

Led by Guadalupe, he entered a small second-floor room furnished with a covered
table and two chairs. There were candles on the table and pictures of Jesus and
the Virgin Mary on the wall. Guadalupe told him to kneel on the floor, then took
one of the eggs and began rolling it over his chest, arms and head while praying
in the foreign language. Then she placed the egg in the bag and smashed it with
her fist.

Tearing open the bag, she let him see the mess inside. Amid the yolk and whites
was an alarming array: live worms, salt, small bones, a tiny human skull, clots
of blood, snippets of dollar bills and dirt.

Guadalupe shrieked and widened her eyes.

The items were a sign that someone had put a curse on him, Guadalupe explained.
He or someone in his family would die very soon unless he appeased the spirits.
He must bring 24 $ 100 bills to Guadalupe for use in a cleansing ceremony that
would double the amount.

Astounded, the landscaper readily accepted Guadalupe's plan. The next day, he
borrowed nearly $ 1,000 a piece from his boss, his wife's aunt and a friend --
asking them to trust that he desperately needed the money for reasons he could
not divulge.

When he returned with the $ 2,400, Guadalupe wrapped the bills in one of his
socks, then placed the bundle on top of the worms from his egg. The worms
wriggled -- a clear sign, Guadalupe said, that the spirits were not yet
satisfied.

Over the next several weeks, Guadalupe offered him a series of additional
proofs, each more fantastic then the next. She told him to carry a blank piece
of paper in his pocket for two days, which she then held up to candlelight to
reveal a message predicting his son's imminent death. She gave him a piece of
cotton to press against the child's forehead, then she threw it into a basin of
water and opened it to find blood clots.

After each demonstration, the landscaper brought more cash. He ultimately
borrowed about $ 20,000 from friends and relatives and threw in his entire
savings of $ 5,000.

Now, like many of Guadalupe's victims, he faces the daunting prospect of paying
back those who trusted him. He no longer buys new clothes or anything but the
plainest food. His wife, who had stopped working to look after their son, now
works as a nanny. He has not yet dared to tell her the full amount of their
debt.

But the hardest task is coming to terms with the fact that he was so
effortlessly duped. "I was such an idiot. For Guadalupe, it was like taking
candy from a child," he said.

But this very ease also suggested another possibility to him: Maybe it wasn't
really his fault. Maybe Guadalupe hypnotized him. In fact, maybe she wasn't
entirely human.

"Maybe," he said with a look of gravity, "she was the Devil."

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              179 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Seer's Tales Of Hexes Strip Poor Of Savings;
Immigrants Trusted Woman With $40,000

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1884 words


One by one, Senora Guadalupe's clients gathered on her doorstep in the drenching
afternoon downpour. They did not meet each other's eyes.

Though strangers to one another, they shared a terrible secret: All were Latino
immigrants with little money to spare, and all had been warned by Guadalupe that
they faced a deadly curse that could be lifted only if they brought her a large
bundle of cash. She would use it in a purification ritual, the ebony-haired
fortuneteller had promised, then return it -- in some cases doubled -- on this,
the appointed day.

Guadalupe had backed up her predictions with persuasive evidence. She had prayed
in a mysterious foreign tongue and read her customers' deepest secrets in her
tarot cards. She had "discovered" the hexes plaguing them by rolling an egg over
their bodies and then cracking it open to reveal blood and worms. One woman, a
Salvadoran cook, handed over $ 2,300. A Guatemalan landscaper gave about $
25,000 -- most of it borrowed.

Now they and the small crowd of others were ready to retrieve their money and
their peace of mind.

But Guadalupe did not answer the door that July evening. Nor the next morning,
when the group gathered again in front of her modest semidetached brick home on
a quiet street in Langley Park. Finally, the landscaper peeked into the living
room window and gasped in horror: Guadalupe's furniture was gone.

Over the ensuing weeks, seven of Guadalupe's victims filed reports with Prince
George's County police claiming a total of more than $ 40,000 in losses. They
also named six other victims who have yet to come forward. Police say they have
little hope of finding Guadalupe, a tall, heavyset woman in her mid-thirties who
signed the lease for the house in June, under the name Ana Ibarra, along with
Jose Ibarra, Carolina Ibarra and Manuel Perez.

Yet her victims continue to search for her -- trading tips almost daily and
calling every fortuneteller they can find in the hope that Guadalupe may still
be working the area under a different name.

There are few other leads, beyond the fact that Guadalupe and her roommates
spoke an unrecognizable language in addition to fluent Spanish.

Gaudalupe's swindle is "a classic" of the genre, said Tony Zavosky, a retired
detective who investigated a spate of similar cases in the early 1990s while
with the D.C. police's check and fraud unit. "Sometimes they'll use an egg,
sometimes a tomato -- it's sleight of hand," he said.

The scam has ensnared countless people in this country. But the Latino residents
of this working-class suburb in Prince George's County proved a particularly
vulnerable target. For if there is one quality that con victims share, it is
their power of imagination -- their ability to conceive of total disaster or
fantastic success in defiance of common sense.

And although the residents of Langley Park are some of the area's hardest
workers, they also comprise some of its most ardent dreamers. Many have left
everything behind in pursuit of a vision of prosperity only slightly more
probable than Senora Guadalupe's prophesies.

She promised help with everything from love problems to alcoholism to impotencia
sexual in the Spanish leaflets she distributed in Langley Park's apartment
complexes.

It was the reference to muscular pain that caught the canning factory worker's
eye. A tiny, gaunt woman of 46, she said she had developed chronic back and leg
aches from years spent peeling vegetables in a refrigerated room. On Guadalupe's
orders, she brought her $ 2,500 wrapped in a pair of underwear "without sin" --
the fortuneteller's term for new.

The 39-year-old Salvadoran cook hoped that Guadalupe would cure her insomnia.
Anxious about the declining number of customers at the "restaurant" she runs out
of her living room and concerned about the welfare of the young sons she had
left in El Salvador, the cook rarely got a good night's sleep. A staunch
Catholic, she said she would not have turned to a psychic's help back in El
Salvador. "But I thought, here in the United States, the treatments are more
advanced. Maybe this will work," she said.

Like Guadalupe's other victims, the cook and the canner are too ashamed to tell
their families that they were swindled, and they spoke on condition of
anonymity. Carlos Moreta, Latino liaison for Prince George's police, and Marcos
Rodriguez, the investigator on the case, confirmed the details of their accounts
and others'.

Moreta arranged for them to make their reports and even wrote out the canner's
statement for her because she has difficulty spelling. It was a depressing tale,
Moreta said, but it seemed not to have shaken her faith in the spirit world.
"When she was done, she looked up and asked if I had a newspaper so she could
check her horoscope," he recalled with a grim laugh.

Many of the victims are illegal immigrants who would have been disinclined to go
to the police if not for the encouragement of Guadalupe's Latino neighbors, who
happened upon them just as they saw that the fortuneteller was gone.

"One woman was sobbing. Another man kept kicking the ground and screaming that
he wanted to find Guadalupe and kill her," recalled Monica Ramirez, a
housecleaner who lives across the street. "Then there was a man who was so
overcome he couldn't speak."

Ramirez and other neighbors offered the victims juice and sympathy. Still,
Ramirez said, she could not help chiding them for being so gullible.

"I asked them, 'Did [Guadalupe] have an altar?' And they said no," Ramirez
recalled with a roll of her eyes. "Well, everybody knows that real
fortunetellers always have an altar!"

Ramirez feels sorriest for the landscaper, a short, muscular 34-year-old from a
small village in northern Guatemala who said he lost the largest amount -- about
$ 25,000.

He had not had an easy life -- leaving school at 13 to help support his family
as a farmhand before sneaking into the United States seven years ago. But since
then, he had managed to earn a steady, if modest, income. He was walking to the
market to buy meat for a barbecue when Guadalupe called out to him in Spanish,
he recalled.

"Oye!" she whispered sharply, "I know your future."

He turned to look at her. She was dark-haired and light-skinned, dressed in a
long, gray skirt and a yellow tank top. A long scar stretched across her left
shoulder.

"I don't have any money," he replied.

"It's only $ 10. For $ 10, I'll read your future," Guadalupe persisted,
following him down the street.

Finally, he sat on the curb beside her. She took his palm and muttered in a
strange, guttural language. Then she stared into his eyes and proceeded to
describe the details of his life with astonishing accuracy -- the girlfriend he
had left behind in Guatemala, his marriage to a new love here in the United
States, the birth of their son.

Suddenly, Guadalupe's expression grew dark. She sensed terrible danger, she
said. Something horrible could happen to his family. But she would save him if
he came to her home that night with three eggs and a paper bag inside a plastic
one. Three hours later, the landscaper rang the doorbell of the home in the 8400
block of 12th Avenue, eggs in hand.

A young, very attractive woman of about 20 ushered him in, introducing herself
as Carolina. She had light skin and dark locks, like Guadalupe, but her hair was
curly, and she was petite and slim.

Neighbors and other victims also saw two men in their mid-twenties in the house,
both light-skinned and dark-haired, one about 5 foot 7, the other 5 foot 2.

Guadalupe and her housemates spoke perfect Spanish and told her clients that
they were Venezuelans of Arabic descent. The taller man also spoke excellent
English, said Carlos Allen, who had rented the house to him and the others in
June. The man introduced himself as Jose Ibarra and said that Carolina was his
wife and that the other woman was his sister Ana. The second man was presented
as Manuel Perez, Ana's boyfriend.

The foursome provided no references, saying they had bad credit. Instead, Allen
said, they offered a month's rent as a security deposit. They were not popular
with neighbors, who wondered at the steady stream of visitors coming to the
house alone, often late into the night. "They would leave walking very slowly,
very worried," Ramirez said. "I would think, 'What the devil are these people
doing?' . . . I thought it might be prostitution or erotic dancing."

The landscaper described a far less pleasant experience in a recent interview:

Led by Guadalupe, he entered a small second-floor room furnished with a covered
table and two chairs. There were candles on the table and pictures of Jesus and
the Virgin Mary on the wall. Guadalupe told him to kneel on the floor, then took
one of the eggs and began rolling it over his chest, arms and head while praying
in the foreign language. Then she placed the egg in the bag and smashed it with
her fist.

Tearing open the bag, she let him see the mess inside. Amid the yolk and whites
was an alarming array: live worms, salt, small bones, a tiny human skull, clots
of blood, snippets of dollar bills and dirt.

Guadalupe shrieked and widened her eyes.

The items were a sign that someone had put a curse on him, Guadalupe explained.
He or someone in his family would die very soon unless he appeased the spirits.
He must bring 24 $ 100 bills to Guadalupe for use in a cleansing ceremony that
would double the amount.

Astounded, the landscaper readily accepted Guadalupe's plan. The next day, he
borrowed nearly $ 1,000 apiece from his boss, his wife's aunt and a friend --
asking them to trust that he desperately needed the money for reasons he could
not divulge.

When he returned with the $ 2,400, Guadalupe wrapped the bills in one of his
socks, then placed the bundle on top of the worms from his egg. The worms
wriggled -- a clear sign, Guadalupe said, that the spirits were not yet
satisfied.

Over the next several weeks, Guadalupe offered him a series of additional
proofs, each more fantastic then the next. She told him to carry a blank piece
of paper in his pocket for two days, which she then held up to candlelight to
reveal a message predicting his son's imminent death. She gave him a piece of
cotton to press against the child's forehead, then she threw it into a basin of
water and opened it to find blood clots.

After each demonstration, the landscaper brought more cash. He ultimately
borrowed about $ 20,000 from friends and relatives and threw in his entire
savings of $ 5,000.

Now, like many of Guadalupe's victims, he faces the daunting prospect of paying
back those who trusted him. He no longer buys new clothes or anything but the
plainest food. His wife, who had stopped working to look after their son, now
works as a nanny. He has not yet dared to tell her the full amount of their
debt.

But the hardest task is coming to terms with the fact that he was so
effortlessly duped. "I was such an idiot. For Guadalupe, it was like taking
candy from a child," he said.

But this very ease also suggested another possibility to him: Maybe it wasn't
really his fault. Maybe Guadalupe hypnotized him. In fact, maybe she wasn't
entirely human.

"Maybe," he said with a look of gravity, "she was the Devil."

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              180 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 26, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

War on Terror Hits the Break

BYLINE: Al Kamen

SECTION: A SECTION; IN THE LOOP AL KAMEN; Pg. A33

LENGTH: 829 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is in the thick of the effort to
track down suspected terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks or the anthrax
letters or planning future misdeeds.

So what better time to pull INS district directors -- there are about 35 in all
-- plus another couple of dozen chief Border Patrol agents and nearly 100 top
regional and headquarters officials to attend the 2001 Commissioner's Conference
in beautiful downtown San Francisco?

Word is some district directors don't want to go to the annual meeting because,
oddly enough, they have their hands full doing background searches and linkages
to visa applications as authorities detain people for questioning about
terrorism.

"Do you want the key guy in that [district office] to be some place in
California if something happens in his district?" an immigration source asked.
"Rome is burning. Would any other law enforcement agency be doing this now?"

But an INS spokesman said it was "very important" to have the conference now.
"Very important things need to be discussed," he said, including recent events,
legislative matters and agency reorganization. And there's a new commissioner
who needs to meet the troops.

Besides, the grumblers are off-base. It's not just "some place in California."
It's the Argent Hotel, which boasts "panoramic views" and "comfortable
elegance." It's located "one block from . . . Yerba Buena Gardens . . . and
close to historic trolley cars to Fisherman's Wharf," our invitation says.

There's more! "The hotel is offering a three-day extension of the conference
rate if you would like to extend your stay in San Francisco -- either before or
after the conference dates," we are told, and "the Commissioner [James W.
Ziglar] is encouraging employees to bring their spouses to the Conference as
guests."

Wonder what part of the word W-A-R the INS doesn't understand?

Loop Fans have been sending some great comments along with rankings of their
agencies' cafeteria. A State Department employee, rating his cafeteria a lowest
possible "1," said it combined the virtues of "1. British food. 2. French
service. 3. Japanese prices."

Don't let your agency's cafeteria go unrewarded or unpunished! Send your rating
on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being best, and perhaps a one-sentence explanation.
Please include your name, job description and agency. No names will be printed.
E-mail your assessment to: fedpage@washpost.com. Deadline is Monday.

Colin L. Powell's appearance at the House International Relations Committee
Wednesday was wrapping up when Chairman Henry J. Hyde (R-Ill.) asked if the
secretary of state could "take one more questioner? How about two more
quickies?"

"We'll do three more very quickly," Powell said, according to a transcript.

"My press release will read, 'Ros-Lehtinen does quickie with Secretary Powell,'
" Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) said, as the crowd laughed.

"One of us cannot survive this press release," Powell said.

"That can only help me," she said. "I don't know what it will do for you." She
then asked about Cuba matters.

A few minutes later, Hyde interrupted to say "the gentlelady's time has
expired."

"It was a quickie, but good," Ros-Lehtinen said.

"It was a quickie, but good," Hyde repeated. "It was good for you?" he asked
her.

"It was good for me," she said as laughter drowned out her next words.

"We're all going to get arrested," said Hyde, who, turning to Powell, started to
say "Mister Secretary."

"I'm not saying a word," Powell broke in, with a laugh.

Same here.

The U.S. Trade Representative's office is planning to Webcast briefings of a
critical World Trade Organization meeting in Qatar next month to its various
business advisory committees, a move that is taking on greater importance as
private-sector folks who had planned to attend are said to be bailing out of a
trip to the Middle East.

About 100 U.S. business representatives were planning to go to Doha, joining
Trade Representative Robert B. Zoellick, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and
Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman.

But many private-sector types, including people from Eastman Kodak Co. and the
American Farm Bureau, are thinking maybe this is not the time to visit the
region, Bloomberg News reports, even though the delegates appear to be closer to
agreement on an agenda for a new round of trade talks.

Osama bin Laden's crowd has threatened Americans everywhere and USTR folks are
said to be nervous, but a scaled-back slate is going.

Vice President Cheney is not going to carry on the Al Gore tradition of an
annual Halloween party at the vice president's home. (There goes the planned
Loop What Should Dick Wear? Contest.) This weekend would have been the time for
such a party -- always a hit for reporters and their kids -- but Cheney
spokeswoman Juleanna Glover-Weiss says he's decided not to do it. Besides, it
would be kinda hard to pull off a party when you're at an "undisclosed
location."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              181 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For GOP, Va. District Hard to Deliver;
Latino Hopeful Finds Big Hispanic Populace but Few Registered Voters

BYLINE: Ann O'Hanlon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 906 words


Political novice Edgar Gonzalez is supposed to be the new hope of the GOP, a
Hispanic candidate who can cut into a vastly expanding voting bloc that
traditionally votes Democrat.

So it seemed political nirvana at a recent high school football game when
Bolivian immigrant Elizabeth Alamayo approached Gonzalez, full of excitement and
chatter in Spanish.

"I like that some Spanish people are getting into" politics, she said, her
husband at her side. "It's very important because we are a big community."

So could Gonzalez count on two votes from the Alamayo family?

"Oh, we are not registered," she said.

Gonzalez's face fell. It was only the latest evidence that the vaunted
Republican effort to court Latinos faces huge practical impediments. In Virginia
and across the country, the party has made much of going after the Hispanic
vote, which Republicans must capture more of if they are to win national
elections. Gonzalez, 45, represents the Old Dominion's slice of that, a
Salvadoran immigrant recruited to move into the 49th District and run in a newly
redistricted area that is 41 percent Hispanic but also about 70 percent
Democrat.

National experts say that about one in 10 Hispanics actually votes, with some
variation, depending on the region. In areas of intense immigration, such as
Washington, the number is smaller, because recent immigrants usually do not yet
have voting rights.

"Of 100 Hispanics, 34 can't vote because they're under 18," said Harry Pachon,
president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a California and Texas-based
Hispanic think tank. "Of the remaining 66, 33 are not citizens. Of the remaining
33, 17 will register to vote. Of those 17, 11 will vote."

It is difficult to bring the lens in closer and look at voting patterns of
Hispanics in one legislative district, such as the 49th, which covers portions
of Arlington and Fairfax counties and Alexandria. But a look at the list of
registered voters in one of the district's most Hispanic precincts gives a
glimpse of what Gonzalez is up against.

The Oakridge Precinct, just off Interstate 395 in South Arlington, is 47 percent
Hispanic, according to the state's Division of Legislative Services. If every
voter with a Hispanic first name or surname is counted, only 11 percent -- 245
out of 2,242 -- are Latino.

Of three dozen chosen at random, all but three had unlisted telephone numbers,
making phone banking by the candidate nearly impossible. At least five no longer
lived at the address listed. Of four Hispanic voters who agreed to be
interviewed, two said they were unlikely to vote and two said they were likely
to vote for Gonzalez's opponent, Del. Karen L. Darner (D), a 10-year incumbent,
former Peace Corps volunteer and public school teacher.

"I've been here 45 years, so I don't vote for whoever's Hispanic," said Luis
Baez, 71, a naval engineer originally from Puerto Rico. Baez said there's a "75
percent chance" he'll vote for Darner.

"I have very little information on [Gonzalez]," said Hector Diaz, a Colombian
American who pays close attention to politics and always votes, but usually for
the Democrat. "I know that he's Salvadoran, that he wants to do good work for
the community. . . . But, really, I have very little information on him."

Robert D. Holsworth, a political science professor at Virginia Commonwealth
University, said the Republicans will have to be patient.

"Will the short-term objective of beating Karen Darner occur?" he asked. "In all
likelihood, that's a real uphill climb. But in the long term, it does make sense
for the GOP to be sending signals that they're going to be actively competing
for the minority vote."

Darner herself has argued, however, that voters are savvy enough to recognize an
overnight transformation and that this is what the Republicans are attempting.

"You can't all of a sudden do it," she said.

The president of Arlington's branch of the League of United Latin American
Citizens said that Republicans would have fared better if they had chosen
someone who was already well known locally, instead of Gonzalez, a real estate
developer who moved to Arlington from Prince William County over the summer.

"It would be great to have somebody Hispanic, but I'd like to know that somebody
is knowledgeable about the area," Yolanda Smingler said. "I, myself, will not
vote for somebody just because he is Hispanic."

The sentiment is familiar but not entirely telling, said F. Chris Garcia, a
political science professor at the University of New Mexico.

"That's the correct thing to say, but we know that having a Latino on the ballot
does tend to draw votes from other Latinos," he said.

Larry Gonzalez, of the National Association of Latino Elected Officials, pointed
to recent mayoral elections in Los Angeles and New York. In both cases, he said,
a Latino candidate increased Latino voter turnout by one-third.

"But those are high-profile races," Gonzalez acknowledged. In Virginia's state
delegate race, he said, Republicans "are taking the initial baby steps they need
to take."

The candidate Gonzalez, who is no relation, countered any naysayers. He knows
the region's issues, he said, especially public school woes in South Arlington
and gang problems. In addition, he said, he is out to appeal to all voters.

"Even though I'm from Hispanic descent, I want to represent the whole 49th," he
said. "Getting good representation is not just for the Hispanics."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              182 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For Va. GOP's Latino Hopeful, District Is Difficult to Deliver

BYLINE: Ann O'Hanlon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 906 words


Political novice Edgar Gonzalez is supposed to be the new hope of the GOP, a
Hispanic candidate who can cut into a vastly expanding voting bloc that
traditionally votes Democrat.

So it seemed political nirvana at a recent high school football game when
Bolivian immigrant Elizabeth Alamayo approached Gonzalez, full of excitement and
chatter in Spanish.

"I like that some Spanish people are getting into" politics, she said, her
husband at her side. "It's very important because we are a big community."

So could Gonzalez count on two votes from the Alamayo family?

"Oh, we are not registered," she said.

Gonzalez's face fell. It was only the latest evidence that the vaunted
Republican effort to court Latinos faces huge practical impediments. In Virginia
and across the country, the party has made much of going after the Hispanic
vote, which Republicans must capture more of if they are to win national
elections. Gonzalez, 45, represents the Old Dominion's slice of that, a
Salvadoran immigrant recruited to move into the 49th District and run in a newly
redistricted area that is 41 percent Hispanic but also about 70 percent
Democrat.

National experts say that about one in 10 Hispanics actually votes, with some
variation, depending on the region. In areas of intense immigration, such as
Washington, the number is smaller, because recent immigrants usually do not yet
have voting rights.

"Of 100 Hispanics, 34 can't vote because they're under 18," said Harry Pachon,
president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a California and Texas-based
Hispanic think tank. "Of the remaining 66, 33 are not citizens. Of the remaining
33, 17 will register to vote. Of those 17, 11 will vote."

It is difficult to bring the lens in closer and look at voting patterns of
Hispanics in one legislative district, such as the 49th, which covers portions
of Arlington and Fairfax counties and Alexandria. But a look at the list of
registered voters in one of the district's most Hispanic precincts gives a
glimpse of what Gonzalez is up against.

The Oakridge Precinct, just off Interstate 395 in South Arlington, is 47 percent
Hispanic, according to the state's Division of Legislative Services. If every
voter with a Hispanic first name or surname is counted, only 11 percent -- 245
out of 2,242 -- are Latino.

Of three dozen chosen at random, all but three had unlisted telephone numbers,
making phone banking by the candidate nearly impossible. At least five no longer
lived at the address listed. Of four Hispanic voters who agreed to be
interviewed, two said they were unlikely to vote and two said they were likely
to vote for Gonzalez's opponent, Del. Karen L. Darner (D), a 10-year incumbent,
former Peace Corps volunteer and public school teacher.

"I've been here 45 years, so I don't vote for whoever's Hispanic," said Luis
Baez, 71, a naval engineer originally from Puerto Rico. Baez said there's a "75
percent chance" he'll vote for Darner.

"I have very little information on [Gonzalez]," said Hector Diaz, a Colombian
American who pays close attention to politics and always votes, but usually for
the Democrat. "I know that he's Salvadoran, that he wants to do good work for
the community. . . . But, really, I have very little information on him."

Robert D. Holsworth, a political science professor at Virginia Commonwealth
University, said the Republicans will have to be patient.

"Will the short-term objective of beating Karen Darner occur?" he asked. "In all
likelihood, that's a real uphill climb. But in the long term, it does make sense
for the GOP to be sending signals that they're going to be actively competing
for the minority vote."

Darner herself has argued, however, that voters are savvy enough to recognize an
overnight transformation and that this is what the Republicans are attempting.

"You can't all of a sudden do it," she said.

The president of Arlington's branch of the League of United Latin American
Citizens said that Republicans would have fared better if they had chosen
someone who was already well known locally, instead of Gonzalez, a real estate
developer who moved to Arlington from Prince William County over the summer.

"It would be great to have somebody Hispanic, but I'd like to know that somebody
is knowledgeable about the area," Yolanda Smingler said. "I, myself, will not
vote for somebody just because he is Hispanic."

The sentiment is familiar but not entirely telling, said F. Chris Garcia, a
political science professor at the University of New Mexico.

"That's the correct thing to say, but we know that having a Latino on the ballot
does tend to draw votes from other Latinos," he said.

Larry Gonzalez, of the National Association of Latino Elected Officials, pointed
to recent mayoral elections in Los Angeles and New York. In both cases, he said,
a Latino candidate increased Latino voter turnout by one-third.

"But those are high-profile races," Gonzalez acknowledged. In Virginia's state
delegate race, he said, Republicans "are taking the initial baby steps they need
to take."

The candidate Gonzalez, who is no relation, countered any naysayers. He knows
the region's issues, he said, especially public school woes in South Arlington
and gang problems. In addition, he said, he is out to appeal to all voters.

"Even though I'm from Hispanic descent, I want to represent the whole 49th," he
said. "Getting good representation is not just for the Hispanics."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              183 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 31, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A High Standard of Solidarity

BYLINE: Judith Martin

SECTION: STYLE; MISS MANNERS JUDITH MARTIN; Pg. C09

LENGTH: 339 words


Dear Miss Manners:

We are a family of recent immigrants who have just received their permanent
residency permits. While we came to the United States on a temporary assignment,
we have grown to love this country and have every intention of staying. It is
quite likely that we will become naturalized citizens in the future, but we are,
at this moment, citizens of the Netherlands.

We were as shocked and outraged by the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 as any
American, and we would have liked to show our sympathy with the victims and our
support of America by flying the Stars and Stripes.

It is my understanding, however, that one doesn't properly fly the flag of a
nation of which one is not a citizen.

So as not to offend anybody at a time of tragedy, we decided in the end to
display

only the Dutch flag at half-staff on the

day that was declared a national day of mourning in The Netherlands. We did,
however, wear red, white and blue, as those are also the Dutch national colors.

Can you tell us if we acted properly? We would appreciate your advice on proper
flag etiquette for the future.

It is not uncommon for Miss Manners's Gentle Readers to ask for retroactive
judgment on a problem they have already handled, with the explanation that the
same situation might arise again.

But your reference to future necessity made her blanch.

What you did was respectful to both the United States and your own country,
although it is not improper to fly the American flag along with (although never
lower than, and always to the right of) another country's flag, as is regularly
done in honor of state visitors.

On extraordinary occasions, it is not improper to fly only another country's
flag to indicate solidarity in time of crisis.

Miss Manners hopes you will not have a future occasion to apply this rule.

Feeling incorrect? Address your etiquette questions (in black or blue-black ink
on white writing paper) to Miss Manners, in care of The Washington Post, 1150
15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071

(c)2001, by Judith Martin

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              184 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 31, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Zig Zag

BYLINE: Al Kamen

SECTION: A SECTION; IN THE LOOP AL KAMEN; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 818 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, citing the press of recent events
and the latest nationwide terrorist alert, decided yesterday to postpone its
annual Commissioner's Conference, a week-long gathering of top officials that
had been scheduled for next week in San Francisco.

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar said late yesterday that the meeting would
likely be held early next year.

Some INS officials, working double-overtime these days, had been unhappy about
the timing of the conference, and were not lured by a hotel offer of an extra
three days at government rates, which would let them take off the weekend before
or after the conference and enjoy the Bay Area sights.

In addition, the conference was to feature two 45-minute sessions with the
legendary Zig Ziglar, often called "America's No. 1 motivational speaker," the
leader in the fight against "stinking thinking."

Ziglar usually charges from $ 50,000 to $ 100,000 plus all expenses to deliver
the keys to success and happiness. Those keys would be a bargain at any price,
but Zig agreed to explain it all to the INS for free -- nada, nothing, no
obligation. And why is this? Possibly because nephew James W. is the INS
commissioner? Zig just wanted a first-class, round-trip ticket from Dallas to
San Francisco for his efforts and said he would pay for his wife's ticket.

Having a motivational speaker at the annual meeting is not new, said James
Ziglar, noting that the motivational speaker at last year's conference cost $
9,000. (Of course, the events of 9-11 might be motivation enough without a
speaker.)

INS hallway buzz last week had it that Ziglar's son was being married this
weekend in San Francisco and that's why the meeting was not being canceled.
Ziglar yesterday said his son's bachelor party is Saturday -- the wedding's in
Atlanta in December -- but the conference date and location, both set before he
became commissioner in August, were completely unrelated to the party.

Let's just hope Uncle Zig can make it to the next one.

Washington area residents are naturally jittery these days. But it seems we're
not the only ones, judging from this e-mail Monday to all Emory University
students and employees in Atlanta. Emory is across the street from the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention headquarters, where scientists are studying
anthrax, smallpox and such matters.

"Given the events and concerns of recent weeks, the CDC wants to allay in
advance any alarm in the Emory community as the CDC upgrades its central boiler
plant," says the note from university secretary Gary S. Hauk. "The upgrade,
which has been planned for months, includes installation and testing of a new
steam-generating boiler.

"Beginning Monday, October 29, and continuing off and on for approximately two
weeks, the CDC will vent large quantities of clean steam into the atmosphere,"
the e-mail said. "The venting will produce noise and clouds of water vapor, but
should have no other effects on the Emory campus. These releases of large
amounts of steam are planned and monitored events and are a normal part of the
startup of the new boiler."

And now, from the Federal Aviation Administration's "Fly Smart Guide," we are
advised on what to wear while in the air. "Passengers who wear sensible clothing
can reduce their chances of serious injury in the unlikely event of an
emergency. Wear clothes made of natural fabrics such as cotton, wool, denim or
leather. Synthetics may melt when heated. Dress to cover as much skin as
possible."

Creepy, but useful.

White House Chief of Staff Andrew H. Card Jr. last Sunday tried to explain to
NBC's Tim Russert what the Sept. 11 attacks meant.

". . . This is a different time, Tim," Card explained. "The United States is
under attack. We have not been under attack since Hawaii was attacked by the
Japanese in World War II, and that was not an attack on the real homeland."

This may be of note to folks in Hawaii.

"We've had an attack on the homeland," this time, Card said, even though his
hometown south of Boston didn't get hit.

Office of Management and Budget spokesman Chris Ullman, former spokesman for the
Securities and Exchange Commission, is leaving OMB after only about eight months
to join the Carlyle Group as vice president for strategic communications. Amy
Call moves up to be acting director for communications.

Former representative David M. McIntosh (R-Ind.), a founder of the Federalist
Society and top aide to former vice president Dan Quayle, has signed up with
Mayer, Brown & Platt's government practice here. He'll be working on, among
other things, helping business get out from under government regulations.

Okay. One more time. That's Wisconsin Sen. Russell Feingold (D) doing all that
voting on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, not California Sen. Dianne
Feinstein (D). Gonna having to start feining ourselves if we can't get this
straight.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              185 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 31, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Wall Street to Washington, Layoffs Shatter Lives;
D.C. Tourism Losses Hit Immigrants Hard

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1092 words


Cuong Van found a new life in dirty hotel rooms.

The refugee lost an eye in the Vietnam War, and a chunk of his life in communist
"reeducation" camps. But seven years after arriving in Washington, he has a
daughter in college and a son on scholarship at Georgetown Day School. He
supported his family by cleaning at the Holiday Inn on Capitol Hill. "Very good
for me," he beamed.

Until Sept. 11. Like thousands of other immigrants in the area, Van was laid off
as tourism evaporated. Gone was the steady $ 12-an-hour job, replaced by odd
days of work when he is needed. Gone were the free daily hotel meals.

"Now I don't have any money for my family," said Van, 54, a compact man in a
blue work jacket, slacks and sandals whose face is overwhelmed by boxy
black-rimmed glasses.

The sweeping layoffs stemming from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks are taking a
disproportionate toll on immigrants, and few urban melting pots have been hit
harder than Washington.

The lengthy shutdown of Reagan National Airport and the sharp drop in travel
have clobbered restaurants and hotels, which are as vital to job-seeking
immigrants in the area as meatpacking plants were to the Europeans who flooded
the Midwest a century ago.

"Those folks are in dire straits right now," said John Boardman, executive
secretary of the Washington branch of the Hotel and Restaurant Workers' Union.

The local's membership is more than 40 percent foreign-born, a reflection of the
key role of immigrants in certain industries. Overall, 1 in 8 U.S. workers is an
immigrant, the highest level in seven decades. Immigrants are concentrated in
the kinds of service businesses hurt most by the crisis.

For example, 1 in every 5 U.S. food-service workers is an immigrant, according
to the Census. One in every 4 cleaning people is foreign-born. Those figures are
undoubtedly higher in the Washington area, which lacks the factories or farms
that absorb immigrants in other regions.

The local Vietnamese community is among the hardest-hit.

At the District office of the refugee assistance group Boat People SOS, a
fluorescent-lighted room on Park Road NW, Van joined a dozen other Vietnamese
who were sitting in mismatched chairs one recent morning, seeking advice and
sharing woes. On a shelf above, a tiny Buddha smiled behind a spray of yellow
incense sticks.

Van was laid off Sept. 13 and has just resumed occasional work. His wife, a
kitchen aide in another hotel, is also working fewer hours. Van worries about
how he will pay the $ 600 rent on the two-room apartment he shares with his wife
and two sons and assist his daughter, who has just started pharmacy school in
Boston.

"She has a scholarship, but I still have to pay some money," Van said through a
translator. "We are all worried she might have to leave school."

Van's life in the United States has been a tiring routine of vacuuming the hotel
lobby, hauling dirty bedsheets to the laundry, cleaning the hallway. But it is a
good life. In America, Van said, "at least I know the children have a future."

Nguyen Nguyen, 34, a refugee in a green striped shirt, said his plight is
similar to Van's. Nguyen, a laundry attendant at the Ritz-Carlton, has had his
hours drastically reduced.

"My family, we don't dare to eat anymore," he said. Nguyen recalled that on
arriving in the United States in 1997 after 11 hungry years in refugee camps, he
wanted to eat everything in sight. These days, he sticks to vegetables and a bit
of chicken. And he can no longer afford to send $ 100 each month to his parents
in Vietnam.

"Even for the rent, I have to struggle. I don't have money to send home," he
said through a translator.

Advocacy groups say immigrants are especially vulnerable when laid off. Some
speak little English, making it hard to get other jobs. Some haven't worked long
enough to qualify for unemployment benefits. And family members often cluster in
the same businesses so that one household suffers multiple layoffs.

That's especially true of the Vietnamese community. About two-thirds of the
District's approximately 3,000 Vietnamese immigrants work in hotels, drawn by
jobs that don't require English and that pay up to $ 12 an hour, plus benefits,
immigrant advocates say. Local hotels have laid off about 40 percent of their
employees since Sept. 11.

For Cong Bui, 50, it's bad enough that she was laid off from her housekeeping
job at the Hilton Washington. But then her 31-year-old Amerasian son, a waiter
at a local hotel, had his hours slashed. Now they fret about how to pay the $
800 rent on the one-bedroom apartment they share with her son's pregnant wife
and toddler.

"I'm poor. No money," sighed Bui, a tiny woman with charcoal eyes and brown
hair, who was visiting the Boat People SOS office. "I'm broken."

Local immigrant-service groups are scrambling to help the newly jobless.

Two groups that specialize in helping Latino immigrants -- Casa de Maryland and
the Hispanic Committee of Northern Virginia -- have hired new staff to help the
flood of laid-off workers find jobs.

The Spanish Catholic Center in the District is expanding its program to provide
free bags of tortillas, vegetables and other food to the hungry, whose ranks are
swelled by the unemployed. The center recently worked on a radiothon with
Spanish-language Radio America that raised enough to pay the rent for 35
immigrant families.

The Ethiopian Community Development Council is handing out Amharic-language
lists of places immigrants can go for unemployment benefits and food stamps.

CARECEN, a Latino agency, normally doesn't provide job assistance. "But we have
so many people coming in that we have been forced to put together a referral
list," said Saul Solorzano, the executive director.

Even agencies that have established job programs are struggling to place
newcomers because of the souring economy. Before the attacks, about 150 people a
day turned up at Casa de Maryland seeking work; now it's up to 200. But the
agency identified only 1,050 jobs for workers in September, down 50 percent from
a month earlier.

For Van, money is so tight his daughter can't take the bus home for the
Thanksgiving holiday. He tries to hide his worry. "I'm a man," he explained.
Once, he was a promising college physics student; these days, his fondest hope
is to soon be vacuuming and scrubbing bathrooms again, helping his children.

"I only work to earn the money for them. But I enjoy," he said in halting
English, flashing one of his constant grins. "Maybe 10, 20 years more, they can
help me."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              186 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

19 Terrorists Obtained Social Security Cards

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 444 words


All 19 terrorist hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks had Social Security numbers,
and 13 obtained them legally, government officials say.

The Social Security Administration's inspector general told House members
yesterday that the government needs to tighten the process it uses to issue the
numbers.

"We have learned that the risks inherent in failing to adequately protect the
integrity of the Social Security number may have serious consequences," said
James G. Huse Jr.

The hijackers' Social Security numbers "allowed them autonomy, to operate below
the radar," he told the House Ways and Means subcommittee on Social Security.

They could open bank accounts, get credit, obtain driver's licenses and apply to
flight schools, he said.

One glaring problem is the need for independent verification of documents
required to obtain a number, Huse said.

For example, the Social Security Administration and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service do not have a computer link to quickly check the validity
of visas or other immigration documents that non-U.S. citizens must submit with
their applications.

"Having a secure system is critical to preventing future attacks," said Rep. E.
Clay Shaw Jr. (R-Fla.), the subcommittee chairman.

Huse noted that a man whose name appears on an FBI watch list was indicted in
Arizona this week on charges he lied on Social Security and Federal Aviation
Administration forms.

Also, a man held by the British government on suspicion that he trained four of
the hijackers had used the Social Security number of a dead New Jersey woman.

"The process we have -- while well-intentioned -- is certainly not as robust as
it should be," Huse said.

Larry G. Massanari, acting Social Security commissioner, said the number of
disaster-related claims has climbed to more than 4,000 and is expected to
increase. More than half are for children who lost parents in the attacks.

The agency has taken claims or determined eligibility for the families of the
125 victims who worked at the Pentagon, and for 53 of the 64 passengers on the
American Airlines flight that crashed there.

After the attacks, Social Security requested nearly $ 50 million to help with
processing increased claims, rebuilding its office that was near the World Trade
Center and strengthening security, Massanari said.

President Bush has allocated $ 7.5 million of the $ 20 billion he proposed in
emergency spending for disaster recovery and security.

Massanari said the agency will divert money from other areas to meet the
recovery needs. But that could mean that the processing of a backlog of about
40,000 disability claims could be delayed further.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              187 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 7, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Report: Some INS Targets Disappeared

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 456 words


Hundreds of foreign nationals who came under suspicion during immigration
inspections were allowed into the country under a special program and then
disappeared, ignoring requirements to return with missing information, according
to a government report issued yesterday.

The report, by the Justice Department's inspector general, said some of the
immigrants and visitors later committed crimes that included rape and cocaine
possession.

None of the foreigners was accused of involvement in terrorism. But the report
is sure to add to the criticism of the country's immigration system that has
followed the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks carried out by 19 Middle Eastern men
that left nearly 4,600 people dead in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

The report looked at "deferred inspection," the practice of allowing foreigners
who are missing documents or are found to have arrest records in the United
States to enter the country temporarily while they gather evidence to show why
they should be admitted for longer stays.

Only a tiny number of such deferrals occur each year: about 10,000 of the
roughly 75 million inspections conducted by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service at airports each year, the report said.

According to the study of 725 deferrals between August 1998 and July 1999, 11
percent of the people allowed entry failed to show up for a subsequent INS
appointment at which they were supposed to present documents showing why they
should be admitted. If that pattern held true for all those deferred, hundreds
of people were no-shows that year, the report said.

The biggest group to receive deferrals were simply missing documents. For
example, some travelers had lost or forgotten their "green cards," which
establish permanent legal residency in the United States.

But one quarter of the deferred people had criminal records or had turned up on
computerized "lookout" lists. Some may have been allowed into the United States
to obtain records showing that a past arrest did not lead to a conviction.
Others may have argued that they could prove they weren't the people listed on
the "lookout" list.

But half of those people never showed up for their INS appointments. The agency
did little to pursue them, the report said. Nine went on to be charged or
convicted of aggravated felonies.

The report said the situation may be even worse. The inspector general could not
determine what happened in another 20 percent of the deferral cases because of a
lack of INS records.

The report called on the INS to establish a better system to track deferred
foreign nationals. Greg Gagne, an INS spokesman, said the agency had already
warned inspectors to be more vigilant, and new guidelines were being drawn up.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              188 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 12, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Audit Finds INS Mismanaged $31 Million Automation Project;
System Aimed at Improving Monitoring of Foreign Visitors

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 636 words


Immigration and Naturalization Service officials mismanaged a $ 31 million
project aimed at automating a system that monitors the entry and exit of foreign
visitors and determines the number of overstays, according to a government
audit.

The review by the Justice Department's inspector general also found that during
the past five years, INS officials have delayed completion dates of automation
projects without explanation and increased the costs of projects "with no
justification for how the funds are spent.

"The INS has a substantial history of difficulties in managing its automation
initiatives . . . despite the substantial investment it had made in such
programs," the report said.

The most recent audit examined the "design and implementation" of an automated
I-94 system. The I-94 is a form used to gather arrival and departure data of
most foreign visitors to make sure they don't remain in the United States after
the expiration of their authorized stays.

An estimated 40 percent of the 5 million illegal immigrants living in the United
States last year were listed as overstays, the report said. It is unclear how
many were actual overstays and how many were mistakenly counted as such because
of poor record-keeping by INS. Canadians and foreign nationals are not required
to complete the form.

INS began developing the system to automate the processing of air passenger I-94
forms six years ago, the report said. The system is used at airports in
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Charlotte and St. Louis, and only two airlines -- TWA
and US Airways -- are participating. Northwest Airlines agreed to test the
automated system but declined to permanently participate after expressing
concerns, including questioning the purpose of the I-94 process, according to
the report.

Federal immigration laws passed in 1996 and 2000 required the INS to create an
automated entry and exit system to be used at all land, air and sea ports of
entry. The system was not being used at any land or sea ports, according to the
report.

The report found that the INS "does not have clear evidence that the system
meets its intended goals."

"We found that the INS has not properly managed the project," the report said.
"INS management does not have information necessary to determine whether the
project is progressing as expected."

INS officials, in a written response to the inspector general, said they agree
that changes are necessary to the automated system and that they are developing
a way to run it more cost-effectively.

Under the INS's primary system, workers manually collect I-94 forms when foreign
visitors board flights to the United States. Inspectors keep the passenger's
"arrival record" portion of the form and give the passenger the "departure
record" portion. INS then sends the arrival record to a contractor who inputs
the information into a system. When the passenger leaves the United States, the
airline collects the departure record and passes it on to INS, which is supposed
to input the information into a system. Officials could then match data to
determine overstays, the report said.

But there are flaws in the manual system, the report said. Arrival information
was not routinely entered into the system; departure records were not always
gathered; and 25 percent of the arrival and departure records did not match. The
result: Scores of foreign visitors were classified as overstays even though they
had left the country. The monitoring of overstays has been a "management
challenge," the report said.

INS officials said $ 57 million more is needed through fiscal 2005 to complete
the automated system, according to the audit. However, the report cautioned the
INS about spending more money until the agency conducts a cost-benefit analysis
and implements performance measures.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              189 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 14, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Arab, Muslim Men to Get Tougher U.S. Visa Screening

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 512 words


The State Department will impose more rigorous screening starting today on many
Arab and Muslim men seeking visas, a step that has irritated foreign governments
and U.S. immigrant advocacy groups.

The additional background check means that the applicants, from 25 countries,
must wait as long as four extra weeks to obtain tourist, student or business
visas. The temporary measure is a response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on
New York and Washington, which allegedly were carried out by 19 Middle Eastern
men.

In a separate announcement, the Justice Department said it will seek to question
more than 5,000 young men who have come to the United States as visitors or
students since January 2000 from countries where terrorist groups such as Osama
bin Laden's al Qaeda network are active.

Civil rights and Arab American groups expressed concern over both measures, the
latest in a series of controversial tactics the government has adopted as it
tries to locate and deter future terrorists.

"My concern is, what will this look like in practice? The government has the
right to scrutinize people who come to this country, but it shouldn't
discriminate against them," said Hussein Ibish, spokesman for the American Arab
Anti-discrimination Committee.

The extra screening was a highly unusual step, imposed under pressure from the
Justice Department, officials said. The State Department, which issues visas
through U.S. consulates, has generally restricted such scrutiny to a few
countries considered sponsors of terrorism.

Under the new system, applicants' names will be sent to the FBI for a check
against its records, in addition to being run through the State Department's
database of suspicious or undesirable people. It applies to men ages 16 to 45.

State Department officials said they hope the extra step will be eliminated in a
few months, when they will get automated access to more FBI information. That
was small comfort for the countries targeted.

"This saddens us, as we know that even now there are many terrorists who are
non-Muslims," Malaysia's prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, told local
journalists.

Other countries affected are Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt,
Eritrea, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman,
Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, the United Arab
Emirates and Yemen.

Officials said more than 5,000 foreign men, ages 18 to 33, who are in the United
States will be asked to submit to voluntary questioning in connection with the
Sept. 11 investigation. The men are mainly of Middle Eastern descent, but some
entered the United States from European countries, a law enforcement official
said.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft yesterday asked federal prosecutors to
coordinate the interviews, which will mainly be conducted by state and local law
enforcement officers.

Steven Shapiro, national legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union,
called the interviews "another troubling sign" of government overzealousness
after the terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              190 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Seeking a Secure Financial Foothold;
Banking Barriers Leave Area Immigrants Vulnerable to Crime, Economic Disparities

BYLINE: Christian Davenport, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. T12

LENGTH: 1330 words


He makes decent money cutting the grass at a local golf course, enough to carve
out a life that is better than the one he left in Mexico, enough to pay for his
wife to come to America, and enough, he hopes, to soon pay for his children's
trip across the border.

Eleven years after moving to Columbia from Mexico looking for work, Antonio has
secured a place on the region's economic ladder, albeit a low one, by rising at
dawn and spending his days sweating alongside the greens and fairways where
other people play.

Yet like so many of the immigrants streaming into Howard County and other parts
of the Baltimore-Washington region, he does not have access to a basic financial
service most workers take for granted: a bank account.

So instead of depositing his paycheck, he cashes it. Instead of withdrawing cash
from an automated teller machine, he pulls bills from the stash he hides in the
Columbia apartment he shares with family and friends.

It is, he knows, a dangerous way to live.

"If you carry it all with you, you're afraid you could lose everything," said
Antonio, who did not want his last name published because he is an illegal
immigrant.

That has happened too often, Howard police say, as criminals prey on Hispanic
immigrants outside check-cashing stores or as workers make their way home at
night.

Recently Columbia has seen a rise in crime that has made some residents feel
unsafe, as stories of muggings and robberies spread from neighborhood to
neighborhood.

"There was a guy who lives right around here that was robbed in the broad
daylight," said Guadalupe, who lives in the same apartment as Antonio. "It's
dangerous to walk around with cash."

But police say there are too many immigrants walking around with two weeks' pay
in their pockets.

In community meetings with fearful residents, police promised to work with
residents and banks to help immigrants open accounts. And local banks say they
want to help, too -- if not for the community service, then for the business
opportunities they know they are missing.

But so far, little progress has been made, in large part because of language
difficulties, immigrants' fears that banks will take their money and turn them
over to immigration officials, and tellers who sometimes turn immigrants away
even when they should qualify for an account.

The problem is only expanding the chasm between the county's mostly white,
affluent population and its growing underclass of immigrants.

According to the latest census figures for Howard, the Hispanic population
swelled by about 103 percent, from 3,699 in 1990 to 7,490 in 2000. The number of
Asians grew from 8,098 to 19,175 during that period -- a 137 percent increase.
Many of them do have bank accounts.

"It's really important," said Zonya Mangandi, who fled to Columbia from El
Salvador during civil war in 1989. "It makes it easier for you to get credit.
The first thing they ask for is if you have a checking or savings account. And I
can say yes."

Last week, she was at Howard's Foreign-born Information and Referral Network, a
nonprofit that helps immigrants, with her 17-year-old son, Vladimir, who was
renewing his work permit.  Vladimir doesn't have a job, but with a work permit
comes a Social Security number. And with a Social Security number you can get,
among other things, a bank account.

Mangandi thinks a bank account, like the local school her son is attending, is
crucial to his success in mainstream American society.

Howard, the third-fastest-growing county in Maryland, is seeing more stories
like theirs, and it is dealing with its burgeoning immigrant population in a
number of ways.

The school system has six bilingual community liaisons -- three who speak Korean
and three who speak Spanish -- to help foreign students and parents. School
calenders are printed in several languages, and translators sit in on
parent-teacher conferences.

About 200 new students a year enroll in the school system's English for Speakers
of Other Languages program. In Howard schools, members of the student body hail
from 84 countries and speak 61 languages.

Last year, the Foreign-born Information Referral Network helped 1,775 clients
from 104 countries handle many tasks, from finding a job to filling out a tax
form to enrolling their children in school.

Churches deliver entire sermons in Korean and Spanish, and new grocery stores
and restaurants cater to foreign tastes.

Yet even as the county struggles to close the gap for immigrants, securing bank
accounts has proved a particularly vexing problem -- and one that is affecting
communities across the country.

"It's a widespread problem," said Charles Kamasaki, senior vice president at the
National Council of La Raza, a nonprofit advocacy group. "It's not just that it
leads to crime and robberies. But it makes it more expensive to do all sorts of
things. People can't save for the future, and so they get held back."

Nationwide, about 10 million households don't have bank accounts, according to a
study by the Federal Reserve Board. Officials in Prince George's County are also
trying to get bank accounts for immigrants, who have increasingly become victims
of crime there as well.

Energy Federal Credit Union in Rockville has hired a translating service. Now
when non-English-speaking customers walk through the door, tellers can make a
conference call to a translator.

"We've had this since the beginning of the year," said Ronald P. Roy, the credit
union's president and chief executive officer. "But no one has used it yet."

Baltimore-based Allfirst Bank recently announced a $ 20,000 college scholarship
for Hispanics.

And the Maryland Hispanic Chamber of Commerce is working with a credit union in
Baltimore to translate all of its promotional material into Spanish, said Gigi
Guzman, the chamber's chairman.

"We'll give it a shot and see if it works," she said. "It's obviously
experimental."

She knows there are great odds to overcome. No matter how many brochures banks
print in Spanish, many Hispanics distrust banks, she said, because they haven't
had access to them in the past and are afraid their money might disappear.

Some fear the banks will report them to immigration officials.

"Many recent immigrants don't trust the system, and they don't know where to go
or how banks work," she said. "It can be scary. And if you worked very hard for
a few dollars, you're not going to drop them off somewhere not knowing what is
going to happen."

Those dollars, however, add up. In 1998, for example, Hispanic purchasing power
was more than $ 380 billion, according to La Raza. The median household income
for Hispanics has grown to $ 28,330 as more and more immigrants rise to the
middle class, buying cars, homes and stocks.

"You start with a family that maybe just wants to open a checking account,"
Kamasaki said. "Then they open a savings account, then maybe a [certificate of
deposit], and then they get interested in buying a home. . . .

"We make the argument that there is an enormous market opportunity out there.
But it takes some skill and knowledge and expertise to cater to this market. And
it requires overcoming stereotypes and discriminatory and biased impulses. There
are assumptions that all immigrants are poor and undocumented, and that's not
true."

So banks, locally and nationwide, are trying to tap into the market of the
so-called "unbanked" and overcome ignorance about what is required to open a
bank account.

"One of the basic problems, obviously, is language, and it's something we're all
coping with," said John M. Bond Jr., the president and chief executive officer
of Columbia Bank. "It's particularly a problem for smaller banks. We can't
afford a specialized staff for all the languages that are spoken in Columbia.

"There are many different opportunities for customers to bank inexpensively with
us. That's not the problem," Bond said. "The problem is having them feel
comfortable coming through the door."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              191 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 17, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Choosing Us or Them'

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 292 words


William Raspberry ["Choosing Us or Them," op-ed, Nov. 12] writes that the
American civil rights movement "pressed America to be what it professed to be by
demonstrating with telegenic clarity that it was not."

As a foreign-born black person who is not American but lives in this country, I
find it ironic that in all the discussion about how the civil liberties of some
immigrant groups should not become casualties in the war against terrorism and
about the dangers of racial profiling of Arabs and others of Middle Eastern
descent, all we hear from the leadership of black America is a deafening
silence.

Given the poor record of the civil rights movement on immigration reform, even
as it pertains to immigrants who are unmistakably black, perhaps this silence is
not surprising.

Black American leaders need to speak up for all victims of discrimination and
prejudice, regardless of color or nationality.

-- Wole Akande

William Raspberry apparently sees a difference between "militants" intent on
"burning [the country] down" and those who fly planes into the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon.

There is no difference. In my book, the Black Panthers were terrorists.
Impatience is no excuse for murder.

Raspberry accepts that most Muslims are not intent on destroying America, based
on the long waiting lists for them to enter this country. How long did it take
for the 19 thugs who attacked us to get into this nation? Had racial profiling
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service not been deemed politically
incorrect, maybe 4,000 more Americans would be alive today.

Granted, we are in a dangerous position, but if Raspberry visited Ground Zero in
Manhattan, he might find it easier to choose between "us and them."

-- Emmett Lauer

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              192 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 19, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

States Revise Rules for Driver's Licenses

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 245 words

DATELINE: MIAMI Nov. 18


Several states are changing the rules for obtaining driver's licenses,
particularly for foreign nationals, as a result of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

Before the attacks, the nation's main form of identification was issued
according to loosely enforced standards set by each state.

Law enforcement officials say the 19 hijackers used driver's licenses to open
bank accounts and rent cars and apartments.

Now, Florida, North Carolina, Michigan and others are tightening regulations,
and some are considering new licenses that would include biometric data such as
fingerprints or retinal patterns.

Some also are considering linking the states' computer networks, elevating the
licenses into de facto national ID cards.

Under an executive order signed last month by Gov. Jeb Bush (R), foreigners
applying for Florida licenses get 30-day temporary permits while police
investigate their identification.

* In Michigan, which has one of the nation's largest Arab populations, Secretary
of State Candice Miller proposed a bill that would bar illegal immigrants from
receiving licenses.

* Wisconsin suspended acceptance of a visa form, which foreign visitors fill out
and the Immigration and Naturalization Service checks, as proof of residency.

* New Jersey stopped issuing licenses to immigrants whose visas expire within a
year.

* Florida and North Carolina are closing loopholes that allowed drivers the
option of refusing to be photographed for religious reasons.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              193 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 21, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD;
In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 335 words


EUROPE

COPENHAGEN -- Danish voters, concerned about immigration, strengthened the right
in elections for Parliament yesterday, handing the Liberal Party-led opposition
a landslide victory over the Social Democrats.

With 98.4 percent of the vote counted, the Liberal Party and its supporters,
including the anti-immigration Danish People's Party, had 98 seats in the
179-seat parliament, more than the 90 needed for a majority. The ruling Social
Democrats and their parliamentary supporters won 77 seats, down from 89 held in
the last parliament.

Liberal Party leader Anders Fogh Rasmussen is widely expected to be selected as
the next prime minister, replacing Social Democratic Prime Minister Poul Nyrup
Rasmussen.

Associated PressASIA

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Malaysia's king, Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah,
one of nine traditional rulers who take turns in the figurehead role, died today
after complications following heart surgery, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad
said.

Salahuddin, 75, assumed the largely ceremonial throne in 1999 under a system in
which the monarch is elected by the sultans of Malaysia's nine states for a
five-year term.

ReutersTHE MIDDLE EAST

GAZA CITY -- Israel said yetserday that it would build new homes for Jewish
settlers in the West Bank city of Hebron, and it demolished 18 houses of
Palestinians in the Rafah refugee camp Gaza, one day after the United States
announced a new Middle East peace drive after nearly 14 months of violence.

Israel also said it would replace mobile homes in the Jewish settlement in
divided Hebron with concrete houses, despite the call by U.S. Secretary of State
Colin L. Powell for Israel to halt settlement construction.

Palestinians condemned the Israeli decision as "irresponsible" and a "flagrant
challenge to the American administration."

Reuters

FOR THE RECORD

Right-wing Colombian paramilitary fighters freed six mayors they had held
prisoner for two days for trying to negotiate with leftist rebels.

Compiled by Max Berley

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              194 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 500 words


PORTLAND, Ore. -- Portland police are refusing to help the FBI question Middle
Eastern immigrants hauled in as part of the terrorism investigation, say- ing
the practice violates Oregon law.

The Justice Department asked local law enforcement agencies around the country
for help tracking down 5,000 men for questioning about the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. But acting Police Chief Andrew Kirkland refused.

"The law does not allow us to go out and arbitrarily interview people whose only
offense is immigration or citizenship," he said Tuesday.

U.S. Attorney Michael Mosman, the chief federal prosecutor in Oregon, said the
questioning is legal but added: "I'm supportive of their right to decide not to
do this particular task."

The FBI declined to comment.

Mayor Vera Katz said yester- day that the city objected to certain questions
that would be asked of those on the list. She did not offer details but said
police may reconsider if the questions are changed.

* MIAMI -- The Coast Guard suspended its four-day search for survivors from a
speedboat that capsized in the Florida Straits, giving up hope of finding any of
the 30 Cuban migrants who were aboard the vessel. The accident, whose victims
were said to include 12 children, was one of the most deadly incidents involving
migrants smuggled from the communist-run island over the 90-mile stretch of
ocean to Florida.

* LANSING, Mich. -- A state appeals court has upheld the murder conviction of
Jack Kevorkian in the death of a 52-year-old man whose suicide was televised on
"60 Minutes." The Michigan Court of Appeals rejected Kevorkian's argument that
euthanasia is legal and that his conviction was unconstitutional. Kevorkian
plans to appeal. Kevorkian, who says he has assisted in more than 130 suicides,
is serving a 10-to-25-year sentence in the 1998 death of Thomas Youk, who was
terminally ill with Lou Gehrig's disease.

* PIKEVILLE, Ky. -- Rain did in one day what 1,500 firefighters had been trying
to do for more than three weeks: It quelled the blazes that have charred parts
of eastern Kentucky in the state's worst wildfire outbreak in a decade.
Firefighters, including National Guard troops, began leaving after a
quarter-inch of rain drenched the fires that have burned 173,000 acres this
year.

* SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, Tex. -- The only bridge linking South Padre Island to the
rest of Texas was reopened, two months after a tugboat and barges knocked out a
240-foot chunk in an accident that killed eight people.

* CHERRY POINT AIR STATION, N.C. -- A Marine Corps EA-6B Prowler electronic
warfare jet crashed into the Atlantic after all four crew members ejected safely
26 miles off the coast. The cause of the crash was under investigation.

* TALLAHASSEE -- F. Lee Bailey, the combative defense attorney whose clients
have included Patty Hearst and O.J. Simpson, was disbarred in Florida. The state
Supreme Court cited his mishandling of nearly $ 6 million in stock owned by a
drug-smuggling client.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              195 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 23, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Arrive From Far and Wide;
Suburbs See Surge From Range of Areas

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey and Sarah Cohen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1061 words


The '90s immigration boom in metropolitan Washington left profound marks on the
region's most prosperous suburbs, according to new census figures, which show
that nearly one in three people in Fairfax and Montgomery counties lives in a
household where a foreign language is spoken.

Over the last decade, immigrants settled in Fairfax and Montgomery at a rate of
more than 10,000 a year each, defying historical patterns from the Ellis
Island-era of immigrants flocking to poor urban centers.

"That two of the wealthiest counties in America have such large immigrant
communities is remarkable," said Audrey Singer, a researcher at the Brookings
Institution who published a major study of Washington immigration this year.
"The language figure is a standout. It's significant for the schools, it's
significant for the workplace and it's significant for everyday life."

Earlier census figures on race and Hispanic origin hinted at the massive influx
of immigrants to the region, particularly the suburbs. But the figures released
this week offer much finer detail, including the immigrants' region of origin
and languages spoken at home.

The figures come from the Census 2000 Supplementary Survey, a national sample of
households taken last year along with the census. The survey, considered the
best demographic snapshot until more complete data are released next year, shows
that immigration altered life across the capital region during the '90s.

Montgomery and Fairfax counties, for example, rank near the top nationally for
the share of households where foreign languages are spoken.

Unlike in many other regions with large immigrant populations -- California,
Texas and Florida -- the immigrants in the Washington area represent a much
broader swath of the world's geography and wealth.

Compared with places like Miami and El Paso, where English and Spanish
predominate, the Washington area features a mix of languages drawn from around
the world: English, Spanish, Korean, Vietnamese, Farsi, Urdu.

Even for immigrants, the area's international nature comes as a surprise.

"It was shocking to see people from all over the world here, really," said Jaya
Gangele, an immigrant from India who attended a Coming to America Thanksgiving
dinner this week at her son's Fairfax school, where sushi and tacos were among
the potluck dishes. "When we lived in India, we didn't have that picture of the
U.S."

The new figures, available only for counties of 250,000 people or more, bolster
other studies suggesting that a significant percentage of immigrants in the
Washington area come with more education and higher skill levels than those
settling in other regions.

Many of those educated immigrants have positions in the federal bureaucracy or
in the region's high-tech industry, which grew rapidly during the '90s.

The same survey showed that median household incomes in Fairfax and Montgomery
rank among the top 10 for large counties in the nation.

"What you are seeing is atypical of foreign populations in the U.S." said Donna
J. Tolson, a demographer with the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service at the
University of Virginia. "What we have seen in Northern Virginia was a large
portion of foreign-born workers in high-skilled jobs, along with a lower-skilled
group in the service sector."

About half of the foreign-born residents in the region are recent arrivals,
entering this country during the '90s, the census numbers showed. In Montgomery
and Fairfax counties, about one in four residents is now foreign-born, up from
18 percent in Montgomery and 15 percent in Fairfax a decade ago. In both
counties, the largest group comes from Asia, followed by Central America.

"The big story about Washington immigration is that no one country dominates,"
Singer said. "There is also little clustering geographically. People are just
settling all over the place."

Nationally, the number of foreign-born people has risen steadily from 4 percent
in 1970 to 11 percent today. Until the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, many
demographers had expected a continuing large volume of immigration. But with
congressional leaders talking about tightening immigration restrictions and a
sagging economy diminishing the country's allure for immigrants, immigration
experts have said predictions are nearly impossible.

"All bets are off now," said Tolson, of the University of Virginia.

Locally, immigration has raised a slew of questions, most of them revolving
around how courts, hospitals and other public facilities can cope with such a
variety of languages. But it is in the classrooms that the most costly and
intimate effects of the immigration wave are taking hold.

School leaders have long highlighted the expense of educating many foreign
students: English as a second language classes boost per-pupil costs from $
7,645 to $ 10,167, according to Fairfax statistics. But some have also argued
that the diversity creates a richer educational environment.

At Mosby Woods Elementary School in central Fairfax County, the fifth grade put
on the Coming to America dinner this week in the school cafeteria, with more
than 20 countries. Few students at the school have U.S.-born parents.

On the walls were posters, where children described why their parents had come
to this country. An Indian family came for a job at the Indian Embassy. A
Chilean family came so the parents could study. A family from Uzbekistan arrived
for a World Bank job.

"Why did [my mother] move here with her family?" Dasha Nesterova, from
Uzbekistan, wrote in an essay. "Well that is simple. She got more money in
America."

The students appear to take their language differences in stride and find common
allegiance in U.S. pop culture.

"Everybody at least knows a little bit of English," said fifth-grader Felipe
Varela. "Most people like P. Diddy and Limp Bizkit."

"Everybody says 'The One' is cool," said his brother Cristobal, who prefers to
be called Chris, because "in America, it's a more popular name."

Alysia Berman, one of the few U.S.-born parents at the cafeteria, said she
welcomed the variety in her son's school and in her neighborhood. Her neighbors
include two families from Saudi Arabia, one from South Korea and one from China.

"I wouldn't say we're close -- as in, we hang out in each other's kitchens,"
said Berman, a patent examiner. "But we do talk."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              196 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 23, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

60 Israelis on Tourist Visas Detained Since Sept. 11;
Government Calls Several Cases 'of Special Interest,' Meaning Related to
Post-Attacks Investigation

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 1142 words


At least 60 young Israeli Jews have been arrested and detained around the
country on immigration charges since the Sept. 11 attacks, many of them held on
U.S. government officials' invocation of national security.

Federal officials have presented no evidence that the Israelis, most of whom
worked selling toys and trinkets at kiosks in shopping malls, had anything to do
with terrorism. In one of the few cases to reach a hearing, a federal
administrative law judge in Cleveland rejected any suggestion that the 11
Israelis before her had any ties to terrorists.

The cases -- in Ohio, Missouri, Texas and California -- originated in the weeks
after the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks. Tipsters apparently called
the FBI or the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to report suspicions
about Middle Eastern-looking people who were were living together in apartments
and working in groups at shopping malls, sources involved in the cases said.

Federal agents arrested dozens of the Israeli men and women in late October and
early November on charges of working without authorization while in the United
States on tourist visas, documents that don't allow their holders to be
employed. Agents interrogated the Israelis and in most cases ordered them held
without bond.

In several cases, such as those in Cleveland and St. Louis, INS officials
testified in court hearings that they were "of special interest to the
government," a term that federal agents have used in many of the hundreds of
cases involving mostly Muslim Arab men who have been detained around the country
since the terrorist attacks.

An INS official who requested anonymity said the agency will not comment on the
Israelis. But he said the use of the term "special interest" means the case in
question is "related to the investigation of September 11th."

Justice Department spokesman Dan Nelson also declined to comment on the cases
but added that, in general, "post-9-11, every time somebody's picked up on an
immigration law violation, there's going to be greater scrutiny.

"We're conducting the largest investigation in U.S. history, and we're trying to
prevent and disrupt terrorist attacks," Nelson added. "We're leaving no stone
unturned."

Israeli officials said that the cases involved only the Israelis' apparently
illegal employment in the United States and that U.S. officials are not making
any claim that any of them were involved in terrorism.

"Israelis visiting the U.S. have to respect the laws of the host country," said
Mark Regev, a spokesman for the Israeli Embassy here, which has been in touch
with many of its detained citizens. "If they're in violation of their visa,
there are consequences to be paid, especially after September 11th."

All the Israeli detainees are in their early twenties and are observing a
time-honored tradition in their country -- touring the world after their
mandatory service in the Israeli military. A number of them had served in
counterterrorist units in Israel, a close U.S. ally in the fight against
terrorism.

"It was obvious they mistook us" as Arabs from Israel, said Israeli army veteran
Liron Diamant, 24, in describing his arrest on Oct. 31 at an apartment in
Findlay, Ohio. In an hours-long interrogation by FBI agents, he and his friends
were questioned in detail about their Israeli military service, Diamant said.

"All of us cooperated fully with them," he said. "We want to help the U.S.
anti-terror effort, since we fight the same enemy in our country."

INS officials ordered Diamant and 10 co-workers, who sold rubber band-propelled
toy helicopters at malls around Toledo, to be held without bond. In a hearing
last week, the government also asked Justice Department immigration judge
Elizabeth Hacker to keep the Israelis in custody.

But Hacker rejected the officials' arguments, setting bond for all 11 at $
10,000 each. "Although the [INS] alleges that these cases are 'special,' it has
failed to present any credible evidence of the basis for this finding," she
wrote in her decision. "Indeed, the service has failed to submit any evidence of
terrorist activity or of a threat to the national security."

The INS then appealed her finding, which under the law automatically means the
Israelis cannot be released on bond. Within a few days, the INS partially
reversed itself, allowing nine of the Israelis to be released on $ 10,000 bond
and holding the other two on no bond.

David Leopold, a Cleveland immigration lawyer representing the 11 Israelis, said
that ordinarily the INS would not bother with a case of unauthorized employment
by a foreign tourist-visa holder.

"If they're still holding people who clearly have no tie-in to September 11th,
what does it say about the quality of the overall investigation" and detention
of hundreds of Arabs? Leopold said. "The government is using immigration
statutes to pull people into this wide web, and once in it, it's difficult to
get out."

In one hearing on the Cleveland case, agents said that, among other things, the
Israelis are "the subject of an ongoing criminal investigation by the FBI into
an individual or company who had agreed to pay living and travel expenses" in
exchange for their work at the malls, the judge said in her decision.

Thomas Dean, an attorney for Miami-based Quality Sales Inc., which employed the
Israelis in Ohio, said his client "wants to cooperate in any way it can" and
added that the government is indeed looking into the circumstances surrounding
the hiring of the Israelis.

Dean added that a government official told him that one possible avenue of the
probe is that an overseas terrorist group could somehow insert an operative into
a group of employed foreigners. Almost all the visiting Israelis made contact
with the trinket companies only after they entered the United States, although
some people in Israel had steered them toward the firms, he said.

The investigations of the Israelis working at malls is separate from another
case of detained Israelis, in New York. On Sept. 11, five young Israeli army
veterans who worked for a moving company were observed at a park on the Hudson
River in New Jersey snapping photographs of the burning World Trade Center and
seemingly clowning around. To complicate matters, when authorities arrested them
they had box-cutters in their moving van, the types of weapons used by the
terrorist hijackers. Two other Israelis working for the same firm were arrested
later.

Officials found they all had overstayed their visas, and they were held in a
federal jail in Brooklyn until this week, when they began to be returned to
their homes in Israel.

Back in Ohio, Diamant is waiting for his next court date, and for word that he
and his friends, too, can return to their country.

"We just want to go home," he said, "and get this adventure behind us."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              197 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

In N.C., Anxiety and Animosity Put an Edge on an Old Dream

BYLINE: Anne Hull, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2969 words

DATELINE: GREENSBORO, N.C.


This is the first of a series of occasional articles that will examine the
impact of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on American life and institutions.

Every flag, every "God Bless America" sign flashing at every barbecue joint
reminds Alma Chavez that she is suddenly on the outside. Again.

"Something weird is going on," she says, gunning her Chevy Silverado to work one
November morning.

Chavez recently started a $ 9-an-hour job as a receptionist at a storefront law
office in an industrial section of Greensboro. The lawyer wanted to tap into
Guilford County's exploding Hispanic population, so he hired Chavez, and one of
her first duties was to make a sign for the window: "HABLAMOS ESPANOL."

Now the Spanish-speaking men in cowboy boots and feed caps stack up in the
lobby, pouring out their woes to the lipsticked 23-year-old behind the counter.

"Mr. Spaulding," Chavez says, calling for her boss, "we got a client with a
situation."

No more factory work. Her English is as perfect as her blizzard-white Payless
sneakers under the desk.

But her immigrant dreams lost their altitude when foreign terrorists struck
America. After a decade of historic immigration, the United States slammed the
gates on outsiders and began to reconsider those within its borders. No one
knows how long these anxieties will last, nor the restrictions that have
followed, but Chavez can feel the new chill in the air.

So she's lying low, going straight home from work to eat eggs and tortillas with
her family. They don't venture out after dark, afraid that someone will mistake
them for Arabs. Chavez is a legal resident, but her fiance is undocumented and,
to make matters worse, out of work. Jobs were getting scarce before Sept. 11,
and now the bosses want workers with papers. At 21, strong and ready to sweat,
he stays home with the baby, his silent cell phone hooked to his baggy khakis.
They've canceled a Christmas trip home to Mexico; he would almost certainly get
caught trying to sneak back across the newly tightened U.S. border.

"I didn't know who or what the World Trade Center was," Chavez says. "Now I
know."

She knows, too, who was responsible. And when she sees Middle Eastern immigrants
around Greensboro, her resentment rises.

"They messed it up for us," Chavez says.

When Yasir Hassan arrived last summer to attend the University of North Carolina
at Greensboro, his mother and sister accompanied him from Pakistan, filling his
cupboard with spices from home, labeled in Urdu in their delicate script.
Greensboro was a strange land indeed. He noticed the wooden signs nailed to the
hickories and oaks and wondered, "Why are all the trees named Jesus?"

Within a month, though, Hassan was living on Cocoa Puffs and watching Montel
Williams before classes. On Fridays, he and his Pakistani roommate would cruise
the strip between Wal-Mart and RaceTrac, "hollering at girls, just freaking out;
it's very luminous at night."

But like Chavez, Hassan felt his place in America change after Sept. 11. He was
no longer an international student in a FUBU sweat shirt who contemplated the
benefits of titanium wire over gold in computers; he was dark and Muslim and
studying in the United States on a visitor's visa -- and in possession of a
Pakistani passport that spelled his name Yasir, Yasser and Yassir.

"You cannot imagine the trouble this has caused," he says.

Because one of the terrorist hijackers had entered the United States on a
student visa, Hassan suspected that his file would be reviewed by school
officials, and he was right. Of the 13,000 students on campus, 500 were foreign,
with 24 from so-called terrorist-sponsoring countries. An FBI agent called to
check in with the international student program director.

"Am I welcome here?" Hassan asked his student adviser. The answer was yes, of
course. Campus leaders beefed up security and held forums on Islam, co-sponsored
by the 20-member Muslim Student Association. Hassan didn't belong to the group
but took comfort in its presence. The campus became his haven.

Beyond the university gates is where his real troubles started.

Late one Friday night, Hassan and his roommate, Kashif Khan, were visiting with
two American women in the front yard of their house. Two trucks and two cars
pulled up and several men unloaded. They asked where one of their friends was.
He has already left, Hassan answered. The next thing he knew, he was surrounded
and heard the words, "You dirty Pakistani bastards." He looked over and saw Khan
on the hood of a car, being beaten. Hassan was on the ground when a beer bottle
crashed into the side of his skull.

Khan was still coughing blood the next day when a friend urged them to report
the incident to the police.

"I covered my head and several guys kept beating for 2 minutes until the dad of
my friend came out when they ran," Hassan wrote in a criminal complaint Oct. 6.
The two women identified one of the attackers; a magistrate executed an arrest
warrant for him. A police officer advised Hassan to buy a cell phone for
security.

A month later, Hassan still has the faintest mark on the right side of his
forehead from the beer bottle. He is sitting in the scrappy apartment he shares
with Khan, with computer parts stacked along a wall. One of the things he loved
about Greensboro when he first arrived was the way strangers greeted him for no
apparent reason.

"Now the only people who speak to us think we are Mexican," he says.

Greensboro, population 224,000, is in the central piedmont of North Carolina,
where candidates for office hold "pig pickin's" and screen doors slam in the
waning days of fall. The Shriners recently decided not to wear their turbans and
blousy pants at the upcoming Jaycees Holiday Parade out of respect for the
victims of Sept. 11.

But beneath the Andy Griffith Americana is a mini-Ellis Island with more than
120 nations and 75 languages represented in the Guilford County schools.

If any place was vulnerable to the aftershocks of September's terrorism, this
was it. Porous borders, student visas and refugee resettlement programs had
brought the whole world here.

Of Guilford County's 420,000 residents, between 30,000 and 40,000 are
first-generation immigrants or their children, according to the UNCG Center for
New North Carolinians. A flourishing economy and Greensboro's progressive streak
-- with five colleges in the area and a Quaker mayor -- helped light a fire
under the melting pot.

And then Sept. 11 happened, creating an instant forum for anti-immigrant voices.

Outside the library on the UNCG campus, a Lebanese business major was assaulted
by two white men shouting, "Go home, terrorist!" He withdrew from school and
returned to the Middle East.

If Hassan's only security was in being mistaken for Mexican, at least he had
plenty of cover, thanks to the wave of immigration Chavez belonged to. No state
in the country has gone through a faster Hispanic immersion than North Carolina,
with a 655 percent increase in the past decade. Half of the state's
quarter-million Hispanics are undocumented, a distinction that mattered little
in the low-wage, labor-guzzling economy of the 1990s.

But after Sept. 11, a re[acute]sume[acute] built on sweat was no longer good
enough.

"There's a broad public consensus that immigration is about more than plucking
chickens and picking melons," says Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based anti-immigration
group. "It's about protecting communities . . . knowing who's who in America."

After Sept. 11, President Bush stopped talking about granting amnesty to 3
million Mexicans living illegally in the United States. Because of the weakening
economy, U.S. employers lost interest in expanding the foreign guest worker
program. In South Carolina, the state attorney general was suggesting that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service should deputize local law enforcement to
round up the undocumented.

"No one wanted to listen to Pat Buchanan in 1996 when he called for a moratorium
on immigration," says Charles Davenport Jr., an op-ed columnist for the
Greensboro News & Record. "Now, people are willing to think about it."

Davenport says he had watched his town transform overnight with immigrants, many
of whom refused to assimilate. He wants Marines stationed every 20 feet along
the U.S. borders.

"If you walk into Food Lion at 8 at night, you may well be the only English
speaker in the whole place," Davenport says. "I don't like it. I feel like I'm
in another nation. It's not hostility; it's a sorrow for the culture that I
know."

That Food Lion is where Chavez often shops. On a Sunday morning in November,
Chavez and her family are gathered around the kitchen table, eating bowls of
menudo and folding together tacos and washing it all down with Cokes. Half the
house is hung over from late-shift factory work. Chavez's sister fills
comforters with stuffing at an assembly plant; her mother wraps holiday gift
sets at another. The family has come a long way since crossing into the United
States at an unguarded border checkpoint in 1991, heads ducked low and bodies
scrunched on the van floorboards.

In 2000, after years in Chicago and getting their legal resident cards, they
moved to Greensboro, where they bought a $ 57,000 house in a racially mixed
neighborhood. Now they're practically home-grown, right down to the pacing
Rottweiler.

But Chavez's boyfriend, who asked not to be named, had the bad timing to arrive
in the United States 18 months ago, paying a "coyote" $ 1,600 to guide him
across the desert. In Greensboro, he got a $ 600-a-week construction job and met
Chavez. She liked the spray of freckles across his nose and his hair, black as
motor oil, which she cut in the bathroom with a towel over his strong shoulders.
They exchanged rings and had a baby this year, cramming into a front bedroom in
the Chavez house, where they live now, their door still taped with the pink
ribbon that announces, "It's a Girl."

And yet there is the feeling that a moment has ended.

Until Sept. 11, the state Department of Motor Vehicles had one of the most lax
residency requirements in the country. Illegal immigrants from around the
Southeast would drive to North Carolina to get their prized piece of
documentation. With a driver's license, they could cash a check or open a charge
account. It legitimized them beyond their under-the-table wages.

But with the discovery that at least seven of the terrorist hijackers had
obtained identification cards through the Virginia DMV, North Carolina quickly
passed a law requiring proof of residence, effective Nov. 1.

Unfortunately, Chavez's boyfriend has neither a taxpayer ID number nor a Social
Security card.

"He never got it; now he can't," says Chavez, frustrated by his procrastination.

But unemployment is his bigger concern. When Chavez meets a woman whose husband
works construction, she asks about a job for her boyfriend. Is he legal? the
woman asks.

When the Sunday dishes are cleared away, Chavez and her boyfriend go out for
baby formula. They drive to the newly developed part of Greensboro, a concrete
hatchery of Petsmart and Super K and Service Merchandise. "You can tell which
stores have the best prices," Chavez says, looking out the window. "The empty
parking lots mean prices are too high."

In Kmart, they pick up a flier, studying a 40-piece dinnerware set in Summer
Harvest for $ 19.99. "We love coming over here and checking things out for our
new home," Chavez says. But who are they kidding? On the drive home, they pass
the China King buffet, where they used to go on Sundays when her boyfriend had a
job. The parking lot is packed.

Hassan has still not told his family in Pakistan about the beating. Attending
university in America is his father's dream. A middle-class Pakistani annual
income is the equivalent of $ 10,000. The University of North Carolina charges
international students $ 5,500 a semester, more than three times the in-state
tuition of $ 1,700. Last year, foreign students accounted for 3.4 percent of
total enrollment in U.S. colleges and universities, but they paid nearly 8
percent of tuition and fees, according to the National Association of
Independent Colleges and Universities.

"This is their life savings we blow away in two semesters," Hassan says one
November morning. He had stayed up very late with his roommate the night before,
drinking black tea and eating boiled eggs, scheming how to get rich enough
someday to repay their fathers.

But the mood is subdued. After the assault, Khan has asked his adviser if he
could take a semester off, but the adviser warned that his student visa might
not be renewed in this unpredictable climate.

With lawmakers talking about a moratorium on student visas, Hassan and Khan,
like Chavez and her boyfriend, have scratched their plans to go home for
Christmas. What if the United States won't let them back in?

They are fighting homesickness and an end-of-semester shortage of funds. Their
cable service has been stopped for nonpayment. "This is the darkness before
dawn," Hassan says.

The cell phone they bought after the assault makes them feel safe. One school
night, they leave campus and drive to the Four Seasons Towne Center mall with
another student of Pakistani descent. It's wonderful being out, away from the
library. They wander through Abercrombie & Fitch, beneath the posters of
shirtless blond heros in football pads. At American Eagle Outfitters, one of
them holds up a T-shirt with the word SOBER. "You should get this," Khan teases
Hassan, one alcohol-abstaining Muslim to another. At Dillard's, they study a
10-inch Calphalon omelet pan. Eggs are all they know how to cook.

The next morning, on the way to campus, they pass the High Point Dinner Bell and
its "God Bless America" sign and the Country Bar-B-Q with its "America Home of
the Free and the Brave" sign. Flags were everywhere, red, white and blue against
the Carolina fall.

"It induces the patriotic adrenaline; that's great, every nation should come
together like this," Hassan says philosophically, taking in the landscape. "What
I fear is they are all going to get together and beat us again. The worst part
is they would be singing 'The Star-Spangled Banner' while they are beating us."

It was all a miscommunication, says the 18-year-old man whose name appears on
the criminal complaint signed by Hassan and Khan.

Curtis Bridgman is sitting on his parents' porch one sunny afternoon, holding a
guitar in his lap. He wears a sleeveless T-shirt, a joker tattooed onto his
right biceps and a silver ring in his eyebrow.

"This was just a fight between boys," Bridgman says. "It wasn't no hate crime."

Furthermore, he says, "it wasn't no seven, eight or nine people. Only four of
us." He says no one used a beer bottle as a weapon, and no one used a racial
epithet.

His mother comes out on the porch. "We come from a multicultural family," she
says, citing a black and Hispanic who've married into their family. "So how
could we be racialist?"

Then his father steps outside. "What'd you do, call someone a [racial epithet]?"

"No," Bridgman says. "It's about some Pakistans."

"Some Hispanics?" his father asks.

"No, some Afghans," Bridgman says.

Two High Point Police Department officers finally serve the arrest warrant on
Bridgman, charging him with assault with a deadly weapon. He's scheduled for a
January court hearing.

If some members of Congress have their way, Hassan may soon be carrying a card
that includes his fingerprints, retinal scan or facial biometrics. The INS will
start more closely tracking all of the country's 550,000 foreign students.

"Will they know when I am at the Krispy Kreme?" Hassan asks.

On the same evening Bridgman is arrested, Hassan is leaning against the fountain
on campus. The night is gentle. He has studied and e-mailed half of Pakistan
from the computer lab. Still no word on whether he will be issued the student
visa he applied for in September. He's sure the school will come through, but
less sure about the U.S. Embassy in Pakistan.

Even with the restrictions, and all that has happened to him, Hassan still wants
to study here. "An American education is highly respected in Pakistan," he says.
He would go back home and work in technology.

But America itself, that's a different dilemma. When Hassan was a boy in
Pakistan, he read Archie comics and imagined America as a magical place. "Later
on is when the reality dawns on you," he says. "The chances of meeting Betty
Cooper are very remote."

He pauses. "Sometimes life is so bad here that you only wish for an egomaniacal,
cheating, low person like Veronica Lodge."

"Good morning. Attorney Spaulding's office," says Chavez, deftly juggling the
phones in the law office the next morning. She punches another line. "Anthony,
thank you for holding."

A potential client hovers at the counter, filling out a narrative of his legal
troubles. "How do you spell 'revoked'?" he asks.

Chavez leans forward. "R-E-V-O-K-E-D."

In a week, her mother will be laid off from her $ 9-an-hour third-shift factory
job, making Chavez the biggest breadwinner in the house. Her boyfriend is still
out of work. With winter coming, construction is slowing. Some of their friends
have pulled up stakes and returned to Mexico.

Her brother was detained and searched at the airport recently. "All because of
them," he came home muttering.

The dream doesn't feel so fresh anymore. Chavez leafs through a Harry and David
gourmet Christmas catalogue that arrived in the office mail. She eyes the boxes
of Royal Riviera pears. "You come over thinking you will just stay a while," she
says. "You get caught up in the American dream, which is expensive, and now all
messed up."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              198 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Case a Window on Terror Probe

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 878 words


When federal authorities arrested Agus Budiman on immigration charges in late
October, the Alexandria resident thought his attorney would be able to get him
out of jail the next day.

The immigration problem was a minor one that he thought could easily be cleared
up, he told his attorney.

But weeks later, he's still in jail. The FBI now has publicly linked him to at
least two of the hijackers suspected of crashing jetliners into the World Trade
Center, the Pentagon and a Pennsylvania field. He is also charged with
identification document fraud -- a federal felony carrying up to 15 years in
prison -- and he is being held without bond.

A food delivery driver for Takeout Taxi, Budiman, 31, in many ways is like
hundreds of other people caught in the FBI dragnet in the wake of the Sept. 11
attacks. He is a Muslim immigrant who authorities believe has violated the
letter of his visa. In addition, his answers to repeated questions about the
terror attacks have so far not satisfied the FBI.

As Attorney General John D. Ashcroft increasingly is asked to explain the FBI's
detention of Muslim immigrants, Budiman's case, which resumes today in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria, is illustrative of how the system is treating many
of the Sept. 11 detainees.

Before coming to the United States in October 2000 to live with a younger
brother in Silver Spring, Budiman, an Indonesian citizen, lived in Germany,
studying architecture in Hamburg from 1992 to 2000, according to court testimony
and documents. There, Budiman attended the same mosque as Mohamed Atta, who was
the leader of the terrorist attacks. He also got to know Marwan Al-Shehhi, who
flew one of the planes into the World Trade Center, and Ramzi Binalshibh,
another terrorist suspect, FBI agent Jesus Gomez testified Monday. Binalshibh
has been named by the FBI as a would-be 20th hijacker.

Budiman helped Atta and Binalshibh move into a Hamburg apartment that sources
say may have been used as a safe house by the Sept. 11 plotters. And Binalshibh
used Budiman's American address on application forms during his unsuccessful
efforts to get a U.S. visa, Gomez said.

Budiman is formally charged with helping another suspected member of the al
Qaeda terrorist network illegally obtain a Virginia driver's license. Mohammed
Belfas, who is named as a possible contact for Osama bin Laden on an FBI list
released last month by Finnish banking authorities, traveled to the United
States with Budiman last year.

According to an FBI affidavit, Belfas, who sometimes accompanied Budiman on his
food delivery runs, wanted a Virginia driver's license. So Budiman helped him
exploit a now-closed loophole in Virginia law by signing a notarized affidavit
that falsely stated that both of them lived in a Pentagon City apartment
complex. Belfas used the document to obtain a Virginia state identification card
and driver's license.

Federal officials would not say where Belfas is now. Sources familiar with the
investigation said the FBI has not determined whether Budiman is tied to al
Qaeda.

Justice Department officials have argued that regardless of whether they ever
charge Budiman and others in the terrorist plot, it is crucial to detain them.

Testifying yesterday at a Senate hearing into the investigative methods used
since Sept. 11, Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff argued that there
still could be sleeper cells of terrorists in the United States.

"We could continue as before and hope for the best," Chertoff said. "Or we can
pursue an investigative approach that uses every available lawful technique to
try to identify, disrupt and if possible incarcerate or deport sleepers."

But Ivan Yacub, a Falls Church lawyer representing Budiman on the immigration
charge, said his client is simply being subjected to "guilt by association. . .
. He's just someone who got caught up in this mess for no good reason."

Yacub said Budiman, who grew up as one of four children in a Jakarta family,
came to this country because his parents had studied here and enjoyed it. His
brother is here legally on a student visa and attended George Washington
University in the spring. Another sibling is also in the United States, Yacub
said.

The brother declined to comment, saying his family was trying to hire a new
lawyer for Budiman to handle the fraud case. But U.S. District Court officials
said yesterday that they had assigned a court-appointed lawyer because no
private lawyer had come forward. The court-appointed lawyer, Mark Thrash, did
not return two phone messages.

Budiman has refused to talk to the court's pretrial service office about his
finances and family.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has charged Budiman with lying on his
application for an extension of his visitor visa. He said he was not employed
when he was working for Takeout Taxi, authorities say.

Officials at Takeout Taxi, which makes deliveries all over the region, including
sensitive government buildings, declined to comment.

"The family is really scared to death with this kind of charge," said Yaser
Bushnaq, a founder of Solidarity USA, a Washington group that has been helping
Budiman and other Muslims detained since the Sept. 11 attacks.

Staff writer Maria Glod contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              199 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Dealings

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A32

LENGTH: 183 words


After reading the Nov. 20 news story "Burma's Boy Soldiers May Resettle in
U.S.," I wonder what the Immigration and Naturalization Service is trying to
accomplish. As a U.S.-born citizen with a naturalized citizen spouse and an
adopted foreign child, I have had many dealings with the INS, none pleasant.

Now I read that the U.S. government is backing the INS in accepting "young,
gun-toting twins who led a band of rebels." I wish my tax dollars were not a
part of this. I pleaded with the INS to allow my wife's family to be granted
visas so that they could come from Peru for our wedding, but I was denied. I
fought two years with the INS to complete the adoption of my niece (now my
daughter) after being told that what I was trying to do was illegal (it wasn't).

Now the INS is purportedly accepting prepubescent warlords. Who is benefiting
from this? What is the reason for allowing known troublemakers into the country?
Aren't they the type of person the INS is trying to keep out? It is an injustice
to the law-abiding Americans who are shown no mercy by the INS.

DAVID JULIAS

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              200 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Arabs in Mich. Consenting to Interviews

BYLINE: Allan Lengel and Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 477 words


Federal prosecutors in Detroit, home to America's largest concentration of
Arabs, said yesterday that more than 100 foreign visitors have agreed to
interviews about their knowledge of terrorists, even as civil liberties and
immigration groups increased their criticism of the effort nationwide.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Lynn Helland said three interviews have been conducted
in the Detroit area, where about 660 young foreign men have been included on a
Justice Department list of people sought for interviews. Prosecutors in western
Michigan have begun conducting interviews as well, according to the FBI.

But local activists said they have received reports that some people have been
wrongly included on the list, and federal officials acknowledged that there may
be mistakes in the data compiled from U.S. immigration records.

"It's entirely possible there are those on the list who don't belong," Helland
said. "If people let us know they don't belong, we'll double-check. If they
don't fit the criteria, we won't be talking to them."

With its large Arab American and immigrant populations, Michigan is an important
bellwether of the Justice Department's controversial effort to interview more
than 5,000 males between the ages of 18 and 33 who have entered the United
States on temporary visas since Jan. 1, 2000. The men, mostly Middle Eastern
natives, come from unidentified countries that U.S. officials say have
significant terrorist activity.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and other officials have said the interviews
are voluntary and the subjects are not targets of a criminal investigation. But
prosecutors have been directed to ask participants whether they know or
sympathize with terrorists, as well as other sensitive questions. Authorities
have not ruled out jailing subjects if they are in violation of immigration
laws.

Many Arab American and immigrant groups have criticized the program as a form of
racial profiling, and a small number of police departments in Oregon and
elsewhere have expressed misgivings or declined to help.

"These interviews are inherently coercive," ACLU Executive Director Anthony
Romero said yesterday. "Police are being asked to interrogate people on the
basis of their ethnicity, their religious beliefs and the beliefs of their
families and friends."

But in suburban Dearborn, Mich., the Arab American News published an editorial
yesterday encouraging people to cooperate. "As a community, we have nothing to
hide," the editorial read. "If you know something that would be of help in the
investigation, then please cooperate."

Imad Hamad, Midwest regional director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee in Dearborn, said most of those who have contacted his group about
being asked to cooperate are students from Lebanon, Jordan, Saudi Arabia,
Pakistan and Israeli-occupied territories.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              201 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Some Detainees Turn to Hunger Strikes

BYLINE: Peter Slevin and George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 1132 words


Malek Mohammed Seif, an aspiring jet pilot imprisoned in Arizona in the FBI's
terrorist investigation, is refusing food to protest his continued detention. On
the East Coast, two detainees ended hunger strikes this week. In Missouri,
jailed Egyptian airline mechanic Osama Elfar stopped eating and filed a federal
lawsuit.

"I have to know why I am here. It is my right to know," Elfar said this week
from jail, where he was awaiting deportation. After seven days on a water diet,
Elfar received word yesterday that he will be put aboard a flight to Egypt next
week, his lawyer said.

While precise figures are impossible to obtain, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service acknowledges that at least 14 people have waged hunger
strikes in recent weeks, including some arrested in the government's Sept. 11
anti-terror sweep. Relatives of a U.S. citizen arrested in Evansville, Ind., say
that another hunger strike was held last month by eight prisoners frustrated by
a lack of information and access to lawyers.

The number of protests, which have lasted from four to 12 days by INS count, is
small in comparison with the hundreds of people who have been detained in the
anti-terror campaign. But advocates say they reflect frustration with the Bush
administration's practice of detaining individuals for indeterminate periods
without always informing them of their legal status or the progress of their
cases.

Since Sept. 11, U.S. authorities have used immigration violations -- often
overlooked before the attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center -- to hold
individuals who they suspect may have information and, they say, to deter
additional terrorism. An FBI affidavit used in many cases contends that the
detainee "may have possible links" to terrorist organizations or "may possess
knowledge useful to the investigation."

Many detainees are left unsure how long they will be behind bars.

"They have been waiting and waiting and waiting, and no one seems to give them a
correct answer. This is simply an act of desperation," said New Jersey attorney
Sohail Mohammed, who represents eight foreign detainees in New Jersey, at least
one of whom conducted a hunger strike last month. "The least they were looking
for from the hunger strike was an answer from a responsible official."

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said the agency considers that 14 detainees declared
themselves as on hunger strikes, but officials are uncertain how many were among
the more than 1,100 people detained after Sept. 11. He would not discuss
individual cases, but said detainees who may be important to the criminal
investigation cannot be freed until the FBI has cleared them, and are not
entitled to updates about their status.

Bergeron explained that files compiled by local FBI agents must be "reviewed
against the entire body of information developed in connection with the
investigation."

"The American people expect that we will not allow any person to leave this
country until it has been absolutely ascertained with as much certainty as
humanly possible that the individual is not linked to this crime or to
terrorism," Bergeron said.

Elfar, who turned 30 in jail last month, was arrested within two weeks of the
Sept. 11 hijackings. Authorities who questioned him discovered that he had
overstayed his 1996 student visa.

He allowed FBI agents to search his apartment, where they confiscated records
and seized his computer, which have been returned to him. He also submitted to
an FBI lie detector test and was told he passed, his lawyer said.

An immigration judge gave Elfar a deportation date of Nov. 23, but the day came
and went without indications from U.S. authorities about his fate. Sometimes, a
delay can be caused by difficulties in arranging a flight at government expense.
But Elfar said he "was ready to pay my own expenses, but they don't let me."

Eight Indiana men who went on hunger strikes owe their release after two weeks
to a persistent federal prosecutor who carried the case up the chain of command,
said Chicago defense attorney Kenneth L. Cunniff. The men, all from Evansville,
called to one another in Arabic to coordinate their strike, said Mary Frances
Baugh, the mother-in-law of detainee Tarek Albasti.

The INS has no record of a hunger strike by the men, Bergeron said. The agency
does not count a food protest as a strike unless detainees have gone at least 72
hours with no food. He said inmates sometimes "turn down the meal and go to the
snack bar and buy a half-dozen Twinkies and eat that instead."

In New Jersey last month, at least a half-dozen detainees initiated a food
protest because they felt the INS was not giving them sufficient information on
their cases. Bergeron said INS records reflect that "it is possible that some
detainees may have skipped some meals, but no detainees went 72 hours without
eating."

Seif has refused food in Phoenix since Oct. 25, according to defense attorney
Thomas M. Hoidal. Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio said Seif has lost 28
pounds. The INS does not consider Seif's action a hunger strike, perhaps because
he ingests fluids.

"I'm trying to talk him into eating. I don't need him to be a martyr in my jail
with his own agenda," said Arpaio, known for confining inmates in desert tents
and requiring them to wear pink underwear. "If he becomes incompetent, we'll
just have to force-feed him. I don't want this guy to die in my jail."

The INS says it monitors inmates on hunger strikes and is prepared to take
medical steps when necessary.

Seif, accused of lying on federal forms, is frustrated that he has not been
granted bail before his scheduled Dec. 18 trial, Hoidal said. An East African,
he received pilot training at two Arizona flight schools during the mid-1990s,
and sought work as a commuter airline pilot but failed the instrument tests. He
remained in Arizona on refugee status, Hoidal said.

Questioned by the FBI, Seif acknowledged meeting suspected hijacker Hani Hanjour
at a dinner party in Tempe, Ariz., and seeing him at a local mosque where they
worshiped. He was questioned in France, where, he insists, he told authorities
all he knows, and voluntarily returned to the United States in September for
further interrogation. He said he was told he would not be arrested.

Eleanor Acer, a New York immigration specialist, said hunger strikes have been
waged by detainees in years past to address "an underlying sense of injustice"
about everything from lengthy confinements to the high price of detention center
phone calls.

"In a lot of ways, immigration detainees are powerless," said Acer, director of
asylum programs at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "The sense of
injustice they feel when they believe they're being treated unfairly leaves them
with little option."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              202 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Plans Stronger Border Security;
Guard Troops Would Help Monitor Entry Ports From Canada

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 606 words


Hundreds of U.S. National Guard troops would help patrol the porous, 4,000-mile
Canadian border as part of a $ 31.5 million emergency plan by the Justice
Department, which fears that potential terrorists can too easily cross into the
United States.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft also plans to ask Defense Secretary Donald H.
Rumsfeld this week to temporarily provide aircraft and intelligence agents to
help the Immigration and Naturalization Service strengthen security along the
northern border, a Justice Department official said.

The proposals come amid rising concern among U.S. officials about the lax
safeguards along one of the world's most loosely monitored political boundaries.
Slightly more than 300 immigration agents are assigned to the northern border,
which includes more than 100 ports of entry and hundreds of other unguarded
crossings. The plan would more than double the number of border guards and
agents.

Canadian intelligence officials estimate that about 50 terrorist groups operate
from Canada, including al Qaeda, Hamas and the Irish Republican Army. And the
country was the key staging point for alleged associates of Osama bin Laden who
had planned to bomb Los Angeles International Airport and other targets during
the 2000 millennium celebrations.

Extra immigration agents at the Mexican border were transferred to the northern
border after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, but Justice Department and INS officials say the boundary is
dangerously understaffed.

Recent anti-terrorism legislation provides more money to strengthen border
security, but it will take a year or more to hire and train personnel, officials
said.

"We don't have enough manpower to sustain this level of security for very much
longer," a senior Justice Department official said. "It's a great vulnerability
that needs to be dealt with immediately."

Ashcroft and INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar are scheduled to formally announce
the security plan on Monday during meetings with top Canadian officials in
Detroit and Ottawa, a Justice Department official said. The two countries will
also announce joint efforts to increase border security and strengthen
anti-terrorism strategies, officials said.

The U.S. security plan will proceed in two phases. First, more than 400 National
Guard troops will be sent to a dozen border states, focused on several dozen
ports of entry of most concern. Second, the Defense Department would provide
training and nearly 200 more personnel to improve intelligence and air patrols
along the northern border.

More than $ 27 million would pay for the helicopters and other expenses related
to the air patrol, with the remainder paying for inspection agents and
intelligence analysts, a Justice Department official said. Bush administration
officials are still debating where the money will come from, the official said.

The program would be phased out in 12 to 18 months as permanent funding and
agents become available along the Canadian border.

Many states, including Michigan, California and Texas, have ordered extra
National Guard troops to their borders since Sept. 11, and the U.S. Customs
Service also has requested troops at some crossings.

The measures are part of a broader crackdown along a border once so loose that a
wave might be enough to get across. Now, travelers must show passports and other
identification while U.S. inspectors run license-plate checks and randomly
search trunks. Delays commonly last hours at some checkpoints.

"The added personnel should help shorten those delays significantly," a U.S.
official said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              203 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 19, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Today In Congress

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 140 words


SENATE

Meets at 11:30 a.m.

Committee:

Health, Education, Labor and Pensions -- 10:30 a.m. Genetic discrimination and
its effects on health insurance and employment. 106 Dirksen Office Building.

HOUSE

Meets at 10 a.m.

Committees:

Energy and Commerce -- 10 a.m. Commerce, trade and consumer protection subc.
Electronic communications after Sept. 11. 2322 Rayburn House Office Building.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Commercial and administrative law subc.
Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa River Basin Compact and the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee
and Flint River Basin Compact. 2141 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 2 p.m. Immigration and claims subc. Review of Justice's immigration
detention policies, focusing on release policies of INS and the Executive Office
for Immigration Review and whether they adequately protect national security and
public safety. 2237 RHOB.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              204 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 20, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Attacks Shelve GOP Effort to Woo Hispanics

BYLINE: Dana Milbank, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1260 words


In the months since Sept. 11, Hispanics have gone from being the most courted
segment of the American electorate to an afterthought, with President Bush and
the GOP having interrupted their effort to win over the fast-growing,
traditionally Democratic constituency.

A plan to liberalize immigration from Mexico, which appeared imminent in early
September, has been shelved for now. Instead, the administration and Congress
have launched a broad crackdown on immigration violations, and they have
restricted border crossings. Even legal aliens, it has been made clear, do not
have the same rights as American citizens when it comes to privacy and
detention.

At the same time, Hispanics have been disproportionately hurt by the economic
recession. Unemployment among Hispanics grew to 7.6 percent in November from 7.2
percent the month before. Overall, the U.S. unemployment rate rose to 5.7
percent from 5.4 percent. Immigrants in the hotel and restaurant industries have
felt a particular squeeze, and business groups, suddenly awash in workers, have
dropped their support for immigration expansion.

"There's a lot of frustration among Latinos," said Gabriela Lemus, policy
director for the League of United Latin American Citizens. "There's a lot of
fear. A lot of people are talking about leaving."

Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service Employees International
Union, which represents many Hispanics, said, "People of our community were very
pleased when President Bush took the lead" on immigration reform. "However, as
we head into 2002, when people take a look and see what happened in the first
year of the Bush administration, whether they shied away from that and whether
the only result is mistaken policy, I think that's going to be reflected in the
vote."

Like most Americans, Hispanics understand the distraction of war, Medina said.
"But as the Afghanistan war winds down, people are going to expect action. This
will be beginning the first of the year."

This is hardly a matter of urgent concern for Bush. A November poll by the Los
Angeles Times found that 89 percent of Hispanics approved of Bush's performance
in office, showing stronger support among Hispanics than in the nation as a
whole. Eighty percent supported his handling of the economy, also a greater
percentage than was registered nationally. And a small plurality of Hispanics
said Republicans can handle the nation's problems better than Democrats.

Right now, "the number one and number two issues among Latinos is fighting
terrorism and dealing with the economy," the same issues important to everybody
else, said Matthew Dowd, a Bush campaign adviser who coordinates polling for the
Republican National Committee. "There's plenty of time, even prior to 2002," for
Republicans to renew appeals tailored to Hispanics, he said.

Democrats agree that Bush has more than enough time to return to courting
Hispanics before his 2004 reelection bid. But congressional Republicans may have
more trouble appealing to Hispanics in the 2002 elections, particularly in
competitive House races in Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Nevada and New Mexico.

"It might have been a good issue for Republicans in the mid-term elections to
say they're now encouraging an easing of immigration restrictions," said
Democratic strategist Mark Gersh. "They may have lost that immediate ability."
And with control of the House to be determined by a few seats, he said, "that
could make a difference."

Hispanics accounted for 7 percent of voters in 2000 and are likely to account
for 9 percent or 10 percent in 2004. Because of the growing proportion of
nonwhites in the United States, if each demographic group's support for Bush in
the 2004 election remains unchanged from 2000, Bush will lose by 3 million
votes, a Republican analysis shows. Bush received 35 percent of the Hispanic
vote in 2000.

In an article in the Weekly Standard magazine, Dowd predicted that this group
will be the "most sought-after vote bloc in the coming decade," comparable to
the "soccer moms" of the 1990s and the Reagan Democrats of the 1980s.

The RNC continues its efforts to recruit Hispanic support, having signed up some
5,000 Hispanic "team leaders" nationally. Those team leaders have held 15
recruitment events as part of a new grass-roots push.

Sharon Castillo, a Puerto Rican woman working on the RNC's effort, said: "Our
world has changed since 9-11. Hispanics, like all Americans, understand the
situation." Still, Castillo said she hopes the immigration initiative can be
restarted before next year's election. "I think it would be beneficial."

National opinion about immigration is, if anything, headed the other way.
Pollster John Zogby found that 76 percent of Americans believe the country is
not doing enough to control its borders, and 85 percent think immigration laws
are too lax. Such questions produced 50-50 splits before Sept. 11. "This is one
of those xenophobic moments in our history," Zogby said. "It's not a good time
to expand services to immigrants or to have more open borders."

The Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, a group that was backed by
businesses and that favored liberalized immigration, ceased operations. The need
for workers disappeared in the economic slowdown, and "the government is focused
on what it ought to focus on -- and it's not immigration," said John Gay, vice
president for government affairs at the American Hotel & Lodging Association.

The Bush administration has not entirely lost interest in Hispanics. American
and Mexican officials met Nov. 20 to discuss immigration plans, but with none of
the media attention that accompanied earlier meetings.

Democrats meanwhile, haven't advanced their cause with Latinos, either. They
supported tougher restrictions on Mexican trucks and the federalization of
airport screening, which will likely cause thousands of noncitizen Hispanics to
lose their jobs. In New York, Republican Mayor-elect Michael Bloomberg won half
the Hispanic vote after Hispanics were alienated by the Democrats' divisive
primary.

Still, there are some signs that Hispanics are growing impatient with the lack
of progress on immigration issues. Bush had said he would sign an extension of
the "245I" immigration provision, which allows certain undocumented aliens to
seek legal status while remaining in the country. The measure was to be taken up
by the House on Sept. 11, but it is now on hold. Also, the administration seems
to have backed down from legislation reforming the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in favor of an administrative fix. Immigration groups
support the legislative solution.

Hispanics' hopes for an end to government racial and economic profiling were set
back by the government's efforts to clamp down on possible Middle Eastern
terrorists since the September attacks.

Recent Justice Department denials of profiling since Sept. 11 are "at best
disingenuous," said Charles Kamasaki, senior vice president at the National
Council of La Raza, an advocacy group. "There's a hope that what seemed to be a
bipartisan consensus against racial profiling won't be a permanent casualty."

In the new year, and particularly as the economy recovers, Hispanic groups will
begin to demand action. "There's starting to be grumbling," said LULAC's Lemus.
"People are starting to get uncomfortable with some of the things coming out of
the administration. We want to give the president space, but . . . we're fearful
all of the gains made since the 1950s run the possibility of being pushed back."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              205 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Shopping for the Home Folks;
Internet Lets Immigrants Send More Than Love and Money

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1426 words


Vilma Iraheta wanted to send something special to El Salvador for her father's
birthday. So she flipped on the computer in her suburban Maryland home and typed
this address: elsalvadorpizza.com.

Click, click, click, and her order was placed. On Wednesday, a Pizza Hut
employee on a motorcycle roared up to her father's home 1,900 miles away in El
Salvador with two Giant Pizzas -- from Vilma in Washington, with love.

"The Internet is beautiful," declared Iraheta, a D.C. corrections employee.

Global pizza delivery is just one example of a new way in which technology is
helping immigrants stay in touch with their native lands: Web sites allowing
them to buy goods and services for relatives at home. It's the latest twist on
the tradition of immigrants sending back money -- and one more development
helping to blur international borders.

The Internet gift sales still appear tiny compared with the billions in money
orders sent by immigrants. But they have allowed immigrants to shop around the
globe during this holiday season.

For example, at filonline.com, a Filipina immigrant could order a roasted whole
pig for her family's holiday celebration back in Davao. A Guatemalan immigrant
could send anything from a child's pogo stick to a basket of grapes to a
relative in Guatemala City, using misuper.com, the site of a Central American
supermarket chain.

A Mexican worker could send his parents a microwave oven or a bottle of fine Don
Julio tequila via decompras.com.

Executives at several such Web sites predicted that their business would
continue to grow because the transactions allow immigrants to overcome some of
the difficulties imposed by borders.

"You can buy a TV here in the U.S., but you as a consumer need to ship the TV to
your family in Guatemala. You have to pay international shipping, duties and
taxes. So that's all the hassle," said Victor Kong, director of e-commerce at
terra.com, a major Spanish-language portal that offers a "Gifts Without Borders"
shopping service.

With the Internet services, immigrants effectively are shopping in their native
lands, browsing through electronic catalogues of cakes, toys, fast food,
appliances and other goods. The buyer pays with a U.S. credit card, but the
product is delivered by a store back home -- often faster and cheaper than using
international mail.

And Christmas presents aren't the only offerings. The site vietnamhost.net
allows Vietnamese immigrants to send mooncakes for the Mid-Autumn Festival.
Dozens of Web sites offer flower delivery for Mother's Day. Through
giftshift.com, Pakistani immigrants could send home presents for the recent
Muslim holiday Eid al-Fitr -- anything from a teddy bear to a Pizza Hut
favorite, chicken tikka pizza.

The sites are hoping to capture a piece of the giant cash flows from immigrant
workers to developing countries. Those remittances have surged, thanks to rising
immigration, greater ease in sending money and the economic boom of the past
decade. According to the International Monetary Fund, remittances from
immigrants in the United States nearly doubled, from $ 9.4 billion in 1992 to $
17.4 billion in 1999.

Marco Molina, an executive with Paiz, a Central American supermarket chain, said
he set up the misuper.com site in 1998 with local shoppers in mind. He was
startled to discover his orders were coming instead from immigrants sending
their relatives cereal, shampoo and gift certificates.

"We realized the buying power is above all in people who don't live in our
country," he said.

Another factor in the explosion of sites is that as immigrants become more
established in the United States, they become computer-owning, Internet-surfing
consumers. According to the U.S. government's Current Population Survey of
August 2000, 44 percent of immigrant households had a computer at home -- up
from 30 percent just three years earlier. Just over half of households headed by
U.S. natives currently have computers.

Vilma Iraheta, 48, a prison case manager, bought a computer two years ago for
the snug Hyattsville home she shares with her mother. She heard about the
Salvadoran pizza site recently on a Spanish-language radio program. "How
curious," she thought.

Maybe, she considered, this would be a way around the hassles she has faced in
getting presents home to her father and five siblings during the 16 years she
has been in the United States.

"In the past, I sent things by mail. It was a real pain [for my family] to get
them out of customs down there," she said. And, while many Salvadorans send
goods through viajeros, or informal couriers, Iraheta didn't trust anyone she
didn't know.

The Internet allowed her to send her father's present, a $ 26 order for two
pizzas, with relative ease.

"You don't have to worry about whether it will get there," she said. "You don't
have to worry about paying for extra weight" at an airport, as you do when
carrying suitcases stuffed with presents.

The Pizza Hut marketing manager for El Salvador, Juan Carlos Matamoros, said
immigrants saw the Internet pizzas as a way of sharing family celebrations.
Hundreds of immigrants have ordered pizzas for their relatives' Christmas Eve
dinners back home, a major feast traditionally celebrated with turkey. Instead
of the average bill of $ 25, orders are running about $ 75 each for Dec. 24, he
said.

The immigrants "send four pizzas and all the drinks. So the family doesn't have
to spend anything," he said.

Even Thanksgiving prompted orders from immigrants. "We wanted to develop a
turkey pizza," Matamoros said, but headquarters didn't approve that specialty.

Like many immigrant gift sites, the Pizza Hut site in El Salvador is generating
modest sales, about $ 10,000 a month, with three-quarters of that from the
United States, Matamoros said. He also gets orders from Salvadoran immigrants in
Australia, Sweden and other countries. But he thinks monthly sales could soar as
the service becomes better known.

The immigrant consumers pose special challenges. Many newly arrived immigrants
still don't know how to use computers. Matamoros said his customers "are a
little more stable. They have computers, credit cards. Probably others haven't
been able to order because they're in the process of becoming legal."

And the sites have limitations. Many only deliver in urban areas, not the remote
villages where numerous immigrants' families live. Iraheta discovered that
ordering a pizza for a relative in El Salvador isn't as easy as ordering one for
delivery in Hyattsville: The Pizza Hut orders must be placed 48 hours in
advance.

That's due, in part, to the difficulty of scheduling deliveries, Matamoros said.

"Sometimes the person [in El Salvador] doesn't have a phone. We have to find
them through another means -- maybe the mail." Some customers are reached
through telegrams.

Such limitations haven't discouraged Web entrepreneurs. Some are branching
beyond products and into services -- such as enviosalatam.com, a fledgling site
run by Ricardo Villanueva, an advertising executive in Springfield. It allows
immigrants to order up a doctor's house call for their relatives in the capitals
of Nicaragua and Peru. Soon, he said, the site will offer mariachis and pin ata
parties in Latin America.

Villanueva said he is seeking to expand his client base by setting up his Web
service in Latino grocery stores in various cities, including Washington, that
already transmit cash. That wouldn't just address the immigrants' lack of a
computer or credit card, he said; it would also relieve their concerns about
delivery.

"Latinos trust their local grocer," said Villanueva, a Peruvian immigrant. "They
know that if they send flowers [through the grocer] and something happens, they
will come back next week with a machete and handle it."

In El Salvador, Iraheta's father, Armando, is elated over his pizza delivery
from Hyattsville. It wasn't a surprise, because Pizza Hut had called to schedule
it. But the 75-year-old factory owner still choked up when the delivery man
roared up to his home in a working-class suburb of San Salvador with the pizzas.

"I got emotional. It was my daughter who sent it," he explained by telephone in
Spanish.

Armando Iraheta, who normally favors more familiar dishes such as chile relleno,
said he is becoming a pizza fan -- and he hopes the Internet service becomes
better known.

"Many people over there can send it to their families [in El Salvador] through
the Internet. A pizza for a birthday celebration. Or maybe for a wedding. It's
very fantastic."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              206 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Sending Back More Than Love and Money;
Internet Lets Immigrants Shop Abroad

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1417 words


Vilma Iraheta wanted to send something special to El Salvador for her father's
birthday. So she flipped on the computer in her suburban Maryland home and typed
elsalvadorpizza.com.

Click, click, click, and her order was placed. On Wednesday, a Pizza Hut
employee on a motorcycle roared up to her father's home 1,900 miles away in El
Salvador with two Giant Pizzas -- from Vilma in Washington, with love.

"The Internet is beautiful," declared Iraheta, a D.C. corrections employee.

Global pizza delivery is just one example of a new way in which technology is
helping immigrants stay in touch with their native lands: Web sites allowing
them to buy goods and services for relatives at home. It's the latest twist on
the tradition of immigrants sending back money -- and one more development
helping to blur borders.

The Internet gift sales still appear tiny compared with the billions in money
orders sent by immigrants. But they have allowed immigrants to shop around the
globe during this holiday season.

For example, at filonline.com, a Filipina immigrant could order a roasted whole
pig for her family's holiday celebration back in Davao. A Guatemalan immigrant
could send anything from a child's pogo stick to a basket of grapes to a
relative in Guatemala City, using misuper.com, the site of a Central American
supermarket chain.

A Mexican worker could send his parents a microwave oven or a bottle of fine Don
Julio tequila via decompras.com.

Executives at several such Web sites predicted that their business would
continue to grow because the transactions allow immigrants to overcome some of
the difficulties imposed by borders.

"You can buy a TV here in the U.S., but you as a consumer need to ship the TV to
your family in Guatemala. You have to pay international shipping, duties and
taxes. So that's all the hassle," said Victor Kong, director of e-commerce at
terra.com, a major Spanish-language portal that offers a "Gifts Without Borders"
shopping service.

With the Internet services, immigrants effectively are shopping in their native
lands, browsing through electronic catalogues of cakes, toys, fast food,
appliances and other goods. The buyer pays with a U.S. credit card, but the
product is delivered by a store back home -- often faster and cheaper than using
international mail.

And Christmas presents aren't the only offerings. Vietnamhost.com allows
Vietnamese immigrants to send mooncakes for the Mid-Autumn Festival. Dozens of
Web sites offer flower delivery for Mother's Day. Through giftshift.com,
Pakistani immigrants could send home presents for the recent Muslim holiday Eid
al-Fitr -- anything from a teddy bear to a Pizza Hut favorite, chicken tikka
pizza.

The sites are hoping to capture a piece of the giant cash flow from immigrant
workers to developing countries. Those remittances have surged, thanks to rising
immigration, greater ease in sending money and the economic boom of the past
decade. According to the International Monetary Fund, remittances from
immigrants in the United States nearly doubled, from $ 9.4 billion in 1992 to $
17.4 billion in 1999.

Marco Molina, an executive with Paiz, a Central American supermarket chain, said
he set up the misuper.com site in 1998 with local shoppers in mind. He was
startled to discover his orders were coming instead from immigrants sending
their relatives cereal, shampoo and gift certificates.

"We realized the buying power is above all in people who don't live in our
country," he said.

Another factor in the explosion of sites is that as immigrants become more
established in the United States, they become computer-owning, Internet-surfing
consumers. According to the U.S. government's Current Population Survey of
August 2000, 44 percent of immigrant households had a computer at home -- up
from 30 percent just three years earlier. Just over half of households headed by
U.S. natives have computers.

Iraheta, 48, a prison case manager, bought a computer two years ago for the snug
Hyattsville home she shares with her mother. She heard about the Salvadoran
pizza site recently on a Spanish-language radio program. "How curious," she
thought.

Maybe, she considered, this would be a way around the hassles she has faced in
getting presents home to her father and five siblings during the 16 years she
has been in the United States.

"In the past, I sent things by mail. It was a real pain [for my family] to get
them out of customs down there," she said. And, while many Salvadorans send
goods through viajeros, or informal couriers, Iraheta didn't trust anyone she
didn't know.

The Internet allowed her to send her father's present, a $ 26 order for two
pizzas, with relative ease.

"You don't have to worry about whether it will get there," she said. "You don't
have to worry about paying for extra weight" at an airport, as you do when
carrying suitcases stuffed with presents.

The Pizza Hut marketing manager for El Salvador, Juan Carlos Matamoros, said
immigrants saw the Internet pizzas as a way of sharing family celebrations.
Hundreds of immigrants have ordered pizzas for their relatives' Christmas Eve
dinners back home, a major feast traditionally celebrated with turkey. Instead
of the average bill of $ 25, orders are running about $ 75 each for Dec. 24, he
said.

The immigrants "send four pizzas and all the drinks. So the family doesn't have
to spend anything," he said.

Even Thanksgiving prompted orders from immigrants. "We wanted to develop a
turkey pizza," Matamoros said, but headquarters didn't approve that specialty.

Like many immigrant gift sites, the Pizza Hut site in El Salvador is generating
modest sales, about $ 10,000 a month, with three-quarters of that from the
United States, Matamoros said. He also gets orders from Salvadoran immigrants in
Australia, Sweden and other countries. But he thinks monthly sales could soar as
the service becomes better known.

The immigrant consumers pose special challenges. Many newly arrived immigrants
still don't know how to use computers. Matamoros said his customers "are a
little more stable. They have computers, credit cards. Probably others haven't
been able to order because they're in the process of becoming legal."

And the sites have limitations. Many only deliver in urban areas, not the remote
villages where numerous immigrants' families live. Iraheta discovered that
ordering a pizza for a relative in El Salvador isn't as easy as ordering one for
delivery in Hyattsville: The Pizza Hut orders must be placed 48 hours in
advance.

That's due, in part, to the difficulty of scheduling deliveries, Matamoros said.

"Sometimes the person [in El Salvador] doesn't have a phone. We have to find
them through another means -- maybe the mail." Some customers are reached
through telegrams.

Such limitations haven't discouraged Web entrepreneurs. Some are branching
beyond products and into services -- such as enviosalatam.com, a fledgling site
run by Ricardo Villanueva, an advertising executive in Springfield. It allows
immigrants to order up a doctor's house call for their relatives in the capitals
of Nicaragua and Peru. Soon, he said, the site will offer mariachis and pin ata
parties in Latin America.

Villanueva said he is seeking to expand his client base by setting up his Web
service in Latino grocery stores in various cities, including Washington, that
already transmit cash. That wouldn't just address the immigrants' lack of a
computer or credit card, he said; it would also relieve their concerns about
delivery.

"Latinos trust their local grocer," said Villanueva, a Peruvian immigrant. "They
know that if they send flowers [through the grocer] and something happens, they
will come back next week with a machete and handle it."

In El Salvador, Iraheta's father, Armando, is elated over his pizza delivery
from Hyattsville. It wasn't a surprise, because Pizza Hut had called to schedule
it. But the 75-year-old factory owner still choked up when the delivery man
roared up to his home in a working-class suburb of San Salvador with the pizzas.

"I got emotional. It was my daughter who sent it," he explained by telephone in
Spanish.

Armando Iraheta, who normally favors more familiar dishes such as chile relleno,
said he is becoming a pizza fan -- and he hopes the Internet service becomes
better known.

"Many people over there can send it to their families [in El Salvador] through
the Internet. A pizza for a birthday celebration. Or maybe for a wedding. It's
very fantastic."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              207 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 27, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Working To Better Aid African Immigrants

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 641 words


Beatrice Narukundo hoped that she was leaving war-torn Congo and all its
violence behind when she immigrated to the United States two years ago.

But two months after arriving, a group of teenagers rushed into her house in
Hyattsville, teasing and beating her children, she said. The police came, but
she spoke only French and they spoke English.

She said she was charged with assault and spent the night in the Prince George's
County jail.

Narukundo, speaking in French, recounted the incident through a translator at a
program on African refugees. The half-day workshop, held recently at the Charles
W. Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity in Wheaton, was designed to help the
nearly 100 participants who work with newcomers to better understand the
struggles that immigrants face.

"You have to take more time to deal with an African immigrant and realize that
they do not use the social skills that an American has," said Wanjiru Kamau,
director of the African Immigrants and Refugees Foundation in Silver Spring, a
nonprofit social services group that organized the workshop. "My emphasis in
training is to try to understand the cultural differences of the person."

The number of African immigrants has been increasing dramatically in the
Washington area as refugees flee the civil wars of their homelands. Before, most
refugees had come from Southeast Asia or Latin America, according to the
Maryland Office for New Americans.

Nearly 16.2 percent, or about 39,000, of the 240,000 immigrants who came to
Washington from 1990 to 1998 hailed from African countries, according to a study
by the Washington-based Brookings Institution.

The immigrants come from a variety of countries, including Ethiopia, Nigeria,
Sierra Leone and Somalia, and are settling primarily in the District and Prince
George's and Montgomery counties.

The Washington region attracts the largest proportion of Africans of any major
metropolitan area, according to the Brookings report.

Many social services providers said at the workshop that they were unprepared to
handle the new arrivals, particularly because of language difficulties.

Patricia Chiancone, who works with English for Speakers of Other Languages
students at Northwestern High School in Prince George's, said teachers do not
have simple statistics on the number of African students.

She said that students from Africa are classified in the computer system as
African American. "They get lumped together," she said.

Francis Govan, a community outreach specialist for Montgomery County, said that
tensions may arise between Africans and African Americans because of
misunderstandings.

African Americans may have misconceptions about the new immigrants because of
stereotypes about Africa.

"These communities have not really communicated with each other," Govan said.

Other problems were identified: Many immigrants, including children, suffer from
post-traumatic stress disorder because of the violence they have witnessed.
Women do not know that they can and should report domestic violence, even if
they do not speak English. Parents are not familiar with the school system.

Participants said many of the concerns could be addressed by pooling together
resources and networking.

Others can be solved by educating people about cultural differences.

Kamau said that, for example, some teachers have misunderstood African students
because the students do not look them in the eye. The teachers think that the
students are being rude, when actually they are being polite, according to their
culture.

Kamau said she hopes to hold more workshops to help both social workers and
immigrants.

"Once you understand this person, you'll be able to to help them," Kamau said of
social workers.

And, she added, "Africans need the training to understand the American culture
so they can survive."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              208 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 1, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Cites Domestic Priorities For 2002;
Health, Immigration Top President's List

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex. Dec. 31


President Bush said today that the public health system and immigration policy
will be among his priorities in the new year, and he warned Americans to remain
on alert for terrorist attacks.

Bush's New Year's Eve remarks, made during a lunchtime excursion from his ranch,
showed the increased attention his administration plans to give to domestic
issues in 2002 after devoting much of the past few months to the war in
Afghanistan.

Perhaps it was the cheeseburger that was waiting for him at a nearby table, or
perhaps it was the military's swift success in Afghanistan, but Bush sounded
chipper and said 2002, "in my judgment, is going to be a great year."

"People are going to be able to find work again," Bush said. "Our military is
going to do the job the Americans expect. It'll be a great year because at home
we'll protect the American people."

Bush said that the nation has gone through incredible suffering and hardship
since the Sept. 11 attacks, but that communities are stronger and "the culture
of compassion" has flourished. "Americans have taken a look inward, reassessed
their values, have realized that some of the basics in life are that which is
most important -- love of faith, love of family," he said.

Asked what Americans can expect next year in homeland security, Bush said his
next step will be "making sure the public health systems work." The federal
government was criticized for its early, contradictory statements during the
anthrax attacks, and administration officials said they must be prepared for
future waves of bioterrorism.

The president made it clear the government will continue its aggressive use of
immigration laws to interrogate or detain foreign nationals who might have
information about terrorists.

"We're looking at our immigration policies," Bush said. "We're looking at border
policies, both with Canada and with Mexico. And we'll continue doing what we're
doing now, which is any time we get a lead, we're going to disrupt -- we're
going to bring them in and give them a chance to protect Americans."

"The whole culture of the FBI has changed for the better," he added. "The FBI's
main task now is to protect Americans from further attack."

The federal effort includes the continuation of combat air patrols near
airports. "The American people realize we have a new culture, and that is one of
being vigilant," Bush said. "Anybody tries to harm an American, there's a good
chance we're going to get him."

Bush planned to spend New Year's Eve at his Prairie Chapel Ranch with first lady
Laura Bush and three couples who are longtime Texas friends. The group has spent
New Year's Eve together for the past 10 years or so.

"I'm looking forward to an early evening tonight," Bush said. "I guess at the
age of 55, it's okay for a guy to go to bed at about 9 p.m., maybe 10 p.m. So I
don't plan anything glamorous for New Year's Eve."

Asked about his resolutions before digging into his Coffee Station lunch, Bush
said, "Eat fewer cheeseburgers."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              209 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 3, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Foreign Students' Concern Grows;
Many Understand Investigation but Want Rights Protected

BYLINE: Raymond Thibodeaux, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 1099 words


When Pakistani student Khurram Rauf learned federal immigration officials in
California had begun cracking down on Middle Easterners suspected of violating
their student visas, he wasn't surprised.

Like many Muslim students at the University of Maryland in College Park, he has
been interviewed by FBI agents. In his case, agents showed up at his door
wanting to know how he felt about the Sept. 11 attacks, how his parents felt
about them and whether he knew any fellow students involved in suspicious
activity.

He understands the rationale for singling out students from the Middle East and
central Asian countries on the State Department's terrorism watch list, but,
even so, it disturbs him.

"There's got to be a more proper way," said Rauf, 23, a mechanical engineering
student. "You cannot generalize about all Pakistanis or Middle Eastern people.
But it is related to the Muslim world."

Foreign students make up only 1.8 percent of the university's 24,638
undergraduate students but nearly a third of its 8,551 graduate students. The
University of Maryland leads the state system of higher education in foreign
student enrollment, and the state ranks No. 12 in the nation, with nearly 12,000
foreign students.

The disclosure that one of the Sept. 11 hijackers had entered the country on a
student visa but never attended class prompted demands in Congress for tighter
tracking of all 540,000 foreign students.

It also prompted a nationwide crackdown on Middle Eastern and central Asian
students who allegedly have violated the terms of their visas, and it led to
several legislative proposals to keep better track of them.

Several Muslim students at College Park reported that FBI agents interviewed
them following the Sept. 11 attacks. Rauf said FBI agents spent nearly an hour
asking him a range of questions, including whether he could identify any of the
suspected hijackers.

"They showed up at my house at 10 a.m., without a warrant, and started asking
questions. I don't want to make it seem like I'm hiding anything," he said. "I
personally think that I'd be coming around myself asking questions, too, but you
can't [just] barge into someone's house."

He and other Muslim students gathered last month at an iftar -- the dinner that
breaks the daily Ramadan fast -- in a small wing of Cole Field House, which the
Muslim Student Association had turned into a makeshift prayer hall. The jubilant
mood was tempered by news of the recent crackdowns on Middle Eastern students in
California.

Hany Elgamal, 27, from Cairo, is a graduate student in the electrical
engineering department. "Already, Arab people feel victimized by U.S. foreign
policy," he said at the dinner. "President Bush says he wants to separate
Muslims from terrorists, but his deeds say something else."

Students at Dorchester House, a dorm for international students, seem less
concerned. Many of them are from Europe. Several were sprawled on couches,
watching a Polish movie. Others were in the computer room churning out essays or
e-mailing friends back home. Only a handful of students gathered upstairs to
discuss the crackdowns.

"It's distressing. My personal information might be in the hands of government
agencies. I have nothing to fear from that, but I'd like to know who has it and
what they're going to do with that," said Paul Witter, 20, a sophomore from
England studying computer science. "Will the FBI or the CIA come knocking on my
door to ask me about the Irish Republican Army?"

Erline Germaine, a sophomore from Haiti majoring in political science, also was
skeptical.

"Once you get into this kind of stuff, its going to take away everybody's rights
little by little, and we can't do anything about it," said Germaine, who entered
the United States on a student visa and has since become a permanent resident.
"They shouldn't target just the foreign students. What message does that send?"

Not a positive one, said Bofta Yimam, 19, a sophomore in broadcast journalism
from Ethiopia. "It's going to lead to an overall decrease in international
students. People are going to say, 'It's too much effort to get into the system
now, so why not just work and stay in my country?' "

Elsewhere on campus, the reaction was more mixed. "I guess what they're doing is
right and necessary, but I think it's going to scare some people away," said
Mohammad Saifuddin, vice president of the university's Pakistani Students
Association. Saifuddin, 20, who is now an American citizen, came from Lahore,
Pakistan, about five years ago.

Regarding the crackdowns, Saifuddin said: "I think it's entirely unfair, but at
the same time understandable. Profiling goes on with every major group.
Everybody's so cautious around Middle Eastern people. That the government has
targeted them doesn't surprise me at all."

Ahmad Nasir, the faculty adviser to Saifuddin's student association, said: "I
pride myself on being extremely loyal, but sometimes I realize that in tough
times we have to take measures intrusive to people's civil liberties. It's hard
for me to make a judgment about where we should stop."

Foreign students make up a small proportion -- less than 2 percent, according to
some estimates -- of the 30 million visitors to the United States who come with
non-immigrant visas, according the Marlene Johnson, executive director of the
Association of International Educators.

The proposals on Capitol Hill to address the Sept. 11 attacks have increased the
stress level of many foreign students.

Some students were nervous about leaving the United States for the holidays,
fearing they would be unable to reenter the country, according to Valerie
Woolston, director of the university's international education services.

Woolston is concerned about how the new climate of scrutiny and any new
legislation will affect next year's enrollments at colleges across the country.

"My concern is that there's so much misinformation," she said. "That foreign
students are the least tracked, that is patently untrue. There are tons of
regulations that foreign students have had to follow.

"If it's a security issue that will help us, then we should do this. If we
believe that having a tracking system for foreign students is going to solve the
problem, it's not," Woolston said, adding that of the 19 terrorists involved in
the Sept. 11 hijackings, only one entered the United States on a student visa.

Witter, the British student, also has doubts: "You have all this information on
students, and then one of them hijacks a plane and rams it into a building. How
is it going to stop anything?"

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              210 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 5, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Deportation to End Saudi's Case;
Man Arrested in Terror Probe Admits Immigration Violations

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 404 words


A Saudi Arabian man who was arrested the night of the Sept. 11 hijackings as a
possible co-conspirator was sentenced yesterday on immigration charges and
should be on his way home to the Middle East by the end of the month.

Manassas Park police stopped Khalid S.S. Al-Draibi, 32, driving on a flat tire
and called the FBI after finding flight manuals in Arabic and multiple driver's
licenses in his vehicle.

But Al-Draibi passed two FBI polygraph tests and made a deal with the government
late last year to plead guilty to making false statements on his visa
application.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John T. Morton told U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III
yesterday that "the FBI has concluded that Mr. Al-Draibi's behavior, while odd
and criminal, was not related to the attacks."

Al-Draibi not only took flight lessons in Birmingham and Kansas City, Mo., but
also bade his American wife goodbye in Alabama on Sept. 10 and then illegally
obtained a Virginia driver's license the same day, said Morton and Drewry B.
Hutcheson Jr., Al-Draibi's attorney.

At least seven of the 19 men who crashed four planes into the Pentagon, the
World Trade Center and a Pennsylvania field had obtained Virginia driver's
licenses or state identification cards in the six weeks before the attacks.

Morton told the court that Al-Draibi had entered and left the country several
times since 1996 and falsely claimed on his latest visa application, filed in
February 2001, that he was unmarried and planned to visit a brother in the
United States. He has no brother. Morton said the government remains suspicious
of Al-Draibi's 1997 marriage but cannot say for sure whether he was trying to
use a sham marriage to obtain permanent resident status.

Al-Draibi told the court he simply wanted to come to the United States to work.

Al-Draibi received a four-month sentence, and he already has been in jail for
nearly that long. He agreed not to contest immediate deportation as part of the
plea deal.

Hutcheson said his client did not attend a formal flight school but took a few
flying lessons at small airports. He said Al-Draibi had the flight manuals with
him because he was living out of his vehicle.

Hutcheson said his client insisted from the first that he had no connections to
the terrorists. "He loves the United States and . . . said: 'What kind of people
could do something like that? That's not what Islam is about,' " Hutcheson said.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              211 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Seeks Thousands Of Fugitive Deportees;
Middle Eastern Men Are Focus of Search

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1054 words


Authorities will soon begin searching for thousands of Middle Eastern men in the
United States who have disappeared after being ordered to leave the country,
according to officials familiar with the operation.

The Justice Department has identified about 6,000 young men from the Middle East
who have ignored deportation orders, and has decided to make the arrest and
removal of them the highest priority among efforts to locate hundreds of
thousands of foreign nationals who have defied such rulings, authorities said.

The men hail from nations that U.S. authorities consider havens for members of
Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda terrorist network, and some have criminal
backgrounds, authorities said. U.S. officials declined to identify the countries
of origin or provide other details about the group.

The plan to give priority to a group of Arab and Muslim men over other foreign
nationals has raised concerns among some Arab American and immigrant advocate
groups that the Bush administration is practicing racial profiling in its war on
terrorism. The vast majority of people ignoring deportation orders are Hispanics
from Latin America.

Justice officials, including Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, have repeatedly
denied that ethnicity plays a role in their anti-terrorism strategies.

The latest effort stems from a broader initiative by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to crack down on "absconders" -- the more than 300,000
foreign nationals who have remained in the country illegally after they were
ordered deported. INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar announced the effort last
month and authorities are preparing to enter the names into a national FBI crime
database over the next year.

Justice officials have decided to enter the names of the Middle Eastern group
first, and an undetermined number will be sought for capture and removal through
regional anti-terrorism task forces that include representatives from the FBI,
INS and U.S. attorney's offices, authorities said.

Wade Henderson, executive director of the Leadership Council on Civil Rights,
said men of Arab or Muslim backgrounds should not be singled out for law
enforcement actions.

"Obviously, these are highly sensitive times and nothing prevents INS from
following leads to apprehend suspects, even if those leads include descriptions
based on race or national origin," Henderson said. "But a dragnet approach to
law enforcement -- rounding up men based on national origin rather than
suspicious behavior or credible evidence -- is highly questionable."

James Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute, said he doubted that
focusing on absconders from the Middle East would aid investigators in
identifying potential terrorists. He noted that most of the Sept. 11 hijackers
were in the United States legally.

"There's no question because of September 11 there's a lower tolerance level for
visa overstays, and there's a hyper-sensitivity to Arab overstays," Zogby said.
"The question is whether it's an effective use of law enforcement to go after
all these absconders when the purpose is to avert terrorism. The answer is no,
it's not."

But several officials stressed that the absconder program is aimed at foreign
nationals who should not be in the United States. Furthermore, these officials
said, an initial focus on individuals from terrorist havens is a sensible public
safety precaution that could provide investigators with important leads.

"We are going to continue to use our anti-terrorism task forces to pursue people
. . . who may have information helpful in our investigation, and that means
focusing on people from countries with active al Qaeda cells," one Justice
official said.

The Justice Department is close to completing a controversial program in which
more than 5,000 visitors from the Middle East were asked to submit voluntarily
to questioning about their views of terrorism and radical groups. That program
also targeted mostly young Arab or Muslim men -- characteristics shared by the
19 suspected hijackers who carried out the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and
Washington.

A nationwide dragnet since Sept. 11 has ensnared hundreds of other foreign
nationals who are being detained on alleged immigration violations or
non-terrorist criminal charges. Most of those detainees are Arab or Muslim men,
officials have said.

In announcing the absconder initiative in December, Ziglar said it was aimed at
solving a long-running immigration problem and was not part of the government's
anti-terrorism effort. Ziglar declined to comment yesterday on the list of
people from Middle East countries. Justice Department officials also declined to
comment, citing investigative secrecy concerns.

The INS has traditionally devoted few resources to absconders, focusing instead
on immigrant smugglers and other criminals among the nation's 7 million to 8
million undocumented aliens.

Most absconders skipped their deportation hearings or disappeared after
receiving a final deportation notice, known colloquially as a "run letter"
because it traditionally has prompted deportees to flee. But the INS has been so
lax in enforcing deportation orders that many others do not even bother to hide,
immigrant advocates say.

Authorities are just beginning to add an estimated 314,000 names of absconders
to the FBI's National Crime Information Center database, a list of criminal
records used by more than 80,000 law enforcement agencies. Adding the names will
allow local, state and federal authorities to alert the INS when they have
located someone who has violated a deportation order.

Officials produced the list of about 6,000 Middle Eastern men by conducting a
search of the absconder database based on country, age and gender, sources said.

No arrests have been made from the list so far, authorities said. The INS is
required to carry out all deportation arrests, but the FBI and other law
enforcement agencies may hold suspects on behalf of the immigration service.

Justice officials are analyzing the group to determine whether the names are
accurately included, and are debating what criteria should be used to identify
those whom agents will actively seek, sources said. The INS and FBI do not have
enough agents to mount a search for all the men on the high-priority list, one
official said.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              212 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 11, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Administration, Mexico 'Advancing' on Immigration Issues;
Talks Proceed Cautiously;
'Good Outcome' Seen

BYLINE: Peter Slevin and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 828 words


Four months after the terrorist attacks on the United States and the tightening
of U.S. borders interrupted plans to ease migration rules for Mexican workers,
representatives of the two countries are working to restore lost momentum. They
are finding, however, that they must move cautiously in a newly
security-conscious world.

Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda, in Washington to meet with Secretary
of State Colin L. Powell and other leaders, told reporters yesterday that
immigration talks are "advancing little by little." He acknowledged that the new
timetable was a disappointment but forecast "a good outcome" later this year.

A reporter noted that just months ago, Castaneda had called on the United States
to deliver "the whole enchilada" on a migration agreement. Now, the reporter
joked, "it seems to be just chilaquiles," a Mexican breakfast dish.

"Chilaquiles are very delicious," Castaneda insisted with a smile.

The post-Sept. 11 atmosphere is not conducive to significant changes on behalf
of Mexican migrants, U.S. officials said. Public opinion polls indicate support
for stricter controls, not more forgiving ones, after the terrorist hijackings
by 19 foreigners, including three who were in the United States illegally.

Yet supporters who believe that more Mexican workers should be able to enter the
country legally, or to stay if they are already here, say that limited changes
could become law this year. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said a shift in
Mexican migration "remains an important priority for the president. It's
something I've heard him talk about often."

"I do think we will see this issue come back this year in some way or another,"
a Senate Democratic staffer said. "The question is what way or another."

Castaneda said in an interview that negotiating teams from both countries were
hashing out the technical details of immigration reforms and that he hoped for
results soon. "These results will come in stages, not in one package. At the end
of the day there will be a package," he said, declining to specify what changes
might be proposed first.

Immigration reform ranked high on the Bush administration's agenda before Sept.
11. The previous week, Mexican President Vicente Fox spoke to a joint session of
Congress and an unlikely clutch of figures gathered at a Senate hearing to voice
support for reforms. Among them were U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas
J. Donohue and AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney.

At the time, U.S. and Mexican officials had been negotiating a major increase in
the number of Mexican "guest workers" who could temporarily enter the United
States and an amnesty for some of the millions of Mexicans already here
illegally. Fox pressed Bush and Congress to develop a policy by the end of 2001,
a deadline the administration politely recognized as unworkable.

The debate shifted dramatically after Sept. 11. Security and the integrity of
the border became the first priority of the administration and Congress. The
arrival of 2002 -- an election year in which law, order and national security
are certain to be central campaign issues -- makes the subject still more
ticklish.

Democratic leaders in Congress are likely to lead the reform. Senate Majority
Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) said in Mexico in November that he hoped
immigration reform this year would grant legal status for longtime, tax-paying
U.S. residents who pass an FBI background check.

To make reform more palatable, supporters in Congress likely will speak of
immigration legislation as part of a package to tighten the border and visa
requirements while smoothing the flow of authorized, "low-risk" workers.

A congressional staff member said the Senate's first move is likely to be a
border security bill already passed by the House that would strengthen
immigration laws and enforcement. A separate administration proposal would make
it possible for some illegal immigrants working in the United States to petition
for green cards without leaving the country first. Illegal immigrants fear that,
once they have left, they will not be readmitted.

Some opponents in Congress, including House Judiciary Committee Chairman F.
James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), have said there can be no substantial reform
without a restructuring of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Yet Rep.
Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) said he would support a strict program for guest workers.

James Ziglar, the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
told a recent U.S. Chamber of Commerce meeting that the problem of millions of
illegal immigrants can be resolved only through a deal with Mexico.

He said that if the illegal workers could be made to magically vanish, "we're
going to have a bunch of economies [throughout the United States] that are going
to die on us. Because they provide essential labor to our economy. This is an
issue we've got to deal with, primarily with our friends in Mexico."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              213 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 12, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

2 Va. Men Get 10 Years In Immigrant Visa Scam;
Life Savings of Hundreds Was Stolen

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 375 words


Two men who bilked hundreds of would-be immigrants out of their life savings by
promising to help them get U.S. visas will each spend about a decade in prison
and must make $ 17.6 million in restitution to their victims, a federal judge
ruled yesterday in Alexandria.

James F. O'Connor, of Fauquier County, and James A. Geisler, of Springfield, ran
the Interbank Group in Herndon and promised to help clients take advantage of a
U.S. law that granted green cards -- permanent legal residence -- to foreigners
who invested $ 500,000 in an American business.

O'Connor and Geisler said their clients would have to put up $ 100,000 to $
120,000 and that Interbank would arrange loans for the rest. The two men then
shuffled money through overseas accounts to make it look like the investors had
$ 500,000 and also diverted much of the invested cash to their own use.

After a trial in which the two men defended themselves, U.S. District Judge T.S.
Ellis III convicted the pair in August of conspiracy, money-laundering and tax
and visa fraud.

Yesterday, he sentenced them. O'Connor, who had an earlier fraud conviction,
received 124 months in prison, and Geisler was sentenced to 112 months. Both men
had been facing more than 20 years behind bars under the federal sentencing
guidelines for money-laundering, but Ellis ruled that their cases should not be
handled under rules that Congress envisioned would apply to drug gangs and
organized crime.

"I'm not suggesting that the conduct here isn't heinous, but it's not the same
as large drug conspiracies with violence," Ellis explained from the bench. He
ordered both men to begin making restitution to their victims as soon as they
get out of prison.

"You need to pay back some of this money both for your own sake and for the sake
of the victims," he said. "You encouraged them to give you their life savings,
and you absconded with it."

About 200 families lost significant amounts of money without ever obtaining the
visas they had sought. "It was a lie from the begining," said Assistant U.S.
Attorney Dana Boente. "They showed a callous disregard for anyone but
themselves."

Both men asked to be assigned to the federal prison at Petersburg and said they
plan to appeal their convictions.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              214 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For Many Seeking Asylum, a Long Wait;
INS Pledges Faster Processing of Cases

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FAIRFAX EXTRA; Pg. T09

LENGTH: 665 words


It's been 16 years since Juana Fuentes left her 6-year-old in war-scarred El
Salvador, fled to the District and filed for political asylum. With her case
crawling through the bureaucracy, Fuentes has never been able to return home or
see her little girl, who has since grown up and married.

Until recently, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) officials were
estimating that it could take as many as 20 more years to process thousands of
Salvadorans and Guatemalans like Fuentes, who fled their homelands in the 1980s
and have lived for years in legal limbo.

But INS officials said this week that the agency had decided to commit
additional resources for overtime and perhaps extra staff to handle more cases
of the long-waiting Central Americans, who have applied for permanent residency
through a special 1997 law, the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American
Relief Act, or NACARA.

"We're developing a plan," spokesman Dan Kane said. "INS will eliminate the
backlog within the next few years."

The cases involve tens of thousands of Salvadorans and Guatemalans who fled
their war-ravaged homelands and entered the United States on or before 1990,
often illegally.

Many applied for political asylum and were granted a series of temporary work
permits.

The strife ended by the mid-1990s, but by then, many of the immigrants had roots
in the United States and didn't want to go home. The 1997 law was intended to
ease the process of gaining residency.

About 33,000 of the immigrants' cases have been processed. But more than 73,000
are pending, and tens of thousands more Salvadorans and Guatemalans may apply,
INS officials say.

Because the INS is required to act faster on some other categories of asylum
cases, such as those of newly arrived foreigners, NACARA applications have moved
glacially. Only 6,000 were completed last year.

"People are waiting and waiting. They keep calling," said Silvia Alber, an
immigration lawyer at Spanish Catholic Center, a nonprofit agency in Mount
Pleasant. Several thousand Salvadorans and Guatemalans in this area are trying
to obtain permanent residency, the first step toward citizenship, under the
NACARA program.

Among them is Fuentes, 46, who fled El Salvador's war-torn northeastern region
of Morazan in 1985, leaving her tiny grocery store and her little girl. Fuentes
hasn't seen her daughter since then because of the difficulty that asylum
applicants face in leaving and reentering the United States before their cases
are resolved.

"When I came, it was so hard. I really missed my daughter. I used to say, 'God,
make me into a bird, so I can go to the bed of my daughter,' " said Fuentes,
flapping her hands like wings.

Because she had temporary permits, Fuentes could always work legally. She has
been employed for years at the cafeteria of the International Monetary Fund and
is paid $ 9.32 an hour.

But she couldn't travel freely outside the country, gain access to many
government benefits or sponsor relatives to immigrate. She dreamed of buying a
house but didn't feel that she had the stability to do so.

The hardest moment occurred in 1996, when her daughter, who lived with her
grandmother, needed a stomach operation. Intensely worried, Fuentes considered
going back to El Salvador.

"I could go to the operation," Fuentes said. "But then I couldn't come back. And
what about my children here? This was a very hard problem."

In fact, Fuentes and her second husband, a Salvadoran-born janitor, have three
offspring, ages 14, 13 and 5. The children, who are U.S. citizens, are the main
reason that Fuentes says she can't move back to El Salvador. They barely speak
Spanish and don't want to leave Mount Pleasant for a country they've never seen,
she said.

Fuentes, who filed her NACARA application in fall 2000, still longs for the
little girl she left.

That daughter tried to obtain a visa to visit her in Washington but was turned
down. "She says someday we'll be together," Fuentes said, sighing.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              215 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Long, Long Wait For Resident Status;
INS Pledges Faster Processing of Cases

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 664 words


It's been 16 years since Juana Fuentes left her 6-year-old in war-scarred El
Salvador, fled to the District and filed for political asylum. With her case
crawling through the bureaucracy, Fuentes has never been able to return home or
see her little girl, who has since grown up and married.

Until recently, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) officials were
estimating that it could take as many as 20 more years to process thousands of
Salvadorans and Guatemalans like Fuentes, who fled their homelands in the 1980s
and have lived for years in legal limbo.

But INS officials said this week that the agency had decided to commit
additional resources for overtime and perhaps extra staff to handle more cases
of the long-waiting Central Americans, who have applied for permanent residency
through a special 1997 law, the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American
Relief Act, or NACARA.

"We're developing a plan," spokesman Dan Kane said. "INS will eliminate the
backlog within the next few years."

The cases involve tens of thousands of Salvadorans and Guatemalans who fled
their war-ravaged homelands and entered the United States on or before 1990,
often illegally. Many applied for political asylum and were granted a series of
temporary work permits.

The strife ended by the mid-1990s, but by then, many of the immigrants had roots
in the United States and didn't want to go home. The 1997 law was intended to
ease the process of gaining residency.

About 33,000 of the immigrants' cases have been processed. But more than 73,000
are pending, and tens of thousands more Salvadorans and Guatemalans may apply,
INS officials say. Because the INS is required to act faster on some other
categories of asylum cases, such as those of newly arrived foreigners, NACARA
applications have moved glacially. Only 6,000 were completed last year.

"People are waiting and waiting. They keep calling," said Silvia Alber, an
immigration lawyer at Spanish Catholic Center, a nonprofit agency in Mount
Pleasant. Several thousand Salvadorans and Guatemalans in this area are trying
to obtain permanent residency, the first step toward citizenship, under the
NACARA program.

Among them is Fuentes, 46, who fled El Salvador's war-torn northeastern region
of Morazan in 1985, leaving her tiny grocery store and her little girl. Fuentes
hasn't seen her daughter since then because of the difficulty that asylum
applicants face in leaving and reentering the United States before their cases
are resolved.

"When I came, it was so hard. I really missed my daughter. I used to say, 'God,
make me into a bird, so I can go to the bed of my daughter,' " said Fuentes,
flapping her hands like wings.

Because she had temporary permits, Fuentes could always work legally. She has
been employed for years at the cafeteria of the International Monetary Fund and
is paid $ 9.32 an hour. But she couldn't travel freely outside the country, gain
access to many government benefits or sponsor relatives to immigrate. She
dreamed of buying a house but didn't feel that she had the stability to do so.

The hardest moment occurred in 1996, when her daughter, who lived with her
grandmother, needed a stomach operation. Intensely worried, Fuentes considered
going back to El Salvador.

"I could go to the operation," Fuentes said. "But then I couldn't come back. And
what about my children here? This was a very hard problem."

In fact, Fuentes and her second husband, a Salvadoran-born janitor, have three
offspring, aged 14, 13 and 5. The children, who are U.S. citizens, are the main
reason that Fuentes says she can't move back to El Salvador. They barely speak
Spanish and don't want to leave Mount Pleasant for a country they've never seen,
she said.

Fuentes, who filed her NACARA application in fall 2000, still longs for the
little girl she left.

That daughter tried to obtain a visa to visit her in Washington but was turned
down. "She says someday we'll be together," Fuentes said, sighing.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              216 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 19, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

No Borders Between Them;
Area Indians, Pakistanis Find Common Ground

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 981 words


Along the mountainous border of Kashmir, Indians and Pakistanis are pointing
guns at each other. Tensions have heightened in the disputed region in recent
weeks, building on more than five decades of acrimony and bloodshed -- and three
wars -- between their two countries.

But oceans away in a tiny market in the Northern Virginia suburbs, Raju Singh
and Saeed Akhtar -- one an immigrant from India, the other from Pakistan -- are
leaning on a glass countertop display of South Asian DVDs and videos, engaged in
casual conversation.

"Even if a war broke out, I'd still buy my videos from my friend here," said
Akhtar, of Springfield, patting Singh's arm.

Were this to occur in South Asia, heads likely would turn at the sight of the
two longtime friends. But here in the United States, where Indian and Pakistani
immigrants live, work and interact without a political border separating them,
the two groups have found more in common than they ever did back home, community
leaders and immigration experts agree.

For starters, Indians and Pakistanis speak the same language -- Hindi and Urdu
are essentially the same tongue, immigrants note -- and eat the same food. They
play cricket and soccer side by side on the same teams at local clubs.

Singh, 33, and Akhtar, 45, enjoy watching professional sports together and host
each other's family for holiday meals. Akhtar observes Muslim holidays, while
Singh celebrates as a Sikh.

If it weren't for Kashmir, a remote area in the Himalayas claimed and controlled
by both Pakistan and India, "there would be few differences between Indians and
Pakistanis," said Singh, who draws from both immigrant communities at his store,
India Connection, which his family opened in Springfield in 1995.

Truth be told, Akhtar, who clerks at a nearby 7-Eleven, believes he has more to
fear from an angry American mistaking him for a terrorist in the wake of the
Sept. 11 attacks than he does from an Indian immigrant. Being in the minority in
this country, he said, has drawn the two groups closer.

That's not to say they are in agreement on what to do about Kashmir. Leaders in
both immigrant communities say their members continue to disagree about the
partitioned region. Some are even bitter about it, said Sajit Gandhi, an Indian
American columnist for the South Asian Web site www.satyacircle.com, but put
aside their feelings in favor of cordiality when together or in public.

"I would be careful to talk about Kashmir with my Pakistani friends," said
Gandhi, 23. "It's sometimes an unspoken rule: Talk about everything but
politics."

An estimated 250,000 Pakistanis live in the United States, while the population
of Indians is about 1.6 million, according to the Center for Immigration
Studies.

For the most part, those who have come to the United States are well educated
and successful, and left the emotional baggage of the Kashmir conflict behind,
said Steven Camarota, the center's director of research.

"Extremism and violence are not going to resonate with doctors and CEOs and
accountants and engineers," said Camarota, noting that the two groups have
rapidly achieved economic success in this country. "There are enormous cultural
similarities all over the Indian subcontinent . . . and when removed from the
conflict over Kashmir, those things bring them together."

Some Indian and Pakistani immigrants, in fact, are attempting to launch a peace
movement, planning rallies across the nation to demonstrate their solidarity
despite their disagreements.

About 200 people marched through downtown San Francisco this month in one such
rally. Similar events are planned for Sacramento and the nation's capital later
this month.

"We want to send a message to the political leaders in India and Pakistan that
we can get along without war," said Khawaja Ashraf, of the Washington-based
Pakistani American Congress, an umbrella organization that helped organize the
San Francisco march.

The one in Washington, tentatively planned for Jan. 30, will include speakers
from the Pakistani, Indian Sikh and Indian Hindu communities.

Differing views on Kashmir will be heard, Ashraf said, as long as they don't
incite prejudice and strife.

"Strife" aptly describes the 55-year-old dispute over Kashmir, which Pakistan
and India have wrestled over since both obtained their independence in 1947.
Pakistan, a Muslim state, controls the northern third of the disputed territory,
while India, whose main religion is Hinduism, controls the rest. Most of
Kashmir's population is Muslim.

Bloodshed and skirmishes along the territory's border have been common over the
years, the most recent outbreak occurring in the summer of 1999, when a 10-week
war claimed 1,000 lives.

Last month, an attack on the Indian parliament claimed 14 lives. India blamed
the attack and other recent assaults on Pakistani-based Islamic militants,
fueling a new round of military escalation in Kashmir between the two nuclear
powers.

Pakistani and Indian immigrants living in the Washington area say that they have
been following the buildup with interest but that events in South Asia do not
impact their daily lives.

Come springtime, for example, Quazi Zaman, who manages the Washington Bengals
cricket club, expects his team of Indians and Pakistanis to unite in solidarity
once they take the field.

The Bengals have been in existence since 1992, their league since 1975. In their
spare time, team members volunteer together as mentors for youths and help each
other out when needed. It doesn't matter which country they came from.

"It's a very interesting question that we face," said Zaman, 38, who was born in
Pakistan and lives in Potomac Falls in eastern Loudoun County. "Do we hold a
whole people accountable for what a few do? Of course not."

Zaman paused to consider the future, then added: "But if war breaks out, who
knows what will happen?"

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              217 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 19, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

No Borders Between Them;
Away From Conflict, Area Indians and Pakistanis Find Common Ground

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 981 words


Along the mountainous border of Kashmir, Indians and Pakistanis are pointing
guns at each other. Tensions have heightened in the disputed region in recent
weeks, building on more than five decades of acrimony and bloodshed -- and three
wars -- between their two countries.

But oceans away in a tiny market in the Northern Virginia suburbs, Raju Singh
and Saeed Akhtar -- one an immigrant from India, the other from Pakistan -- are
leaning on a glass countertop display of South Asian DVDs and videos, engaged in
casual conversation.

"Even if a war broke out, I'd still buy my videos from my friend here," said
Akhtar, of Springfield, patting Singh's arm.

Were this to occur in South Asia, heads likely would turn at the sight of the
two longtime friends. But here in the United States, where Indian and Pakistani
immigrants live, work and interact without a political border separating them,
the two groups have found more in common than they ever did back home, community
leaders and immigration experts agree.

For starters, Indians and Pakistanis speak the same language -- Hindi and Urdu
are essentially the same tongue, immigrants note -- and eat the same food. They
play cricket and soccer side by side on the same teams at local clubs.

Singh, 33, and Akhtar, 45, enjoy watching professional sports together and host
each other's family for holiday meals. Akhtar observes Muslim holidays, while
Singh celebrates as a Sikh.

If it weren't for Kashmir, a remote area in the Himalayas claimed and controlled
by both Pakistan and India, "there would be few differences between Indians and
Pakistanis," said Singh, who draws from both immigrant communities at his store,
India Connection, which his family opened in Springfield in 1995.

Truth be told, Akhtar, who clerks at a nearby 7-Eleven, believes he has more to
fear from an angry American mistaking him for a terrorist in the wake of the
Sept. 11 attacks than he does from an Indian immigrant. Being in the minority in
this country, he said, has drawn the two groups closer.

That's not to say they are in agreement on what to do about Kashmir. Leaders in
both immigrant communities say their members continue to disagree about the
partitioned region. Some are even bitter about it, said Sajit Gandhi, an Indian
American columnist for the South Asian Web site www.satyacircle.com, but put
aside their feelings in favor of cordiality when together or in public.

"I would be careful to talk about Kashmir with my Pakistani friends," said
Gandhi, 23. "It's sometimes an unspoken rule: Talk about everything but
politics."

An estimated 250,000 Pakistanis live in the United States, while the population
of Indians is about 1.6 million, according to the Center for Immigration
Studies.

For the most part, those who have come to the United States are well educated
and successful, and left the emotional baggage of the Kashmir conflict behind,
said Steven Camarota, the center's director of research.

"Extremism and violence are not going to resonate with doctors and CEOs and
accountants and engineers," said Camarota, noting that the two groups have
rapidly achieved economic success in this country. "There are enormous cultural
similarities all over the Indian subcontinent . . . and when removed from the
conflict over Kashmir, those things bring them together."

Some Indian and Pakistani immigrants, in fact, are attempting to launch a peace
movement, planning rallies across the nation to demonstrate their solidarity
despite their disagreements.

About 200 people marched through downtown San Francisco this month in one such
rally. Similar events are planned for Sacramento and the nation's capital later
this month.

"We want to send a message to the political leaders in India and Pakistan that
we can get along without war," said Khawaja Ashraf, of the Washington-based
Pakistani American Congress, an umbrella organization that helped organize the
San Francisco march.

The one in Washington, tentatively planned for Jan. 30, will include speakers
from the Pakistani, Indian Sikh and Indian Hindu communities.

Differing views on Kashmir will be heard, Ashraf said, as long as they don't
incite prejudice and strife.

"Strife" aptly describes the 55-year-old dispute over Kashmir, which Pakistan
and India have wrestled over since both obtained their independence in 1947.
Pakistan, a Muslim state, controls the northern third of the disputed territory,
while India, whose main religion is Hinduism, controls the rest. Most of
Kashmir's population is Muslim.

Bloodshed and skirmishes along the territory's border have been common over the
years, the most recent outbreak occurring in the summer of 1999, when a 10-week
war claimed 1,000 lives.

Last month, an attack on the Indian parliament claimed 14 lives. India blamed
the attack and other recent assaults on Pakistani-based Islamic militants,
fueling a new round of military escalation in Kashmir between the two nuclear
powers.

Pakistani and Indian immigrants living in the Washington area say that they have
been following the buildup with interest but that events in South Asia do not
impact their daily lives.

Come springtime, for example, Quazi Zaman, who manages the Washington Bengals
cricket club, expects his team of Indians and Pakistanis to unite in solidarity
once they take the field.

The Bengals have been in existence since 1992, their league since 1975. In their
spare time, team members volunteer together as mentors for youths and help each
other out when needed. It doesn't matter which country they came from.

"It's a very interesting question that we face," said Zaman, 38, who was born in
Pakistan and lives in Potomac Falls in eastern Loudoun County. "Do we hold a
whole people accountable for what a few do? Of course not."

Zaman paused to consider the future, then added: "But if war breaks out, who
knows what will happen?"

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              218 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 20, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Citizenship Applications Up Sharply;
Anxiety, Allegiance Spur New Requests

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 919 words


Applications for U.S. citizenship have surged in recent months, with many
foreign residents rushing to become Americans because of the fallout from the
Sept. 11 attacks, according to lawyers, civic groups and others who help
immigrants.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said that its most recent data
show that 145,765 people applied for citizenship in October and November, up 61
percent from the same period in 2000. The agency said the increase is partly
because of people scrambling to beat an upcoming fee increase, but also appears
to reflect a new sense of vulnerability among foreign residents.

Nafisa Karimi is among the immigrants who have hurried to apply. The Fairfax
resident said she fled Afghanistan in 1998 after Taliban gunmen attacked her
family home. Normally, the 73-year-old refugee wouldn't apply for citizenship
until next year, after completing the required five years of legal U.S.
residence.

But one morning in October, Karimi and 15 members of her family piled into cars
and headed for the nearby home of an Afghan interpreter, rousting him from bed
to fill out their citizenship applications.

"It's because I'm scared about September 11," said Karimi, a retired banker. "I
don't want anybody to kick me out of the United States because of what happened
in my country, and because of the terrorist activity here."

Chances are, Karimi's early application won't hasten her bid for citizenship.
But her fears are representative of many foreign residents' concerns of a more
hostile environment for immigrants, say lawyers and immigrant advocates.

"People never thought they needed to get [citizenship]. They thought, 'Hey, I'll
get it when I get it,' " said Ismail Laher, an immigration attorney in Burke.
But lately, he has had many calls from immigrants spooked about new legal
measures, such as military tribunals to try non-citizens accused of terrorism.

"It's obvious these are things the U.S. government can use against people who
are not citizens," Laher said.

Several other lawyers with Middle Eastern and South Asian clients said their
businesses have been booming, as immigrants have sought to become citizens or
legal permanent residents, the first step on the path to citizenship.

"I can tell by the way they are requesting these applications, they're worried,"
said Anthony Fatemi, who runs a law practice on Democracy Boulevard in Bethesda.

He said clients were asking "whether I'm going to be denied . . . if I [apply
for citizenship] down the road, because I'm Muslim or of Arab descent."

Sept. 11 isn't the only explanation for the increase in naturalization
applications. INS officials say the number of petitions had started to rise
gradually before the terrorist attacks. For example, they went up 17 percent in
August, compared with the same month in 2000. That was partly because of fee
increases that will take effect next month.

But the officials said that Sept. 11 also played a role. They said the spike
last fall appears to fit a pattern in which immigrants rush to become citizens
when they feel targeted, like they did after a 1996 law was enacted that reduced
benefits for non-citizens.

The INS doesn't tabulate the nationalities of the new applicants. But more than
just Muslim immigrants appear affected by the fallout from Sept. 11. Some local
groups that assist Korean and Vietnamese immigrants said they, too, had noted
increased interest in citizenship.

"We're definitely seeing it in the Korean-American community," said Songbae Lee,
director of the Washington chapter of the Korean American Coalition. He said the
group is now holding monthly workshops on citizenship, rather than the sporadic
ones it offered before Sept. 11.

He attributed the demand for citizenship to the high-profile crackdown on
foreigners caught up in the anti-terrorism investigations.

"The rights of non-citizens are being affected. It's making them realize how
important [citizenship] is," Lee said.

To become a citizen, immigrants generally have to live in the United States for
five years as legal permanent residents, pass an English and civics test and
show good moral character, through such activities as paying taxes. Legal
residents are not eligible to vote or receive some government benefits.

As a legal permanent resident, Karimi, the Afghan refugee, can live and work in
the United States indefinitely. That's not enough, though: She longs for the
guarantees of citizenship.

"I don't want Immigration to change the law and make it harder for us" to live
in the United States, she said through an interpreter, explaining her eagerness
to naturalize. She prizes U.S. citizenship after living through such tumultuous
years in Afghanistan, where family members say they were attacked because of
work done by Karimi's daughter Nazira, a journalist.

Not all immigrants seeking citizenship share Karimi's fears. Cecilia Munoz, of
the National Council of La Raza, said the Sept. 11 tragedy moved some to apply
for citizenship out of patriotism.

"Every generation [of immigrants] has this moment of truth . . . where people
look at each other and say, 'Should we go back?' And they shake their heads and
say, 'No, we can't, this is our home,' " she said.

Don Min, a Korean who owns a dry cleaning shop in Adams Morgan, said the
response to the Sept. 11 attacks was a positive factor in his recent decision to
naturalize after 15 years as a legal resident.

"After September 11, all American people love our country," Min said.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              219 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 20, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Old Bias in Housing Takes New Twist;
Foreign-Born Landlords Allegedly Refusing to Rent to People Unlike Themselves

BYLINE: Sue Fox, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1052 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


They are the civil rights equivalents of undercover agents. Carefully trained
but armed only with false identities, they set out on the day's mission: rooting
out racism at a grimy apartment building.

Barbara, a tall black woman, goes first. Laura, a slender Latina, arrives a few
moments later in a separate car.

Their handler -- they work for the San Fernando Valley Fair Housing Council --
has assigned them matching roles as single, childless women with similar
incomes. One after the other, they approach the apartment manager's door, posing
as would-be renters.

When Barbara knocks, no one answers the door. She turns away. Moments later,
Laura is given a tour and offered the apartment. The landlord who greets her so
warmly -- speaking in Spanish -- is a Mexican-born immigrant.

What happened to Barbara and Laura is a troubling twist on the old scourge of
housing bias, historically practiced by whites who denied housing to blacks.
Now, fair housing groups from Los Angeles's San Fernando Valley to San Diego, in
ethnic enclaves from Chicago to New York, report a surge in cases involving
immigrants who refuse to rent to people outside their group.

Housing agencies do not track discrimination cases by the landlord's national
origin, but advocates say complaints against immigrant building owners and
managers are multiplying, especially in tight markets where renters are at a
disadvantage. They also say that prosecutions are rare because conclusive
evidence is hard to obtain.

"You have the Guatemalans versus the Mexicans versus the Salvadorans," said
Sharon Kinlaw, an investigator for the Fair Housing Council. "Now, it's rarely a
[white American] manager," she said of violators. "It's a Hispanic manager or an
eastern European manager who's immigrated. One thing we're seeing across the
board is, no matter if the managers are white, black, Hispanic or Asian, these
folks don't have a clue about state or federal fair housing law."

Southern California may be the nation's most diverse region, but its troubles
are hardly unique. In Chicago, the problem seems to be concentrated in small
buildings owned by recent arrivals from eastern Europe. And in New York, fair
housing advocates recently won two $ 100,000 settlements from Greek-born
apartment owners accused of discriminating against blacks. They also settled a
similar case for $ 120,000 that involved Polish Jews accused of bias against
Latinos.

During the past decade, segregation has increased among Latinos and Asians in
most large cities, according to the 2000 census. Some experts point to
discrimination as one reason.

Fair housing groups started receiving complaints against foreign-born landlords
about a decade ago. But the bias problem was not a priority. Throughout the
1990s, advocates were busy with other forms of bias, and the annual budget for
federal enforcement nationally never rose much higher than $ 10 million, even as
immigration surged, said Shanna Smith, executive director of the National Fair
Housing Alliance.

Housing advocates say the bias among foreign-born landlords can reflect outright
racism but may also stem from ignorance about the law. Activists in immigrant
communities say landlords might feel more comfortable renting to people who
share their language and culture.

"I don't consider it the malicious kind of white racism we see against people of
color," Smith said. "It seems to be more of a cultural preference. . . . But
it's still illegal."

Race discrimination has topped the annual lists of housing complaints the
Department of Housing and Urban Development has been compiling for 10 years,
with bias against the disabled and people with children coming in second or
third.

Last year, the federal government recorded 2,532 fair-housing complaints from
blacks, compared with 505 from Latinos and 199 from whites. Those numbers
include complaints made to state agencies. Advocates say many incidents go
unreported.

With its roots in the civil rights movement, the 1968 Fair Housing Act prohibits
discrimination based on race, color, religion or national origin in the sale,
rental and financing of housing. It has been expanded to include gender and to
protect the disabled and families with children. California also bars housing
discrimination based on age, marital status and sexual orientation.

But all those categories can't seem to eradicate the biases brought from every
corner of the globe. The rapid pace of change has spawned conflicts never
imagined by fair housing advocates.

"I've heard people saying, 'Well, he's from another state [within] Mexico.' And
the apartment manager only rents to people from the same state in Mexico," said
Chancela Mansour, a lawyer at Neighborhood Legal Services of Los Angeles County.

In San Diego, complaints against immigrant landlords surfaced two years ago.
First, it was Latino owners who appeared to be discriminating, said Mary Scott
Knoll, head of the Fair Housing Council of San Diego. Then it was the Filipinos.
Then the Vietnamese.

In some regions, advocates have noticed that some immigrants still appear to be
excluding only blacks. "We have communities who have become extremely
multicultural and multiethnic, but they are still without blacks," said Karen
Webber, executive director of the Open Housing Center in New York.

In the past two years, fair housing groups "tested" Los Angeles neighborhoods
undergoing rapid demographic change. The testing was done by undercover workers
such as Barbara and Laura, who asked that their last names be withheld because
they don't want landlords to recognize them. The findings were stark.

Illegal discrimination was detected at 13 of 20 apartment buildings in a
predominantly Latino area. The tally was 12 of 40 buildings in Koreatown. And in
South-Central Los Angeles, 13 of 25 tests revealed signs of racial bias.

Although the surveys did not specify whether the landlords were foreign-born,
testers reported that many of the apartment managers who engaged in
discrimination appeared to be Latino immigrants.

The scope of discrimination by immigrants is hard to measure. Most
discrimination cases are settled before they reach the courts.

Rental applicants may not even know they are victims -- a law-breaking manager
might simply tell them no units are available.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              220 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Reorganization, Anti-Terrorism Effort Keeping INS Chief Busy

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 1264 words


James W. Ziglar gained fame on the Hill as the man who called to order President
Bill Clinton's impeachment trial with chants of "Hear ye, hear ye."

But these days, in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon, the native Mississippian and former sergeant-at-arms of
the Senate has a much more challenging job: tracking those who enter and exit
the country.

As head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Ziglar oversees an agency
that for years has been criticized for backlogs and delays in processing
immigrants applying for residency or citizenship, mistreating customers and
being unable to keep track of foreign visitors well enough to know which ones
are violating their visas. With Americans concerned about terrorists in their
midst, these issues are taking on a new urgency.

"I did not want to be INS commissioner," Ziglar said in his first one-on-one
interview since taking over the INS in August. "I was drafted to do this."

Tapped by President Bush and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft to take the reins
of an agency with 34,000 employees and a $ 6 billion budget -- and
administration interest in restructuring it -- Ziglar said he accepted the $
130,000-a-year job because the INS needed leadership. He acknowledged, though,
that he lacks experience in immigration issues.

"I didn't even know where the [INS] building was," he said.

Illegal immigration has overwhelmed the INS for years. The fact that most of the
Sept. 11 terrorists entered the country on legal visas has focused Ziglar's
attention on the estimated 3 million foreigners who have overstayed the limits
of their visas and have faded into the population.  "Clearly the focus is on the
enforcement side of the business," he said. "We want to send a message that we
expect our laws to be observed."

How much progress the INS can make without a huge increase in resources is
uncertain. But Ziglar said the agency is working more closely with the FBI and
CIA to share information and to do a better job screening visitors before they
arrive. New efforts are being made to examine organizations they belong to and
any criminal activity they may have been involved in, before allowing them into
the country.

Although law enforcement agencies such as the FBI have had that information in
the past, "the sharing of that information hasn't been done," he said.

"At least we'll know that's a person who has the possibility of doing bad
things," Ziglar said. "We're paying more attention to the process."

The agency also has been faulted for not tracking people who enter on legal
visas, failing to adequately patrol the Canadian border and failing to remove
people who have been ordered deported.

In an effort to crack down on such deportation "absconders," Ziglar announced
last month that the names of 314,000 foreign nationals who have remained here
despite deportation orders will be entered into the national FBI crime database
so police can help identify them. Entering the names could take at least a year.
The government also has beefed up patrols along the Canadian border.

Ziglar says the system will never be perfect. "We can't track every person who
comes in this country," he said. "People can disappear."

He also is busy launching an INS restructuring plan announced by Ashcroft in
November. The plan calls for separating the agency's enforcement and service
functions. The goal is to make the agency more accountable, improve customer
service and foster cooperation with law enforcement agencies.

A new Bureau of Immigration Services will process applications for
naturalization, green card renewals, asylum requests and immigration petitions.
A new Bureau of Immigration Enforcement will be responsible for border patrols,
investigations and intelligence. Ziglar has named Richard B. Cravener, a retired
INS district director, to head the reform efforts, many of which would require
congressional approval. The plan is expected to cost $ 100 million, add 500
positions and take two years to complete.

Those familiar with the plan said the "nuts and bolts" were developed by senior
INS staff with input from Ashcroft, who is keeping a close watch on
restructuring efforts.

Since taking over the agency more than five months ago, Ziglar has gotten
criticism -- and praise -- from unexpected quarters. House Judiciary Committee
Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican and frequent critic
of the INS, said Ziglar's lack of experience makes him the wrong man for the
job.

"His performance . . . has been disappointing," Sensenbrenner said. "He doesn't
have any experience managing a big agency, and he doesn't have immigration
experience. I don't know why he was tapped for this job."

But Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) described Ziglar as a "fair and effective
manager who has demonstrated his ability to work with both sides of the aisle."

"Bringing that quality to the office is extremely powerful," Kennedy said.

Angela Kelley, a deputy director at the National Immigration Forum, applauded
Ziglar for "reaching out" to work with her and other immigration advocacy
groups.

"It's been very surprising . . . of someone who seemed to have no sense of
himself or immigration that he has come out saying very strong statements about
immigrants," Kelley said. "It's still early . . . but it's a very promising
start."

Ziglar is a former Wall Street investment banker and lawyer who grew up in
Pascagoula, Miss., a town of 6,000 perched along the Gulf Coast. His father
worked as an electrician in the shipyards; his mother worked part-time as a
store sales clerk.

He spent his Sundays singing in the First Baptist Church of Pascagoula choir
with other children, including Trent Lott, a boy four years older who would grow
up to become the Senate majority leader from 1996 to 2001, when the chamber was
under Republican control, and Ziglar's close friend.

Ziglar was a registered Democrat when he moved to Washington in 1964. He
attended George Washington University and worked as a staff assistant for
then-Sen. James O. Eastland (D-Miss.). During his seven-year stint with
Eastland, Ziglar met and became friends with Kennedy. He later supported
Democrat Jimmy Carter for president.

But the GOP platform on tax and economic policies prompted Ziglar to switch
parties in the late 1970s, though he admits that he "has supported Democrats"
since becoming a Republican.

"I probably shouldn't tell the White House that," he said.

He worked in the Nixon administration as a legislative liaison for the Justice
Department and later in the Reagan administration. Ziglar became
sergeant-at-arms -- the chief security officer -- of the Senate in 1998.

"The country has not had a unified view of immigration issues ever," Ziglar
said. "There's a whole range of controversies and political issues."

One highly sensitive issue arose after last November's crash of an American
Airlines plane into a Queens, N.Y., neighborhood. The plane was en route to
Santo Domingo. The question, at the time, was whether he would allow the
victims' relatives, many of whom were living in the United States illegally, to
go to Santo Domingo to bury their loved ones and then return here.

What he did was grant "humanitarian parole" to people in Santo Domingo who
wanted to come here to bury their family members.

"There was pressure on me to say you can go and come back, but the law doesn't
allow me to do that," he said. "You try to do what's right and what's just and
yet observe the law. Every case impacts some family."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              221 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 22, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Find a Taste of Home;
Foreign Food Shops Expand to U.S. to Serve Old Customers -- and New

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1126 words


As Grace Wong filled her tray with coffee-flavored cream rolls in Maria's
Bakery, she could have sworn she was back in her native Hong Kong.

There was the yellow logo, the self-serve stands, and, most important of all,
the subtly sweet pastries made from the same recipes perfected by the chain's
founder, Maria Lee, known as the Martha Stewart of Hong Kong.

All tucked into a suburban strip mall on busy Rockville Pike in Montgomery
County.

"If it tastes different, I would know," Wong, a regular customer, said with a
smile.

Wong, 42, of Gaithersburg, once had to go to Hong Kong to bring back the
authentic name-brand snacks she remembered from her youth. But now, restaurants
and shops from Asia and Latin America are following immigrants to the United
States.

In the Washington region, Maria's Bakery has four stores in Fairfax and
Montgomery counties, a factory in Rockville and product displays in Asian
grocery stores. Ten Ren, a Taiwanese tea purveyor, has a store in Rockville and
plans to open a cafe in College Park this month.

Restaurants include Woo Lae Oak, from South Korea, in Arlington, and A&J, a
Taiwan-based fast-food chain, with cafes in Rockville and Annandale.

Just as McDonald's and Starbucks have exported American culture and turned
golden arches and longhaired goddesses into familiar symbols worldwide, the
foreign franchises are changing tastes here.

Most major metropolitan areas in the country are ripe for the franchises, said
Marcel Portmann, vice president of emerging markets and global development for
the International Franchise Association, a Washington-based trade group.

"The next step in fast food is the allure of ethnicity," he said. "Consumers are
already learning how to taste these things, and you have second and third
generations of immigrants who still like their own food."

McDonald's, Portmann notes, now offers breakfast burritos.

A few foreign companies began food franchises in the United States in the 1980s,
but much of the expansion began about five years ago, primarily in
immigrant-rich California and New York, and has spread across the country,
Portmann said.

El Pollo Loco, a chicken restaurant from Mexico, was so successful in California
that it was bought by Denny's in 1983. Churromania, a Venuzuelan chain that
sells sweet fried dough sticks called churros, opened recently in Miami to long
lines of customers.

Chains based in East Asia have added franchises in more U.S. cities, whereas
businesses from Latin America have focused on California, Texas and Florida.
Portmann said that in Latin America, the economy and middle class are newer and
still emerging, compared with places like Hong Kong and Taiwan, so companies are
still busy expanding within their region rather than exploring U.S. markets.

Successful grocery stores catering to immigrants are nothing new, but the food
franchises take what marketing experts call the "nostalgia factor" even further
by re-creating the atmosphere and experience that people remember.

"The consumer psychology is absolutely about familiarity and trust," said Wenla
Cheng, president of Asia Link Consulting Group, a New York firm that researches
multicultural markets.

The first Maria's Bakery in the Washington area opened in Rockville in 1989, and
the newest one opened about six months ago in Eden Center, a Vietnamese shopping
mall in Falls Church.

Franchise owners Denis and Peggy Lam said the Rockville store at first attracted
primarily Chinese customers. But now nearly half of their customers at that
store are non-Chinese.

Red and gold Chinese New Year's decorations hang on the front door, and a
Christmas tree stands near the entrance. A Korean language sign says, "Buy 5
rolls, get one free."

On a recent Saturday, a Mexican American woman picked up a birthday cake, and
African American teenagers sampled strawberry rolls.

Gary and Linda Berg-Cross, of Potomac, said their family has been addicted to
the taro cakes and pork buns since they discovered the store while shopping at
the strip mall a few years ago.

Linda Berg-Cross said the taste transcends culture: "They have cakes that you
can eat and not feel leaden. It's light -- oh, just beautiful."

Not everything translates, though. The franchises have tinkered with menus and
store layouts to try to better fit the U.S. market.

Many of the changes are noticeable only to customers who have visited the stores
overseas: Maria's Bakery franchises here carry milk tea drinks and ice cream,
products the original stores never sold because there was so much competition
from other food vendors in Hong Kong. And at Ten Ren in Rockville, Taiwanese
American customers complain that the products are priced higher than in Taiwan.

With the number of non-immigrant customers increasing, will the stores change
further to try to capture a bigger market share?

Portmann said stores can make small changes -- as McDonald's does in India by
not serving beef burgers out of respect for the culture there -- but have to be
careful about diluting their brands.

Jeffrey Hsu, a partner in the Rockville A&J restaurant, said he has quickly
learned what differences customers are willing to tolerate.

A&J restaurants are known to their Chinese customers as "Half-Acre Garden," but
the name was changed to A&J in the United States. Hsu explained that many
Chinese restaurants in the United States already had "garden" in their names and
that non-Chinese wouldn't understand the reason behind the original name, which
signifies how land was divided in northern China.

The name change didn't seem to bother customers, because the Chinese moniker is
written in characters along with the English.

But the complaints came when Hsu tried to mess with the menus.

A&J boasts that its food is "authentic" northern Chinese cuisine -- none of the
beef with broccoli or General Tso's chicken that immigrants often brand in
disdain as Americanized Chinese food.

Hsu developed separate menus, one in Chinese and one in English, which left out
such dishes as beef tripe and "thousand-year-old" eggs -- things he assumed
non-Chinese would find too exotic.

But one day, a non-Chinese customer complained that some customers were getting
things not on the English menu, like tripe.

Now the items on both menus are identical, and, thanks to word of mouth, the
non-Chinese customer base has ballooned to nearly half, Hsu said.

"At first, I thought only 10 percent of the customers would be non-Chinese," he
said. "Some non-Chinese won't try anything, but I think Rockville is a very
international city."

In fact, he said, the most popular menu item among Chinese and non-Chinese
diners is the same: pan-fried pork dumplings.

Staff writer Maggie Leung contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              222 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Visitors' Lineup: NSO Prepares Its 'Immigration' Bill

BYLINE: Tim Page, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SUNDAY ARTS; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 1317 words


Patriotic music is always in season in Washington. But when was the last time
you heard a dozen different arrangements of "The Star-Spangled Banner," all
within the course of two weeks?

This is your opportunity, for the national anthem is a recurring refrain in the
National Symphony Orchestra's "Journey to America: A Musical Immigration"
festival, which begins Thursday night at the Kennedy Center Concert Hall. Over
the course of six programs, the NSO will present a wide variety of music by
composers who became American citizens (Arnold Schoenberg, Igor Stravinsky, Kurt
Weill) or spent important parts of their lives here (Sergei Rachmaninoff,
Antonin Dvorak, Frederick Delius), as well as by some recent immigrants from
China (Bright Sheng), Cuba (Paquito D'Rivera) and the Dominican Republic (Michel
Camilo).

All this and "The Star-Spangled Banner," too. "When we started to put the
festival together, we knew we wanted to examine the national anthem in some
detail," NSO Music Director Leonard Slatkin said in a recent interview. "The
orchestra traditionally plays an arrangement by Antal Dorati, which he created
during the time he was conducting the NSO back in the 1970s. But there are many
others -- by conductors such as Leopold Stokowski, Arturo Toscanini, George
Szell and Eugene Ormandy, and by composers such as Weill and Stravinsky. And
each arrangement has its own distinct quality. Some of them don't even have
drumrolls."

The Stravinsky version is especially famous -- or infamous, as the case may be.
When the Russian-born composer became an American citizen in 1940, he created
his own modern "Stravinskization" of the "The Star-Spangled Banner" by adding
some of his customary citric harmonies and dissonances. He considered the
arrangement "a gift to the American people," allowed it to be copied and
performed without royalty payments, and conducted it himself at the Hollywood
Bowl without incident. After a 1944 performance with the Boston Symphony
Orchestra, however, the local police turned up at Symphony Hall, impounded the
score and told the aghast composer that he had violated a state law that
prohibits "tampering with national property." The matter was eventually settled
after Stravinsky convinced his interlocutors of his good intentions.

Slatkin will lead two renditions of "The Star-Spangled Banner" per concert --
one at the beginning of the program and the other immediately after
intermission. (The Stravinsky rendition will be heard a week from Thursday.)
"The audience will be welcome to sing along at the beginning," he said. "But the
second version will be just for listening."

Each of the programs examines some aspect of American music. Opening night is
called "Salute to the New Land." "This is patriotic music by composers who were
not born here," Slatkin said. "The Washington Chorus will be joining us for
renditions of Dvorak's 'American Flag' and Ernest Bloch's 'America: An Epic
Rhapsody in Three Parts.' The Bloch work lasts 40 minutes or more and is
gloriously over-the-top." He grinned. "You can tell he was glad to be an
American. He even throws in an auto horn in the finale!"

The second program is titled "Mostly Passing Through" and includes Bela Bartok's
Piano Concerto No. 3, on which the Hungarian composer was working when he died
in New York in 1945; Prokofiev's Violin Concerto No. 2 in G Minor (with NSO
concertmaster Nurit Bar-Josef as the soloist); and Delius's "Florida Suite." A
third program, "The New Virtuosi," emphasizes the work of some young artists who
have recently settled in this country -- Judith Ingolfsson of Iceland playing
Samuel Barber's Violin Concerto and the pianist Mia Chung in Tchaikovsky's Piano
Concerto No. 1. Robert Oppelt will also play a genuine rarity -- the Contrabass
Concerto in F-sharp Minor by Serge Koussevitzky, who led the Boston Symphony
from 1924 to 1949.

"Koussevitzky was an amazing champion of American music," Slatkin said. "He
played first performances of works by Aaron Copland, Roy Harris, Walter Piston,
and he was Leonard Bernstein's most important conducting teacher. His own music
is very lush, very Russian, very Romantic. He played the bass quite brilliantly,
and it will be good to hear his concerto again."

Week 2 begins with a program called "Giants in America," containing music by
Weill, Stravinsky, Schoenberg and Rachmaninoff. "We didn't want to do the
familiar stuff," Slatkin explained. "Instead, we have a program of works that
these composers wrote while in the United States -- Schoenberg's 'Survivor From
Warsaw,' Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto Number 4, some patriotic songs arranged
by Weill, and Stravinsky's 'Ebony' Concerto for Clarinet and Jazz Band. The jazz
references in the Stravinsky and Weill are obvious, but you can even hear a
little bit of it in the Rachmaninoff concerto -- some unusual chord changes here
and there.

"I'm glad to see that Rachmaninoff is finally being taken seriously," he
continued. "I've taken him seriously for 25 years. My main question of a
composer is: Can I tell immediately who wrote this piece? Is there something
distinctly personal about it? I'm not that big a fan of, say, somebody like
Cesar Franck -- I mean, you listen to his symphony, and it's a good piece and
all but it could really be by anybody. With Rachmaninoff, it's always obvious.
He has his own voice."

The fifth program is titled "Emigres in Hollywood." "This one is obviously
personal," Slatkin said. "I grew up in Los Angeles and I met all of the
composers on the program -- Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco,
Franz Waxman and Miklos Rosza. I studied with Castelnuovo-Tedesco and the other
composers worked for the Hollywood studios, where my parents" -- violinist and
conductor Felix Slatkin and cellist Eleanor Aller -- "were employed for so many
years. As a matter of fact, the Korngold Cello Concerto was written for my
mother when she was pregnant with my brother, Fred Zlotkin. It began as the
score for a film called 'Deception' with Bette Davis and Claude Rains, and
Korngold later made it into a concerto."

Zlotkin (who changed his surname some years ago to reflect its Russian origins
more closely) will be the cellist in the Korngold work. "And he'll be playing on
the same cello my mother used in the film. So it's really a family affair."

The final program is called "The New Americans." Sheng's "H'un: Lacerations (In
Memoriam 1966-1976)" is a passionate reflection on China's disastrous Cultural
Revolution. "D'Rivera's 'Gran Danzon' is for flute and orchestra, and will be
played by Marina Piccinini. The score has just arrived." Slatkin spread it open
on the table, peering at it closely. "Hmmm . . . it's not easy. And neither is
Camilo's Piano Concerto [which the composer will perform]. It's essentially a
kind of Latin version of the Gershwin concerto -- very brilliant. He can play
anything."

All in all, the "Journey to America" festival calls upon the NSO to play more
than 20 largish pieces over 10 days. In the past, such endeavors have been
criticized for their lack of technical polish. Slatkin obliquely acknowledged
that some of the criticism might have been justified.

"Let's put it this way: Nothing will be exactly overrehearsed," he said. "Not
every performance will be as polished as it might be if we were preparing only
one program for the week. But polish isn't really the point of these festivals.
The goal is immersion, and you can't have a real immersion in the subject if you
are only presenting two concerts. So we have to work hard and fast, we have to
take a few chances, in order to allow ourselves and our listeners the
opportunity to really explore the subject at hand. None of the performances will
be bad -- there's a certain level they won't go below -- but some of them will
be really inspired, and we won't know which ones they're going to be before we
play them."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              223 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Staff Shortage Lengthening Dulles Airport Passport Lines

BYLINE: Katherine Shaver, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 595 words


A shortage of Immigration and Naturalization Service agents at Dulles
International Airport has led to longer-than-usual waits at passport control for
arriving international passengers, airport and INS officials said.

At times in the past two months, passengers have waited so long during 90-minute
stopovers that they have missed connections with domestic flights, an airline
representative said. Arriving passengers also have been held on their planes or
on the airport's mobile lounges until the crowded immigration area cleared out.

Airline officials say they are concerned that waits will grow even longer when
they add more international flights in May for the busy summer travel season.

"If it's this bad now, what's it going to be like then?" said Dick DeiTos,
executive director of the Metropolitan Washington Airlines Committee, made up of
airlines that use Dulles and Reagan National airports.

The inspector positions, seen as steppingstones to other law enforcement jobs,
often have high turnover rates, said Bill Shaw, a spokesman for the INS's
Washington district office.

The INS has also been losing people to recruitment efforts for programs begun
after the Sept. 11 terrorism acts, including the rapidly expanded sky marshal
program. The INS is in the process of hiring 12 additional inspectors at Dulles
and is trying to recruit more, he said.

"We're more than willing to admit we're not meeting that goal [of 45-minute
clearances] on some flights right now," Shaw said.

Kimberly Weissman, an INS spokesman, said the problem is surfacing at airports
nationwide. She said the INS is recruiting more inspectors but that it takes six
to eight months for them to be trained and begin work. That means the shortage
probably will continue into late summer, she said.

At that rate, DeiTos said, the waits at Dulles will worsen through the busy
summer season unless inspectors are transferred from other airports.

DeiTos said the problem was especially bad over the Christmas and New Year's
holidays, when it took some Dulles passengers an hour and 40 minutes to clear
immigration and customs.

Fewer people are flying now, DeiTos said, but domestic flights are still being
delayed an average of eight to 17 minutes while they wait for connecting
international passengers caught up in immigration.

James A. Wilding, president of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority,
which operates Dulles and National, said the waits at Dulles's passport control
are usually no longer than 15 minutes. But in the past two months, he said,
lines have grown longer than ever.

"It's distressing to us," Wilding said. "Our sense is that the INS people on the
scene are as pained by it as we are and are working hard. But so far, they don't
seem to have been able to get on top of it."

Federal law requires that INS agents clear international passengers within 45
minutes. Shaw said problems have arisen because only 42 of the 71 immigration
inspector positions at Dulles are filled.

"We're severely understaffed," Shaw said.

John White, a spokesman for Baltimore-Washington International Airport, said
waits at BWI's passport control are no longer than usual. Chris Bentley, a
spokesman for the INS's Baltimore office, said 11 of BWI's 13 INS inspector
positions are filled.

The waits aren't always long at Dulles. On Wednesday, when four international
flights arrived between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m., passengers reported waiting no more
than 15 minutes. But DeiTos said the lines grow during busier times, especially
on Fridays and Sundays between 3 and 5 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              224 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Staff Shortage Lengthening Dulles Airport Passport Lines

BYLINE: Katherine Shaver, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 595 words


A shortage of Immigration and Naturalization Service agents at Dulles
International Airport has led to longer-than-usual waits at passport control for
arriving international passengers, airport and INS officials said.

At times in the past two months, passengers have waited so long during 90-minute
stopovers that they have missed connections with domestic flights, an airline
representative said. Arriving passengers also have been held on their planes or
on the airport's mobile lounges until the crowded immigration area cleared out.

Airline officials say they are concerned that waits will grow even longer when
they add more international flights in May for the busy summer travel season.

"If it's this bad now, what's it going to be like then?" said Dick DeiTos,
executive director of the Metropolitan Washington Airlines Committee, made up of
airlines that use Dulles and Reagan National airports.

The inspector positions, seen as steppingstones to other law enforcement jobs,
often have high turnover rates, said Bill Shaw, a spokesman for the INS's
Washington district office.

The INS has also been losing people to recruitment efforts for programs begun
after the Sept. 11 terrorism acts, including the rapidly expanded sky marshal
program. The INS is in the process of hiring 12 additional inspectors at Dulles
and is trying to recruit more, he said.

"We're more than willing to admit we're not meeting that goal [of 45-minute
clearances] on some flights right now," Shaw said.

Kimberly Weissman, an INS spokesman, said the problem is surfacing at airports
nationwide. She said the INS is recruiting more inspectors but that it takes six
to eight months for them to be trained and begin work. That means the shortage
probably will continue into late summer, she said.

At that rate, DeiTos said, the waits at Dulles will worsen through the busy
summer season unless inspectors are transferred from other airports.

DeiTos said the problem was especially bad over the Christmas and New Year's
holidays, when it took some Dulles passengers an hour and 40 minutes to clear
immigration and customs. Fewer people are flying now, DeiTos said, but domestic
flights are still being delayed an average of eight to 17 minutes while they
wait for connecting international passengers caught up in immigration.

James A. Wilding, president of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority,
which operates Dulles and National, said the waits at Dulles's passport control
are usually no longer than 15 minutes. But in the past two months, he said,
lines have grown longer than ever.

"It's distressing to us," Wilding said. "Our sense is that the INS people on the
scene are as pained by it as we are and are working hard. But so far, they don't
seem to have been able to get on top of it."

Federal law requires that INS agents clear international passengers within 45
minutes. Shaw said problems have arisen because only 42 of the 71 immigration
inspector positions at Dulles are filled.

"We're severely understaffed," Shaw said.

John White, a spokesman for Baltimore-Washington International Airport, said
waits at BWI's passport control are no longer than usual. Chris Bentley, a
spokesman for the INS's Baltimore office, said 11 of BWI's 13 INS inspector
positions are filled.

The waits aren't always long at Dulles. On Wednesday, when four international
flights arrived between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m., passengers reported waiting no more
than 15 minutes. But DeiTos said the lines grow during busier times, especially
on Fridays and Sundays between 3 and 5 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              225 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Growing Questions Over Dual Citizenship

BYLINE: Richard Morin and Claudia Deane

SECTION: A SECTION; THE IDEAS INDUSTRY RICHARD MORIN AND CLAUDIA DEANE; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 892 words


A growing number of Americans are pledging allegiance to the United States of
America and another country, according to City University of New York political
scientist Stanley Renshon.

Nobody knows how many immigrants are actually citizens of the United States and
another country, he said, but the number is likely large and growing. Between
1994 and 1998, at least 2.2 million immigrants were from countries that allow
dual citizenship.

"We've never had such large numbers of people who begin with the possibility of
dual citizenship," said Renshon, who will discuss his new report on the topic
Thursday at the National Press Club. "It's a big set of question marks. We
simply don't know what it means in terms of civic and cultural integration."

The United States does not formally permit Americans to be citizens of another
country, but neither does Uncle Sam take action against those who choose to do
so. "We have an almost don't-ask-don't-tell policy about it," said Mark
Krikorian, head of the Center for Immigration Studies, which published the
paper.

Concern about the ability of "hyphenated Americans" to acculturate is nearly as
old as immigration itself. But Renshon says today's situation is different. "The
sheer number of countries granting dual citizenship is unprecedented," said
Renshon, who pegs that number at about 93.

And it's never been easier for immigrants to maintain ties to their former
homeland.

In the past, "it wasn't feasible to keep old attachments," Renshon said. "You
couldn't get the old newspapers. If you went back to Italy or Lithuania or
Russia, it might be a once-in-a-lifetime event." In addition, he said, "foreign
governments are increasingly looking at dual-citizenship [holders] in the United
States as political as well as economic resources." For example, Mexico changed
its constitution in the mid-1990s to allow a form of dual citizenship, Renshon
said.

Renshon would have Congress require that people who vote in U.S. elections not
be allowed simultaneously to vote in another country. He notes that voting
"shapes the political culture towards the United States and away from the siren
pull of other attachments."

QUICK EXIT: The appointment of Strobe Talbott as the sixth president of the
Brookings Institution was greeted mostly with cheers around the Concrete
Fortress but with more than a few jeers at Yale University.

That's because Talbott, a Yale alum, is abandoning New Haven barely a year after
arriving on campus as the first director of the university's Center for the
Study of Globalization.

"I think Yale's been burned pretty badly," said an unnamed "senior professor"
quoted Friday in the Yale Daily News. "Anything [Talbott] has accomplished here
has been more than lost. It's sad for the university."

Yale President Richard Levin was more forgiving -- or at least more circumspect.
In a "Dear Colleagues" e-mail to faculty on Thursday, Levin said, "It is
bittersweet to report that the Board of the Brookings Institution will announce
this morning the appointment of Strobe Talbott as its next President. Although
we had hoped he would stay longer, we can be proud that Brookings has called to
service a distinguished Yale graduate."

Talbott was appointed director of the center in November 2000. He has told Yale
he will stay through the summer. His wife, Brooke Shearer, is executive director
of the World Fellows Program at Yale and will join him in Washington.

Some Yalies brushed off the criticism of Talbott's early exit. They noted that
peevishness is epidemic among the professoriate.

"There are always fatuous faculty members who will make snide remarks," said
Daniel Esty, director of the World Fellows Program. "That is life in academe."

GREEN SNOW? The World Resources Institute is building a global warming exhibit
at the official Winter Olympics visitors center in chilly Salt Lake City.

The exhibit will include information about what individuals can do to reduce
global warming. (One tip: Keep car tires well inflated to increase gas mileage).

WRI President Jonathan Lash and other institute leaders will be heading out in
mid-February to open the exhibit and indulge in a little Olympic fun. They will
be part of a bevy of enviros who are descending on Salt Lake City to "put global
warming in front of millions during the Olympic Games" and make this Olympics
"the 'greenest' Games ever," reports Thomas McCann, WRI's director of public
relations.

PEOPLE: The New America Foundation has just named four journalists to its
one-year fellowship program, including Katherine Boo, a Pulitzer Prizer winner
on leave from The Washington Post, who is working on a book about the impact of
welfare reform on inner-city families. Other new fellows: Peter Bergen, a former
CNN producer whose book "Holy War, Inc." on Osama bin Laden has become must-read
material; Shannon Brownlee, who has worked as a staff writer at Discover
magazine and U.S. News & World Report; and Nicholas Thompson, previously an
editor of the Washington Monthly. The fifth new fellow is recent Yale PhD Jacob
Hacker, who plans to focus on the future of the American welfare state.

Stephen Moore, head of the conservative Club for Growth and former fiscal policy
director at the Cato Institute, will be a senior research fellow at the
Texas-based Institute for Policy Innovation.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              226 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 30, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Lawsuit Filed Over Immigration Hearings' Closing;
Congressman, ACLU Question Secrecy in Wake of Sept. 11

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 403 words


The American Civil Liberties Union and Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) filed a
lawsuit yesterday challenging the Justice Department's decision to close some
immigration hearings after the Sept. 11 attacks and to refuse to provide any
information about those proceedings.

The federal lawsuit, filed in Detroit, takes issue with a Sept. 21 memo from
Chief Immigration Judge Michael Creppy that directed immigration judges to avoid
"disclosing any information" about certain cases at a time of "heightened
security and concern."

ACLU attorney Steven Shapiro said yesterday that "in this country we don't have
secret trials. As in criminal trials, they should be open unless there is shown
to be an overriding need for secrecy in that small portion of the trial."

Justice Department spokesman Charles Miller declined to comment on the pending
lawsuit. Officials have previously told judges that some immigration cases must
be kept secret because they are part of a "mosaic" that the government is
constructing in its terrorism investigation.

Officials have also noted that only a small portion of the Sept. 11-related
immigration cases are conducted in secret.

The ACLU lawsuit concerns Rabih Haddad, a Muslim cleric in Ann Arbor, Mich., who
was arrested in December for allegedly overstaying his visa. On the same day,
the government froze the assets of the Global Relief Foundation, a charitable
organization founded by Haddad that the United States suspects of having ties to
the terrorist group Hamas.

Conyers, reporters for the Detroit News and hundreds of Haddad's supporters were
denied access to Haddad's Dec. 19 deportation hearing. Conyers and the newspaper
have asked in the lawsuit to be admitted to all future proceedings.

Haddad's attorney, Ashraf Nubani, said no evidence of his client's connection to
terrorism was presented at the hearing. Judge Elizabeth Hacker denied him bond,
declaring him a flight risk and a danger to the community because he owned a
hunting gun, Nubani said.

Shapiro said Haddad's hearing proves that the Creppy memo is a "blanket denial"
being applied even to cases where no evidence of terrorism is presented.

The memo directs immigration courts to keep no record of such cases, meaning
they are not to be listed on the court calendars posted outside courtrooms and
not to be entered into the toll-free system that records automated information
about all immigration cases.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              227 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS Creating Office to Oversee Juveniles in Custody

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 428 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, hoping to minimize detention time
and improve conditions for thousands of minors it takes into custody each year,
is creating an office to oversee the protection of juveniles.

Commissioner James W. Ziglar said yesterday that the Office of Juvenile Affairs
(OJA) will review shelter care standards established for minors by the INS, seek
alternatives to their detention and work to reunite the children with their
families.

"We need to do better protecting unaccompanied minors," Ziglar said in a speech
at the National Immigration Forum conference at the Mayflower Hotel. "This is a
long overdue project."

The OJA also will be responsible for coordinating services provided to juveniles
by INS field offices, developing effective case management systems and ensuring
that children who are not in the United States legally are removed "safely and
correctly."

The INS detained 4,136 unaccompanied juveniles for more than 72 hours in fiscal
2000. They include teens who illegally immigrate without parents, youngsters
smuggled in and runaways. Most were males and the average age was 15. They spent
about a month in INS custody.

Ziglar said designated juvenile affairs officers will be appointed to handle the
treatment and care of the children and will be given small caseloads so they can
focus on placing the teens or returning them to their families.

The new office will report directly to Ziglar.

"Having the Office of Juvenile Affairs report directly to me will guarantee
consistency, accountability and integrity in the agency's treatment of
juveniles," he said.

Ziglar, who took over the agency six months ago, said he also plans to take
action to rectify problems outlined in a September 2001 report by the Justice
Department's inspector general that found myriad problems with INS treatment of
juveniles.

The report said that INS workers routinely failed to conduct weekly visits with
juveniles as required by agency policy; used restraints on nondelinquent
children while transporting them; and violated policy by allowing unescorted
children to travel on commercial aircraft.

The juvenile affairs office is part of the INS restructuring announced by
Attorney General John D. Ashcroft in November. The plan is designed to split the
service and enforcement functions of the agency, which has 34,000 employees and
a $ 6 billion budget.

The restructuring, expected to cost $ 100 million and take two years, is the
latest attempt to improve an agency that for years has been criticized for
backlogs and delays.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              228 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 7, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Foreign-Born Americans' Numbers Rise;
Census Report Also Notes an Increase in Citizenship Rate

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 388 words


One in five Americans were born in another country or have at least one parent
who was, according to a Census Bureau report scheduled for release today that
paints a portrait of 56 million people who are a growing share of U.S.
residents.

The number of first- and second-generation Americans with roots outside the
United States is the highest in the nation's history, fueled by changes in U.S.
immigration laws that began three decades ago. The ranks of U.S. residents born
abroad have tripled to 28.4 million, or 1 in 10 U.S. residents.

Still, their proportion in the population is far lower than it was at the
beginning of the last century, when more than 1 in 3 U.S. residents were of
foreign origin.

The report on foreign-born Americans, based on the bureau's monthly Current
Population Survey, did not address the issue of illegal immigrants; the
government separately estimated that number to be at least 7 million.

For the first time in decades, the report said, a rising share of foreign-born
residents are becoming naturalized citizens. The citizenship rate, now about 37
percent, began to increase in 1997, a year after Congress enacted restrictions
on benefits to noncitizens.

Census analysts said the report was their first to take a close look at the 11.5
million children under 18 who live in households headed by someone who was born
abroad.

Nearly 80 percent of these children were born in the United States. That
situation is represented in several school systems in the Washington area, where
statistics show that most students in English as a Second Language programs were
born in the United States.

Children of foreign-born parents are more likely to be poor, the report said. In
larger families, with three or more children, a third live in poverty, the
report said. That compares with a fifth of children living with American-born
parents.

The nation's foreign-born population in 2000 was highly concentrated in a few
states and metropolitan areas, including Washington, the report said. About half
the foreign-born population is Hispanic, and Mexico accounted for more than a
quarter of the total.

The report did not go into detail about people from the Middle East, but other
government data indicate that about 2 million first- or second-generation U.S.
residents are of Middle Eastern descent.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              229 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

N.Y. Afghan Navigates 2 Shattered Worlds;
After Watching World Trade Center Collapse, Young Immigrant Documents Her Return
to a Country Torn by War

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1174 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Feb. 7


She's a woman with a foot in two ground zeros.

Masuda Sultan came of age in Flatbush and Flushing, two of this city's
neighborhoods. She watched the World Trade Center towers collapse Sept. 11 and
days later walked downtown into black clouds of ash. She found a volunteer stand
and handed sandwiches and masks to firefighters overcome with grief.

Nearly four months later, she took a different walk, through the rubble and
craters that had been her relatives' farm at Chowkar-Karez, a rural hamlet
outside Kandahar. American AC-130 gunships had descended there Oct. 22, 105mm
howitzers booming and 25mm cannons spitting 1,800 rounds a minute.

Nineteen of her relatives, a pregnant cousin and an owl-eyed young nephew among
them, died that night in what human rights specialists and a dozen witnesses
have described as a mistaken attack on civilian refugees.

"To be honest, I didn't want to go to Chowkar-Karez." Sultan, 23, pauses,
searching for words. Her voice carries no trace of her native Afghanistan. She
immigrated here with her family when she was 4 and was educated in the city's
public schools. "I didn't want to see it. It reminded me so much of the day I
walked to ground zero in Manhattan, the foreboding . . .

"But I realized that someone needed to put a human face on this suffering."

She returned to Afghanistan with an American documentary film crew.

There is a moral calculus to be made when a just war produces cruel casualties.
Estimates of civilian deaths in Afghanistan range between 1,000 and 4,000. For
months Pentagon generals and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld dismissed
queries about the death of innocents with standard-issue answers: War is not
antiseptic, the Taliban brought this upon their people, the attacks were based
on sound military intelligence.

Calls for investigation have grown louder. On Monday, Afghan leader Hamid Karzai
told The Washington Post that U.S. forces had been tricked into killing tribal
elders in a separate attack Dec. 20. And Pentagon officials have acknowledged
that they are investigating several deadly attacks that led to civilian
casualties.

Army officials said today that they could not determine if the midnight attack
on Chowkar-Karez was being reexamined. In early November, The Post interviewed
two survivors of that attack, who insisted that their hamlet harbored no Taliban
soldiers that night.

But a Defense Department official at the time described the hamlet as "a
legitimate military target under the law of armed conflict." Asked about
civilian casualties, that official replied: "Whether they were villagers or
Taliban military, that's the question. I think we hit our target pretty well."

Sultan, a soft-spoken woman with dark, wavy hair pulled back from an oval face,
sat today in the downtown television studios of DCTV, about eight blocks from
Manhattan's ground zero, and considered a reporter's question:

Is the war that led to the deaths of your relatives still morally justified if
it avenges the deaths of 3,000 Americans and frees the nation of your birth from
terror's grip?

Sultan sighs. It is an almost impossible moral choice. She dislikes the Taliban
deeply and speaks with anger of their mistreatment of women and the fear they
sowed. She believes the United States had a right to strike back.

And yet . . .

"I struggle with this stuff a lot in my head," she said. "I'm not a pacifist. I
think there are times when war is necessary. And this was such a time.

"But we need to value the lives of others, too, especially when they are as
innocent as those killed on September 11th. We need to own up to our mistakes."

Her documentary -- clips of which will air on Bill Moyer's show on PBS tonight
-- is no simple anti-war agitprop. Filmed and produced by veteran news producer
Jon Alpert, it follows Sultan's journey to her relatives' tents in a Pakistani
refugee camp, to her hometown of Kandahar and, finally, to the dusty desert
plain where Chowkar-Karez sits. They interview a farmhand. He stands atop a
jumble of bricks, amid blackened trees and craters.

He was among the relatives and friends who drove here from Kandahar, 50 miles
away, when the U.S. bombs began to fall. (Some human rights activists speculate
that U.S. intelligence mistook their cars for a caravan of Taliban or al Qaeda
soldiers.)

About two weeks after the civilians got there, the U.S. gunships showed up.
There was a booming sound, the farmhand says. A cousin ran to a car and was
vaporized by a missile. A woman stood in a door and was cut in half.

His voice rises on the film. He points to the rubble.

"Here is my house. Here! Here!"

He holds a young boy, turns his face to the camera.

"Here is the child I have left. My wife is dead. What am I to do now?"

Until Sept. 11, Sultan had navigated a young immigrant's walk between cultures.
She wore jeans and sneakers and had American-born friends. At the same time, she
didn't wear makeup, spoke Pashto at home and agreed to her parents' wish for an
arranged marriage at 17 -- though she was divorced two years later.

She has returned to Afghanistan several times, including last August, when the
organization she heads, Young Afghan-World Alliance, was trying to raise money
for a school for girls. The land was familiar enough, she says, that the sweet
smell of flatbread baking in Kandahar brought a smile to her face. And it was
forbidding enough that when they passed through a crowd of men, Sultan advised
the film crew to lock the doors and roll up the windows.

Perhaps the most affecting moment of the documentary comes when she visits a
U.S. Army base, after she has returned from Chowkar-Karez. She wants to talk to
U.S. forces about why the Army attacked her relatives' hamlet.

No one on the base knows of the attack. And soon enough talk turns to the
soldiers' fears and their desire to find justice for the victims of the World
Trade Center. In the end, she says now, they reminded her of the boys she sat
next to in classes at Flushing High School.

"God, if I was in the middle of this desert country, I realized how threatening
it would look," she says. "They look out and everyone is wearing turbans and
carries automatic weapons. They are frightened."

In the end, Sultan has arrived at her own internal compromise. She supports the
war and she has joined with the human rights group Global Exchange and the
families of several World Trade Center victims in lobbying Congress for
compensation for Afghan families.

They want Congress to allocate $ 20 million -- $ 10,000 per victim -- for loss
of life and property. One might expect that such a request would meet a rough
reception. So far, that's not the case. John Cooksey, a Louisiana Republican,
and Carrie Meek, a Florida Democrat, have agreed to co-sponsor a bill.

That has brought a measure of peace to a woman caught between worlds.

"I want the image of America to be noble and strong," Sultan says. "If we care
for other innocents just as we care for our World Trade Center victims, it
reflects better on us."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              230 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Deportee Sweep Will Start With Mideast Focus

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 950 words


Federal agents will soon begin apprehending and interrogating thousands of
illegal Middle Eastern immigrants who have ignored deportation orders, seeking
ways to prosecute any who have ties to terrorism and compiling the results of
interviews in a new computer database, according to a Justice Department memo.

The Jan. 25 memo instructs federal agents to find methods of detaining some of
the immigrants for possible criminal charges, rather than merely expelling them
from the United States as previously planned.

The tactics are part of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's efforts to
locate an estimated 314,000 foreign nationals, known as "absconders," who have
ignored court orders to leave the country. Justice Department and FBI officials
have said that the operation would focus first on about 6,000 immigrants from
countries identified as al Qaeda strongholds, though the vast majority of
absconders are Latin American.

Yesterday, officials said the arrests will begin next week with a group of fewer
than 1,000 illegal immigrants, most from the Middle East and Pakistan, who are
believed to be the most dangerous because they are convicted felons.

The "Absconder Apprehension Initiative" is the latest example of the Justice
Department's wide-ranging efforts to thwart terrorism by increasing its focus on
domestic intelligence gathering. So far this campaign has involved, in part,
compiling information on foreign nationals living in the United States both
legally and illegally.

The internal department memo, sent to anti-terrorism officials by Deputy
Attorney General Larry Thompson and obtained by The Washington Post, shows that
the FBI and Justice Department have created a special computerized reporting
system that already includes information gathered from recent interviews with
thousands of Middle Eastern men who were invited to come forth voluntarily.
Results from the new round of interrogations will be added to the database.

U.S. officials are forming special "apprehension teams" that include agents from
the FBI, the U.S. Marshals Service and the INS, according to the memo.

Justice Department officials said it is logical to start the absconder program
by gathering information on people living here who may have ties to Osama bin
Laden's al Qaeda terrorist network, which has been blamed for the Sept. 11
terror attacks on New York and Washington.

"We can't go after 314,000 people at a time, so it only makes sense to
prioritize them in a way that makes sense from a law enforcement perspective,"
said one senior Justice Department official. "If we didn't do this, then we
should be criticized."

But the absconder program's initial focus on Middle Eastern nationals has
renewed complaints from Arab American and civil liberties groups that the Bush
administration is practicing racial profiling in its war on terrorism.

Khalil E. Jahshan, vice president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee here, said yesterday that information in the special terrorism
database could be used to unfairly smear the reputations of innocent
individuals.

"This whole path the government is taking is clearly a case of racial
profiling," Jahshan said. "It's clearly a case of selective enforcement. . . .
These half-baked methods seem totally isolated from a whole tradition of respect
for civil liberties and civil rights in this country."

Unlike the recent round of interviews with thousands of foreign nationals who
submitted voluntarily, the interrogations will focus on people who have ignored
orders to leave the United States and may have committed other crimes, according
to the memo. The first list will include many "who appear to be convicted
felons," Thompson said.

"While there are aspects of this Initiative that are similar to the Interview
Project that was recently conducted by the [Anti-Terrorism Task Forces], I want
to make clear that this is a very different undertaking," Thompson wrote.
"Unlike the subjects of the Interview Project . . . these absconders are to be
apprehended and treated as criminal suspects, and they are to be afforded all
standard procedural rights and constitutional protections."

Each subject will be read Miranda rights before being questioned, according to
the memo. Investigators have also been instructed to point out monetary rewards
and special immigration breaks available to those who cooperate.

"Investigators conducting interviews should feel free to use all appropriate
means of encouraging absconders to cooperate, including reference to any reward
money that is being offered and reference to the availability of an 'S Visa',"
Thompson wrote. Dubbed "snitch visas" by critics, S visas are offered to
immigrants who provide valuable information for criminal or terrorism
investigations.

Although the general outlines of the initiative have been reported previously,
Thompson urged participants to keep the operation secret. "This Initiative will
not entail any official notice to either the public or the absconders," he
wrote. "It would be counterproductive, and potentially dangerous, to provide the
absconders with official warning that agents and officers will be seeking to
locate and capture them."

Immigrants with no links to terrorism will be swiftly deported through normal
INS procedures, according to the memo. But if the FBI decides that an immigrant
should be investigated further, federal prosecutors will seek to charge the
person with a felony for failing to depart the country as ordered.

U.S. attorneys offices also "should consider whether the absconder has engaged
in criminal conduct, aside from the immigration violation, during his stay in
the country," the memo said.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              231 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 10, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bungling on the 9-11 Prisoners

BYLINE: Mary McGrory

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 808 words


Ivory Coast is a small African country, but it has its pride. It is not very
high on America at the moment, nor very confident of our justice system. That is
because one of its citizens, Tony Oulai, a 34-year-old pilot who was here on a
government scholarship, has been in jail for 4 1/2 months with only a minor
immigration charge against him. The FBI, which insists on holding him, can't
seem to get it through its head that he is not an Arab Muslim, as it keeps
describing him, but an African Catholic. Ivory Coast is indignant at the
mislabeling.

Tony Oulai was caught up in the great dragnet that followed Sept. 11. He has
been whisked around six U.S. prisons since the day he was picked up at a Florida
airport and screeners found a stun gun and flight manuals in his luggage. In one
jail, he alleges, he was beaten. The administrator of the Baker County (Fla.)
Detention Center retorts, as a denial, that the facility has TV and microwave
ovens in every cell. The Justice Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service are involved because Oulai overstayed his student visa.
They refuse all comment, even on a secret document obtained by The Post that
exonerates Oulai from any involvement in the events of Sept. 11.

Oulai told his story to Post reporter Amy Goldstein, who related in vivid detail
his odyssey through East Coast prisons and his failure to convince the
government that he is who he is. He is one of hundreds of noncitizens who have
been detained indefinitely while the bunglers at the FBI keep trolling for cause
to keep them. The day after Goldstein told his story, which was reprinted in
full by Ivory Coast press, Oulai was put into solitary confinement, supposedly
for his effrontery in going public.

Oulai's fellow inmates at the Alexandria Detention Center include two prominent
detainees: Zacarias Moussaoui, indicted as a co-conspirator in the hijacking;
and John Walker Lindh, the 20-year-old Californian with a fatal attraction to
Islamic fundamentalism. At his indictment on charges that could keep him in jail
for life, Lindh's lawyers presented allegations of mistreatment that amounted to
torture at the hands of American military jailers. He alleges that he signed
away his right to a lawyer and made a "voluntary" confession under duress.

A spokeswoman for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, Washington office
director Elisa Massimino, says that such charges of mistreatment "go against the
image of ourselves as a decent people -- nobody should be treated that way."

Nobody's making any brief for Lindh, who seems to have been the teenager from
hell. Public opinion is massively against him: some howl for his head; others
blame permissive and faddish parents who indulged him in his quest for an
Islamic theocracy. His lawyers argue that he never went to war against America,
only against the Northern Alliance.

The presentation of the case has been highlighted by the hovering, baleful
presence of Attorney General John Ashcroft, who held a hard-breathing press
conference and acted as though he had just reeled in Osama bin Laden. Lindh's
lead attorney, James Brosnahan, scoffs at Ashcroft's notion that his misguided
client is a surrogate for the elusive cave man.

The most contested prison issue, the Guantanamo cages of "Camp X-Ray" -- which
caused a furor in Europe and were hotly debated in the British parliament --
came back, too. It should be noted that Guantanamo seems like the Four Seasons
when compared with a notorious U.S.-sponsored jail near Mazar-e Sharif, where
Physicians for Human Rights found 70 to 80 people crammed into cells intended
for 10. The commander in chief issued a so-called policy reversal, which
amounted to two cheers for the Geneva Convention, the international pact that
protects prisoners from interrogation, among other things. Now Talibans can be
included in the convention. The change represented a victory of sorts for the
former field commander who is our secretary of state, Colin Powell. Powell could
picture U.S. Special Forces without uniforms or visible weapons falling into the
hands of some warlord in a terrorist-infested country.

The world is judging us not exclusively by our military successes; it is
watching closely how we treat prisoners. Obviously, in our campaign to show the
world what we are all about, we have to demonstrate that our policies are not
based on our opinions of our new terrorist enemies but on standards of justice
to all. John Walker Lindh tries our patience, but we have to follow our own
rules in dealing with him. As for Tony Oulai, the FBI better acknowledge a
mistake and let him go home. Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo has been in
Washington this week telling anyone who will listen that his country will
welcome Oulai back -- and make him available in the event that the bunglers get
a bite.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              232 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 10, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For Guyanese Sisters, A Dream Takes Flight;
With One Plane, Immigrants Launch an Airline

BYLINE: Christine Haughney, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1217 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


This immigrant-rich city harbors many dreamers: the Korean family that scrapes
to buy a dry cleaning store, the Sikh family that strives to buy a yellow taxi,
the Bangladeshis who lease their own newsstands.

And then there are the Guyanese sisters who launched their own airline.

In December, Chandramatie Harpaul and Ramashree Singh opened Universal Airlines,
an international carrier whose fleet consists of a single Boeing 767-300 jet
painted with the multicolored flags of their native Guyana. They lease the
airplane from LOT Polish Airlines, and a Polish flight crew -- none of whom
speak too much English -- flies it five times a week between John F. Kennedy
International Airport and Georgetown, Guyana, on the Caribbean coast of South
America.

This is a Guyanese-specific airline. The flights leave after midnight so that
immigrant travelers can work all day, board the airplane and arrive at dawn,
saving a hotel stay. The operators charge bulk rates for unlimited baggage so
that immigrants can stock up on gifts of all sizes for their families. And
flight attendants serve Guyanese foods like roti and curry.

The sisters' goal isn't so much to beat their two competitors on the route --
BWIA West Indies Airways and North American Airlines, which fly to many more
Caribbean cities -- as to carve out and maintain their own milk run. The
opportunity arose when their homeland's former airline, Guyana Airlines 2000,
folded last year.

"We don't play games with the big boys. We're just here to fill a void," said
Harpaul, 38, a lively, neatly dressed woman with tiny pearl earrings and hair
clasped at the nape of her neck.

The "big boys" also have large fleets and greater ability to survive the air
pockets of a recession; the life expectancy of new airlines can be measured in
months. But airline consultant Terry Moulton of New York-based Airline Capital
Associates Inc. points to Universal Airlines' micro-targeted audience and likes
its chances.

"Ethnic groups tend to go with the ethnic carrier," Moulton said. "They prefer
to go with the hometown team. Poles tend to fly on LOT. . . . The Dominicans, if
they had an airline, would probably fly that."

The sisters and their families began dreaming of airline ownership years ago.

Singh's husband, Sudarshan, 41, has been a lifelong lover of airplanes. As a boy
in working-class East Flatbush in Brooklyn, he would save the dimes his mother
gave him for snacks to buy a fleet of paperboard planes. He spent 17 years as a
mechanic for Pan Am.

Harpaul's own dream began as a passenger: She left Guyana 20 years ago and
recalls the cramped flights back home, the bad meals and the endless stopovers.

"The focus was not on Guyanese people," Harpaul said. "Guyana needed an airline
of its own."

Universal Airlines' international headquarters is a three-room former mortgage
office in Richmond Hill in Queens, across the street from Angelo's Pizzeria and
Mr. Lin's Take Out Chinese. The neighborhood is home to many of New York's
100,000 Guyanese immigrants, the largest such community outside Guyana.

One day, Harpaul hopes, her airline may allow Guyanese farmers to ship fresh
pineapples to New York market stands. Or perhaps it could help wealthy
eco-tourists discover her land's rain forests and rivers.

"What Guyana needs is more exposure," she said. "You need to get access to the
country to do something for the country."

The sisters say their company pays $ 18.4 million annually for the plane,
cockpit crew, fuel, maintenance and insurance. By charging higher prices during
the holidays and carnival season, and lower prices during such slow months as
January, the sisters estimate they could reap a profit of $ 4.1 million this
year, according to their application with the U.S. Department of Transportation.

The financing they describe is a bit less defined. Harpaul said much of their
start-up capital came from 11 investors from Guyana, including one -- family
friend and rice farmer Khelawam Persaud -- who put up close to a million
dollars.

The sisters came by their business experience in this country. Singh and her
husband run a trucking company that delivers fruit and office products around
metropolitan New York. And Harpaul used to help her husband run a string of
Sizzler steak restaurants.

That business venture was not without its troubles: Harpaul's husband was
convicted of skimming money from a restaurant in New Jersey and served six
months in federal prison in 1998. But, she says, her husband cooperated
completely with law enforcement. He's back with Sizzler now, and a corporate
spokesman reports that he is a fine franchise owner.

In her Queens office, Harpaul is surrounded by printed signs reading "Check
Everything!" and a din of ringing phones. She acknowledges that her timing could
have been better. After 14 years of planning to launch an airline, the sisters
received their approval to fly Sept. 10.

The next day, the attacks on the World Trade Center grounded Harpaul in Guyana
and delayed their inaugural flight until December.

Someday they want to add another airplane and a few more stops. But for now,
they've outfitted their airplane with 243 seats, rather than the standard 300,
to give passengers more room for the 5 1/2-hour flight. They have only eight
business class seats, since their customers are not much for extravagances.

"Why waste extra money," Harpaul said, "when you can give the extra couple of
hundred dollars to your family?"

There they are, a midnight parade of Guyanese immigrants at JFK International
Airport on a recent Thursday -- returning to their tropical land for the
inevitable weddings and funerals, or just to cure a case of the homesick blues.

There are bank executives and stock boys, phone technicians and a man who wants
to import pineapples to the United States. Some lug suitcases the size of
kitchen tabletops.

To gin up post-Christmas business, Universal Airlines is offering a $ 299
special. The cargo is the usual bit of unusualness. Recent flights have carried
14,000 pounds of frozen fish and shrimp, a shipment of talkative parrots and a
lot of aquarium fish.

Ralph Ramdhani heaves a couple of green suitcases onto the scale at the check-in
counter. The meter jumps up, way up. Ramdhani and his wife, Doreen, are
returning for a cousin's wedding. It has been five years since he last saw his
native country. When he heard the special rate advertised on TV, he jumped at
it.

"I wish I could have my own airline," Ramdhani said. "If I would become a
millionaire, I would name it Demerara," after his native region of Guyana.

David Singh, 33, tall and distracted, lingers by the counter. He's watching
eight relatives check in. They have a long journey ahead. After landing in
Georgetown, they will take a bus and two speedboats before reaching the family
rice farm.

But there's no avoiding the trip. Singh is carrying precious cargo: his father's
casket. In his last hours, Singh's 81-year-old father had talked of returning to
Guyana to breathe in his native country's fresh air, of sitting in the hot sun
surrounded by friends.

Singh holds a framed photograph of his father, neatly wrapped in newspaper.
He'll bury him at home.

"That," Singh says as he prepares to board the airplane, "was his desire in his
last days."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              233 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 11, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

'Immigration': NSO's Many-Flavored Melting Pot

BYLINE: Joe Banno, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 669 words


If the National Symphony Orchestra's festival "Journey to America: A Musical
Immigration" does nothing else, it should serve as a reminder of how stirring --
and adaptable -- a national anthem we have. In the past week's final three
festival concerts we heard "The Star-Spangled Banner" adapted for violin and
cello, for jazz sax and piano and, with Handelian flourishes, for brass band.
There were arrangements by Stanislaw Skrowaczewski (channeling Elgar),
Stravinsky (channeling the Ballets Russes) and Glenn Miller (channeling, well,
Glenn Miller). And then there was Kurt Weill, deconstructing the anthem into a
tone poem as sultry, mordant and playful as his late-career Broadway scores.
(Try doing that with "God Bless America.")

As for meat-and-potatoes programming, things got really serious only twice.
Saturday night began with Bright Sheng's "H'un: Lacerations" -- 20 minutes of
truly lacerating dissonance that was a tough listen, but spoke volumes about the
pain of the Chinese Cultural Revolution. Schoenberg's "A Survivor From Warsaw"
was equally scorching under Leonard Slatkin's baton on Thursday, with the
bleakest and most biting orchestral gestures brought to the fore. Veteran
baritone Thomas Stewart was a gripping narrator, and the men of the Washington
Chorus made the climax suitably chilling.

What a shame that Schoenberg's annihilating final chord had to tumble into
Rachmaninoff's glitzy, half-baked Piano Concerto No. 4. Though Vardan Mamikonian
proved a clearheaded and technically proficient (if less than rhapsodic)
pianist, the NSO sounded underrehearsed here, with too many passages out of
sync, out of breath or out of tune.

The orchestra was in top form for Michel Camilo's Piano Concerto on Saturday,
and Camilo was truly dazzling in his keyboard work, sounding as if he had around
12 fingers on each hand. His concerto, though, was too slick for comfort --
watered-down Gershwin with a Windham Hill gloss and a slow movement that's pure
Muzak. Better that night was Paquito D'Rivera's "Gran Danzon (The Bel Air
Concerto)" in its world premiere. A spiky and imaginatively colored piece of
Latin American orchestral writing, it was enlivened by Marina Piccinini's airy,
seductive, astonishingly assured flute playing. (She knocked off Varese's
punishing solo work "Density 21.5" later in the evening, just for good measure.)

Like Camilo and D'Rivera, Stravinsky used jazz merely as a flavoring in his
"Ebony" Concerto, sidestepping jazz's harmonic language and improvisatory style,
and settling instead for allusions to ragtime and the blues. NSO principal
clarinetist Loren Kitt did his best with an underwritten solo part, and the work
made a zesty finish to Thursday's concert, especially since it was preceded by
Stravinsky's hilarious riff on "Happy Birthday," the "Greeting" Prelude, and his
score to a Ringling Brothers elephant ballet (!), the "Circus Polka."

Friday's program -- which focused on composers who fled Hitler and found
Hollywood -- uncovered a brace of thoroughly engaging overtures by Ernst Toch
and Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco, and an effusively late-Romantic cello concerto
drawn from a Eric Wolfgang Korngold film score (played with big, throaty tone by
Slatkin's brother Fred Zlotkin). Slatkin whipped the NSO into a Stokowskian
froth in Franz Waxman's shamelessly plush "Tristan und Isolde" Fantasy (taken
from Waxman's score to the big-screen weepie "Humoresque"). Sweet-toned
violinist Glenn Dicterow and NSO pianist Lisa Emenheiser committed to it right
down to the last cascading arpeggio.

Dicterow and Zlotkin joined forces in Miklos Rozsa's terrific, Bartok-infused
Sinfonia Concertante. With its driving rhythms, high-wire virtuoso writing and
inventive theme-and-variations middle movement, it really deserves a berth in
the standard repertoire.

A note of thanks goes to Slatkin for uncovering so many guilty pleasures, and to
the orchestra for playing with an emotional commitment that made new scores
sound like familiar old friends.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              234 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 16, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Accused Nazi Ally Prevented From Entering U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 194 words


U.S. immigration inspectors yesterday stopped an accused member of a
Nazi-sponsored Lithuanian battalion during World War II from flying into the
United States, the Justice Department said.

Joseph Kisielaitis of LaSalle, Quebec, was prevented from boarding a flight to
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., after a routine screening in Montreal turned up his name
on a border control watch list.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service authorities questioned Kisielaitis
but did not take him into custody, Justice spokeswoman Jill Stillman said.

The Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations, which searches for
Nazis in the United States, started deportation proceedings against Kisielaitis
in 1984 after finding him living in Worcester, Mass. During questioning, the
Lithuanian native admitted wartime service in the 2nd/12th Lithuanian
Schutzmannschaft Battalion, the department said.

The Nazi-sponsored unit has been blamed for the murders of 20,000 Jews, many
suspected communists and their families, and Soviet prisoners.

Kisielaitis went to Canada later in 1984, before his deportation case could be
heard, and the OSI placed his name on the watch list.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              235 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 18, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Borderline Reporting

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan,, who covers immigration for The Washington Post

SECTION: STYLE; BOOK WORLD; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 758 words


THE OTHER FACE OF AMERICA

Chronicles of the Immigrants Shaping Our Future

By Jorge Ramos

Rayo. 252 pp. $ 24.95

If anyone seemed well positioned to write a popular book on immigration, it
would be Jorge Ramos. The Emmy-winning journalist is a Mexican who has lived
nearly two decades in the United States. A star news anchor for Univision, the
Spanish-language television network, he is a constant presence in millions of
immigrant homes and has reported on Latino issues for years.

But "The Other Face of America," Ramos's first book in English, is a
disappointment. An updated collection of essays and reports he produced in
Spanish in 2000, it is intended, he says, to be a "book of many histories,"
chronicling the Latino immigrants who are changing the United States. The 47
short chapters, however, read like extended sound bites. Ramos has dumped not
only his notebook but his mailbag and apparently anything he found in his
pockets into a book that's a mishmash of pro-immigration arguments and
impressions, unleavened by serious analysis or reporting.

This is especially unfortunate because immigration is such a little-understood
subject. Even before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, which thrust the issue
to the forefront, immigration was profoundly important to U.S. society. Since a
1965 overhaul of its immigration law, America has been changed by the biggest
wave of newcomers since the start of the last century.

It is a complex phenomenon -- but not in this book. Ramos's America is brown and
white, with few shades of gray. For example, academics have argued for years
about the contributions and costs of immigration, especially illegal
immigration, a tricky subject to measure. None of this argument emerges in
Ramos's book. "The problem is pure xenophobia," he says about those who conclude
that illegal immigrants use more in public services than they pay in taxes.

Ramos's illegal immigrants are courageous good guys who suffer constant
discrimination from an America that has "decided to turn its back on
immigrants." The bad guys are featured in a section that includes a few widely
reported examples of police brutality, as well as an interview -- "Face to Face
With a Racist" -- with then-Atlanta Braves pitcher John Rocker, who caused a
furor in 1999 with negative remarks about foreigners and homosexuals.

The problem is not Ramos's cheerleading for immigrants but the lack of detailed
reporting to support his argument. He provides thumbnail sketches of illegal
immigrants with little examination of their contributions, relying instead on a
few selectively quoted national economic studies and a heaping dose of
generalities.

Ramos calls himself "the voice of those who have none." That's the problem.
Immigrants do have voices, but we don't hear them. His portrayals of Latinos
have all the depth of a tortilla chip. We don't experience the human drama of
their journeys and adjustment. One chapter is nothing more than a letter sent by
a Mexican girl to President Clinton whining that her family had to go home
because of legislation against illegal immigrants.

The skimpy reporting leads to glaring errors. Ramos says several times, for
example, that more than half of undocumented immigrants arrived in the United
States by plane. A call to the INS would have revealed that an estimated 60
percent actually sneaked over the border.

Ramos also appears to miss some major developments in immigration. He devotes a
chapter to an INS raid on undocumented Latino workers at a factory in Los
Angeles. "The raids, of course, continue," he says. But the INS abandoned most
such raids during the economic boom of the late 1990s, as public attitudes
toward illegal immigrants warmed considerably. Ramos tries to update his
original, Spanish-language book with postscripts, but they don't always do
justice to his subject.

In the few areas where Ramos actually does some extended reporting, the book
improves slightly. He seeks to understand the emotional response of Cuban
Americans to Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban boy stranded in the United States after
his mother died in an effort to reach Florida by raft, and provides a colorful
account of an area of the Mexican border used as a staging ground by would-be
immigrants.

But those sections don't compensate for the book's flaws. Ramos says in his
introduction: "I am left with that strange feeling that this is only a glimpse
at a phenomenon -- that of the immigrant." He is right. One hopes that another
book will provide more than this superficial glimpse.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              236 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 22, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mikulski Befriends Law Enforcers at IRS, INS and Customs

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: METRO; FEDERAL DIARY STEPHEN BARR; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 710 words


Revenue officers, customs inspectors and immigration inspectors would have the
same retirement options as most federal law enforcement officers under
legislation introduced in the Senate.

Under current law, most federal law enforcement officers have the right to
retire at age 50 with 20 years of service. But the law does not cover revenue
officers at the Internal Revenue Service or inspectors for the U.S. Customs
Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Like most federal
employees, they have to be older (ranging from 55 to 62) to qualify for regular
retirement, and they generally need more time in service.

"I feel very strongly that in light of the increased duties that these men and
women are doing to help combat terrorism, keep our homeland secure, and help
with the war on drugs, we need to do what we can to give them the benefits they
deserve," Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), the bill's chief sponsor, said in a
statement.

Mikulski said customs and immigration inspectors "are required to have the same
law enforcement training as all other law enforcement personnel."

Revenue officers, she said, face threats on a regular basis. The IRS provides
employees with a manual, "Assaults and Threats: A Guide to Your Personal
Safety," that provides advice on how to handle assaults, abuse, threatening
telephone calls and other hostile situations, Mikulski said.

Extending law enforcement retirement benefits to the revenue officers and
inspectors, Mikulski said, would help "with hiring and retention, savings in
training costs and increased revenue collection."

Similar proposals, however, have faltered, in part because they would have
increased federal retirement system costs.

In a separate bill, Mikulski seeks to ensure that pensions of retired U.S. Park
Police and Secret Service officers keep pace with the pay of active-duty
officers. When Congress restructured pay scales for the Park Police and
uniformed division of the Secret Service in 2000, Mikulski said, the link
between active-duty officers and retirees "was severed."

"This bill would restore that link," she said, "guaranteeing that the pension
for these retired federal police officers keeps up with the cost of living."

Mikulski said her bill would apply to about 630 Secret Service retirees and 465
Park Police retirees. "They are the only federal retirees who had existing
retirement benefits scaled back," she said.

Similar legislation was introduced in the House last year. The chief sponsors
include Rep. Constance A. Morella (R-Md.) and Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.).

The president's fiscal 2003 budget would alter the funding arrangement for the
Civil Service Retirement System as part of an effort to ensure that agency
ledgers reflect the full cost of their employees. But the proposal appears to
face opposition on Capitol Hill.

In a recent letter to the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.)
said the proposed accounting change "puts each agency, and its employees, in an
unacceptable position of risk."

Currently, the Treasury helps cover CSRS costs because agency and employee
contributions do not fully fund the retirement program. The Bush proposal would
require Congress to provide each agency with the money needed to cover
retirement costs.

"I have serious concerns about this proposal, which will, in effect, make the
money needed to cover the annual CSRS liability discretionary rather than
mandatory," Sarbanes wrote. "There is no guarantee that Congress would approve
this money each year, and this uncertainty puts each agency's budget at risk. In
order to meet budgetary goals, agencies could be forced to cut needed employees
or programs if the administration's proposal is adopted."

The budget proposal would not reduce retirement benefits or annuities, which are
mandated by law.

Marilyn Gaston, director of the Bureau of Primary Health Care in the Health and
Human Services Department, will be the guest on "The Business of Government
Hour" at 8 a.m. tomorrow on WJFK radio (106.7 FM).

"Chaplains: A Part of Human Resources?" will be the topic of discussion on the
Imagene B. Stewart call-in program at 8 a.m. Sunday on WOL radio (1450 AM).

Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              237 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 22, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mikulski Befriends Law Enforcers at IRS, INS and Customs

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: METRO; FEDERAL DIARY STEPHEN BARR; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 710 words


Revenue officers, customs inspectors and immigration inspectors would have the
same retirement options as most federal law enforcement officers under
legislation introduced in the Senate.

Under current law, most federal law enforcement officers have the right to
retire at age 50 with 20 years of service. But the law does not cover revenue
officers at the Internal Revenue Service or inspectors for the U.S. Customs
Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Like most federal
employees, they have to be older (ranging from 55 to 62) to qualify for regular
retirement, and they generally need more time in service.

"I feel very strongly that in light of the increased duties that these men and
women are doing to help combat terrorism, keep our homeland secure, and help
with the war on drugs, we need to do what we can to give them the benefits they
deserve," Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), the bill's chief sponsor, said in a
statement.

Mikulski said customs and immigration inspectors "are required to have the same
law enforcement training as all other law enforcement personnel."

Revenue officers, she said, face threats on a regular basis. The IRS provides
employees with a manual, "Assaults and Threats: A Guide to Your Personal
Safety," that provides advice on how to handle assaults, abuse, threatening
telephone calls and other hostile situations, Mikulski said.

Extending law enforcement retirement benefits to the revenue officers and
inspectors, Mikulski said, would help "with hiring and retention, savings in
training costs and increased revenue collection."

Similar proposals, however, have faltered, in part because they would have
increased federal retirement system costs.

In a separate bill, Mikulski seeks to ensure that pensions of retired U.S. Park
Police and Secret Service officers keep pace with the pay of active-duty
officers. When Congress restructured pay scales for the Park Police and
uniformed division of the Secret Service in 2000, Mikulski said, the link
between active-duty officers and retirees "was severed."

"This bill would restore that link," she said, "guaranteeing that the pension
for these retired federal police officers keeps up with the cost of living."

Mikulski said her bill would apply to about 630 Secret Service retirees and 465
Park Police retirees. "They are the only federal retirees who had existing
retirement benefits scaled back," she said.

Similar legislation was introduced in the House last year. The chief sponsors
include Rep. Constance A. Morella (R-Md.) and Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.).

The president's fiscal 2003 budget would alter the funding arrangement for the
Civil Service Retirement System as part of an effort to ensure that agency
ledgers reflect the full cost of their employees. But the proposal appears to
face opposition on Capitol Hill.

In a recent letter to the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.)
said the proposed accounting change "puts each agency, and its employees, in an
unacceptable position of risk."

Currently, the Treasury helps cover CSRS costs because agency and employee
contributions do not fully fund the retirement program. The Bush proposal would
require Congress to provide each agency with the money needed to cover
retirement costs.

"I have serious concerns about this proposal, which will, in effect, make the
money needed to cover the annual CSRS liability discretionary rather than
mandatory," Sarbanes wrote. "There is no guarantee that Congress would approve
this money each year, and this uncertainty puts each agency's budget at risk. In
order to meet budgetary goals, agencies could be forced to cut needed employees
or programs if the administration's proposal is adopted."

The budget proposal would not reduce retirement benefits or annuities, which are
mandated by law.

Marilyn Gaston, director of the Bureau of Primary Health Care in the Health and
Human Services Department, will be the guest on "The Business of Government
Hour" at 8 a.m. tomorrow on WJFK radio (106.7 FM).

"Chaplains: A Part of Human Resources?" will be the topic of discussion on the
Imagene B. Stewart call-in program at 8 a.m. Sunday on WOL radio (1450 AM).

Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              238 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 28, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 455 words


BOSTON -- Twenty entry-level workers were charged yesterday with falsifying
personal information to obtain jobs and badge access to secure areas at Logan
International Airport, the origin of two of the planes hijacked Sept. 11.
Arrests started this morning, and at least 15 people were in custody by
midafternoon.

None of the defendants is suspected of or charged with having any terrorist
connections, according to U.S. Attorney Michael J. Sullivan. But the group, made
up mostly of illegal immigrants, should not have been allowed to work for
businesses operating at the airport or gain access to some of its most sensitive
areas, he said.

The arrests are part of an ongoing effort, dubbed "Operation Safe Travel," to
enhance airport security nationwide. In December, 271 workers at Salt Lake City
International Airport were fired after investigators found they lied on
application forms.

The workers arrested today represent less than 1 percent of the 3,500 employees
with clearance to enter secure locations ranging from baggage areas to
airfields. Six were employed by Argenbright Security Inc., a private security
firm ousted after Sept. 11 because of concerns about its performance. All 20
were expected to appear today in federal court.

State police have conducted criminal background checks of employees of
businesses that operate at Logan for more than a decade, but did not verify data
with the Social Security Administration or the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

EL CAJON, Calif. -- The nude body of a child found in a rural area east of San
Diego is believed to be that of a 7-year-old girl who vanished from her home
nearly a month ago, authorities said.

Volunteers who have searched for Danielle van Dam since her disappearance
discovered the body near a cluster of oak trees.

A plastic necklace similar to one Danielle was wearing was found on the body,
and an earring matching the description of a pair the missing girl wore was also
found, said San Diego County District Attorney Paul Pfingst.

A positive identification of the body could take several days.

* FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -- Tillie Tooter, 85, got an apology in court for the
hit-and-run accident that left her trapped in a mosquito-infested swamp for
three days. She wished Scott Campbell, the young motorist, luck and urged him to
"learn to lead a better life." Campbell, 23, was sentenced to five years of
probation and ordered to reimburse the woman's medical expenses from the August
2000 accident.

* NEW YORK -- Hotel security guard Ronald Ferry pleaded guilty to lying about
the location of a pilot radio in the room of an Egyptian student imprisoned for
a month after the Sept. 11 attacks.

-- From staff reports and news services

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              239 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Two Plead Guilty in ID Fraud Cases in Va.;
Immigrants Arrested In Terrorism Probe

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 712 words


Two Washington area immigrants caught up separately in the wide-ranging
terrorism probe after the Sept. 11 hijackings pleaded guilty yesterday in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria to unrelated identification document fraud charges.

Agus Budiman, whose name and address were used as U.S. contacts on visa
applications by a hijacker and an alleged conspirator, admitted that he helped
another man illegally obtain a driver's license by exploiting a now-closed
loophole in Virginia law.

Imad Abdel-Fattah Hamed, who was arrested after he drove a tow truck through a
security checkpoint near the Pentagon last month, pleaded guilty to using the
same loophole to obtain a second Virginia driver's license for himself, using a
variation on his real name and a false Arlington address.

The guilty pleas spotlight the federal government's moves to crack down on
low-level document fraud that once went largely overlooked by law enforcement
authorities. The two cases also illustrate how local Muslim residents have found
themselves under suspicion because of circumstances that would not have drawn a
second look from law enforcement authorities before the terrorist attacks.

Neither man admitted to having any connection to terrorist activities, but both
must fully cooperate with government investigators and submit to polygraphs as
part of their plea agreements.

Budiman's attorney, William Moffitt, said the case involving his client, an
Indonesian architect, "got completely out of hand . . . because of who they
tried to connect him to."

Budiman, 31, of Alexandria, told the FBI that he knew Mohamed Atta, the
hijacking ringleader, because they attended the same Hamburg mosque, according
to court documents. But Moffitt said his client does not know how his address
got on the visa applications filed by another hijacker and by Ramzi Binalshibh,
who is wanted by German authorities on terrorism charges and has been linked to
the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

Moffitt said Budiman has passed an FBI polygraph about the events of Sept. 11
and was treated unfairly by authorities. "He has nothing to hide. . . . He
already told them everything he knew the first time he talked to them," said
Moffitt, adding that his client has spent four months in jail, most of it in
solitary confinement.

During the hearing, Budiman listened to a translation of U.S. District Judge
Gerald Bruce Lee's remarks but answered the judge's questions in brief, barely
audible English phrases including "Yes," "No" and "I plead guilty, sir."

Budiman faces up to 15 years in prison at his scheduled April 26 sentencing but
will almost certainly get less than a year. As part of his plea agreement, he
will not fight government efforts to deport him when he finishes his sentence.

"What he wants to do is go home," Moffitt said. "He's pretty disappointed in the
country that he wanted to be a part of."

In the Feb. 11 tow truck incident, federal officials were initially concerned
that Hamed, of Manassas, and his passenger, who was carrying identification in
three names and remains in Immigration and Naturalization Service custody, might
be testing the security around the Pentagon, sources said.

The two were stopped at 10:30 p.m. by Virginia State Police after Hamed drove a
tow truck down Route 110, despite repeated signs barring commercial traffic on
the road. The highway comes within 100 yards of the Pentagon at one point.

But Haned's attorney, Michael Hadeed, quickly worked out a deal with Assistant
U.S. Attorney John Morton. Hamed, a naturalized U.S. citizen from Jordan,
pleaded guilty to obtaining a Virginia identification card and driver's license
using the name Imad Nimer and an Arlington address.

Hamed, 28, remains free on $ 5,000 bond while awaiting sentencing May 24. He,
too, probably is looking at less than a year in jail. He also said very little
during the hearing, telling U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris that he
understood the proceeding and was pleading guilty.

Hadeed said government officials no longer suspect his client of planning a
second terrorist attack. "They were satisfied when he was released [on bond].
That's all behind him," he said.

Morton, who handled both cases for the government, declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              240 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 13, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Terrorist Pilots' Student Visas Arrive;
Officials Blame 'Antiquated' System for Delay of Paperwork

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 727 words


Exactly six months after terrorists Mohamed Atta and Marwan Alshehhi flew two
jetliners into the World Trade Center, the Florida flight school that trained
the men received paperwork showing that their student visas had been approved.

The two suicide hijackers had applied for the visas through their flight school,
Huffman Aviation International, in August 2000. But because of backlogs and an
antiquated processing system at the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
notification of the approval did not arrive at the Venice, Fla., flight school
until Monday.

The belated receipt of the documents underscores the chronic problems that
continue to plague the beleaguered INS -- the target of strenuous reform efforts
since the Sept. 11 attacks -- and prompted howls of outrage yesterday from
Capitol Hill.

"This shows once again the complete incompetence of the immigration service to
enforce our laws and protect our borders," said Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
(R-Wis.), who has co-sponsored legislation to break up the agency. "If you look
at the chronology of this, it shows why the INS has to be dismantled and put
back together again."

INS and Justice Department officials acknowledged yesterday that the delayed
mailings were embarrassing, but stressed that the change to student visas for
Atta and Alshehhi was actually approved last summer. The pair had entered the
United States on tourist visas.

In addition, the INS said in a statement, "when the applications were approved,
the INS had no information indicating that Atta or Alshehhi had ties to
terrorist organizations."

The records received by Huffman, first reported by CNN, show that Atta's visa
was approved July 17 and Alshehhi's was approved Aug. 9. The visa approvals came
well after the two would-be hijackers had completed their training course at
Huffman, which cost $ 27,300 each and ended in January 2001.

That means it took the INS nearly a year to process the visa applications after
they were submitted by a Huffman official in August 2000, and seven months more
to return the forms to the flight school. The schools are not required to deny
instruction to foreign nationals while the visa applicants wait for an INS
decision, officials said.

Huffman owner Rudi Dekkers said he feels vindicated by receipt of the forms,
because they prove his school followed INS guidelines.

"It's very strange," Dekkers said. "I have no idea why it took so long."

INS officials said in a statement last night that the agency "regrets the late
arrival of notifications to the school," and blamed the delay on an "antiquated,
inaccurate, untimely" and inefficient paper-based processing system. The INS is
switching over to a computer-based system, which was first mandated by Congress
as part of an immigration reform package in 1996.

"How can these guys get training before they're approved to get training? That's
a legitimate issue," one senior Justice official said. "But it's important to
note that these guys were approved long before anyone in law enforcement knew
they had ties to terrorist groups."

Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), head of a congressional caucus that seeks reduced
immigration, said the agency is "completely and totally dysfunctional.

"The INS is the Mickey Mouse Club of federal agencies, but this actually would
indicate that's an insult to Mickey Mouse," Tancredo said. "I do not know what
straw is possibly going to be the one that will break this back. The pile is so
high now you can't see over it."

A spokeswoman for ACS Inc., the contractor that runs the London, Ky., processing
center that mailed the paperwork to Huffman, said that INS rules allow the
company to wait six months before sending approved student visa applications to
flight schools. "There was no delay," said Lesley Pool. "We perform our services
according to their dictates."

INS and Justice officials said last night that the company's latest contract,
announced last fall, reduces the deadline to 30 days, officials said.

Ben Ferro, a former INS district administrator who now runs a consulting firm,
said the Atta and Alshehhi cases reflect how the immigration service has lost
control of its own documents.

"What happened here is an embarrassment and worse," Ferro said. "Clearly INS
doesn't discriminate in its backlogs and delays. Everyone gets delayed, even
dead people."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              241 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 14, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Angry Bush Orders Probe Of 'Inexcusable' INS Action;
Agency Just Sent Visas for 2 Sept. 11 Hijackers to Flight School

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 996 words


President Bush ordered an investigation yesterday into the belated mailings of
visa approval notices for two Sept. 11 hijackers, calling the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's action an "inexcusable" blunder that should serve as a
"wake-up call" for the leaders of the troubled agency.

A Venice, Fla., flight school received the INS documents Monday for presumed
terrorist ringleader Mohamed Atta and compatriot Marwan Alshehhi -- exactly six
months after they piloted separate jetliners into the twin towers of the World
Trade Center. The paperwork was a routine notification to Huffman Aviation
International that the pair had been awarded student visas that had been
approved the previous summer.

The delayed mailings came as a huge embarrassment to the beleaguered INS, which
dispatched an agent yesterday to Huffman Aviation to seize the documents with a
subpoena, according to the school's owner, Rudi Dekkers.

It also set off a second day of political fireworks in Washington, where
lawmakers and Bush administration officials clamored to condemn the episode as a
stark reminder of the nation's troubled immigration system.

"I was stunned, and not happy," Bush said during a news conference yesterday.
"Let me put it another way: I was plenty hot. . . . We've got to reform the INS,
and we've got to push hard to do so. This is an interesting wake-up call for
those who run the INS."

At the Justice Department, which oversees the INS, Attorney General John D.
Ashcroft formally requested an investigation by Inspector General Glenn A. Fine,
who has launched a probe of the INS's student visa program, to determine why the
agency did not halt delivery of the letters and why it took so long to process
them. Ashcroft also hinted that jobs may be on the line.

"It is inexcusable when document mismanagement leads to a breakdown of this
magnitude," Ashcroft said in a statement. "Individuals will be held responsible
for any professional incompetence that led to this failure, and inferior INS
quality-control mechanisms will be reformed."

The INS debacle is the second major record-keeping snafu for Ashcroft, who
delayed the execution of Oklahoma City bomber Timothy J. McVeigh last year after
the FBI failed to turn over thousands of documents to defense attorneys. In the
INS case, one Ashcroft aide said yesterday, "firings have not been ruled in or
ruled out."

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar, who is presiding over a three-day INS
conference in San Francisco, declined repeated requests for comment. The
conference, which ends today, was attended by about 300 senior INS managers and
included an awards ceremony honoring employees "for outstanding service with
cash and days off," according to an attendee.

Bush, who appointed Ziglar in August, indicated that the former Senate
sergeant-at-arms was not in danger of losing his job.

Ziglar is working on an INS restructuring plan announced by Ashcroft in
November. It calls for splitting the agency's enforcement and service functions
to make it more accountable and efficient. The agency is also switching to a new
computerized record-keeping system -- first mandated by Congress in 1996 -- that
is designed to eliminate chronic backlogs.

When they showed up at Huffman Aviation seeking flight training in July 2000,
Atta had a business visa and Alshehhi was traveling on a tourist visa, according
to U.S. officials. The school's student coordinator submitted applications in
August 2000 seeking a change in the status of their visas, as required by INS
procedures.

But the changes weren't approved for either man until about a year later, well
after both had finished their training. INS officials said the approvals are
presumed to have been sent to Atta and Alshehhi at that time, but the flight
school did not receive its copies until Monday, according to Dekkers.

Dekkers said the INS's Miami office served him with a subpoena yesterday
afternoon and seized the two application forms. A Justice Department official
called soon after, and was surprised to learn of the INS's actions, Dekkers
said.

INS officials stress that neither Atta nor Alshehhi was a suspected terrorist
before Sept. 11, and one official called the episode a "misunderstanding." There
are no other known outstanding visa notices for the other 17 hijackers,
officials said, although they conceded they could not be sure.

"The procedures that were in place were followed," the official said. "If
someone wants to accuse us of being insensitive, maybe that might hold ground.
But to accuse us of being out of touch, that's not fair."

But leading lawmakers, including Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle
(D-S.D.), lambasted the mailings yesterday as a symbol of deeper problems within
the INS.

Added Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.): "We cannot continue to tolerate a flawed
information collecting and tracing system that allows potential terrorists to
enter or remain in the United States."

The outrage extended to the streets of New York, where thousands of residents
just marked the six-month memorial of the terror attacks.

"It's absolutely ridiculous. I'm lost for words," said John Hickey, 66, a
retired Verizon technician as he finished a soda at a midtown supermarket cafe.
"They should be screened before they even hit our shores."

Brenda Keene, admissions director at Airman Flight School in Norman, Okla., said
INS paperwork delays are the rule rather than the exception. Just yesterday,
Keene said, she received visa notices for two students who enrolled nearly a
year ago, including a man from India who completed his lessons in September.

Airman also applied for a student visa last year on behalf of Zacarias
Moussaoui, who was later arrested on immigration charges in Minnesota and has
been charged as a conspirator in the Sept. 11 attacks.

"Who knows," Keene said. "Maybe we'll get his approval in the mail any day now."

Correspondent Christine Haughney in New York contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              242 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 14, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Latino-Agency Head Draws on His Own Past as Immigrant

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 780 words


He arrived by plane, visa in hand, a university graduate who had grown up with a
maid and classical music at home.

Eugenio Arene is not exactly typical of Washington's Salvadoran immigrants. But
Arene, who is about to take a key leadership position in the Latino community,
believes that his experience when he moved here 15 years ago unites him with
struggling immigrants.

"I was a licenciado," Arene said, using a Spanish term for a college graduate.
"So what? . . . I didn't speak the language." That meant he had to labor at
low-wage jobs, parking cars and painting houses, until he could learn enough
English to maneuver in a new society.

Arene, 40, has just been named director of the Council of Latino Agencies, an
umbrella group for three dozen nonprofit agencies that provide medical care, job
training, education and other services to the city's Spanish-speaking
population.

The council is in transition; its board wants it to become less an advocacy
organization and more a think tank that would gather data on the city's Hispanic
community and help to develop the member agencies.

The goal is to win greater visibility and government money for the Latino
community, which represents about 8 percent of the city's population, according
to census figures, but has little political clout, advocates say.

"This is really a time for the council to either show what it can do . . . or
it's time for the council to dissolve," said Maria Gomez, president of the
umbrella group's board and executive director of the Mary's Center clinic in
Adams Morgan.

Arene believes that he is well placed to be a bridge between the immigrant
community and the government.

"I have such a very complete background, [going] from scratch to a PhD" in the
United States, Arene said. He sipped lemonade at the Marx Cafe in Mount
Pleasant, wearing the kind of gray, double-breasted suit more common in the
capital's bureaucrat belt than in this ethnically mixed neighborhood where he
lives.

While he had a middle-class upbringing, Arene is no stranger to the struggles of
immigrants. His father, Nicolas, a Romanian cellist, left his homeland before
World War II and eventually ended up in El Salvador, where he married and
started a family.

In 1981, the family moved again, fearing the violence of El Salvador's civil war
and the repercussions of the family's criticism of the government, Arene said.
They went to Nicaragua, where Eugenio earned a bachelor's degree in economics
and started a job at the Planning Ministry.

Then, one day, Arene suddenly got a ticket to a new life that appeared to
promise greater opportunity. It was a green card, or U.S. permanent-residency
visa, which had finally come through, years after his aunt had married an
American.

Arene started in Washington in work familiar to many Latino immigrants. He
recalled being so naive about construction that he once stashed a container of
paint thinner in his pants pocket. "It gives you a tremendous rash," he said
with a grimace.

The jobs gave him a new appreciation for work done by laborers.

"That was an incredible experience," he said. "I said to myself, 'Look at the
conditions these people work in!' "

Arene, who became a U.S. citizen in 1993, eventually decided to return to school
and earned a master's degree in political science from Southwest Texas State
University in 1996. He then studied educational leadership and policy studies at
Arizona State University, where he is a PhD candidate. He is divorced with one
son.

Arene moved back to Washington about a year ago, taking a job at the mayor's
Office of Latino Affairs. It lasted only a few months.

"There were differences in terms of vision between the director and I," Arene
said, declining to elaborate.

Director Rosario Gutierrez also declined to comment, saying that Arene had "a
great way with people" and that she looked forward to working with him. Arene
has been working in the past few months as executive director of the Shirlington
Employment and Education Center in Arlington, an agency run by Arlington County
and local nonprofit groups.

Community activists said Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D) has been increasingly
attentive to the Latino community, citing, for example, his decision in each of
the past two years to provide $ 1 million in special grants for education
projects for Hispanics.

But immense challenges remain for Latinos, Arene said, ranging from quality
education to soaring rents that threaten to force many immigrants from the city.

"Look at this wonderful, multicultural, diverse community that we have here in
Mount Pleasant," he said. "How can we make sure we keep this wonderful
diversity?"

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              243 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 14, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 177 words


In a March 10 photo caption, two U.S. Army soldiers preparing a Chinook
helicopter for takeoff were incorrectly identified as Air Force pilots.

Eastport is separated from downtown Annapolis by Spa Creek.

In some March 13 editions, the body of water was identified incorrectly in an
article about shots being fired by a state trooper during a police chase near
the Maryland State House.

The man identified as Stephen Simon in a photograph accompanying a review of the
Washington Chamber Symphony in the March 11 Style section was actually violinist
Paul Rosenthal. The photo was taken by Peter Schaaf.

A review of a recital by pianist Byron Janis in the March 8 Style section
misidentified the opening selection. It was his composition "Heroes Passing By."

A March 13 article misstated the circumstances under which some illegal
immigrants might apply for permanent residency. Under legislation adopted by the
House on Tuesday, undocumented immigrants would have had to enter into a
qualifying relationship with a close relative or employer before Aug. 15, 2001.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: CORRECTION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              244 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 15, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Sensenbrenner Demands Accounting of INS Blunder;
Lawmaker Reaffirms Call for Agency Overhaul

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 617 words


The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee demanded yesterday that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service explain why it issued student visa
approval notices for two Sept. 11 hijackers this week, six months after they
piloted airliners into the World Trade Center towers.

In a letter yesterday to INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar, Rep. F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) also called for an "accounting of the management
failures" that resulted in the agency belatedly sending the notices for Mohamed
Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi to the Venice, Fla., flight school where they had
trained. Huffman Aviation received the notices Monday.

"I believe that this incident is symptomatic of deep-rooted problems within the
INS," Sensenbrenner, a frequent critic of the INS, said in the letter. "I am
gravely concerned that those problems have rendered the INS unable to identify
alien terrorists in the United States effectively."

Sensenbrenner asked for a "full immigration history" for all 19 hijackers
involved in the attacks in New York and Washington, including the dates of their
U.S. entries and departures and the status under which they entered. Atta was in
the United States on a business visa and Al-Shehhi was traveling on a tourist
visa when they sought flight training at Huffman Aviation in July 2000.

News of the belated mailing prompted President Bush to order an investigation
Wednesday, infuriated lawmakers and administration officials, and touched a
nerve with Americans who had just observed the six-month commemoration of the
attacks.

The INS has attributed the mistake to its antiquated paperwork system and
stressed that the mailing was a routine notification that Atta and Al-Shehhi had
been awarded the changes in their visa status the previous summer.

Ziglar did not return phone calls yesterday seeking comment. He was still
registered as a guest at the Argent Hotel in San Francisco, where he was
presiding over a three-day INS conference that ended yesterday. INS spokesman
Russ Bergeron said the Justice Department has ordered Ziglar and all INS
officials not to comment on the matter.

Sensenbrenner said the incident reinforces the need to overhaul the
34,000-employee agency. He introduced legislation in November calling for the
agency to be split into two entities and for the creation of the post of
associate attorney general for immigration affairs. A hearing on the bill is
scheduled for April 9.

"While the INS's computer systems are woefully deficient . . . INS management,
which has allowed the agency's technology . . . to fester uncorrected for years,
is at the heart of this," Sensenbrenner said. The agency is in the midst of
switching to a computerized record-keeping system mandated by Congress in 1996.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, who has asked Inspector General Glenn A. Fine
to investigate the blunder, said at a news conference yesterday that "a
breakdown of this kind is inexcusable."

"Fortunately, I only damaged the television set in a minor way when I got the
news, which was rather infuriating," said Ashcroft, who just returned to
Washington from an Organization of American States conference in Trinidad and
Tobago.

Ashcroft said he and Ziglar have discussed possible disciplinary action for
those responsible. But he also defended the INS commissioner, a Bush
administration appointee who took over the agency in August, and vowed to press
ahead with plans to revamp the agency by separating its enforcement and service
functions.

"I hope that Congress would let Commissioner Ziglar lead in reforming this
troubled agency with a very serious set of challenges," Ashcroft said.

Staff writer Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              245 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 16, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Planned INS Probes Of Students Blocked;
Schools Opposed In-Depth Checks

BYLINE: James V. Grimaldi, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1303 words


Two years ago, the Immigration and Naturalization Service was moving forward on
an ambitious plan to beef up its checks of foreign nationals seeking permission
to study in the United States, an effort designed to thwart terrorists from
taking advantage of the loosely controlled student visa system.

Then, the program ran into a roadblock: a fierce lobbying campaign by colleges
and universities that considered foreign students a major revenue source.

The schools complained that it was a privacy violation to conduct in-depth
checks of applicants whose backgrounds raised red flags of possible terrorist
involvement. They objected to scrutinizing students' bank accounts, parentage,
birthplaces and travel histories.

"We, like most Americans, are very uncomfortable with any form of profiling,"
Terry Hartle, vice president of the American Council on Education, said in an
interview this week. "We are not law enforcement officers."

The result of the lobbying effort was a scaled-down program that, critics say,
left the INS more exposed than it should have been to misuse by terrorists
involved in the Sept. 11 attacks. President Bush and Attorney General John D.
Ashcroft, who oversees the INS, have launched an investigation of the INS
blunders that became apparent on March 11, when a Florida flight school received
visa approval letters for presumed terrorist ringleader Mohamed Atta and cohort
Marwan Al-Shehhi. The letters arrived six months after the two allegedly took
part in the worst terrorist attack in U.S. history.

The episode has focused new attention on a program that the Justice Department
has been trying to fix since 1993, when it became apparent that a terrorist
involved in the initial World Trade Center bombing had used a student visa to
stay in the United States.

INS officials say the delayed letters to the Florida flight school illustrate a
problem that is already being fixed. They say that an improved computer tracking
system for foreign students will allow the agency to clear up an embarrassing
backlog of visas and other foreign student records.

But INS critics say that misses the point: They say that Atta and Al-Shehhi
would never have made it into the United States if the INS had more thoroughly
checked their finances and overseas residences.

"They aren't doing anything to expand the level of sophistication," said a
current INS official familiar with the student visa program. "They aren't
collecting more information. They aren't making it proactive."

The student visa system has been considered inefficient and inaccurate for more
than 15 years. In 1994, a year after the first World Trade Center bombing,
then-FBI Director Louis J. Freeh warned of the need to subject foreign students
to "thorough and continuous scrutiny." An upgraded student visa program was
launched in 1995 after an INS memo outlined the vulnerabilities posed by
would-be terrorists entering the country as students.

In 1996, Congress ordered the INS to set up an Internet-based pilot system that
would be implemented nationwide in 2003, and a test project was begun with 21
schools and colleges in the South. Colleges are usually the first point of
contact for foreign students seeking permission to enter the United States.

A task force representing the INS, FBI, CIA and Defense Intelligence Agency was
put together, and it recommended that information on a student's I-20 visa
application be shared among federal agencies. Some students, the task force
said, should be referred for deeper investigation. For example, an applicant who
came from a country known to sponsor terrorists, or has traveled to such a
country, might be referred for further scrutiny.

The program recommended by the task force would have instantly transmitted
student bank account numbers to the Financial Center of the Treasury Department,
which can screen for laundered funds or financial institutions that might have
links to known terrorist accounts.

The task force also recommended that a student visa applicant be fingerprinted
and issued a tamperproof identification card.

The recommendations stirred strong protests from colleges and universities. As
many as two dozen higher-education groups and large universities drafted harshly
worded letters to Congress, the White House and the INS protesting various parts
of the program as "unreliable," "ill-conceived," "a looming disaster" and "an
obvious and inevitable train wreck."

They secured meetings with INS officials to lobby for change. They circulated
letters of protest in Congress and got both liberal and conservative members to
sign. The groups also ran full-page ads in Capitol Hill newspapers. And by Sept.
11, they had found support in Congress for a repeal of the entire student
tracking program.

What survived after the terrorist attacks was a scaled-back program, far less
aggressive than the task force had wanted. The INS was required by law to
collect information on students' addresses, visa status and any academic
disciplinary actions taken against them, but it stopped short of implementing
proposals to share and coordinate the information.

"It is so disheartening," said Tom Fischer, the former INS Atlanta district
director whose region participated in the 21-school trial. "It is nothing but
cosmetic, smoke and mirrors. It is a database you can get off the phone book.
There is no substance to the current program. There is no interface with the
major domestic and international agencies."

To target questionable people trying to enter the United States, the INS
continues to rely on the often-hurried checks done at U.S. consulates and ports
of entry. In some cases, the INS reviews applications from foreign nationals in
the United States when they apply to change business or tourist visas to
"student" status.

INS officials confirmed that the expanded program was scaled back but said that
the system still exceeds the requirements of the 1996 law ordering better
student tracking. The officials said decisions about how to manage the program
were made well before Sept. 11 and have not been revisited.

A House Judiciary Committee investigation last fall determined that the tracking
program was scaled back partly because of pressure from major U.S. colleges and
universities on both Congress and the White House. The schools argued that an
aggressive student visa program would put at risk the $ 12 billion in tuition
collected each year from foreign students.

In its report, the committee said that Clinton administration appointees at the
INS "pursued a strategy of very gradual deployment of a 'dumbed down' version"
of the program recommended by the interagency task force.

Though several top officials have left the INS, other key Clinton administration
appointees involved in the decision remain in high-level INS positions,
congressional and federal officials said.

College administrators defend their lobbying efforts.

"You're talking about the way things were being viewed in 1997 or 1998, before
September 11th, 2001," said Gary Althen, the University of Iowa's director of
international students and past president of NAFSA: Association of International
Educators. "At the time, it was reported that one of the people involved in the
earlier [World Trade Center] bombing had at one time in his past been here in
student status. That was the example -- the one example -- that came up over and
over."

While the INS is backing off investigating foreign student applications, other
parts of the Justice Department are taking a more aggressive approach. A new
Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force wants to require a thorough review of all
foreign flight students seeking to learn to fly planes weighing more than 12,500
pounds. The proposed rule would also require student pilots to be fingerprinted.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              246 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 16, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS Shakeup Follows Criticism Over Terrorists' Visas

BYLINE: Edward Walsh, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 433 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday announced a personnel
shuffle affecting four agency positions as it scrambled to respond to criticism
over the belated mailing of student visa approvals for two of the terrorists who
carried out the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center.

The INS said the personnel changes were meant to "address immediate needs in
immigration procedures, services and enforcement" that were highlighted this
week when the approval letters were received by a Venice, Fla., flight school
exactly six months after Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi piloted separate
aircraft into the twin towers. More than 2,800 people died in the attack.

"The breakdown in communication, highlighted by this week's events, at INS is
unacceptable and will not be allowed," INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar said in
a written statement, his first response to the fiasco.

The only direct link between the personnel changes and the visa incident
appeared to be the timing of the announcement. An INS official said the changes
had been planned and that "what took place this week served as an impetus for
these changes to move forward. This is more a move for the commissioner to
establish his management team."

He said the four unnamed career employees who were replaced will be reassigned
to other jobs in the INS and Justice Department and do not face any disciplinary
action.

The four positions involved in the shuffle were the director for international
affairs; executive associate commissioner for field operations; assistant deputy
executive associate commissioner for immigration services; and assistant
commissioner for inspections.

The INS has said that Atta and Al-Shehhi were notified last summer that their
requests for a change to student visas had been approved. But the long delay in
informing the Huffman Aviation International flight school was an embarrassing
reminder of chronic problems in the INS that triggered a furor on Capitol Hill
and prompted President Bush to order an investigation.

In a related development yesterday, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft asked
Congress to restore his power to fire INS employees for violating Justice
Department policies and procedures. The INS is part of the Justice Department.

"During this crucial period, it is essential that I have the authority to
quickly discipline individuals for acts of negligence, mismanagement or
disregard for Department of Justice policies," Ashcroft said in a letter to Rep.
Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.), chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on
Commerce, Justice and State.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              247 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Hijackers Visa Fiasco Points Up INS Woes;
System Fails So Often It's Not Even Expected to Work, Immigration Experts Say

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 1280 words


Faced with the embarrassing news that a Florida flight school had belatedly
received visa approval notices for two dead Sept. 11 hijackers, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service hastened to make two points.

First, officials said, the visas were actually approved before the terror
attacks. Second, officials had no knowledge that the two men were connected to
terrorist groups at the time.

Left out of the response were all the other ways in which the U.S. immigration
system stumbled in the case of Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi -- as it does
in tens of thousands of other student visa cases every year.

The tale of Atta and Al-Shehhi underscores the extent to which the INS's
antiquated and sluggish visa system not only fails to work properly, but also is
really not expected to, according to immigration experts, educators and former
INS officials.

"This kind of thing happens all the time to people who aren't terrorists, but
then it's not news," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, a frequent critic of the INS. "The very fact that this
falls through the cracks tells you that they do not really own their own data,
or have much control over what happens to it."

As of last fall, nearly 660,000 foreign nationals held student visas in the
United States, including more than 10,000 enrolled in flight training, trade
schools and other nonacademic programs, according to INS statistics.

But critics charge that INS officials have little grasp of the foreign student
population, including how many are taking classes illegally or while out of
status. Another Sept. 11 hijacker -- Hani Hanjour, who piloted the plane that
hit the Pentagon -- entered the United States on a student visa but never showed
up for class.

These and other problems after Sept. 11 prompted the Justice Department's
inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, to launch a wide-ranging probe of the student
visa system last fall. In the furor after Monday's revelations, Fine was also
assigned to investigate the Atta and Al-Shehhi cases after President Bush
ordered an investigation.

Immigration officials, in one of their earlier statements on the hijackers'
mix-up, blamed much of the problem on an "antiquated, inaccurate, untimely"
record-keeping system that still relies to a large extent on paper files.

The INS is in the process of implementing the Student and Exchange Visitor
Information System, a computerized system that was mandated by Congress in 1996
but has been plagued with delays since. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said in
an interview last week that Congress has allocated $ 800 million to the agency
over the last 10 years to upgrade its computer system. But she said despite
repeated requests, she has never received a report on how the money has been
spent.

Interested parties, including colleges and immigration watchdogs, disagree on
whether the automated system will solve many of the chronic problems.

"The [current] system is extraordinarily complicated, very paper-intensive and
very, very slow," said Terry Hartle, senior vice president at the American
Council on Education, which represents about 18,000 schools. "The system we have
is, and has been for years, obsolete for the world we live in."

But Eric H. Holder Jr., who was deputy to former attorney general Janet Reno,
said the delayed student visa notices are the result of more than an antiquated
paperwork system.

"There were lots of mandates and administration initiatives that never were
implemented," Holder said. "Janet Reno and I personally directed attention to
the visa backlog."

According to INS officials, the student visa process is supposed to be
relatively straightforward.

In the most common case, a student applying for an entry visa from overseas
submits an "I-20," a form that acknowledges the applicant's admission to an
accredited school. Before a school can accept a foreign student, it must be
approved by the INS to issue I-20s. The school must show that it is accredited
and provide its course offerings, officials said.

Upon arrival at a U.S. airport, the student would present the approved I-20 form
to an airport inspector. One copy would be returned to the student, and two
others go to the INS.

Atta and Al-Shehhi, however, applied for student visas by filing for a change of
status after they were in the country. Atta was in the United States on a
business visa and Al-Shehhi was traveling on a tourist visa. The two sought
flight training at Huffman Aviation International in Venice, Fla., in July 2000,
according to U.S. records.

Their I-20 forms were submitted to the INS by Huffman in late August. The form
was processed by an adjudicator, who was supposed to review it to ensure that
the men had not violated their previous immigration status, that they had the
money to attend school and that they were "otherwise admissible," an INS
official said.

The professional pilot's course they had enrolled in cost $ 18,000, plus $ 9,300
each for living expenses. They were expected to complete the training no later
than Sept. 1, 2001.

The records received by Huffman on March 11 -- six months to the day after the
attacks -- show that Atta's visa was approved on July 17, 2001, and Al-Shehhi's
was approved on Aug. 9 -- nearly a full year after Huffman had submitted the
requests and long after both had completed the training course. For unexplained
reasons, both visas were approved through Oct. 1, 2001 -- a month longer than
either had requested.

INS officials have declined to provide copies of the actual approval notices
they say were sent to the men last summer, explaining that they keep only
electronic copies. However, they were able to provide The Washington Post with a
copy of an unidentified applicant's approval notice.

The approval notice is a computer-generated form letter. A copy of the I-20 also
is returned to the student and the school receives a copy of the I-20 for its
records.

"They can start school without the notice, as long as they've applied" for a
change of status, said an INS official. "The schools aren't responsible for
making sure the student is in status. The student is."

The final step in the process involves a private facility in London, Ky., run by
contractor ACS Inc., which was sent the approved forms for computer imaging.

INS officials said last week that the company was supposed to wait no more than
six months to return the I-20 originals to the school. ACS officials said they
were required to keep the originals for a "retention period" of six months.

ACS's version was confirmed by a copy of the contract provided by the INS on
Friday.

Finally, there was the cruel irony of the notification mailed to the flight
school, which was received more than 1 1/2 years after the application was filed
and six months after Atta and Al-Shehhi died committing the deadliest terrorist
act in U.S. history.

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
rights group, said that issuing a visa can take months, if not a year, depending
on which INS field office is processing the application.

"While it might be a concern that people have to wait a long time . . . the far
greater concern is that we haven't passed legislation that would ensure that
people who mean to do us harm don't get into the U.S.," Kelley said.

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which favors reduced immigration, agreed that the visa fiasco should serve as a
reminder of the urgent need for reform.

"The government can't process and monitor these people," he said. "The system is
too overloaded and overburdened."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              248 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

TB Still On Rise In N.Va.;
Drug Resistance, Immigration Cited In Disease's Spread

BYLINE: Leef Smith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1102 words


Bucking the national trend, tuberculosis continues to rise in Northern Virginia,
where state health officials say immigration is fueling the spread and new,
drug-resistant strains of the contagious disease are gaining a foothold.

Figures being released today by the Virginia Department of Health show that the
number of new TB cases increased nearly 5 percent statewide from 2000 to 2001,
with 57 percent of the total -- 174 of 306 cases -- occurring in Northern
Virginia.

That represents a one-year jump of 17 percent for the region, on top of a 5
percent rise the year before. The latest tally was boosted by reports from
Prince William County, which recorded an increase of 188 percent with 26 new
cases in 2001, and continuing high numbers from Fairfax.

Although state health officials stopped short of declaring the new data a
crisis, they concede that Virginia now stands in contrast to much of the nation.
Officials with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, headquartered in
Atlanta, said provisional 2001 reports indicate that the national TB rate
declined slightly last year, for the ninth year in a row. Actual numbers will
not be released until later this week.

Consistent with the national trend, Maryland health officials reported 262 cases
for 2001, a 7 percent decline from the previous year. The District's numbers,
and a more comprehensive breakdown for Maryland, will be released this week as
well.

Health officials say the rise of TB, a bacterial disease spread through the air,
is largely a consequence of the migration of people from parts of the world
where the disease is common. It is thought that two-thirds of the cases of TB
brought into the United States originated in just three countries: Mexico, the
Philippines and Vietnam. The World Health Organization declared TB, which kills
2 million people annually, an international emergency in 1993.

"This is a major global health problem and one that is having a direct impact on
Virginia, because it is very much one of the gateway states," said Ram Koppaka,
director of the state Department of Health's division of tuberculosis control.
"I would not want people to get the impression that this is a crisis [in
Virginia]. . . . At the same time, it's something people need to be aware of. TB
is not gone."

Although U.S. doctors have the drugs and knowledge to treat TB, health experts
say it could spread in this country if it is not brought under control in the
rest of the world.

The problem is exacerbated in the United States because underinsured patients
often balk at the cost of treatment -- prescription co-payments can run as high
as $ 100 a month for the six to nine months' duration -- and take themselves off
the drugs prematurely, increasing their susceptibility to multi-drug-resistant
strains of TB. As a result, the more dangerous permutations also are on the
rise, according to health statisticians.

"From a public health perspective, poorly supervised or incomplete treatment of
TB is worse than no treatment," because patients can pass on a drug-resistant
strain to others and will require years of treatment at 100 times the original
cost, WHO said.

Virginia is one of two states (Washington is the other) that does not
automatically provide free medication to anyone with TB, though officials in
Richmond say that, in practice, no one is denied treatment. Drug costs are fully
covered for the indigent, they say, and in cases where private insurance doesn't
cover the tab, the state uses a sliding scale based on income to determine how
much of a drug bill a patient must pay.

In 2001, there were 10 new reports of multi-drug-resistant TB in Virginia, up
from seven cases in 2000 and four in 1999. Six of 10 new cases were in Fairfax
County.

Multi-drug-resistant strains are particularly alarming to health officials
because treatment can stretch over several years and cost tens of thousands of
dollars for hospital stays, intravenous drugs, chemotherapy and sometimes even
surgery to repair damaged lungs.

Lee Reichman is executive director of the New Jersey Medical School National
Tuberculosis Center and the author of the 2002 book "Timebomb: The Global
Epidemic of Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis."

Virginia, he noted, pays the full cost of treating sexually transmitted diseases
and recently footed the bill for anthrax medication. Not doing the same for TB
is not only shortsighted but "disgraceful and appalling," he said.

"The first, second, third, four and fifth rules of public health say if you have
a condition that affects the greater society more than the individual person and
you don't make it worth his while to take his medicine, then what's he going to
do?" Reichman said. "He's going to stop taking the medicine, which is against
society's interest."

In a statement last week, Virginia's acting health commissioner, Robert Stroube,
defended the state's policy as a way to "prioritize limited resources so that
the neediest Virginians can be served at no cost to them" while taxpayers are
spared funding full treatment for everyone.

James Lamberti, a Northern Virginia pulmonologist who heads the TB advisory
committee of the Virginia chapter of the American Lung Association, said the
state needs to do more to make sure that people with tuberculosis obtain, and
complete, their drug regimen.

"The Department of Health tells you no one goes without medication, but the
truth is, it's a lot of paperwork and sometimes patients slip through the
cracks," Lamberti said. "We need to be doing everything we can."

The cost to the state of providing drugs for everyone would be negligible
compared with paying to combat drug-resistant strains, he said.

Testing for TB among people entering the country is currently limited to those
who apply for immigrant or refugee visas. If active TB is found, the patient
must undergo drug treatment.

With the amount of traveling people do nowadays, health experts agree with
Reichman when he says, "To control TB anywhere, you have to control it
everywhere."

Ken Castro, director of TB elimination at the CDC, said health officials are
working on new strategies for combating the spread of TB, which strikes
somewhere in the world every second -- about 31 million people are exposed each
year, and about 8 million become sick, according to WHO figures.

Testing everyone before any travel is not the answer, Castro said. "Imagine if .
. . you needed a chest X-ray to go to London or France" on vacation, he said.
"The more important way to solve the problem is to reduce the rate in countries
that are highly impacted," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              249 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

The INS Blunder

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 377 words


A March 13 front-page article reported that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service took approximately one year to process the visa applications of the two
terrorist pilots Mohamed Atta and Marwan Alshehhi plus another seven months to
notify their flight school in Florida. This is relatively fast service for the
INS.

The processing time for a change of status application at the INS office in
Chicago is 26 months. Also, in the case of the terrorist pilots, the INS sent
the notice to the right address. The INS often doesn't do that either. Many
nonterrorist immigrants would be happy to receive such good service.

CHARLES MOFFAT

Belleville, Ill.

*

"Backlog and antiquated computer systems" have been the excuse of the INS for a
decade and will continue to be its excuse until Congress sets the agency
straight.

Each year Congress chastises the INS and then increases its operating budget.
The INS has a "can't do" policy that needs to be changed to "we can do more."

GEORGE PRUCHNIEWSKI

Baltimore

*

Do you think that 19 months is a long time to wait for the terrorists' visas to
arrive? My Panamanian daughter-in-law, married to my son for nearly two years,
still does not have a visa after 21 months.

KATE LeSAR

Chevy Chase

*

As bad as the INS blunder is on granting student visas to known terrorists, it
is only the tip of the iceberg. As we have seen, the problems with exchange and
processing of information among various agencies charged with aviation security
-- INS, Customs, ATF, FBI, CIA, etc. -- are not going to go away.

If there ever was a time for the federal government to learn from the practices
of private industry, it is now. Forward-looking corporations have chief
information officers whose offices develop and improve the way information is
gathered and managed.

Currently, each federal agency manages and runs its own isolated information
service.

The president needs to appoint a secretary of information charged with
developing a top-down methodology of database management that reaches across all
divisions of government and eliminates the turf wars that rival agencies seem to
nurture and harbor. Until this happens, we all will wallow in mediocrity and
compromised security.

JUAN MATUTE

Peachtree City, Ga.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              250 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Detainees and Disclosure

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 474 words


SINCE THE SEPT. 11 attacks, the Bush administration's secrecy concerning those
it has detained has made allegations of abuse difficult to assess. The Justice
Department has refused to name those it arrested on immigration charges, and the
proceedings against them have been closed. Now Amnesty International has issued
a report on the detentions, which, along with press accounts alleging similar
problems, raises serious questions about whether some of the detentions violated
norms of civil liberty that the federal government ought to be respecting.
Releasing more information about the detained would be the best way for the
administration to begin to reassure Americans that its behavior has been
appropriate.

Amnesty's report, based on an incomplete picture, cannot be taken as the last
word on this subject. The Justice Department faces a dilemma when confronted
with people who may be -- but probably are not -- extraordinarily dangerous. The
fact, in other words, that many of the people detained are held on relatively
minor immigration charges that might not, in a different context, warrant
detention doesn't necessarily mean they should not be held. If the FBI has a
reasonable basis to believe that individuals with visa problems pose a serious
danger, detaining them while arranging their deportations and using that time to
investigate them would seem only responsible.

But some allegations in the report are disturbing. It contends that some
immigration detainees have been held for long periods without charge, which the
department denies. It cites evidence that detainees' access to counsel,
relatives and telephones has been impaired and that some detainees in New York
are reported to be confined "for 23 to 24 hours a day in sealed, high security
cells." Unlike the detainees captured in Afghanistan, these people were arrested
under domestic American law, so their treatment reflects how well our criminal
and immigration systems are working under pressure. It is critical that the
public have some means of evaluating allegations such as these.

The Bush administration's response is, in effect, that the public should trust
it. The trouble is that without some means of independently assessing the
Justice Department's behavior, trust inevitably will erode -- particularly if
more and more people get released from detention, apparently innocent of
terrorist connections and, to one degree or another, claim mistreatment by the
system. The list of people still detained is shrinking; by mid-February, the
1,200 arrestees had dwindled to 327 immigration detainees. It likely has fallen
farther since then, as more have been released or deported. The need to
understand the conditions under which the detainees were -- and still are --
held remains urgent, however. And disclosure is the one way that can be
accomplished.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              251 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 19, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Poised to Back New Border Agency;
Plan Would Merge 3 Bureaucracies

BYLINE: Dana Milbank, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 855 words


The Bush administration is poised to recommend a dramatic reorganization of the
federal agencies charged with protecting the nation's borders by merging the
Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border
Patrol, administration and congressional officials said yesterday.

The merger of the three agencies, each responsible for part of the nation's
border security, would be an effort to streamline government functions and shore
up the nation's porous border defenses as a response to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. The restructuring, which would require congressional approval, is
intended to improve coordination among the thousands of federal workers who
protect U.S. borders but work for different organizations.

Similar proposals have been rejected since the Nixon administration, but the
imminent agreement reflects the government's new sense of urgency in overcoming
bureaucratic hurdles.

Senior administration officials will meet today to finalize the merger proposal
and draft recommendations for President Bush, officials said. The consolidation
has been a priority for Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge, who has been
forced to negotiate bureaucratic turf battles within the administration.

Ridge had hoped such a proposal would be part of the president's State of the
Union address and budget message. He backed down at that time because of ongoing
wrangling, conceding that he may have been pushing for change too quickly.

Although top Bush advisers have agreed to combine the INS and Border Patrol,
which are part of the Justice Department, with Customs, which is part of the
Treasury Department, they have yet to decide whether the new agency will be part
of Justice or a stand-alone organization, possibly under Ridge. Democrats in
Congress are seeking to create a new Cabinet department responsible for homeland
security -- something President Bush has opposed.

Ridge is scheduled to meet today with Attorney General John D. Ashcroft,
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and other members of the Homeland Security
Council to finalize the agreement. Administration officials said they anticipate
today's meeting will be the final one before a recommendation is made.

Ridge spokesman Gordon Johndroe confirmed that the Homeland Security Council
will meet today but declined to discuss its agenda.

Congressional sources said the most likely recommendation is for the new entity
to be placed in the Justice Department, but administration officials cautioned
that such a conclusion was premature. Moving Customs under the umbrella of the
INS would likely be controversial in Congress, which has been highly critical of
that agency, particularly after the belated arrival last week of student visa
approval notices for two of the Sept. 11 hijackers.

Such a change might also draw opposition from business groups concerned that
routine Customs operations could be affected.

Any proposal would give Congress an opportunity to question administration
officials on the structure of the homeland security apparatus, and may provide
congressional critics of the INS a chance to overhaul that agency. Bush has
proposed reforming the INS without legislative action by breaking it into
service and enforcement units.

Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.), chairman of the Governmental Affairs
Committee, has introduced legislation that would create a Cabinet-level
Department of Homeland Security, combining the three entities in the Bush
proposal with others, such as the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the
Coast Guard. They would be under the command of Ridge or a different secretary
of homeland security.

A Lieberman spokesman said the Bush plan "is moving in our direction." Rep.
William M. "Mac" Thornberry (R-Tex.) has also proposed a consolidation.

Congressional Democrats, supported by a small number of Republicans, have also
asked Ridge to testify on homeland security, a request the administration has
refused on the grounds that Ridge is a member of Bush's staff and is not
required to appear before congressional committees, as Cabinet officers are.

Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) said senators might consider
issuing a subpoena to Ridge, and senators have raised the possibility of
requiring testimony from some 80 officials of the various agencies included in
the homeland security effort.

In an interview last November, Ridge said "there is an appetite" to bring
Customs, INS, Border Patrol and possibly the Coast Guard under one agency. He
said it made little sense that "when you are coming across a border, you have
five or six different folks, wearing different uniforms, and you have to run a
gantlet.

"We would be a lot safer," Ridge said, "if we could not only fuse some of this
capability, but exchange some of the intelligence that these agencies now get."

Ridge's comments drew cheers from congressional sponsors of such legislation,
but he ran into opposition from officials in those agencies who were reluctant
or unwilling to relinquish power to a new, more centralized agency.

Staff writer Eric Pianin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              252 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 20, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

INS May Limit Visitors To 30 Days in the U.S.

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 672 words


The head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service acknowledged for the
first time yesterday that his agency was to blame for the visa fiasco last week
involving two dead Sept. 11 hijackers and said it is considering stringent
reforms that include limiting millions of foreign visitors to 30-day stays in
the United States.

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar also said he is considering prohibiting anyone
who has entered the United States on a tourist, business or other kind of visa
from attending school here until the INS approves a change to student status.

Ziglar told a House immigration subcommittee that the INS -- and not a private
contractor -- was at fault for failing to intercept status change notifications
for presumed terrorist ringleader Mohamed Atta and cohort Marwan Al-Shehhi.
Those routine approval documents were received by the flight school where the
pair had trained six months after they are believed to have piloted airliners
into the World Trade Center.

The mistake prompted President Bush to order an investigation and started a
furor on Capitol Hill, where the INS has been criticized for years. Ziglar also
reshuffled some of his top staff.

"We should have intercepted these I-20s . . . but we did not," Ziglar said,
referring to the form that acknowledges the applicant's admission to an
accredited school. "We should have known and pulled them out of the system."

ACS Inc., the Dallas contractor charged with mailing the notices, has said that
INS rules required it to keep the original I-20s for six months, a position that
INS officials disputed last week. But Ziglar said yesterday that the company did
what the INS asked of it.

"The contractor is not at fault," he testified. "They did nothing wrong."

Ziglar was one of four people who appeared before the committee to determine how
the approval letters ended up at Huffman Aviation International in Venice, Fla.,
and whether paperwork that the INS has failed to retrieve is pending for other
known terrorists. The president of the Florida flight school, an ACS official
and an INS special agent also testified.

"If the Immigration and Naturalization Service had trouble identifying
terrorists whose acts were complete . . . how can we believe that future
terrorists will be detected in time?" asked Rep. George W. Gekas (R-Pa.). "There
is a serious intelligence failure at the INS."

Rudi Dekkers, president and chief executive officer of Huffman Aviation
International, found the approval notices March 11 as he opened his mail. He
said he was not surprised to see the paperwork. "It usually takes a long time
for visas to be returned from the INS," Dekkers said.

Ziglar at times defended his agency, attributing much of the problem to outdated
technology. Ziglar is working to implement a restructuring of the agency
announced in November by Attorney General John D. Ashcroft.

The INS, he said, is considering limiting visitors to 30-day stays -- instead of
six months -- which could affect 7 million people who State Department records
show come to the United States annually on various visas.

Regulatory changes designed to "tighten up" the student visa program would
prevent students from taking courses until their student visas are approved.
Under current regulations, foreign nationals can begin courses of study once
they have applied to have their status changed to "student."

Ziglar also said he will immediately order that I-20s be promptly sent to
schools when a foreign national is approved for student status.

The agency also will send letters reminding schools of their responsibility to
notify the INS if a student fails to attend classes. One Sept. 11 hijacker
entered the United States on a student visa but did not attend class.

"The student process had become so lax and lengthy because the focus of
immigration policies prior to September 11th was not on security but on
facilitating the students and the schools that they attended," Ziglar said. "The
focus has changed and our process has changed as well."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              253 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 22, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

House Panel Agrees On Plan to Split INS

BYLINE: Dana Milbank and Cheryl Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 535 words


Lawmakers on the House Judiciary Committee reached a bipartisan agreement
yesterday on a proposal to split the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
two, a bid by Congress to assert its role in overhauling the agency.

The Bush administration had proposed a similar change to the INS that it sought
to accomplish without congressional action. The proposal announced yesterday by
Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) and Rep. John
Conyers Jr. (Mich.), the committee's ranking Democrat, would create a clearer
split between the INS's enforcement and administrative functions by giving the
two separate budgets.

The House negotiators reached the compromise after the embarrassing disclosure
last week that the INS had approved visas for two of the Sept. 11 hijackers six
months after the terrorist attacks.

The agreement would keep the two INS divisions within the Justice Department and
create the position of associate attorney general for immigration affairs, who
would be the department's third-ranking official. The proposal also calls for
the creation of a "children's office" to deal with immigration problems
involving minors.

The proposal, because it is a bipartisan compromise, has a strong chance of
passing in the House, congressional aides said. But it will have to vie with an
alternative that will be introduced in the Senate by Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.), who is looking for GOP sponsors. The Kennedy measure, which is closer
to the administration's proposal, would give more power to the Justice
Department official overseeing the two INS divisions.

"In reforming the agency, we need to maintain strong overall leadership to
ensure uniformity, efficiency and decisive action in a crisis," Kennedy said.
"Now is not the time to diminish the power of the person running the nation's
immigration agency."

Conyers acknowledged that much negotiation remains. "This legislation is an
important first step in tearing down the INS and replacing it with an agency
that works," he said. Sensenbrenner said the plan would allow lawmakers to work
"in concert with the Bush administration" to split the INS.

The agreement, scheduled for a Judiciary Committee hearing and vote on April 9
and 10, was also negotiated by Reps. George W. Gekas (R-Pa.), chairman of the
immigration subcommittee, and Sheila Jackson Lee (Tex.), the subcommittee's
ranking Democrat. The legislation is unrelated to an administration proposal,
presented to Bush by Cabinet members this week, to merge the INS with the
Customs Service.

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigration
rights group, said the bipartisan bill is headed in the right direction.
"There's no doubt that's a potent alliance when Conyers and Sensenbrenner come
together to work on restructuring the INS," she said.

Larry Gonzalez, Washington director of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials, said he is "cautiously optimistic" about the
plan. Gonzalez said he is waiting to see what restructuring plan the Senate
might introduce before his group takes a position. "In the end, I think we might
see a little bit of this and a little bit of that," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              254 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 24, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Snapshot of an Immigrant's Dream Fading;
A Legacy of Sept. 11 Sweeps Pakistani to the Point of No Return: Deportation

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1775 words

DATELINE: HUDSON, N.Y.


Even five minutes before the INS agent showed up with handcuffs, Ansar Mahmood
was convinced it wouldn't happen. He had put on his Domino's uniform, called his
boss -- "I'll be there in half an hour" -- and then waited a bit in his
attorney's Albany office, just in case he was wrong.

At that moment in January, it seemed like forever since Mahmood had fallen under
the shadow of Sept. 11, since the days of the anthrax attacks, when local police
picked him up for having his snapshot taken near a water treatment plant.

Within 48 hours, the FBI had cleared Mahmood of all suspicion that he was a
terrorist, reducing this very slight and shy Pakistani's brush with the law to
an unlikely nickname at work ("Hey, Big Terrorist Guy, get me some Cheesy
Bread"). Plus, Mahmood had a green card, and wouldn't that guarantee any
immigrant a happy ending?

Yet it was enough to end his immigrant's luck. Six months after Sept. 11,
Mahmood faces the same problem as most of the 1,200 detainees picked up in the
two months after the terrorist attack.

All but a small number have been cleared, but being cleared has turned out to be
fairly meaningless. The Justice Department has not released information about
the detainees, but sources there and at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service say fewer than a fifth will likely remain in the United States. If they
haven't been deported already, they are likely to be soon; and once deported,
they can never return. Among the deportees are legal residents, such as Mahmood,
and people married to Americans.

At first, this anonymous foreign mass represented America's fears of a terrorist
threat in its midst. Now, their individual cases point to a different lesson:
how immigrants in the United States can no longer skirt under the radar, float
between visas, help a friend find a job -- how the winks and ambiguities and
sudden, lucky amnesties that were the hallmarks of American immigration
enforcement have vanished.

Most of the post-Sept. 11 detainees were caught in similar ways: While looking
for evidence of terrorist connections, investigators came across lapses that
might otherwise have stayed hidden or ignored -- visa overstays, illegal jobs.
To detain these immigrants, INS agents revived laws that had gone largely
unenforced or used old laws in new ways.

In Mahmood's case, he had helped an undocumented friend from Pakistan find an
apartment, a common favor in the immigrant network. For that, he was charged
with harboring an illegal immigrant -- a charge that, before Sept. 11, had been
used almost exclusively against smugglers at border points.

FBI and INS agents have said they enforced the law strictly as a way to hold
detainees in case new evidence should turn up linking them to terrorists. But as
their vigilance has persisted, law enforcement has developed new habits.

Since Jan. 1, a task force including representatives of state and local police,
the INS, the Customs Service and the FBI has met in Albany once a month to trade
tips.

The U.S. attorney's office has received thousands of calls, said Tina
Sciocchetti, the assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted Mahmood's case. The
office refers the calls to the INS or local police. A few weeks ago, a police
officer stopped for gas at the usual place and tuned in to the attendant's
horrible English. After he called the INS, agents discovered that the man had
overstayed a student visa. He is being deported.

"I tell my clients, whether they are Arab, Mexican or Caribbeans, that things
have changed," said Sophie Feal, who works with the Volunteer Lawyers Project in
Buffalo. "A broken law now is a broken law, and they're not going to find much
sympathy out there anymore."

From his quarters at the Buffalo Federal Detention Facility, it's obvious to
Mahmood that he picked an unlucky moment to record his life in America. But on
the afternoon of Oct. 9, he was only considering the best angle to capture the
sun setting behind the Catskills.

Slender and owl-eyed, Mahmood looks even younger than 24. He cries openly when
he feels sad or angry or even sentimental, and he has been crying a lot lately.
He cries at the mention of Saiful Maluk, his favorite mountain resort in
Pakistan, or of the deer that gather in the early morning behind his house in
Hudson, south of Albany. He cries with gratitude when he mentions the American
girls who had semi-adopted him during his two-year journey in the States:
Jessica, his fellow waitress at Pizza City in Salisbury, Md., who taught him to
drive; Kelly at the Domino's in Hudson, who stood up for him when the mayor came
to grandstand at the store after the anthrax scare.

He cries hardest when he mentions his three sisters in Pakistan, who were able
to finish school because of the $ 400 he sent home each month. "I am so lovable
to them," he said.

"Working, working, working, this is all we know about your new life," his oldest
sister, Mariam, had said when he called last fall. So he set out to give them a
fuller picture of life in this small American town. He snapped pictures of his
clean white apartment complex, the Domino's where he worked, scenic spots along
his delivery route. With 36 shots gone, Mahmood figured he could push for one
more.

After delivering a pizza at 5 p.m., he drove to what a regular customer had once
told him was the highest point in Hudson, with the clearest view of the
mountains. He asked the man at the guard post to take his picture, with the sun
setting behind him, ripe as a tangerine.

As it happened, the hilltop looked over the town's main water treatment plant.
And because of the anthrax scare, the town had posted two guards there that day.
As one took Mahmood's picture, the second watched and then called the police.

They were waiting for Mahmood when he got back to Domino's.

"Why were you taking pictures of the water treatment plant?" an officer asked.

"What is this type of plant?" Mahmood answered.

Two days later, tests of the water came back negative for contamination, and
investigators determined that Mahmood was just who he said he was: a legal
immigrant taking a picture to send back home. But investigators had also turned
up receipts showing he had paid the first month's rent and car insurance for a
Pakistani couple living in Hudson illegally.

On Oct. 16, Mahmood pleaded guilty to harboring. Although he was given no jail
time, he was automatically put into deportation proceedings.

Now, Mahmood says he did not know they were undocumented, but he also says he
would never ask and could not have done anything differently. The woman, Aisha
Younes, was his best friend's sister. "How I could not help her?" he said.

By the time Younes and her husband arrived, last July, Mahmood had been here
just over a year and was at a point in his life -- his American life -- where he
could help people.

Only three years ago, he was in sorry shape. He had just been rejected by the
Pakistani army, and he could not understand why. He was in good health. His
father was a retired officer with 25 years' service, and his brother was a
sergeant.

Three days later, Mahmood received a letter: He had won the immigration lottery.
Annually, the INS grants green cards to a minute number of qualified applicants
worldwide in a lottery; 1999 was Mahmood's lucky year. His mother gave the
postman 500 rupees -- a fortune for the family -- and ordered a cake.

The rejection, his whole life, now it all made sense: Mahmood, the most dutiful
son of the five, had been chosen to save his family, to get the 11 of them out
of their two-room house and into the Pakistani middle class. "God was giving me
a chance," Mahmood said.

After skipping through a few cities in the United States, he found his calling
at the friendly pizza joint in Salisbury. Where his co-workers saw dead-end
summer jobs, Mahmood saw his redemption: The more you worked, the more you got
paid, and Mahmood could work a lot, making and delivering pizzas 13, 14 hours a
day.

By last October, he had two cars and a clean apartment, and he was sending home
$ 400 a month. His family had a new color TV and a refrigerator, and his sisters
were going to school. His father, who'd had a heart attack in September, could
afford medication. They were going to move into a house this year.

In January, the INS moved to revoke his green card. On Jan. 24, the day before
he was taken into INS custody, he worked his usual 13 hours. He still could not
believe that he was getting deported.

"What can I do when I go back, no job, no money, just sit to look at my family
to suffer?" he said. "My father has no medicine; my sisters have no school,
nothing. They never deport me."

At 10 p.m., between deliveries, he pulled over and called his family.

"I will pray for you. God will be good to you," his father repeated over and
over. To cheer him up, his sister tried to order a pizza in broken English she
had learned at school.

"It is all right if you want to come home," his mother said.

Mahmood wasn't consoled.

"Mother, father, their heart is soft, but I never go home," he said after he had
hung up. "All the laws, rules are against me, but God will help me."

The next morning, he dressed for work and reported to his attorney's office.
Then the INS agent came with the handcuffs.

On Feb. 26, Mahmood went to his deportation hearing. That morning, he was in a
decent mood, still hopeful. "I never leave this country," he said.

The seven other Sept. 11 detainees in the facility were past that stage. They
had all been ordered deported and had agreed to go -- but the authorities still
would not release them.

Mahmood was sure he would be at work the next week. He had hired an attorney,
Rex Velasquez. Because Mahmood had a green card, Velasquez thought there might
be a chance he would get bond. But because he had pleaded guilty to harboring,
"we have to be realistic," Velasquez said. "There's not much we can do."

The hearing was brief. Before Velasquez could make his case, Judge John Reid
signaled that it was not within his jurisdiction to grant Mahmood bond.
Mahmood's choices were suddenly stark: to go through years of appeals, with his
legal bills mounting and no way to pay them, or to agree, like most of his
fellow Sept. 11 detainees, to be deported.

Mahmood didn't get all the details, but he got the idea. Afterward, he wept, so
much that he borrowed a pair of glasses to cover his eyes.

So far, Mahmood is still fighting. On Tuesday, he filed petitions in federal and
immigration court to stop or at least delay his deportation. After that, he
fears, he will run out of money.

"Then maybe God will help me," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              255 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Free Ansar Mahmood

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 447 words


MOST OF THE 1,200 immigrants picked up and detained by the federal government
after Sept. 11 have been cleared of any connection to the terrorists, or to any
terrorists. But most, according to a Sunday article by Post staff writer Hanna
Rosin, are being deported anyhow. In the course of police inquiries, almost all
of the detainees were found to have violated some law or regulation, sufficient
grounds for them to be kicked out and never permitted to return.

The first reaction to this news may be: So what? They should have known better
than to break a rule -- to overstay a visa, or help a friend without a green
card find a job, or commit some other infraction. But the story of a Pakistani
man, Ansar Mahmood, may have caused some readers, as it did us, to think twice
about the administration's no-excuses policy. Mr. Mahmood seems in many ways to
have been the ideal immigrant, the classic American story. He was here legally.
He worked hard, legally, putting in 13 or 14 hours per day as a pizza delivery
man. He lived frugally and sent money home so his sisters could go to school and
his sick father could buy medicine.

Mr. Mahmood, 24, came under suspicion because, on the afternoon of Oct. 9, he
asked someone to snap his photo at a scenic overlook of the Hudson River near
where he lived in New York state. As it happened, the site also overlooked a
water treatment plant; officials wondered whether he was casing the facility for
nefarious purposes. By the time they found that he wasn't doing any such thing,
The Post article recounts, the authorities also discovered that Mr. Mahmood had
once helped a Pakistani couple, friends of his sister, find an apartment. The
couple was here illegally, so Mr. Mahmood was guilty of harboring an illegal
immigrant.

Now he faces deportation, with no possibility of return. In the general scheme
of things, we suppose it's no big deal; one immigrant's bad luck, or maybe 1,200
immigrants' bad luck. But we wonder about the message this sends. There probably
aren't many people on whom authorities couldn't pin something if they looked
hard enough: a Social Security form filed late, some tips not reported to the
IRS. For immigrants, even legal immigrants, that's particularly true, given the
challenges of negotiating ever-changing immigration laws and an incompetent INS
bureaucracy. The government should not tolerate lawbreakers. But by rounding up
aliens from majority-Muslim countries and then finding something, anything, to
pin on them, the government seems to be saying: Terrorist or not, we're better
off without you. From what we know about him, it doesn't seem to us that America
is better off without Mr. Mahmood.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              256 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

History Lesson Takes Students to New World

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T06

LENGTH: 96 words


Fifth-graders at Washington Grove Elementary School took a "visit" to Ellis
Island last week to learn about immigration.

The students participated in a program that re-created immigration procedures at
New York's Ellis Island during the 1920s. Dressed in clothing representing their
cultural backgrounds, students moved through six stations, including customs,
medical, money exchange, literacy and a waiting station.

"The aim was to give children a feeling of what immigrants went through to get
to this country and still continue to go through today," teacher Tom Stroot
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              257 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

INS to Put Tanzanian Scouts in Foster Care

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 553 words


The four Tanzanian teenagers detained by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service since they left an international gathering of Boy Scouts in Virginia
last summer will be moved to a foster home this week, federal authorities said
yesterday.

The Scouts, now ages 17 and 16, have been held at an INS detention center in
Berks County, Pa., since Aug. 3. Federal officials said the boys have been kept
in the shelter because authorities needed time to find a suitable home and to
sort through the merits of their case.

"We have worked very hard to find a foster family that could speak their
language and would be willing to take them," an INS spokeswoman said yesterday,
declining to identify the home or its location. The four boys will be cared for
by a state-licensed foster family in the Midwest while their request for asylum
proceeds through the system, officials said.

Attorneys for the Scouts said yesterday they were pleased with the INS decision,
but pointed out that they had made requests for foster care since the Scouts
were first detained.

"Since August, we have asked at least a half-dozen times for this type of
placement," said Steven Schulman, a Washington lawyer representing the Scouts.
"We agree with the service that this appears to be an ideal setting for the
boys."

The Scouts, who speak Swahili and little English, left the National Scout
Jamboree near Bowling Green, Va., on July 29 with the help of a relative, court
records show. They hitchhiked nearly 80 miles to the District and were picked up
the next day after they asked a police officer for help. The four later told
their lawyers and Tanzanian officials that they hoped to stay in the United
States and get an education. They sought asylum after becoming frightened that
they would suffer stiff reprisals from Tanzanian officials if they returned
home. The Tanzanian Embassy has said the boys had nothing to fear.

Federal authorities have said the teenagers were kept in custody because they
violated the terms of their visas when they left the Jamboree. Attorneys for the
teenagers have argued that because the teenagers' visas were valid until Jan.
22, they should not have been subject to detention, which is common for
foreigners who have broken the law.

Instead, the lawyers said the teenagers should have been granted an interview
with an INS officer, placed in foster care immediately and allowed an exhaustive
review of their case, attorneys said.

In November, an immigration judge agreed with the Scouts, ruling that they did
not violate their visa status and should be allowed to apply for asylum. The INS
appealed the decision several weeks later. A decision is not expected until
June. Although the teenagers will be in foster care, they will remain under
federal custody until their case is resolved, an INS official said.

"All along we have said that their initial detention was wrong," said Andrew
Morton, an attorney for the Scouts, adding that the teenagers have been able to
go to school. "This [placement] should have happened a long time ago."

The Scouts' detention has caught the attention of lawmakers, who contend that
the INS does not handle the cases of unaccompanied minor foreigners
appropriately. Last year, the INS detained 5,400 minors who came to this country
without adult supervision.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              258 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Tanzanians to Get Foster Care

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 553 words


The four Tanzanian teenagers detained by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service since they left an international gathering of Boy Scouts in Virginia
last summer will be moved to a foster home this week, federal authorities said
yesterday.

The Scouts, now ages 17 and 16, have been held at an INS detention center in
Berks County, Pa., since Aug. 3. Federal officials said the boys have been kept
in the shelter because authorities needed time to find a suitable home and to
sort through the merits of their case.

"We have worked very hard to find a foster family that could speak their
language and would be willing to take them," an INS spokeswoman said yesterday,
declining to identify the home or its location. The four boys will be cared for
by a state-licensed foster family in the Midwest while their request for asylum
proceeds through the system, officials said.

Attorneys for the Scouts said yesterday they were pleased with the INS decision,
but pointed out that they had made requests for foster care since the Scouts
were first detained.

"Since August, we have asked at least a half-dozen times for this type of
placement," said Steven Schulman, a Washington lawyer representing the Scouts.
"We agree with the service that this appears to be an ideal setting for the
boys."

The Scouts, who speak Swahili and little English, left the National Scout
Jamboree near Bowling Green, Va., on July 29 with the help of a relative, court
records show. They hitchhiked nearly 80 miles to the District and were picked up
the next day after they asked a police officer for help. The four later told
their lawyers and Tanzanian officials that they hoped to stay in the United
States and get an education. They sought asylum after becoming frightened that
they would suffer stiff reprisals from Tanzanian officials if they returned
home. The Tanzanian Embassy has said the boys had nothing to fear.

Federal authorities have said the teenagers were kept in custody because they
violated the terms of their visas when they left the Jamboree. Attorneys for the
teenagers have argued that because the teenagers' visas were valid until Jan.
22, they should not have been subject to detention, which is common for
foreigners who have broken the law.

Instead, the lawyers said the teenagers should have been granted an interview
with an INS officer, placed in foster care immediately and allowed an exhaustive
review of their case, attorneys said.

In November, an immigration judge agreed with the Scouts, ruling that they did
not violate their visa status and should be allowed to apply for asylum. The INS
appealed the decision several weeks later. A decision is not expected until
June. Although the teenagers will be in foster care, they will remain under
federal custody until their case is resolved, an INS official said.

"All along we have said that their initial detention was wrong," said Andrew
Morton, an attorney for the Scouts, adding that the teenagers have been able to
go to school. "This [placement] should have happened a long time ago."

The Scouts' detention has caught the attention of lawmakers, who contend that
the INS does not handle the cases of unaccompanied minor foreigners
appropriately. Last year, the INS detained 5,400 minors who came to this country
without adult supervision.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              259 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 29, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS Action Ruled a Violation Of Whistle-Blower Protections;
2 Border Agents Who Complained Were Demoted

BYLINE: James V. Grimaldi, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 821 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service violated federal whistle-blower
protection laws late last year when it demoted and penalized two U.S. Border
Patrol agents who openly complained about lax security along the Canadian border
in the wake of Sept. 11, according to two independent federal offices.

The Border Patrol agents, based in Detroit, talked to a newspaper and appeared
on the NBC "Today" show, where one of the agents said, "the northern border is
vulnerable" and "terrorists know it." The statements prompted INS supervisors to
try to fire the agents, but eventually they settled on reassignments, 90-day
suspensions and one-year demotions, discipline that was put on hold after the
Justice Department inspector general initiated an investigation.

INS supervisors told the Office of Special Counsel that the INS punished the
agents -- local Border Patrol union president Dan Hall and local vice president
Robert Lindemann -- for violating a media gag order.

The special counsel office ruled that the move was retaliation and a violation
of the federal whistle-blower act. The Justice Department inspector general
agreed.

It is the fourth time in four years that the INS has been taken to task by the
independent Office of Special Counsel for retaliating against whistle-blowers
who either testified before Congress, talked to investigators or talked to
reporters. In each case, the INS reversed the disciplinary actions.

"We were doing what we felt necessary to make America a safer place," said Hall,
41. "I took an oath to defend and protect the U.S. Constitution, not the
immigration service."

Lindemann, 40, a former Marine who has spent his career with the government,
said the actions have been hard on their families. "To be turned on like this,
it is just devastating," he said.

Justice Department Inspector General Glenn A. Fine, whose office also
investigated the Detroit case, essentially agreed that the discipline was likely
in violation of the whistle-blower act.

"We seriously question the decision to propose discipline against Hall and
Lindemann and believe it would not be upheld," Fine wrote INS Commissioner James
W. Ziglar. "In sum, we believe the INS's proposal was unsound and that the INS
should reevaluate whether it has a basis to go forward with discipline against
the two agents."

INS spokesman Russell A. Bergeron Jr. declined to comment yesterday on the
special counsel and IG reports because they "address issues that are the subject
of an ongoing personnel action."

The agency "does not prohibit employees from speaking to the media and does not
discipline employees for simply talking to the media," he said, but added that
"employees have a responsibility to insure that the safety of fellow officers
and private citizens as well as the service's national security efforts are not
compromised by comments made to the media."

In the Detroit case, the special counsel found internal e-mails from the agents'
supervisor, Detroit sector chief Dan Geoghegan, to managers indicating he was
upset with a challenge to authority.

"The president of the Local [union] deemed it necessary to independently
question our readiness in a public forum," Geoghegan said, according to the
special counsel's report. He also told managers they must take a "stance which
bears no tolerance for dissent" and to "view resistance from the rank & file as
insubordination."

After Hall appeared in media reports, he repeated his most serious allegation to
Congress. He said some agents routinely failed to make criminal background
checks on people caught crossing the border illegally.

He thought he recognized one person who had been detained and released as
appearing on a Justice Department watch list after Sept. 11. "When I saw that
name," Hall said, "I almost got sick."

An INS attorney this week told members of Congress and the Office of Special
Counsel that the agency would not back down on disciplining the agents.

The INS move against Hall and Lindemann has sparked outrage from Sen. Charles E.
Grassley (R-Iowa), a chief advocate of whistle-blower laws, and Sen. Carl M.
Levin (D-Mich.), author of the whistle-blower protection act and the lawmaker
who recruited Hall to speak at a hearing last fall.

Levin said that "given the kind of massive failures we've seen" at the INS, it
was incredible for the agency "to be spending time and money pursuing this case.
. . . It is further evidence frankly that this agency needs a major overhaul."

Grassley was particularly peeved that officials considered firing the two agents
while the managers involved in two other recent high-profile snafus involving
known terrorists or the Sept. 11 attacks have been reassigned or been given
"slaps on the wrist." Managers were reassigned this month when a flight school
received notification about a visa status change on the two suspected lead
hijackers in the World Trade Center attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              260 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 29, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Turn From Tolerance;
Anti-Immigrant Movement in Europe Reflects Post-Sept. 11 Views on Muslims

BYLINE: Peter Finn, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1885 words

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN


A wave of anti-Muslim sentiment has bolstered far-right parties in some European
countries since Sept. 11 and left the continent's large communities of
foreigners wondering how long their welcome will last.

The changing mood has found its fullest political expression here in Denmark,
where an anti-immigrant party won 12 percent of the vote in parliamentary
elections in November, nearly doubling its showing from the previous election.
Its campaign posters featured a picture of a young blond girl and the slogan:
"When she retires, Denmark will have a Muslim majority."

Now the Danish Parliament is considering a bill that would close many doors to
the country, long known as one of Europe's most receptive to foreigners. It is
host to about 300,000, most of them Muslims.

Danes have a long history of tolerance of other religions and lifestyles, Prime
Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen told a group of Washington Post reporters and
editors in Washington this week, citing the country's protection of Jews during
World War II and its hosting of Cold War refugees. But today Denmark is having
serious problems integrating its immigrants, he said.

Roughly half of them are unemployed, he said, and many have no education.
Moreover, there is cultural friction. "Many Danes feel that too many immigrants
do not respect Danish values," he said.

Opinion polls show that increasing numbers of the 5.3 million citizens of
Denmark, an affluent, predominantly white and Lutheran country, resent
foreigners' heavy reliance on the welfare system. Many also blame the newcomers
for crime and worry that their communities harbor terrorists.

Immigrants counter that they are being targeted unfairly and routinely face
discrimination. "We all just feel uneasy and afraid," said Ali Khan, 34, who
moved to Denmark from Pakistan in 1998 but has not found steady work. "People
just want to get out of here, to Britain or Canada or the United States."

Some refugees are becoming desperate. In December, a 16-year-old who had fled to
Denmark from Taliban-ruled Afghanistan set himself ablaze with gasoline after he
was ordered deported. He is recovering from his burns.

Elsewhere in Europe, anti-immigrant parties have continued to gain support.
Earlier this month in the Dutch city of Rotterdam, a branch of the Livable
Netherlands party won 17 of 45 seats on the local council, attracting more votes
than any of the three parties in the national coalition that governs the
country.

In Italy and Germany as well, anti-immigrant groups are growing in strength as
they tap long-standing fears about security and the dilution of national
identity.

Advances by the far right have exerted a gravitational pull on establishment
parties, which are responding to perceived public demands to increase internal
security, curb the arrival of newcomers (especially nonwhites) and limit the
rights of migrants already in the country.

Long before Sept. 11, many white Europeans had deep-running concerns that their
countries were involuntarily becoming multicultural as guest workers and
refugees, mostly Muslim, established themselves in residence. There are about 15
million Muslims in Europe, making Islam the the continent's largest
non-Christian religion.

The post-Sept. 11 concerns underscored a paradox that has cycled through
European politics for years: The continent needs foreign workers to gird an
aging workforce but is queasy about accepting them, especially if they are
Muslim. "There is this fear for national identity combined with a fear of
Muslims that has fueled this debate on immigration," said Jan Niessen, director
of the Migration Policy Group, a research organization in Brussels.

In a report on the fallout in the European Union from the terrorist attacks
against the United States, the European Monitoring Center on Racism and
Xenophobia in Vienna said the decision by some countries to link immigration and
anti-terrorism measures has created "an atmosphere of insecurity and
intolerance, especially in cases where Muslims are presented as an 'internal
security threat.' "

Before the September attacks, far-right parties running on anti-immigrant themes
had scored notable successes at the polls in Austria, Switzerland, Italy and
Norway, where votes from the far-right Progress Party have provided the
government with a working majority in parliament.

The attacks seem to have heightened the popularity of such parties. In the
Netherlands, a country with a rich multi-ethnic texture and 800,000 Muslims,
nearly 50 percent of the country's young people want no more Muslim immigration,
according to an opinion poll for the weekly publication Nieuwe Revu.

Political analysts in the Netherlands say that Livable Netherlands and a faction
loyal to its former leader could end up as kingmakers in parliament after
elections this year.

"I think 16 million Dutchmen are about enough," said the former leader of
Livable Netherlands and author of "Against the Islamization of Our Culture," Pim
Fortuyn, in an interview with the newspaper De Volkskrant. "This is a full
country." He said that Islam is a "backward culture" and "Moroccan boys never
steal from Moroccans. Have you noticed that?"

In Hamburg, where some of the Sept. 11 hijackers lived, the Party for a Law and
Order Offensive got 20 percent of the vote in state elections after the attacks
on the United States. The party's leader, Judge Ronald Schill, became the state
interior minister. The German magazine Der Spiegel quoted Schill as saying
during his campaign that he wanted to bring the "black African drug dealers and
the knife-stabbing Turks" to justice. Schill now says he may launch a national
campaign.

At the same time, the main conservative opposition in Germany is threatening a
court challenge after passage last week of the country's first major immigration
bill, saying it does not do enough to curtail the influx of foreigners. About
half of the 7.3 million foreign residents in Germany are Muslim.

In Italy, the government of Silvio Berlusconi has introduced a bill calling for
the expulsion of immigrants who enter the country illegally.

In Denmark, the far-right Danish People's Party aimed much of its campaign for
the November elections at a foreign-born population that is 70 percent Muslim.
The campaign was marked by "a fierce and . . . xenophobic debate on the issue of
foreigners," according to the Danish Refugee Council.

The party's member of the European Parliament, Mogens Camre, was quoted in the
newspaper Politiken as saying, "All countries of the Western world are
infiltrated by Muslims -- some of them speak to us politely, whilst they wait
until they are enough to kill all of us."

Retiree Vivian Nielsen, 51, said she voted for the People's Party because of its
stance on refugees. "They don't even want to learn the language," she said. "The
true refugees don't have enough money to come here, and I believe we should help
them in their home areas."

Denmark's mainstream parties rejected the language of the People's Party during
the campaign. But the conservatives swept out the Social Democratic government
on the promise of clamping down on immigration, even as the Social Democrats
were promising to restrict the population of foreigners.

"The message is clear: Stay out," said Mohamed Hassan Gelle, a Somali who is
head of the Ethnic Minorities Federation in Denmark.

There is no open immigration in Denmark, but about 13,000 foreigners entered
last year, mostly through family reunification, and another 6,000 were granted
asylum. The new government is introducing legislation that would restrict family
reunifications, cut welfare benefits for foreigners and extend the wait for
permanent residency from three to seven years.

The government also intends to largely eliminate humanitarian asylum, with the
aim of reducing Denmark's 43 percent acceptance rate of asylum-seekers, the
highest in Europe.

According to Bertel Haarder, Denmark's refugee minister, who is responsible for
getting the legislation passed, the measures are necessary to end freeloading by
immigrants and refugees, 50 percent of whom are on welfare, a rate that rises to
90 percent among such ethnic groups as Somalis.

"The over-unemployment among immigrants and asylum-seekers is way beyond what we
normally accept in this country," Haarder said. "We are not counting [the number
of foreigners] and saying that it is a problem that we have such and such
percentage. . . . In fact, we want more with special qualifications to come and
help us. What we count is the number on welfare."

Rasmussen, the prime minister, said that Denmark wants to encourage immigration
by people who have needed qualifications, without regard to their country of
origin.

But immigrants such as Khan say they face habitual discrimination in the labor
market in Denmark, where the national unemployment rate is about 4 percent.

Kahn came here reluctantly four years ago after marrying a Danish citizen of
Pakistani origin. The electronics engineer wanted his new bride to stay in the
Pakistani city of Lahore, where Khan worked for Motorola Inc., managing computer
systems in the customer-service department there for the U.S. electronics giant.
But his wife insisted that his degree in electronics, his fluency in English and
his work experience with a multinational leader in the information-technology
field would lead to the good life in the West.

In his first six months in Denmark, as he studied Danish, Khan applied for 630
jobs, including entry-level positions, he said. He didn't get called for a
single interview.

"They don't want to employ foreigners, particularly Muslims," said Khan, whose
only work experience in the country so far has been as a room cleaner in a
hotel. "It's not all the fault of foreigners."

Haarder said he acknowledges that Danish companies need to do more to employ
foreigners and that he wants to create incentives to encourage them. The
integration of foreigners is his goal, he said.

But the mood in Denmark is so sour that there is increasing anecdotal evidence
that foreigners who can leave are doing so. Immigrant groups say they are
receiving more queries from people who want to depart; two of Khan's friends
have left for Britain in recent months.

"People who don't look Danish are looked upon as an unnatural part of Danish
society," said Bashy Quraishy, president of the European Network Against Racism,
who has lived in Denmark for 31 years. "The politics of hate has crept into the
body politic of Denmark and its main characteristic is an anti-Muslim feeling.
I'd like to say it was September 11, but now I think they always hated us."

Some Danes said they were embarrassed about how their country has reacted.

"Denmark is such a rich country with so many economic and human resources that I
fail to see the threat that the [People's Party] is talking about," said Peter
Sloth, a 27-year-old student. "If one of the richest countries in the world
can't make an extraordinary effort for the world's poorest, then I don't see who
should."

"The paradox is that the majority of the [People's Party] voters are located in
the countryside with very little contact with the new inhabitants," Sloth said.
"I want to apologize to world society on behalf of my ignorant fellow citizens."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              261 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Don't Wobble on Immigration

BYLINE: Ben Wattenberg

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 826 words


President Bush and others have said we are at war to save our civilization --
that is, Western civilization. The events of Sept. 11 were perpetrated by Muslim
radicals. All were foreigners; some were here illegally.

Understandably, many immigrants have been detained. Deportations of illegal
immigrants have accelerated here and in Europe. There is speculation about an
anti-immigrant backlash. The quadrennial candidate Pat Buchanan's book was high
on bestseller lists. Its title says it all: "The Death of the West: How Dying
Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization."

If we're talking about the survival and, one hopes, the extension, of Western
civilization, we should be talking about immigration and demographics. Let's get
some numbers straight. Birth and fertility rates in Europe and Japan are
unprecedented and incredible.

Over time, it takes 2.1 children per woman just to keep a society at zero
growth, the "replacement level," absent immigration. The total fertility rate of
Europe and Japan is 1.3 children per woman -- on a 50-year slide. Europe has
begun "de-populating"; Japan will follow soon, according to U.N. projections,
which show Europe losing 124 million people by 2050, while its median age climbs
to about 50.

Economic markets are responsive to change, but this decline could pose a
challenge. How would you like to be a home builder in a society that is losing
significant population every year? Where do the public funds for the military
come from when there aren't even enough worker bees to provide pensions for the
senior bees? These are not the best of all possible allies. America may have to
move further toward a go-it-alone position.

Fortunately, the other part of the West, the English-speaking settler nations --
Canada, Australia and the United States -- have different demographic portraits.
Why? Because, in moderate numbers, they take in immigrants. And the numbers are
only moderate. In our peak immigration decade of 1900-1910, America accepted
immigrants amounting to 1 percent of its population, each year. The rate today
is one-third that.

America's fertility rate has averaged about two children per woman in recent
years -- below replacement. Over time, if it weren't for immigration, America
would stop growing and perhaps begin slowly depopulating. Such a no-growth,
aging America could find it hard to lead in what may be a long struggle among
civilizations, some of which, unlike the West, are projected to grow for several
decades before leveling off.

The flash point of American immigration today concerns Mexicans. To those, such
as Buchanan, who fear immigration, they appear as an inexorable Third World tan
tide, intent on recapturing the American Southwest, ready to swamp Western
values, the splitting wedge in a majority nonwhite America of the future.

Bunk. America takes in about a million immigrants each year, of whom about 45
percent are from Latin America, of whom Mexicans account for somewhat less than
half, perhaps 25 percent to 30 percent of the total when illegals are counted.
The other 70 percent to 75 percent of immigrants to this country come from
everywhere, including 30 percent from Asia.

Nonwhite? Half of Mexicans are classified white. Third World? Mexico's per
capita income is above $ 5,000; it now has "investment grade" bond status.
Mexico is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
the "First World" economic club. It is a real democracy. Its fertility rate has
fallen from 6.5 to 2.5 children per woman in 30 years, and it is expected to go
below replacement soon.

Invasion? How many invaders compete to mow the lawns and clean the dishes of
those they have invaded? Mexican Americans serve disproportionately in this
country's armed services and have a won a disproportionate share of medals for
gallantry in combat.

Assimilation? By the third generation just about all Mexican Americans speak
English, and Mexican grandparents often complain that their grandchildren speak
no Spanish.

Not Western? Scholars say the padrones of Latin America, the hegemonic roots of
the culture, are language and religion. The languages are Spanish or Portuguese,
European tongues. The religion is Catholic, with growing evangelical Protestant
sects.

Now is not the time to go wobbly on immigration. It is the key to American
growth and prosperity. If we are indeed in for a war to preserve Western
civilization, we'll need every straight-shooting, red-blooded, patriotic soul we
can get. (Remember immigrants choose the American way of life.)

Immigrants are also our best salesmen; no one tells the American story better.
And we're going to need all the salesmen we can get as we go about the business
of recruiting economic, cultural and military allies -- allies who believe in
liberty, as we do.

The writer is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and the
author of "The Birth Dearth."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              262 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 3, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Fixing the INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 242 words


Former Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner Doris Meissner
[op-ed, March 28] made some good points but missed others. The INS is a
dysfunctional agency and has been for as long as I can remember.

Its immigration service operation is almost unworkable, and the increase in
immigration only makes matters worse.  Its enforcement operation is reasonably
effective, given the magnitude of the task and the lack of resources.

In 1973 President Richard Nixon submitted a reorganization plan to Congress. It
created the Drug Enforcement Administration. It also created a single
border-control agency by removing the Border Patrol from the INS. Because of INS
union opposition, the Border Patrol plan was dropped because at that time drug
enforcement was a priority.

Now dramatic restructuring of our border security operation is a must. If the
president and Congress bestow Cabinet rank and departmental status on the
Homeland Security Office, that might simplify restructuring, although the
bureaucratic screams will be deafening. The least that should be done would be
to consolidate border inspection and enforcement services into one agency.  That
agency should be the U.S. Customs Service, whose record of efficiency and
accomplishment is far superior to the INS.

MYLES J. AMBROSE

Leesburg, Va.

The writer served as commissioner of Customs from 1969 to 1972 and was the
architect of the creation of the Drug Enforcement Administration.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              263 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 6, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Invasions

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 564 words


In his March 30 op-ed column, Ben Wattenberg concedes the central thesis of my
book "The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions
Imperil Our Country and Civilization." European peoples have begun to die, and
their nations face the stark choice of opening their borders to mass immigration
from the Third World -- or passing away.

Yet Mr. Wattenberg caricatured my position, saying that people like me fear
immigration, because we see it as an "inexorable Third World tan tide" and "the
splitting wedge in a majority nonwhite America of the future."

Nonsense. My true concerns:

* Present immigration is enormous. California now has as many foreign-born
residents as there are people in New Jersey. Americans of European descent have
become a minority in the Golden State, and they are fleeing at the rate of
100,000 a year. By 2005, Anglos will be a minority in Texas for the first time
since before the Alamo.

* Between 8 million and 11 million of the 30 million immigrants in the United
States are law-breakers and gate-crashers. We don't even know who they are. The
Bush amnesty plan would entail having their security checks done by the same
Immigration and Naturalization Service that issued a student visa to Mohamed
Atta. If Mr. Wattenberg thinks "invasion" is an insensitive term, perhaps he can
offer a better word for the 500,000 people who annually breach our borders.

* Many new immigrants are not assimilating. When the U.S. soccer team played
Mexico in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum a few years ago, our national anthem
was booed and our team was showered with garbage.

* According to the Federation for American Immigration Reform, new immigrants
use welfare services at twice the rate of Americans and represent a soaring
segment of the federal prison population, a gross injustice to taxpayers and
citizens.

Given a national referendum, Americans would vote to dump Mr. Wattenberg's
"First Universal Nation" fantasy into the same landfill where Californians voted
to dump racial preferences and welfare for illegal immigrants.

But, then, a U.S. court would overturn the results, as it always does when the
people defy the will of those who know best what is best for the silent
majority.

PATRICK J. BUCHANAN

McLean

I have to wonder what Ben Wattenberg is complaining about. Contrary to his
assertions, immigration to the United States is the highest it has ever been.
Yes, we accept a million legal immigrants a year, but he fails to incorporate
the millions of illegal immigrants who call the United States home.

Also, in absolute terms, the decade of the 1990s (not the 1900s) saw the highest
number of immigrants -- an estimated 30 million vs. the 3 million or so who
arrived between 1900 and 1910.

He cites the cultural and economic benefits (and downsides) of immigration but
says nothing about the environmental effects: crowding, decreased quality of
life, pollution and loss of green space.

By his reasoning, we need people to make the economy grow. But where does it
end? More people mean more growth; more growth means we need more people.

When Mr. Wattenberg asks, "What is a home-builder to do [if population
decreases]?" I am reminded of the loggers in the Pacific Northwest who bemoaned
their livelihood being taken away because of the spotted owl. Here's a novel
idea: Find another job.

SARAH BALL

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              264 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 6, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS Drops Sanctions Over 2 Agents' Statements

BYLINE: James V. Grimaldi, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 496 words


Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner James W. Ziglar this week
reversed proposed discipline against two U.S. Border Patrol agents after two
government offices determined they had been the subject of retaliation after
publicly complaining about lax security along the Canadian border.

An INS statement yesterday attributed the discipline reversal to lack of a clear
and consistent policy for talking to the media. "There is no clear or convincing
evidence that Agents [Mark] Hall and [Robert] Lindemann had formal notice" about
local rules for talking to the media, the statement said.

But the INS also said the two agents disclosed "sensitive information." In
reversing Detroit sector chief Dan Geoghegan's discipline, the INS said it
"fully supports . . . his efforts to prevent the disclosure of information
adversely affecting border security or the safety of INS employees."

The Office of Special Counsel, which investigates retaliation against government
whistle-blowers, negotiated the reversal of the sanctions, according to Hall.

"I feel real good," Hall said yesterday. "The nightmare is finally over. It has
been a hell for the past seven months. It looks like it is finally coming to an
end."

Special counsel investigators had determined that INS supervisors decided to
suspend, demote and reassign Hall, 41, and Lindemann, 40, in retaliation for
giving interviews to the media after Sept. 11 about lack of agents and equipment
on the northern border. The Justice Department's inspector general, Glenn Fine,
also told the INS that the discipline would not withstand legal review.

Documents obtained by the special counsel found the agents' supervisors calling
the public statements "insubordination" and "treason" and calling for managers
to stand up against such "dissent."

Two U.S. senators, who had denounced the discipline, praised Ziglar for
overruling his managers. But the senators still differed sharply with the INS
about whether the comments threatened national security.

Sen. Carl M. Levin (D-Mich.) said the Detroit-based agents had repeated what was
publicly known, had been careful in their statements and had performed a public
service that resulted in changing policies and beefing up forces on the border.
Hall repeated the statements in testimony before a Senate committee.

Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) also applauded the decision, but said he was
disappointed the agency refused an Office of Special Counsel request that
managers be required to attend classes on federal laws banning retaliation
against whistle-blowers.

"This case shows that bureaucrats at the INS either don't respect or don't
understand the protections afforded under the Whistleblower Protection Act,"
Grassley said.

Hall said he has no regrets about the interviews with the Detroit Free Press and
NBC's "Today" because they helped prompt changes at the INS. "Our northern
border is much more secure today than it was on Sept. 10," Hall said.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              265 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Calling the Plays At INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 161 words


As past president of the union representing Immigration and Naturalization
Service employees and leader of the successful effort to keep the agency intact,
I remember well then-President Nixon's Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1973. Myles
J. Ambrose's memory [letters, April 3] is a little less exact.

INS inspectors working at the ports of entry were to be shifted to the U.S.
Customs Service, not the Border Patrol. We opposed the move because it would
have hurt efforts to deal with the growing problem of illegal immigration.

I applaud Doris Meissner [op-ed, March 28] for setting forth the same arguments
we used to keep the agency intact in 1973, 1974 and again in 1978. The INS has
long been the victim of ambivalent and conflicting mandates. Now that the events
of Sept. 11 have the president, Congress and the people calling the shots from
the same playbook, I am confident that the INS can be relied upon to do the job.

MICHAEL G. HARPOLD

Ketchikan, Alaska

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              266 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Etcheverry Gets His Green Card

BYLINE: Steven Goff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D08

LENGTH: 400 words


D.C. United captain Marco Etcheverry received his green card from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday, making him exempt from
foreign-player status and opening a slot for the club to acquire another
international player.

"It's long-awaited news and it's good news," Coach Ray Hudson said. "But it sets
up an awful tease: We can go after a foreigner now, but there's just no money in
the kitty. . . . We would have to look for the best quality, but more
importantly, the best value. That's the challenge. It's a jungle and it's the
law of the jungle, and the strong survive."

Scottish forward Paul Dalglish, 25, is training with United this week and has
impressed the coaching staff with his attacking skills and scoring touch. But he
probably would have to take a significant pay cut to join MLS; Dalglish earns an
estimated $ 300,000 a year playing for Wigan Athletic in England's Second
Division -- far more than Major League Soccer would be willing to pay.

Almost regardless of his salary, United would have to make a major move to fit
him under the $ 1.7 million salary cap.

Two Brazilian forwards -- Carlao and Joares Junior -- also are working out with
United, but because they are only 21, they would be exempt from MLS
foreign-player status.

Scottish forward Gary McSwegan, 31, played well in a tryout with the club a few
weeks ago and could be offered a contract.

A green card grants a foreign resident permission to reside and be employed in
this country on a full-time basis. Under U.S. law, a person with a green card
has virtually the same rights as an American citizen and, in the case of MLS, a
player with a card cannot be classified as a foreigner.

Etcheverry, 31, is a native of Bolivia and one of United's last original players
dating from the inaugural 1996 season. Until now, Etcheverry has had to renew a
work visa.

"Receiving a green card is very important for my family and me," Etcheverry said
in a written statement. "I'm thankful to D.C. United, MLS and especially the
fans, for their assistance in making me feel that this is my home. I want to
remain in Washington for the remainder of my career."

United Notes: As expected, defender Eddie Pope was named to the 18-man U.S.
national team roster for Wednesday's friendly at Ireland. . . . United, with a
weekend off from league competition, will play at minor league affiliate
Richmond on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              267 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 19, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Border Security Bill Clears Senate;
Tighter Watch on Student Visas Sought

BYLINE: Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 740 words


The Senate last night unanimously approved a bill to tighten security at the
nation's borders, including closer monitoring of immigrants with student visas.

The legislation was passed 97 to 0 and includes an array of provisions --
prompted by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks -- aimed at preventing terrorists
from obtaining visas to enter the United States. The measure is similar to a
House-approved bill, and its sponsors said the House is likely to go along with
minor Senate changes and send the legislation to President Bush.

Bush issued a statement immediately after the vote, commending the Senate for
its action and saying he looked forward to signing the bill. He also urged
Congress to complete action on immigration legislation that the Senate will
consider separately in the near future.

The bill authorizes 200 new border agents in each of the next five years, along
with more money for training. Congress would have to fund the legislation in a
separate bill; the estimated cost over three years is $ 3.2 billion.

The bill attempts to tighten control over student visas in several ways. The
government would have to monitor a student's entry into this country and report
it to the student's intended school. The school would have to notify the
government if the student fails to report for class. At least one of the Sept.
11 hijackers entered the country on a student visa but did not show up for
classes.

The bill also calls for creating an electronic database from law enforcement and
intelligence sources, including a sophisticated name-matching system, to help
immigration and consular officials identify and bar possible terrorists. Also,
consular offices would be required to transmit an electronic version of an
immigrant's visa file to U.S. immigration officials before the person's arrival.

High-level approval would be required before any visa could be issued to people
from countries the United States has designated as terrorist.

All commercial airlines and ships coming to the United States would have to
provide a list of passengers and crew before arrival. U.S. airlines now provide
such lists but many foreign carriers do not.

By October 2004, all travel documents for those entering or leaving the country
would have to be tamper-resistant and machine-readable, and a year later
equipment to handle the documents would have to be installed at all ports of
entry. The passports, visas and other documents would have to include biometric
identifiers such as fingerprints or retinal scans.

Last March the House passed a broader bill that combined the border security
provisions with more controversial legislation making it easier for some illegal
immigrants to gain permanent residency in the United States.

The House bill would revive the recently expired Section 245 (i) program, under
which illegal immigrants could remain in this country while seeking to become
permanent residents if they pay a $ 1,000 fee and have a close relative or
employer to sponsor them.

Senate leaders temporarily dropped the immigration provisions at the insistence
of Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W. Va.), who contended they amounted to amnesty for
people who broke the law. Senate leaders of both parties said they intend to
bring up the provisions as soon as possible.

Byrd also insisted on a number of technical changes in the border security bill
but dropped more controversial proposals, including one, aimed at China, that
would bar imports produced by prison labor or child labor.

Angela Kelley, deputy director for the Washington-based National Immigration
Forum, applauded the Senate for taking action that "isolates terrorism without
isolating America."

"These are just common-sense measures that keep us a nation of immigrants,"
Kelley said. "It's a forward-looking approach to national security."

T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council, the union that
represents Border Patrol agents, praised the bill for including additional
training and enhanced technology. "It closes a lot of the loopholes that exist
in the way the system works now," he said. "It's not the end-all but . . . I
think it's a good start."

James W. Ziglar, head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, declined to
comment on the legislation. But a Justice Department official said the bill will
help the agency "do our part in fighting terrorism."

Staff writer Cheryl W. Thompson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              268 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Political Shocker in France;
Anti-Immigration Figure to Face President in Runoff

BYLINE: Keith B. Richburg, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1074 words

DATELINE: PARIS April 22 (Monday)


The extreme-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, an anti-immigration, anti-European
politician who once described the Nazi gas chambers as "a detail" of history,
came in second in the first round of voting in France's presidential election
Sunday and won the right to oppose the incumbent, Jacques Chirac, in a runoff
next month.

The strong showing by Le Pen, a 73-year-old ex-paratrooper making his fourth run
for the presidency, sent shock waves through France's political establishment,
which has long shunned Le Pen and his National Front party as representing a
dangerous and intolerant fringe of society. Le Pen beat out the Socialist prime
minister, Lionel Jospin, who opinion polls had consistently predicted would
finish second and face Chirac for the presidency on May 5.

Chirac is widely expected to win an overwhelming victory for a new term by
capturing the votes of his natural center-right supporters and of all the
supporters of the left, who would rather endure five more years of Chirac than a
victory by Le Pen. Many others who may have abstained from voting in this
elimination round are likely to be motivated to vote against Le Pen, analysts
said.

"It's a political earthquake," Dominique Moisi, a prominent commentator and
analyst, said Sunday after exit polls showed a strong showing for Le Pen. "It
shows that the protest vote went overboard. . . . You had the fragmentation of
the left, and the extreme left contributed to the destruction of Jospin." The
result, he said, "is humiliating for France, and it's very bad for Europe. It
means one Frenchman out of five cast an anti-European vote."

With 99.5 percent of the ballots counted early today, Chirac had 19.6 percent of
the vote; Le Pen was second with 17 percent and Jospin third with 16 percent.
The result was a crushing defeat for Jospin, the prime minister for the last
five years who presided over a growing economy and falling unemployment, but who
failed to recognize early that rising crime, not economic growth, had become the
major concern of most French voters.

That fear of rising crime -- broadly labeled as "insecurity" in preelection
opinion polls -- largely played into the hands of Le Pen, who has long blamed
high immigration for such problems as unemployment and urban crime. He also
appears to have benefited from concerns over terrorism that were heightened here
after the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States, and the discovery that some
French nationals of North African origin were linked to Osama bin Laden's al
Qaeda terrorist network.

In a speech to his supporters Sunday night, Le Pen said, "I want to reestablish
security throughout the territory."

"I am socially to the left, economically to the right," he said. "I am a free
man, a patriot, who has no other ambition but to ensure that France is for the
French."

Earlier, in a televised statement, he called his showing "a big defeat for the
two establishment candidates, the president and prime minister."

"This is first and foremost a rejection of the people who have governed them so
inefficiently," he said.

Sunday night and early today, up to 10,000 protesters marched in Paris shouting
"Le Pen is a fascist," with smaller demonstrations held in at least five other
cities.

Le Pen won slightly more than the 15 percent of the vote he captured in his
previous presidential bid in 1995. Another extreme-right candidate, Bruno
Megret, who was once an ally of Le Pen before forming a breakaway party, won
about 2.4 percent of the vote, meaning that the far right won almost 20 percent.

The success of the extreme right here underscores the growing appeal of other
European far-right politicians after Sept. 11 and the renewed concerns about
immigration and the large Muslim communities in Europe. The far right has been
finding new support in Italy, Austria, Denmark and Switzerland, and a new
anti-immigrant party, Livable Rotterdam, made surprising gains in local
elections in the Netherlands under rightist leader Pim Fortuyn, and could enter
parliament there after elections next month.

In France, the Socialists were hampered by a high rate of abstention -- a record
38 percent -- and a general sense that the two leading candidates, Chirac and
Jospin, with similar platforms, represented an interchangeable status quo.
Jospin was further handicapped by the large number of candidates competing for
the votes on the left -- Socialists, environmentalist Greens, Communists, and
Trotskyites dividing up the same constituency.

Jospin appeared shattered as he addressed his shocked supporters at his campaign
headquarters Sunday. He said, "I plainly assume responsibility" for the left's
loss, and he announced his intention to retire from politics after the election.
He also told his Socialist Party to begin rebuilding in time for the June
legislative elections for a new parliament -- but he pointedly did not tell his
supporters to vote for his longtime nemesis, Chirac, to prevent victory by Le
Pen.

Jospin's aides were not so reticent in announcing their intentions to vote for
Chirac, a center-right Gaullist who has held the presidency for the last seven
years. "Le Pen's score, for the honor of France, must be as low as possible,"
said Jospin's campaign manager, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, in a speech on
television. Asked if he would vote for Chirac in the second round, Strauss-Kahn
replied, "Yes, I will."

Chirac, in a late-night speech Sunday, struck a largely conciliatory tone,
calling on all French to "come together to defend human rights, the cohesion of
the Republic, and the unity of the nation."

"France needs you. I need you," Chirac said.

Though Chirac appears likely to win a huge reelection victory next month, the Le
Pen tally has upset all calculations for legislative elections, which will be
held in June.

Previously, it was believed that the center-right parties had the advantage,
following the right's strong showing in last year's municipal elections and five
years of parliamentary dominance by the center-left coalition of Socialists,
Communists and Greens.

But now, many believe that supporters of the left could turn out in large
numbers as a reaction against Le Pen, increasing the likelihood that the new
parliament could again be led by the Socialists, and ensuring another awkward
period of power-sharing between the conservative Chirac and a Socialist prime
minister.

Researcher Corrine Gavard contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              269 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

In Howard, Immigrants Winning Ear Of Politicians

BYLINE: Christian Davenport, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 955 words


In many ways, it was just another political fundraiser. Businessmen passed their
cards around, politicians exchanged gossip and the hosts gave rah-rah speeches
about how their candidate was going to win the coming election.

But this event, held recently for Howard County Executive James N. Robey (D),
was something new -- for him and for the county. The speeches were laced with
Arabic, pauses for prayer and praise for Allah. The attendees, in suits and
shawls, were members of the new Muslim Council of Howard County. For them,
extending Robey's political career was only part of the evening's agenda: The
group was also proclaiming its newfound involvement and influence in local
politics.

That night, Robey collected about $ 12,000, not nearly as much as the $ 60,000
he got at a previous fundraiser hosted by more familiar players in local
politics -- developers and business leaders. But as Robey seeks a second term,
he knows he can't afford to ignore the growing number of immigrants in Howard
who are beginning to stake a claim in the political process.

In the last two years, at least three citizens groups designed to help
foreign-born residents have formed in Howard. Like the Muslim Council, the
Korean-American Community Association of Howard County has sought meetings with
Robey and held a fundraiser for him.  Robey has since appointed some of the
group's members to county boards and commissions.

Meanwhile, a Latino advocacy group -- Conexiones, Spanish for connections --
recently presented the County Council with a 67-page report calling for the
establishment of an Office of Hispanic Affairs in the school system, an increase
in the number of Latino teachers, and an expansion of the English for Speakers
of Other Languages program.

Politicians courting foreign-born voters -- and vice versa -- is nothing new.
But in Howard, located about halfway between Baltimore and Washington, that
political dance has just begun.

"I've met so many of you tonight for the first time," Robey told about 100
members of Muslim Council during the fundraiser. "And I'm amazed that so many of
you said that you've lived here for 10 years or more. I freely admit I didn't
know you."

Later, in an interview, he said: "This is a constituency we can't ignore."

And immigrant constituencies are growing. Howard was the third fastest-growing
county in the state between 1990 and 2000, according to the 2000 Census. During
that time, its Latino population grew 103 percent to about 7,500 people, and the
Asian population by 137 percent to more than 19,000.

Robey is not the only one who recognizes the political impact that the growth is
having.

His likely opponent, Republican Steven H. Adler, is also trying to appeal to
immigrants. On his Web site, under a heading labeled "Endorsements," he lists
one, from Peter Pai-I Tung, who wrote: "Above all, Steve is a man who has worked
hard and knows that hard-earned money should be spent wisely. As a
Chinese-American who immigrated to this country in the early '60s on a boat
(really!) with but a few days worth of clothes, these are the values I grew up
with."

Tung's wife, Mary Tung, a candidate for the Maryland House of Delegates, said
she is printing her campaign literature in English, Chinese and Korean.

"The African American and Jewish residents have been politically active for many
years," she said. "What I'm trying to explain to other minority groups is that
they need to get involved so the community can be sensitive to their needs."

The county's Republican Party sent a mailing in several different languages to
registered independents. "This is the first time we've been reaching out for the
Asian vote," said Louis M. Pope, chairman of the county GOP. "We're also trying
to find out what concerns they have."

Foreign-born residents are being drawn to the county for the same reasons as
many others: a growing job market, good schools, parks and recreational
facilities -- the vaunted "quality of life" that lures people to the suburbs.

And as they settle in, many want to become more involved in their community,
their schools and their government.

The Muslim Council started searching for members by searching for Arab-sounding
names in the telephone book, which have been entered into a database. Based on
that research, Anwer Hasan estimates that 700 to 800 Muslim families live in
Howard. The group intends to contact every one, urge them to join and then help
them register to vote.

"We've decided we should be more involved socially, professionally and
politically," said Hasan, the group's president.

Tall and charming, Hasan has been adept as any professional lobbyist. He gave
Robey and county Police Chief G. Wayne Livesay awards for assigning 24-hour
police protection to Howard's mosques after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Now, in addition to looking for ways to volunteer, the group is asking the
county and school administration for some changes. It would like, for example,
the school system to recognize Muslim holidays and to provide a room in which
Muslim students can pray during the school day.

"It would be nice if we had our holidays recognized the way the Christians and
Jews have theirs," he said. "That way they can feel part of the family, too."

Saturday, the Korean-American Association tried to make Robey feel like a part
of its own family. The group invited him to speak at a cultural event, called "A
Day Trip to Korea," that featured Korean food, dance and music.

"Korean Americans have always had an interest in having their voices heard,"
said Miji Kim, a member of the group who was appointed to the county's Women's
Commission. "But now more people are grouping together, so the voice seems
louder."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              270 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Kicked Out of Zimbabwe, but Others Got Worse

BYLINE: Richard Morin and Claudia Deane

SECTION: A SECTION; THE IDEAS INDUSTRY RICHARD MORIN AND CLAUDIA DEANE; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 896 words


You know you're in for an interesting day in Zimbabwe when the immigration
officer stamping visas at the airport in Harare takes one look at your passport
and runs away.

That's exactly what happened two weeks ago to John Prendergast, co-director of
the Africa program of the International Crisis Group and one-time senior Africa
hand at the State Department and White House.

"I had just arrived in Harare and when I got up to the visa counter the guy
stamping the visas saw my name and he jumped up from his chair and just ran,"
Prendergast said. "I started laughing. But I didn't laugh so hard when he came
back with four immigration officers."

Prendergast had never had visa problems in Zimbabwe -- until then. The burly
quartet took him to a dingy, windowless and entirely too private room in another
part of the airport. "Nobody would tell me anything. They were very hostile, all
they would say is 'You can't come into Zimbabwe. You're not allowed.' "

After letting him cool in the hole for about 15 minutes, the muscle men took him
to the departure lounge and told him to get on the next plane out of the
country. "Which I did," he said.

Why the unneighborly welcome? Prendergast suspects it's because he and the ICG
have been particularly critical of the government of President Robert Mugabe and
Zimbabwe's recent national election, which was marred by deadly violence and
allegations of widespread vote fraud.

Prendergast said that the same week he was given the boot, two journalists
inside Zimbabwe who had questioned the March vote were charged with defamation
and a third was detained for questioning.

"I'm one of the lucky ones," Prendergast said. "I just got deported. What is
happening inside the country is torture, arrests and murder at levels that
continue to increase since the election."

ARTS AND SCIENCES: This probably won't surprise the average English major, but
it turns out that humanities departments have done a dismal job quantifying
their successes and failures, according to a new report. And this, in turn, has
left the finer arts at a loss for words when cultural critics question their
relevance.

"The humanities community itself, including its funders, knows deplorably little
about what is taught to whom and by whom, how long it takes, where graduates and
post-graduates go, what they do when they get there, and how many of them there
are," Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert M. Solow wrote in the American
Academy of Arts & Sciences' article, "Making the Humanities Count: The
Importance of Data."

It's little wonder, then, that philosophy and literature types are at a loss
when people ask why the humanities matter.

"Why is it that those of us in the humanities seem to find it so very hard to
convey to others the significance of what we do, or its importance for the
national well-being, or even the status and current condition of the various
fields of humanistic endeavor," asks Francis Oakley, Williams College president
emeritus, also writing in the Academy report.

Part of the answer, Oakley suggests: "We, ourselves, do not really understand
what we do, why we do it, or why it might be as important as we instinctively
take it to be."

An Academy task force recommends a set of "Humanities Indicators," modeled on
the existing "Science and Engineering Indicators," a collection of trend data on
such things as: the number of college students enrolling and majoring in
different science and engineering fields, and where they end up working; the
amount of research academics are publishing and how much they are paid; and
teacher preparation in elementary and high schools.

"Only recently have we begun to appreciate the public significance of
quantitative information," wrote Phyllis Franklin, director of the Modern
Language Association. "Being counted means that you count."

LIGHTENING HIS LOAD: Paul C. Light has announced that he will step down as vice
president and director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution this
fall after a three-year stint. He will continue to serve as a senior fellow and
director of the tank's Center for Public Service.

"It's entirely due to the fact that we just have so much work in the center,"
Light said yesterday, noting the intense fundraising duties that accompany a VP
title. "I really want to focus on my research and try to make sense of all the
things we've learned."

Governmental studies "went from a $ 2 million program in 1998 to about a $ 4.5
million program in this new fiscal year. Most of that growth was from soft
support [non-endowment money]," said Light, pointing to several large foundation
grants he brought to the tank. "That has meant a huge tax in terms of my time
spent raising money, and it's time for somebody else to take on that
responsibility."

PEOPLE: Barnaby Towns has joined the Capital Research Center as communications
director. Towns, who recently moved to Washington from Britain, worked as chief
political adviser to former Conservative Party leader William Hague.

At the American Enterprise Institute, Jason Bertsch has signed on as director of
corporate relations. Most recently, Bertsch was a vice president at K12 Inc., an
education company. Bertsch has also worked at Empower America, served as senior
adviser to former education secretary William J. Bennett and been the managing
editor of the Public Interest.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              271 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 2, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Arlandria Clinic Meets a Desperate Need;
Area Immigrants Get Care, Understanding

BYLINE: Julie Bourbon, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: VIRGINIA EXTRA; Pg. T06

LENGTH: 1179 words


Dr. Martha Welman loves going to work on Wednesdays and Fridays. Those are the
days she gets to call upon not only her medical training but also her Hispanic
heritage and her bilingual language skills.

For two days a week and in emergencies, Welman is the pediatrician on call at
the Arlandria Health Center for Women and Children, which serves poor and
low-income women and children, many of whom are immigrants. While Welman also
loves being home with her 3-year-old, clinic days are good days, she said.

"It's wonderful. The patients are wonderful to work with," said Welman, whose
mother is from Mexico and whose background is in nonprofit community medicine.

"The patients are very grateful," Welman said. "It makes a difference -- having
an understanding of the culture and being in the neighborhood. It makes a
difference with the effectiveness of the care."

The center is in the Presidential Greens apartment complex in Arlandria. The
community, so-named for its location on the border between Alexandria and
Arlington, boasts a large Hispanic population, many of whom are immigrants from
Latin America -- primarily El Salvador.

Many of the families are uninsured and work in service jobs, which while
critical to the economy keep them living at or near the federal poverty level.
Health care for these families is not a matter of coming up with a co-pay to
their primary care physician. It's a matter of going where care is free or not
going at all.

The center was created in 1993 by the Alexandria Health Department through a
one-time $ 1 million federal grant from the Bureau of Maternal and Child Health.
When the money ran out in 1997, the nonprofit Alexandria Neighborhood Health
Services Inc. formed and has kept things running since.

"It was a new concept," said Dibby Smith, one of the center's founders and now
the Alexandria Health Department's nursing supervisor for child health
immunization and the Arlandria Health Center. "We thought, 'Wouldn't it be great
if we could start a little clinic right in the neighborhood?' From there, it
just grew and grew and grew."

Today, more than 2,500 women and children get their primary medical care at the
center, which currently has a three-month waiting list for appointments. The
center has been described as providing more health care per foot than any other
health care facility in the state. Services include well-baby clinics,
immunizations, diagnostic screening for cognitive, physical and developmental
delays, family planning, nutrition counseling, gynecological care, parenting
classes, breast-feeding classes and routine health care.

The center's small staff, including one full-time nurse, a nurse practitioner
and a nursing assistant, are all fluent in Spanish. Most of them, like Welman,
are either of Hispanic descent or have lived or worked abroad, giving them a
cultural sensitivity that is critical to effectively serving the community's
population.

"Most of our moms have less than a third-grade education," said Susan Abramson,
executive director of Alexandria Neighborhood Services and a veteran UNICEF and
World Bank health care worker in South America, Asia and Africa. "Because the
staff all speak Spanish, they don't have a sense of judgment. They just try to
figure out the problem and solve it."

The center's environment is deliberately homey, occupying three 400-square-foot
renovated apartments in the complex. It is meant to welcome skittish clients
with its warmth. Clients usually hear of the center by word of mouth. The Family
Center, a new mental health and social services wing, is in an adjoining
building. There, women can get help with issues such as job problems,
transportation needs and domestic violence.

The center recently received a one-year grant from the Virginia Healthcare
Foundation to hire a full-time Medicaid worker to get local children signed up
for Medicaid coverage. Only about one-third of the children the center serves
are currently receiving benefits to which they are entitled; none of the women
receiving services at the center has any health insurance.

"It takes someone to advocate for the client, because they're afraid to do it
themselves," Abramson said. "They're poor, working in restaurants, the airport,
the underground economy. We're the safety net for the poorest of the poor. There
is a different cultural understanding of health. It's a very difficult
population to take care of. They're unaccustomed to this system."

As with many agencies that serve the poor, the center's funding hasn't kept pace
with growth. Money is always tight, and budget cuts have made things even
tougher. The agency, which relies on the city, the state and private donors to
fund its budget, has been hit hard by state budget cuts and a drop in private
donations post-Sept. 11. Tonight, the center will hold its fourth annual Cinco
de Mayo fundraiser to raise money and awareness of the critical need the center
fills.

For example, asthma is widespread among children in the community. The center
had been making inroads in reducing the incidence of asthma but lost funding for
that program. Officials said there has since been a resurgence in the number of
children being rushed to the local emergency room for treatment of severe
asthma.

The center does not offer prenatal care (pregnant women are referred to the
Casey Health Center), but family planning is its most sought-after service. Many
of the center's clients are young, inexperienced mothers. As with any population
of young mothers, the finer points of parenting are not intuitive. Language and
cultural barriers magnify the problems of youth and lack of education, center
officials said.

"We offer all kinds of education: anatomy, cleanliness, how to take a
temperature, how to recognize a real emergency," Abramson said. "These women
love their children, but we get them after they've already had their first
child, or they're pregnant."

Once a woman and her children become clients at the center, they see the same
health care professionals with each subsequent visit, providing continuity in
care that they can't get from visits to an emergency room. Women have been known
to bring letters from their children's schools for the nurses to translate.
Here, they don't have to feel ashamed to admit that they can't read the
directions -- in English or in Spanish -- on a bottle of medicine.
Misunderstandings are easily cleared up, and disasters are avoided.

"We've certainly helped a lot of people with big and small crises," Smith said.
"I've loved every minute of being in the clinic. Rarely a day went by when I
felt I didn't make a difference."

The Arlandria Health Center for Women and Children will host its fourth annual
Cinco de Mayo Celebration fundraiser from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. tonight at Jack
Taylor's Alexandria Toyota, 3750 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Alexandria. Ramparts
Restaurant will provide the food. There will be salsa dancing and a silent
auction. Tickets are $ 50 and can be purchased at the door. For more
information, call Nyrma Hernandez at 703-360-4387.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              272 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

In Michigan, Anti-Terrorism Effort Goes Public;
Haddad Case Forces Rare Glimpse of Secret U.S. Campaign

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Kari Lydersen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1748 words


When three immigration agents knocked on his apartment door in Ann Arbor, Mich.,
in December, Rabih Haddad already had his attorney on the phone.

Earlier on Dec. 14, federal agents raided the Illinois offices of the Global
Relief Foundation, the Islamic charity that Haddad had helped found, freezing
its assets and accusing it of funding terrorists. That afternoon, they took him
into custody. Haddad, 41, has been in jail ever since.

In court papers, U.S. officials have accused him of having contact with groups
and individuals associated with the al Qaeda terrorist network. But they have
not charged him with a terrorism-related crime, and they have declined to
provide details of the allegations to him or to his legal team. They have held
him on the comparatively minor charge of overstaying his visa.

Haddad's attorneys and supporters, including Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.),
say he is a gentle man, a Muslim who has worked to bring together people of
different faiths. They say he is a victim of an overzealous Justice Department
that has targeted innocent Arab and Muslim men since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

Haddad's case is like those of hundreds of other post-Sept. 11 detainees, except
in one important aspect: At least part of his fight is being waged in public.
Last month, federal judges ordered that documents and hearing transcripts from
Haddad's immigration case be made public. When the Justice Department
reluctantly complied, Haddad's case became the first of the Sept. 11-related
prosecutions to be unsealed.

The case provides a striking example of the government's controversial,
secretive campaign of arrests and detentions since Sept. 11. Attorney General
John D. Ashcroft and other U.S. officials say the effort is aimed at capturing
suspected terrorists and disrupting future attacks, yet none of the hundreds of
immigrants detained has been publicly charged with crimes related to terrorism.
Among activist groups concerned about the treatment of those swept up in the
dragnet, the Haddad case has become a cause ce[acute]le[grv]bre.

"How I long for those peaceful evenings I used to spend with my family huddled
around a huge bowl of buttered popcorn watching a movie or just talking and
teasing," Haddad wrote recently to one of those groups. "It's been four months
now, and there still doesn't seem to be a light at the end of the tunnel."

The government says that domestic imagery in no way describes the Haddad they
know or the organization he represents.

In the late 1980s and early '90s, the government has alleged, Haddad was
"directly linked with and observed at multiple overseas locations that housed
and supported terrorist organizations associated with the al Qaeda network" and
was seen "in the company of leaders and members of al Qaeda-related terrorist
organizations."

But among more than 1,000 pages of documents -- motions, filings, transcripts
and hundreds of petitions from Haddad's supporters -- that is all there is from
the government about his alleged links to terrorists; the evidence, prosecutors
say, is classified.

In the absence of details, the two portraits of Haddad remain unresolved.

This much can be gleaned from the released court documents and interviews with
people who know Haddad:

He was born in Beirut in 1960, to a Presbyterian father and Greek Orthodox
mother. He became a Muslim in the 1980s. He first entered the United States in
1980, when he began engineering studies in Nebraska. He spent about 14 of the
next 22 years here, interrupted by travels back to Lebanon and elsewhere,
including Pakistan and Kuwait.

Haddad has told authorities that from 1988 to 1992, he was a humanitarian aid
worker in Peshawar, Pakistan, which served as the base for Muslim guerrillas who
fought the Soviet-backed government in Afghanistan. War-torn and flooded with
refugees, Peshawar was awash in both aid workers and militants who later joined
al Qaeda or the Taliban militia.

"I converted to Islam wholeheartedly and I was looking for the best way to
please my God," Haddad testified at a December hearing. "I thought this would be
one of the best ways . . . helping others and doing good."

After returning to the United States in 1992, Haddad joined with several others
to found Global Relief in Bridgeview, Ill. Before the government closed it in
December, it ranked as the second-largest Islamic aid organization based in the
United States, with programs in more than 20 countries and regions, including
Afghanistan, Chechnya, Kosovo, Lebanon, Pakistan and the West Bank.

Global Relief reported donations of more than $ 5 million in 2000 and said it
used the money to provide food, health care and other emergency services,
according to court documents filed by the group.

Haddad served as the group's chairman, traveling frequently around the United
States to raise money for Muslims in need in the Balkans and the Middle East,
according to court records and officials. He has testified that he was not paid
by the group, which would have violated his immigration status, but lived off
zakat, or alms, from fellow Muslims.

According to released court documents, early efforts to hold Haddad on the
immigration charge focused on his unlawful possession of a shotgun and on
varying explanations of how he supported himself financially.

In court, he said he had the shotgun because he was an avid bird hunter and
member of the Bass Anglers Sportsman Society. An application for a subsidized
apartment in Ann Arbor listed Global Relief as his employer, but he testified
that he lied on the application because "if you tell them that your source of
income is charity, nobody is going to let you live there."

The seeds of his current immigration troubles were sown when he last entered the
country, in 1998. Haddad was granted a six-month tourist visa, and then a
six-month extension. The Immigration and Naturalization Service said his visa
has expired, and he is awaiting a hearing to decide whether he should be
deported.

His wife, Kuwaiti national Salma Rashaid, and three of the couple's four
children also face deportation for overstaying their visas. They, unlike Haddad,
are free on bond awaiting hearings. A fourth child was born in the United States
and is considered a U.S. citizen.

Days after he was arrested, and for months afterward, Haddad was held in 23-hour
solitary confinement, with limited contact with his attorneys or family. The
proceedings in his immigration case were sealed under broad secrecy rules
Ashcroft ordered after Sept. 11.

For months, Conyers, the American Civil Liberties Union and several Michigan
newspapers fought in court to open those proceedings. The Justice Department and
INS contended that doing so would jeopardize national security. But after a U.S.
District Court judge and a three-judge appellate panel ruled against them on the
issue last month, prosecutors said they no longer believed that.

However, their suspicions of Haddad and Global Relief remained intact.

As part of a crackdown on charities suspected of funneling money to al Qaeda and
other terrorist groups, the Treasury Department froze Global Relief's assets
while the Justice Department launched a grand jury investigation of the
organization in Chicago. About the same time, NATO forces raided a Global Relief
office in Kosovo and said the group "is allegedly involved in planning attacks
against targets in the USA and Europe."

Global Relief's name was also included on a U.S. list of groups suspected of
having ties to terrorism that was circulated after the bombings of two U.S.
embassies in East Africa in 1998, officials said.

Federal prosecutors in Detroit did not directly accuse Haddad of involvement
with terrorists until March 1, 2 1/2 months after his arrest, when they included
descriptions of a sealed FBI declaration in papers opposing his release. The
description implies that a grand jury is examining more serious allegations.

The same Chicago grand jury handed up an indictment on Tuesday against the
leader of another Islamic charity that was shuttered at the same time as Global
Relief.

Enaam Arnaout, executive director of the Benevolence International Foundation,
was charged with perjury for stating in court papers that he and his group had
never aided Osama bin Laden. Prosecutors allege that he and his group have been
intimately connected with bin Laden for years, moving large sums of money to
fund al Qaeda operations around the world.

A senior Justice Department official said prosecutors have not ruled out using a
similar strategy against other groups, including Global Relief. But the
government has not provided Haddad or his attorneys details of the alleged
evidence against him, other than declaring in court papers that it shows "him to
pose a threat to persons and a danger to the national security."

People who know Haddad say they cannot believe it.

Religious leaders who have known him in Ann Arbor -- including a rabbi and a
minister who testified on his behalf -- describe him as a gentle man who spoke
out against terrorism and worked to bring together adherents of different
faiths.

Imam Mufap Algalaieni of the Islamic Center of Ann Arbor said Haddad emphasized
that "Islam came for peace, to spread peace and harmony among people. And he
stood strongly against violence."

No other Global Relief leader has been arrested or detained. Roger C. Simmons, a
Frederick, Md., attorney representing the group, said the allegations against it
and Haddad are unfounded.

"It's unbelievable the lengths the government is going to undermine this
upstanding organization," Simmons said. "These aren't radicalists in any sense
of the word. They are decent people. Their whole mission for 10 years has been
the converse and opposite of violence."

Nazih Hassan, president of the Islamic Center of Ann Arbor and a friend of
Haddad's, said there were many shady characters in western Pakistan as the
Soviet war wound down. He noted that the United States, which provided support
to the anti-Soviet militants, had many advisers there.

"To say he met people who later on might have become terrorists or talked to
terrorists is ridiculous," Hassan said. "It's not even guilt by association.
It's guilt just by being in the region."

As the two sides hold their separate views of Rabih Haddad, the man himself has
been moved to Chicago, where he is to testify before the grand jury
investigating Global Relief.

Lydersen reported from Ann Arbor.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              273 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 8, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Washington's Housing Crisis

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 261 words


The Washington area's housing problem is not limited to single-family homes in
suburbia ["Suburban Crowding Arouses Tensions; Immigrants Jam Affordable
Houses," front page, May 3].

I am a single African American female professional employed in higher education,
and I cannot afford to buy a luxury condominium.

Instead I live in an apartment complex where many families occupy apartments
designed for a couple or for a single person like myself. The housing crisis in
this area ecompasses many issues: the lack of affordable housing; the lack of
enforcement of the housing laws; and the increase in immigration, both legal and
illegal.

I was drawn to this area by the wealth of cultural resources. But exorbitant
housing prices and intolerable living conditions have forced me to reconsider
remaining here. I will have to look elsewhere for the fulfillment of my American
dream.

ANGELA WEAVER

Arlington

*

The article on crowded housing in Montgomery County illustrated the problem of
illegal immigration. Aliens enter the country at a rate that far exceeds the
available housing stock, which adversely affects the Americans least able to
contend with the problem -- longtime area residents with lower incomes.

Perhaps those employers who have demanded a huge flow of cheap immigrant labor
should be directly taxed for the cost of providing all this additional housing.
Even then, those taxes would never cover the cost of schooling, congestion and
environmental pressures.

DAN STEIN

Executive Director

Federation for American Immigration Reform

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              274 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 9, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME &;
JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 541 words


THE DISTRICT

More than 15 people were arrested yesterday in connection with a ring that
peddled counterfeit identification and immigration documents in the Adams Morgan
area of Northwest Washington.

Authorities said the arrests were the beginning of a year-long effort to stop
the problem in the area.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agents, assisted by D.C. police and the
FBI, arrested the suspects around Columbia Road and 16th Street NW, officials
said.

Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D) and D.C. Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1)
said they had urged the INS to crack down on the illegal documents after the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.

"We had word people were coming from all over the East Coast . . . to pick up
forged papers," Norton said.

The former president of the Iron Workers union spent thousands of dollars on
personal meals, liquor and golf trips only because his attorney said they were
legitimate union expenses, his new lawyers told a federal judge.

Jake West, who stepped down last year as president of the 125,000-member union,
is facing a 49-count indictment on charges he used more than $ 45,000 of union
money for personal expenses during his 12 years as president.

West's attorney, Michele Roberts, told U.S. District Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan
during a pretrial hearing Tuesday that West was advised that his expenses were
covered by the union, the first glimpse at the defense the 73-year-old West may
use in a trial scheduled for this summer.

Four other union leaders have pleaded guilty in the investigation.

MARYLAND

A Prince George's County man was listed in serious condition after he was shot
in the face during an early morning carjacking outside a Forestville apartment
building, authorities said.

Police said the man, whose name was not released, was flown to a Baltimore
hospital after the 8:15 a.m. assault at the Cambridge Commons apartment complex
near Penn Forrest Mall.

Cpl. Robert Clark, a police spokesman, said two teenagers approached the
32-year-old man, who was driving a 1995 white Cadillac Deville, and shot him in
the face after a brief altercation.

One assailant fled in the Cadillac, Clark said, and the other got away in
another recently stolen Cadillac, a blue car with the D.C. license plate
BH-9199.

The pair -- believed to be part of a foursome responsible for at least two other
carjackings of Cadillacs in the previous 24 hours -- had not been found last
night, Clark said.

Through yesterday, 142 carjackings had been recorded in the county this year, up
69 percent from 2001.

A former Boy Scout leader from Potomac was sentenced yesterday to serve a year
in jail for sexually abusing a boy in his Scouting troop.

Montgomery County Circuit Judge Ann S. Harrington sentenced Richard K. James,
35, to 10 years with all but one year suspended. James pleaded guilty in
February to one count of child abuse.

Police said they received an anonymous letter in April 2001 that contained an
e-mail from James to the boy that referred to a relationship between them.

The youth told police that James had molested him from the age of 13 to 16 years
old.

Compiled from reports by staff writers Jamie Stockwell, Allan Lengel and Neely
Tucker and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              275 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 10, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Case for Tolerance

BYLINE: E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A37

LENGTH: 776 words


The country was being torn up by battles over immigration. Prominent politicians
on the right warned that it would be overwhelmed by new arrivals from Africa and
Asia. "It is like watching a nation busily engaged in heaping up its own funeral
pyre," warned one the most important of the anti-immigrant voices. "Like the
Roman, I seem to see the River Tiber foaming with much blood."

The country in this story is not France and the politician in question is not
Jean-Marie Le Pen, France's far-right presidential candidate who grabbed the
world's attention in recent weeks. The river of blood was foreseen by Britain's
Enoch Powell, a maverick member of the Conservative Party who gave that speech
in April 1968.

This history is worth recalling as a check against frenzied warnings that Europe
now faces a new wave of fascism. The rise of the far right in Europe should be
taken seriously, but without hysteria. Hysteria is rarely the friend of
tolerance or reason.

The first fact to be noted is that Western Europeans have been struggling over
immigration and its impact on their societies for more than three decades.
Especially in Britain and France, where old colonial ties eased the entry of
immigrants from their former empires, anti-immigrant politicians have risen and
fallen as anti-immigrant feeling has waxed and waned.

For an American living in Europe, as I did in the 1980s, the occasional ferocity
of the reaction against immigrants, especially those of color, was a useful
debating point whenever the conversation turned to American racism. Again and
again, I found myself furious when Europeans derided the United States for our
problems with discrimination and the aftereffects of slavery. Yes, we had grave
problems, I'd admit, but you Europeans don't even realize how much further you
have to go.

Still, American self-righteousness is no more appealing than the European kind.
As we ponder today's anti-immigrant upsurge in Europe, we might remember that
ours is a country that passed something called the Chinese Exclusion Act in
1882. Briefly, in the 1850s, the Know-Nothing Party became the nation's
second-largest political grouping because of the popularity of its
anti-immigrant message. The Know-Nothings felt about the Irish the way Le Pen
now feels about Arabs. And didn't our own George Wallace build a large movement
in the late 1960s and early '70s around the issues of race and crime?

We might as well face it: All Western societies face problems over race, and any
society that becomes a magnet for large-scale immigration will necessarily go
through painful and sometimes nasty periods of adjustment and struggle.

The worst thing would be to write off all anti-immigrant voters as blind racists
with no legitimate grievances. Building tolerant societies requires paying
attention to the causes of insurgencies such as Le Pen's.

One major cause of the rise of right-wing movements in Europe is the increasing
crime rate -- exactly what made "law and order" a central theme not only for
Wallace but also for Richard Nixon. Sometimes, crime is a code word for race.
But at least as often, concern about crime is nothing more, or less, than
concern about crime. Eventually, American liberals came to understand this, and
European friends of tolerance need to learn it too.

In country after country, down-scale whites are often in direct competition with
new immigrants for jobs and housing. Better-off people are usually insulated
from the full impact of the social changes that immigration lets loose. European
leaders will not help the cause of tolerance by looking down their noses at
voters who stray to Le Pen and comparable politicians elsewhere. If they do,
they'll get their noses bloodied again.

Europe has a particular problem with the growing power of the European Union.
There is a strong case for European integration. But as long as the institutions
of the EU are seen as distant, undemocratic and unresponsive bureaucracies,
voters can be counted on to lash back again and again.

Europe is not about to descend into fascism. When it counted, the overwhelming
majority of France's voters rejected Le Pen. But this episode could be useful.
It will help if it reduces the level of smug blather that Europeans and
Americans regularly toss across the Atlantic at each other. It will also help if
friends of tolerance on both sides of the ocean resist the temptation to write
off the constituencies that have veered right as nothing more than backward
bigots.

Far better to understand why they are angry. The problems that establishments
fail to address are the problems that extremists will always exploit.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              276 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 10, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS Tracking System Set to Roll;
Agency Aims to Monitor 1 Million Foreign Students in U.S.

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 609 words


A new system that will allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service to track
approximately 1 million foreign students will be up and running in the next
several months, Justice Department sources said yesterday.

The start-up of the Internet-based system, after years of criticism from
lawmakers of the INS's antiquated tracking methods, is viewed by officials as a
significant step toward monitoring foreign students and beefing up the country's
anti-terror safeguards. The system is scheduled to be operational by July 1.

The INS was "supposed to keep up with [students], and obviously the schools were
not cooperating. But the bulk of the problem was the system itself was
antiquated," a Justice Department official said yesterday. "You can't push a
million students through a paper system and expect to get accuracy."

The system is designed to provide up-to-date computerized information on
non-immigrant foreign students, such as name changes and new dropouts, an
official said. Each school will have 24 hours to record changes electronically.

Schools now maintain paper records on foreign students; the records are not kept
in a central location and are not provided to the INS unless the agency requests
them.

"It is the single best step the federal government can take to keep closer tabs
on international students studying in the United States," said Terry Hartle,
senior vice president of the American Council on Education, a trade association
that represents 1,800 public and private colleges and universities.

A 1996 immigration reform law required the INS to upgrade the system by which it
keeps track of the 1 million foreign students studying in the United States at
any time. The system must be in place by January.

Pressure to get the system up and running has increased since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. Hani Hanjour, one of the 19
hijackers, used a student visa to enter the United States, saying he wanted to
study English. He never showed up for class.

INS officials have noted that they lack agents to track down and apprehend
foreign students who drop out of school or fail to show up.

"This will create the possibility of monitoring international students far more
carefully and in real time," Hartle said. "But INS will still have to act on the
information it receives. Whether INS will have the resources to act on the
information it receives remains to be seen."

The system will link every U.S. embassy and consulate abroad with every INS port
of entry in the United States and all schools eligible to enroll foreign
students, Hartle said.

Before foreign students can apply for a visa, they must be accepted by a school,
which will enter their names and identifying information in the database. The
students will pay a $ 95 registration fee and be issued a paper receipt. It must
be presented along with the acceptance letter to a U.S. embassy or consulate to
apply for a visa, he said.

Offices will be set up in schools to ensure that the institutions comply, a
Justice Department official said. Repeat violators will be ineligible for
international study, Hartle said.

Victor Johnson, associate executive director for public policy with the
Association of International Educators, said he supports the system but
expressed concern that the schools are being rushed into compliance by Jan. 1.

"There is going to be an issue of how soon the schools are going to have to have
their technology systems up and running," Johnson said. "I think the schools
would like to go from a paper system to an electronic system and, in an ideal
world, they'd like to do it under less scrutiny."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              277 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS to Monitor Foreign Students;
Ashcroft Reverses Stance on System

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 850 words


Two years ago, John D. Ashcroft joined 20 of his Senate colleagues in urging the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to delay a new system for tracking
foreign students here on visas.

Yesterday, Ashcroft -- now the attorney general -- announced plans to speed the
implementation of the same program, criticizing previous delays and saying that
"the integrity of our system will skyrocket" once the tracking system is in
place.

"For too long, our student visa system has been a slow, antiquated, paper-driven
reporting system incapable of ensuring that those who enter the United States as
students are in fact attending our educational institutions," Ashcroft said at a
news conference yesterday.

But in February 2000, Ashcroft and a bipartisan group of senators voiced very
different concerns in a letter to Doris M. Meissner, then the INS commissioner,
about the Student Exchange and Visitor Information System (SEVIS). The
computerized system was ordered by Congress in 1996 but since has been plagued
by delays.

One objection outlined in the letter referred to the method of paying for the
tracking system, which would have required that schools, rather than U.S.
embassies, collect a registration fee.

"Requiring U.S. institutions to collect fees to fund a federal program is an
inappropriate role for higher education institutions," according to the letter,
which was signed by Ashcroft and Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), Trent Lott
(R-Miss.) and Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.), among others.

The letter, drafted with the help of higher education lobbyists, also said the
senators were "troubled" by other parts of the program that "would create
several new requirements," "increase university costs" and "directly impair the
abilities of colleges and universities to educate all students as well as
compete for students in the global marketplace."

Some education officials have expressed concerns that they will not be able to
implement quickly the system Ashcroft announced yesterday.

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which favors severe restrictions on immigration, said the senators' efforts
helped delay the implementation of SEVIS, which was designed to keep track of
the 1 million foreign students who study at U.S. schools. Colleges and
universities lobbied heavily against the system.

"Without these guys putting pressure on INS, we could have had a student
tracking system by 1999," Stein said. "The attorney general needs to answer some
serious questions. What was he thinking when he signed this letter?"

But spokesmen for Ashcroft and the others who signed the letter defended the
senators' earlier misgivings about SEVIS. The newest version of the system no
longer requires that fees be collected by colleges and universities, they noted
yesterday.

"This congressional letter is focused on strong concerns about putting the
educational institutions in charge of collecting fees," said Justice Department
spokeswoman Barbara Comstock. "The new regulation announced today was mindful of
that concern and does not require the educational institutions to collect fees."

The INS's student visa system has come under heavy criticism since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. Three of the hijackers entered or
remained in the country by obtaining student visas, including Hani Hanjour. He
never showed up at the campus where he was supposed to study English and is
believed to have piloted the plane that slammed into the Pentagon.

The INS was embarrassed again in March, when the agency notified a Florida
flight school that hijackers Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi had been awarded
student visas -- six months after they died in the nation's worst terrorist
assault.

Under the new Internet-based tracking system announced yesterday, schools will
be required to notify the INS within 24 hours if a student drops out or doesn't
show up. They must report the status of foreign students after each term. A
student will have 30 days, rather than six months, to show up on campus after
entering the country.

Before foreign students can apply for visas, they must be accepted by a school,
which will enter their names and identifying information in the database. The
students will pay a $ 95 registration fee and will be issued a paper receipt.
The receipt must be presented, along with a school's acceptance letter, to a
U.S. embassy or consulate when applying for a visa.

"What Ashcroft is talking about [in the February 2000 letter] is a very
different system than what is being implemented," said an aide to another
senator who signed the letter. "This is a system that will work."

One Justice Department official acknowledged the "tension between this letter
and the new regulation," noting that the Sept. 11 attacks drastically altered
the debate over immigration policy.

"These higher education institutions fought very hard against having this system
in place," the official said. "But everyone has changed their focus now.
Everyone is much more sensitive to the great need for this system."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              278 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 12, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

International Deliveries;
Maternity Wards Adapt to Special Needs of Region's Rush of Immigrants

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1392 words


As his pregnant wife was wheeled into the delivery room, the African man made an
unexpected announcement: According to the custom of his native religion, the
couple's baby would need to be washed in wine immediately after birth.

Not a problem, said the nurses at Montgomery General Hospital.

After quickly consulting a doctor to make sure the ritual was safe, nurse
manager Sandra Heeley launched a frenzied hunt for a glass of wine in the
cafeteria.

Then, under the father's proud gaze, Heeley gave her tiny charge the Olney
hospital's first-ever wine sponge bath.

"Of course this was very foreign to us," she said. "But to deny someone a
tradition they've grown up with, at one of the most important moments in their
life, would be wrong. It would be like telling a Christian their baby couldn't
be baptized."

Faced with an influx of immigrant mothers over the past decade, delivery rooms
across the Washington area are increasingly adapting not just to unfamiliar
languages, but to a new set of traditions and taboos.

Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring has become adept at assembling all-female
teams of obstetricians, nurses, anesthesiologists and even neonatologists to
attend Middle Eastern women whose Muslim religion forbids examination by male
health workers. The maternity ward has also learned to keep placenta-size
biohazard containers on hand for patients, usually from African countries, whose
tradition is to take the placenta home and bury it.

Prince George's Hospital Center in Cheverly allows women to give birth in a
variety of positions according to their native custom. Inova Fairfax Hospital in
Falls Church often bends its five-person limit on visitors in the delivery and
postpartum rooms to accommodate Latin American women who want extended family
members close by.

And a doctor in the hospital's clinic for low-income women has just launched a
study of the complications that arise during pregnancies of women who have been
circumcised, a common practice in Africa and parts of the Middle East.

The transformation is just one of many consequences of a wave of immigration
that has changed schools, neighborhoods and workplaces throughout the region.
But the impact of the area's newest arrivals has been particularly pronounced in
maternity wards, demographers say, because a greater percentage of immigrants
are in their childbearing years and because many come from cultures that value
large families.

Thus, while 1 in 4 Montgomery County residents is foreign born, half of all
births in the county are to foreign-born mothers -- an increase from nearly 1 in
3 in 1990.

In Prince George's County, the portion of births to immigrant mothers has
increased from 1 in 6 in 1990 to about 1 in 3 today. It has reached nearly 1 in
4 in the District and roughly 1 in 2 in Alexandria and Arlington and Fairfax
counties.

The immigrant mothers, many of whom are Hispanic, hail from a multitude of
nations. Inova Alexandria Hospital, for instance, is translating each of its
signs into not just Spanish but Amharic, Arabic, Farsi, Korean, Urdu and
Vietnamese.

To communicate with patients local hospitals have turned to a cottage industry
of outside companies and 24-hour telephone interpretation services that have
sprung up to meet the demand. At Inova Fairfax, both doctor and patient put on
headsets and, at the touch of a button, are connected to an interpreter -- often
thousands of miles away -- speaking any of about 150 languages and dialects.

The sheer number of nations represented at many hospitals makes preparing staff
difficult.

"It's extremely challenging, because you don't just have to worry about meeting
the language or religious needs of one culture but of multiple cultures and
multiple beliefs and values surrounding health care," said Elita
Rosillo-Christiansen, who supervises multicultural initiatives at Inova.

On a recent morning at Holy Cross Hospital, the air in Room 359 was perfumed
with the aroma of Indian spices as Dhavan Mehta, a management consultant from
Bombay, opened containers of home-cooked eggplant and soup for his wife, Prachi.

Relatives had specially prepared the food, Mehta explained, "because the elders
believe that a new mother should eat certain grains and seeds."

Next door, Marie Tonnangzeufack listened intently as a Haitian hospital employee
translated into French a nurse's instructions on how to wash her newborn
daughter. Tonnangzeufack, a native of Cameroon who works with computers, arrived
in the United States only six months ago.

That's not unusual, say hospital administrators. "We have patients who come
straight from the airport," said Helenmarie Waters, director of perinatal
services at Prince George's Hospital Center. One difficulty is that recent
arrivals often have not had prenatal care, she added, putting them and their
newborns at greater risk of complications.

Tonnangzeufack had seen doctors in Cameroon, but she said the care she had
gotten in the United States was far better.

Down the hall, Martha Lidia Sanchez, a textile worker from a small village in El
Salvador, also marveled at the quality of care. "In my country, you don't go to
the hospital to deliver unless you have really serious problems," she said in
Spanish. "I'm the first person in my family to deliver in a hospital."

The experience, she added, was a little overwhelming.

That's the kind of thing medical workers need to be attuned to, said Larissa
Guran, Holy Cross's manager of multicultural services, because "it could make a
patient reluctant to dispute what a doctor is saying even if she doesn't agree
or understand."

A few doors away from Sanchez, hospital staff members were balancing medical
practice with the family traditions of Diem-Chau Ngo, who emigrated from Vietnam
in 1979. Many Vietnamese hold that a new mother should not be exposed to cold
because it disrupts the equilibrium that they believe is crucial to good health.
So when nurses put ice packs on her body to reduce swelling the previous night,
Ngo said, her mother had cried out, "No!"

"The nurse said, 'Mother knows best -- but not this time,' " Ngo recalled,
laughing.

Many area hospitals have hired multicultural experts to run sensitivity
workshops and write internal guides to introduce staff to various cultural
traditions.

For instance, it's important to be aware that many Hispanic women do not
typically breast-feed in the first couple of days after delivery, said Elita
Rosillo-Christiansen of Inova Fairfax. Nurses need to make a point of letting
those women know that research has shown breast-feeding right away is
beneficial, she said, so they can make a fully informed decision.

Perhaps the toughest task for hospitals, though, has simply been figuring out
how to communicate with their patients, a job that often falls to outside
interpretation companies.

CyraCom International, an Arizona-based firm that was started in 1995, provides
headset translation service at about 500 hospitals nationwide, including eight
in the Washington area.

But interpreters are expensive. Holy Cross pays about $ 85 per hour for live
interpreters. And at $ 1.90 to $ 2.40 a minute, the cost of phone services can
add up. "We can't charge that to insurance companies," Rosillo-Christiansen
noted. "That's an expense we have to eat."

Increasingly, hospitals are turning to creative alternatives. Montgomery General
provides patients with preprinted flashcards to indicate simple conditions, such
as hunger or pain. At Holy Cross, Guran put together a list of nearly 200
hospital workers speaking 50 different languages who can serve as interpreters.

Prince George's is offering Spanish classes to its medical staff as well as to
secretaries and business employees. "We want them to learn at least enough so
they can answer questions like 'How do you get to labor and delivery?' " Waters
said.

For all the challenges, however, hospital staff members said the diversity of
their patients has been a boon. Immigrant mothers are almost always extremely
grateful, they note. And the opportunity to learn about so many parts of the
world makes the job more interesting, said Patti DiGiovanni, a nurse at Holy
Cross.

A 22-year veteran of the hospital, DiGiovanni has never had the time to travel
abroad. But with so many foreign patients, she said, "I guess I don't really
need to."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              279 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 15, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Signs Bill to Keep Terrorists Out of U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 299 words


President Bush signed an immigration bill yesterday that is meant to screen out
terrorists by using high-tech passports and more border enforcers to check
millions of people who enter the United States each year.

The new law also will mean closer monitoring of foreign students here.

"America is not a fortress and we never want to be a fortress," Bush said at a
signing ceremony. "But . . . we can do a better job of making our borders more
secure and make our borders smart."

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) called the measure "the most important bill
passed post-9/11."

"It's the first time security has really become part of immigration policy," she
said.

The law requires that passports issued after 2003 contain fingerprints or facial
recognition technology and be tamperproof. It bars the use of certain visas by
people from countries listed as sponsors of terrorism.

The law strengthens the requirements that planes and passenger ships traveling
from other countries provide lists of passengers and crew members to a U.S.
border officer before arriving, and it reiterates the need for a database of
suspected terrorists that can be used to screen visa applicants.

It will record the acceptance of noncitizens by educational institutions, the
issuance of student visas and the enrollment of non-Americans in schools. It
will force schools to tell government officials if foreign students don't report
for class.

Bush complained that the bill did not include a provision he sought -- a measure
to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants, so they could apply for residency
without leaving the United States. That provision was an important component of
Bush's outreach to Hispanic voters.

"I intend to work with Congress to see if we can't get that done here pretty
quick," Bush said.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              280 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

INS 'Failure' Cited in Visa Case;
For 2 Hijackers, Rules Weren't Followed, Probe Finds

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 851 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service -- which incurred the wrath of
President Bush when it sent notices of visa status changes to two dead
terrorists in March -- should not have approved the changes at all, the Justice
Department's inspector general concluded yesterday.

In a far-reaching review of the now-infamous foul-up, Inspector General Glenn A.
Fine's office found that "widespread failure by many individuals in the INS"
allowed suicide hijackers Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi to obtain student
visa status. The notices were received by a Venice, Fla., flight school March 11
-- exactly six months after the attacks on New York and Washington.

By that time, Atta and Al-Shehhi had long since completed their flight training
and were aboard two separate airliners, presumably as pilots, that slammed into
the twin towers of the World Trade Center, killing more than 2,800 people.

Yesterday, Fine's office said that if the INS had followed its own regulations,
Atta and Al-Shehhi's requests would have been rejected because each had left the
country twice while seeking visa status changes. Under long-standing INS policy,
an application is considered "abandoned" if an applicant leaves the United
States while it is pending.

The INS's own computer system contained the information that Atta and Al-Shehhi
had left the United States twice. But the official who adjudicated their visa
changes did not know that because he never checked, the report found.

"The INS's adjudication of Atta's and Al-Shehhi's change-of-status applications
and its notification to the flight school were untimely and significantly
flawed," the report said.

Yesterday's report also reveals that the flight school official responsible for
certifying the two men's paperwork told Justice Department investigators that
she had just been assigned to the job, received no training from the INS and was
unsure how to fill out the forms.

So she turned to one of the future hijackers, who "directed her on the proper
procedures for filling out the forms," the report found.

Word that the flight school, Huffman Aviation, had received the status change
approvals March 11 touched off vehement condemnation of the INS, which has long
been criticized as one of the most dysfunctional agencies in government. Bush
made no secret of his anger, and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft ordered an
investigation.

Bush called the INS's action an "inexcusable blunder" and said at a March 13
news conference that he was "stunned, and not happy. Let me put it another way:
I was plenty hot."

Last month, the House overwhelmingly approved a bill that would dismantle the
INS and replace it with separate enforcement and service agencies that would be
part of the Justice Department.

The 188-page report found that the INS waited 10 months to approve requests by
Atta and Al-Shehhi for a change to student visa status and allowed a private
contractor to wait six more months before sending the approvals to the flight
school.

Atta was in the United States on a business visa, and Al-Shehhi was traveling on
a tourist visa. At the time, the INS allowed students to take courses while visa
status changes were pending, though it has since outlawed the practice.

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar, who did not return a telephone call seeking
comment yesterday, acknowledged to a congressional committee in March that the
contractor, ACS Inc. of London, Ky., was not at fault; it was following INS
policy.

Victor Cerda, Ziglar's acting chief of staff, called the report "accurate" and
said the agency has changed some rules governing foreign students. "We'll review
the IG's report and use it as a management tool," Cerda said.

Cerda declined to say whether disciplinary action will be taken against the
adjudicator and others involved.

Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, said the INS is "ill-equipped to handle the threat posed by
terrorists.

"The . . . report demonstrates that as currently organized, the INS fails to
enforce Congressional directives or its own policies," said Sensenbrenner, who
sponsored the House restructuring bill.

The inspector general's report found that after the Sept. 11 attacks, the INS
gathered Atta's and Al-Shehhi's files for the FBI but that "no one in the INS
located -- or even considered locating -- the notification forms that were being
processed by the INS contractor."

The report also found that the INS's system for monitoring and tracking foreign
students is "antiquated and inadequate" and questioned whether a congressionally
mandated Internet-based system to improve student tracking will be fully
implemented by the January 2003 deadline -- as Ashcroft has promised.

The Justice Department said this month that the system, known as the Student and
Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS), will be up and running by July 1.
The system is designed to provide up-to-date computerized information on 1
million non-immigrant foreign students studying in the United States at any
time, including name changes and new dropouts.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              281 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Costly Perks of Diversity

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 182 words


As one who is no fan of overpopulation and its consequences and who struggles to
help underemployed people pay for their skyrocketing private health insurance, I
thought Nurith Aizenman's article "A Rebirth of Traditions; Maternity Wards
Adapt to Immigrants' Needs" described a nightmare of overpopulation and
balkanization rather than a boon of diversity [front page, May 12].

Who is paying for all the multicultural initiatives -- the interpreters, staff
foreign language classes, female-only medical staffs and sensitivity training?
Aside from the cost, and the questionable wisdom of trying to accommodate people
with many different and often incompatible traditions and values, what happened
to the goal of achieving a stable U.S. and world population?

With the United States experiencing the largest population growth in this
country's history in the 1990s, fed largely by immigrants and their descendants,
Congress needs to change our basic immigration policies so that we can have
sustainable population growth and thereby maintain a decent standard of living.

JAN TOUMA

Durham, N.C.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              282 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Helping Immigrants Find Their Way;
With Sermons and More Worldly Advice, Pastor Serves as Bridge and Beacon

BYLINE: Christian Davenport Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 1643 words


The booklet from Nuevo Eden de San Juan in El Salvador is tiny, not much bigger
than a book of matches. Inside is a picture of a handsome, thin-faced man, his
fingerprints, and personal information entered by a manual typewriter.

The man's ex-wife takes it from her purse and pushes it across the desk to
Walter Rodriguez, who picks it up carefully, thumbs through the near-transparent
pages and begins typing the information into the computer, translating it from
Spanish to English.

Color de la piel: Moreno. Color de los ojos: Cafe[acute]. Ocupacio[acute]n:
Jornalero.

Rodriguez writes, "Skin color: Tan. Eye color: Brown. Occupation: Laborer."

Nicolasa Gonzalez sits quietly as he types, occasionally cracking her knuckles,
clutching a small black purse in her lap that contains a letter from the State
Department addressed to her 7-year-old son, Marcelino.

The boy's passport application lacked information about his father, the letter
says. He needed to submit proof of his parents' identification. And so Gonzalez
has brought the booklet to Rodriguez. Like so many of the growing number of
foreign-born residents in Howard County, she knows that for a non-English
speaking woman tangled in a foreign country's bureaucracy, Walter Rodriguez is
the man to see.

They are so many like her, who come from all over the world, escaping war,
poverty, or simply searching for a better life. They come by plane or on foot,
sojourners sometimes smuggled under the cushions of car seats.

Rodriguez is the one who can help get green cards, translate medical forms,
explain apartment leases. An immigrant himself -- he's originally from Uruguay
-- he has become a bridge to the new world, an escort to a new culture, a
navigator.

His work is done at his office at the Foreign-born Information and Referral
Network, a nonprofit agency in Columbia, and from his pulpit at the Primera
Iglesia del Nazareno, in Ellicott City, where he has been pastor since 1995. His
sermons are delivered in Spanish, to parishioners from a dozen different
countries for whom he has translated, found jobs, clothing or even a place to
stay.

Rodriguez peers over his glasses at the paper one more time to make sure the
translation is correct.

"Okay," he says, pushing it across the table.

It's a simple piece of paper, with the most basic information -- height, weight,
date of birth. But translated, signed and notarized, it is anything but simple
for Gonzalez, who puts it carefully into her purse.

The paper could give her son, who was born in the United States, the ability to
travel freely and legally.

For him, she says before leaving, it means freedom.

The bolts clang in and out of place. The guard leads Rodriguez, Bible in hand,
past the iron bars, along the dreary hallway that echoes their footsteps. They
go down a groaning elevator and into the prison chapel, where the guard watches
Rodriguez write "John 4: 22-24" on a chalkboard.

For seven years, Rodriguez has been coming to the detention center in Jessup
just off Route 1 to lead an hour-long Wednesday night Bible study for immigrants
caught living in the United States illegally. Some are there for just a few
days. Other for months. Most are deported. A few are released.

The guard's keys jingle again, and the prisoners, in blue jumpsuits with INS
DETAINEES printed in white between their shoulder blades, file in.

Some recognize Rodriguez from past sessions, shake his hand or give him a hug.
Others ignore him and slump into their seats, seemingly grateful for the change
of scenery and a distraction, however temporary. Like a shadow, the guard sits
silently in the back row.

Rodriguez pushes a wisp of gray hair from his forehead, says hello, then hola
and asks the prisoners where they are from.

Scattered throughout the room, they speak in turn: Jamaica, Portugal, China, the
Ivory Coast, the Philippines, Guatemala, Colombia.

Rodriguez smiles slightly and asks them to come closer because his soft voice
won't carry to the back of the room. As they move in, he starts his sermon,
which veers almost haphazardly into discussions on where hate comes from, living
right before God and, finally, the fickleness of fate.

Rodriguez, 54, is no chest-thumping evangelist. Instead, he delivers his message
with patience and reserve. He seems content, relaxed, almost shy, so that when
he does raise his voice or lock eyes, he gains a subtle measure of gravitas.

"God help us get out of here, one way or the other," he says. "We joke that this
is the only congregation that people are happy to get out of."

For the three prisoners who don't speak English, he says the same thing in
Spanish.

"I know this is your main concern," Rodriguez offers. "I'm sure we would prefer
to be with our families, our kids, our spouses. Let's pray."

For these men, the escape from poverty, the search for a better life, the
odyssey across rivers and oceans, has abruptly ended. They had tried to make the
leap but somehow are now headed back to the places they had risked so much to
leave.

It is too late to get a green card, a job, asylum. Rodriguez can only offer a
prayer, a few kind words, a break from the prison routine.

For some, who are leaving only with what they have on, he will find clothing and
stuff a $ 20 bill and a phone number into a pocket. Occasionally, his advice
will take hold and he will get a collect call from El Salvador, Nicaragua,
Guatemala.

"I made it home safe," the voice on the other end will say. "I'm with my family.
I have a job."

And Rodriguez will hope it's true.

Once, his touch went deeper.

A young man from Honduras came to him after the Bible study and said: "My family
thinks I'm dead."

The man gave Rodriguez a phone number and asked him to tell his family that he
was alive. But the family, convinced that their son was killed while fleeing to
America, wouldn't believe Rodriguez, a stranger.

They demanded proof: the man's childhood nickname, the one his mother gave him.

At the prison the next week, Rodriguez told the man what happened, and he told
Rodriguez the nickname. That night his family learned that he was still alive.

In the prison chapel, Rodriguez checks his watch. "We have a few minutes left,"
he says.

He tells them not to feel sorry for themselves. "Instead of asking, 'Why me? Why
did I get caught?' ask, 'What for?' Use this time to think about the future.
Most of you will be deported. You will be facing new challenges."

He leads them in one more prayer. As the prison guard jingles his keys,
Rodriguez asks them to write their names on a sheet of paper. He will take it
back to his church and read the names aloud so his parishioners can pray for
them.

Every prisoner signs it.

The parishioners gather in the pews and sing to the beat of a tambourine. Before
starting his sermon, Rodriguez tells them he has good news: The Justice
Department is extending the temporary protected status of Honduran and
Nicaraguan refugees who fled to the United States after Hurricane Mitch in 1998.

The congregation applauds.

Virtually everyone comes from Latin America. Rodriguez left there in 1990 to
attend a seminary in Kansas City. As the number of Hispanics grew in Howard
County, leaders in the Church of the Nazarene took note and decided to form a
congregation in Ellicott City. In 1995, Rodriguez was called to lead it.

It is, he says, an immigrant church, not an ethnic one. The difference is
important. Many of his congregation are new arrivals, who turn to the church not
just for spiritual guidance and sermons delivered in their native tongue but for
a community to rely on.

"The church is a bridge for them to get into the culture, to adapt, to learn
English," says Mabel Rodriguez, Walter's wife.

One woman, who spoke only on the condition that her name not be used, says she
had nothing when she arrived from Paraguay. "Not a bed, not a spoon." But
members of the congregation, she says, "soon brought me a bed -- and sheets.
Everything."

"This is like a family," the woman says. "It's very hard being in a different
place. You are alone, and you need to restart your life. It's very hard.

"And they," she continues, pointing to Rodriguez and his wife, "are like the
parents of everyone."

She closes her eyes and, with a soft voice, joins the singing about God's
eternal justice.

Then, Rodriguez introduces Hector Segundo, who has just returned from a
church-sponsored trip to Brazil. He spent a week volunteering at a school for
neglected children in one of the world's worst slums.

The children's mothers were prostitutes, the fathers alcoholics and drug
addicts. "You could see in their eyes they were dead," he says.

The children were starved and living in squalor, sleeping on dirt floors and in
homes with buckets for toilets. "They had nothing," he told the congregation. "I
met at least two children who had names but no birth dates."

The story seems to resonate with the congregation. It's a reminder, he tells
them, of how hard life is in certain parts of the world, outside the walls of
the cozy church. And it's why so many people try to escape to America each year.

"In each of their faces, I could see every one of you," Segundo tells them.

Then he steps back into the congregation, among the fathers cradling infants and
mothers with children in their laps.

Some of the children grow restless. They crawl under the pews and shoot glances
at each other from across the room and speak American-accented English so well
they often translate for their parents. Most of them were born in the United
States, go to school here and are becoming immersed in the culture. Soon they
will move on, Rodriguez says, out of the church because their parents are the
immigrants -- not them.

"English is their first language," he says. "They probably won't stay with us."

But he knows, others are coming.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              283 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Literacy Programs Struggle to Meet Need;
Resources Stretched With Increase in Immigrants

BYLINE: Eugene L. Meyer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. T08

LENGTH: 1217 words


Attempting to cope with a surge in immigrants that is changing the face of the
metropolitan area, adult literacy programs across the Maryland suburbs are
experiencing long waiting lists and a shortage of tutors.

In Montgomery County, as many as 250 people linger on waiting lists for as long
as nine months before being tutored. In Prince George's County, there's a wait
of at least three months, with 123 on the list.

In most of the suburban counties, there has been a major change in who is being
served, with a shift from a largely native-born population lacking reading
skills to foreign-born adults unable to read and write English and, sometimes,
illiterate also in their own tongues.

"When we started this program 15 years ago, 18 percent were foreign-born," said
Janet Carsetti, director of Howard County's Project Literacy. "Now, my
population of clients is 95 percent foreign-born." In Montgomery, the percentage
is even higher -- 98 percent -- according to Pam Saussy, Literacy Council
director.

Officials say the demand for volunteer tutors to teach reading to foreign-born
residents has far outstripped the resources of their nonprofit programs. The
programs generally are free or charge only a nominal fee.

"Every program I know of is oversubscribed," Saussy said, "so we're all trying
to work together to figure out how to increase capacity and coordinate our
services. There are just not enough places to teach them."

By far the largest group seeking to learn English in area counties is Hispanic,
reflecting the 82 percent increase in Maryland's Latino population during the
1990s, to 228,000. The largest concentrations are in Montgomery, Prince George's
and Anne Arundel counties. Very few students are Europeans.

Students in Howard's program -- predominantly Latin American, followed by
Chinese and Haitian -- come from 38 countries. In Montgomery, 42 percent are
Latino, 31 percent are Asian, and the rest are African. They come from 88
countries and speak 60 languages, said Saussy, whose program had 578 tutors last
year working with 1,100 students.

"It's climbed quite a bit," she said, citing a 26 percent increase in students
in her program in 2001 over the year before. "Our waiting list gets longer and
longer. They're desperate to learn."

Saussy's center is in the Wheaton Regional Library, although tutors also meet
students elsewhere in the county. Recently, tutor Katharine Stull worked at the
library with Karen Tse, 42, a Hong Kong native who lives in Olney and works at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture library in Beltsville.

As she read English passages, Stull helped her with pronunciation. Her native
Mandarin dialect, she said, "for me is easy." Her biggest challenge in English
is pronouncing some letter sounds, such as the long "u," and plural words such
as "businesses" and "cures."

The Prince George's Literacy Council has just moved from predominantly African
American Palmer Park to Hyattsville, where the population is heavily Latino.
Director Janna Lusk said she expects her program to serve more Hispanics in its
new location, in the Hyattsville library.

"We see people who just have difficulties reading and writing and are fearful of
losing their jobs," Lusk said. "We had someone who almost lost a job at one of
the airports because he was fearful of taking a test about new security
measures, because he couldn't read or write."

Founded in 1962, the Prince George's council has 300 students a year and 160 to
200 tutors at any one time, Lusk said. Until now, most of its students have been
U.S.-born, "but we're getting increasing requests from people from other
countries," she said.

Lusk said she does not have a breakdown by ethnicity or country of origin, but
she said her students come from at least 38 countries.

In the outer suburban ring, programs are smaller, waiting lists are shorter, and
more students are native-born.

Frederick's literacy program began decades ago when there were many foreign
migrant workers in the county, but as subdivisions have replaced farms, their
number has dropped, said Tracey Beidleman, president of the Frederick Literacy
Council.

In Charles County, the majority served is still American-born. The Anne Arundel
Literacy Council, currently "in a rebuilding phase," said to President Ivy L.
Kleinbart, is seeking to serve more foreign-born students as the population
shifts. The nonprofit recently held a workshop to train tutors in teaching
English as a second language.

Most of the adult literacy programs use a method developed by the late Frank C.
Laubach, who began teaching reading as a missionary in the Philippines during
the 1920s. The phonics-based method is very structured and uses "visual puns" to
associate letters with objects.

Some centers use other teaching techniques.

Howard's Carsetti tests each person and designs an individualized program. "They
all have different materials and learn from different methods," she said. "We
have a lot for whom phonics doesn't work."

Carsetti's clients include people "who haven't learned how to read or write in
any language and who have very little formal education."

Margaret Sunday, 19, from Nigeria, fits into that category. She works at a fast
food restaurant in Columbia Mall and can't read but wants to "get my GED and go
to college," she said.

"These people want to learn so badly. They come faithfully and try so hard,"
said her tutor, Myra Kramer, a retired public school reading specialist who has
tutored 15 students in 14 years.

Kramer and Sunday were working in a cubicle at the Howard County Central
Library, where Project Literacy is headquartered, but there are separate classes
for Spanish-speakers conducted in a portable classroom adjoining Running Brook
Elementary School, in Columbia.

The other afternoon, 14 students -- mostly Salvadoran and ranging in age from 19
to 42 -- came to class. On one side of a divider, four students worked with Mark
Enriquez, while 10 others, more advanced, worked with Luz Enriquez, supervisor
of bilingual programs for Project Literacy and Mark's wife.

The students live in nearby apartments and, for the most part, are restaurant
and domestic workers with a desire to learn English and get ahead.

The more advanced students worked through a parable about "the butterfly and the
man," reading out loud in English and translating the words into Spanish. The
story of the butterfly breaking out of the cocoon could have been a metaphor for
their lives.

"I asked for strength . . . and I received difficulties to make me strong," the
story read.

Among the English words the students learned were "strength" and "prosperity."
"Que dice 'strength'?" Enriquez asked. "Fuerte," the students said. "Que es
'prosperity'?" Luz Enriquez asked. "Prosperidad," the students replied.

"Yes!" Luz exulted, in English.

Those seeking services or wanting to become tutors may call:

* Anne Arundel Literacy Council, 410-553-0809

* Calvert County Literacy Council, 410-535-3233

* Charles County Literacy Council, 301-934-9494

* Literacy Council of Frederick County, 301-694-2066

* Howard County Project Literacy, 410-313-7900

* Literacy Council of Montgomery, 301-942-9292

* Literacy Council of Prince George's, 301-699-9770

* St. Mary's County Literacy Council, 301-475-9865

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              284 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 25, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Rethinking Who They Are;
Census Shows People Are Declining to Report Their Heritage

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK May 24


Who are you?

Cheryl Mason stands behind the counter of a sweet-smelling Caribbean bakery on
Utica Avenue in Brooklyn and allows herself a good laugh. She's a Jamaican,
always. And a West Indian, certainly. And a fresh-minted American, as she became
a citizen two years ago.

She owns a tape of patriotic songs and cries freely as she sings along with Kate
Smith on "God Bless America."

"I'm a West Indian," she said. "My daughter will be an American, plain and
simple."

Mason spans the twin pillars of a changing America, in New York and nationally.
As immigrants pour into every corner of the United States, the numbers of
Americans who describe themselves as being of West Indian, sub-Saharan and Latin
American ancestry has risen dramatically while a growing number of Americans are
less likely to declare any ancestry at all, or write in "United States" when
asked.

Even in New York, where more than one-third of the population is foreign born,
238,000 New Yorkers simply declared themselves American, a rise of about 81,000
from the 1990 Census.

These responses are not so contradictory as they might appear. As new immigrants
arrive with strong social, cultural and linguistic ties to their homelands,
older immigrant generations intermarry, move and fade into the tapestry of the
United States. Census officials have charted the decline in ancestry reporting
across the board -- in border states with lots of immigrants and in midwestern
states with few immigrants.

It would appear, in other words, that choosing an identity has become a
quintessentially American exercise.

"The United States is a nation of immigrants," said Jeffrey Passel, a
demographer with the Urban Institute. "The census becomes a way of
cherry-picking identity."

The U.S. Census Bureau has released data for 33 states from the 2000 Census long
form in which one in six households were asked the questions on ancestry. The
biggest decline in named ancestries has come in the nation's the oldest
immigrant stocks. Nine million fewer people identify themselves as being of
German ancestry, while those identifying themselves as English and Irish fell by
5 million each.

There was a brief moment in the 1970s when it became fashionable for second- and
third-generation European immigrants to reassert their heritage, whether
Italian, Irish or Polish. This was especially true of the immigrant-rich port
cities, from New York, Boston and Baltimore to San Francisco.

That moment has all but passed. The old-line ethnic neighborhoods are falling
away, as fourth- and fifth-generation immigrants intermarry, and move. (New
York's Little Italy has become almost wholly a marketing venture, its restaurant
row snaking between wealthy yuppies of no particular ethnic flavor and an
ever-expanding Chinatown.)

For those whose forefathers arrived a century ago, ethnicity is no longer
central to their self-identification.

"For the white population, the period of mass migration is simply receding into
history," said Phillip Kasinitz, a sociologist with the City University of New
York Graduate Center. "Irish are thoroughly Irish for five generations in New
York and they cross the Hudson River and they become plain old white people."

That said, the task of interpreting the census data on national and ethnic
origin can be tricky. The Census Bureau's choice of examples can present a
problem. When in 1990 the bureau used "Cajun" as an example, those identifying
themselves as Cajun rose by 600,000.

It's possible a not dissimilar phenomenon is at play with the 229 percent rise
in those who describe themselves as sub-Saharan Africans. (In New York City, the
number of people who identify their ancestry as sub-Saharan rose by 137
percent.)

This increase reflects a surge in African migration to the United States. But
it's also likely that some black Americans chose for the first time to identify
their ancestry as sub-Saharan African.

This is particularly true, say sociologists, in cities such as New York and
Washington, where political and cultural Afro-centrism has deep roots.

"I can't help but think the prominence of the word 'African American' in the
past 10 years has fed a greater recognition of sub-Saharan Africa as the
ancestral home," Kasinitz said.

Those who identify themselves as coming from Central and South America, and the
Spanish-speaking Caribbean, also rose sharply. The question here is to what
extent national -- as a Puerto Rican or a Mexican or an Ecuadorean -- yielded to
a broader Hispanic or American identity.

In New York, there's some evidence of a slowly forged identity between
Dominicans and Puerto Ricans and Cubans; Puerto Rican mayoral candidate Fernando
Ferrer drew his biggest vote in two predominantly Dominican districts in
northern Manhattan.

But these established immigrant communities show few signs as yet of working
closely with the newly arrived Mexican and Ecuadorean immigrants. And always
race and class intrude on these discussions.

"The case of an Hispanic identity is very complicated," said John Gutierrez of
the Center for Latin American, Caribbean and Latino Studies at CUNY. "You have
Puerto Ricans who were granted citizenship in 1917, and Mexicans in the
Southwest who were here before Plymouth Rock was settled and trace their lineage
back to Spain."

Dual nationality adds a further complication. Dominican and Colombian immigrants
are allowed to vote in the United States and in their homelands. In the end, the
question of identity resolves itself slowly, and in fits and starts.

Who are you?

Gig Young, proprietor of that sweet-smelling Caribbean bakery on Utica Avenue,
runs down the possibilities. Jamaican (though he left 37 years ago), West
Indian, African and Chinese ancestry and . . . an American. He's not sure what
he answered on the census form.

"I'm a bit of everything. So I guess I'm a proper American."

Staff writer D'Vera Cohn contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              285 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

The Right Issue, The Wrong Story

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 290 words


The May 19 Close to Home article " 'I Lucky Everything,' " which argued for a
more open attitude toward immigration, might have served the opposite purpose.

The article related the story of an immigrant with poor English who was working
as a manicurist (a stereotypical Asian immigrant profession).

The story appealed to people's emotions, but the happiness of foreign nationals
and immigrants is not an angle from which Pat Buchanan and like-minded Americans
examine the issue of immigration.

In fact, the article reinforced some Americans' negative perception that
immigrants, especially those from non-English speaking, non-Western and poor
countries, are a burden to our society and are taking jobs from the native-born.

As an immigrant who became a U.S. citizen, I understand why I love this country
and what makes the United States a great nation. In many ways, the flow of
immigrants is revitalizing. Their success reminds the native-born of what the
American spirit is all about.

Yet people such as Linh Huynh, the manicurist in the story, are the type of
immigrants the Buchanan types would love to see less of because they are not
from those handful of civilizations or cultures they find acceptable.

The article's pro-immigration argument would have been more effective if the
personal example was of a foreign-born scientist, whose breakthrough research
cured a devastating disease, or of an immigrant whose manual labor was needed
because native-born Americans aren't interested in the type of work. There is no
dearth of these stories.

Americans are pragmatic. "What can they do for us?" is the criterion that
immigrants are judged upon, especially by those Americans with exclusionary
views.

LILY QI

Gaithersburg

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              286 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 1, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD;
In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1000 words


EUROPE

COPENHAGEN -- Parliament voted yesterday to tighten Denmark's immigration and
asylum rules, making it harder for foreigners to seek asylum, get residence
permits and welfare benefits.

The legislation, which has been criticized abroad for being too harsh, was
presented earlier this year by the Liberal-Conservative minority government. The
center-right coalition took office in November promising to protect the
prosperous nation's cradle-to-grave welfare system from being exploited by
outsiders.

Parliamentary support from the anti-immigration, populist Danish People's Party
ensured passage of the law, which takes effect July 1.

The vote came a day after Britain announced a change in immigration rules,
providing for the quick deportation of failed refugee claimants before they have
a chance to appeal. The change, which must be approved by Parliament, also would
restrict appeals for those denied asylum, increase penalties for the trafficking
of people and allow the deportation of children born in Britain to parents who
entered the country illegally.

On Thursday, European Union interior ministers met in Rome and backed the idea
of creating a European border police force to operate at airports and harbors by
2007. A final decision could be made next month.

Danish lawmakers voted 59 to 48 in favor of the law after a three-hour debate.
Seventy legislators were absent and two abstained.

Associated Press

MOSCOW -- Anti-Semitic and obscene slogans were spray-painted over a mural of
Soviet dissident and Nobel laureate Andrei Sakharov at a Moscow human rights
museum, its director said.

Sakharov, a physicist and one of the developers of the Soviet hydrogen bomb,
later became an eloquent critic of the Communist regime and a leader of the
democratic movement before he died in 1989.

The 10-foot-high mural, in a square outside the Sakharov Museum, was vandalized
overnight, director Yuri Samodurov said.

He speculated that it could have been damaged by teenagers or by "an order" from
the authorities because of the museum's outspoken political views.

Associated PressAFRICA

VATICAN CITY -- Archbishop Emmanuel Milingo, an African prelate who embarrassed
the Roman Catholic Church by marrying a South Korean acupuncturist last year, is
preparing to resume his ministry, a Vatican official told an Italian magazine.

Monsignor Tarciso Bertone declined to disclose the whereabouts of Zambian-born
Milingo, 71, but said he was expected to return to Italy by the end of the
summer, according to 30 Days, a religious affairs monthly.

The magazine provided excerpts of an interview with Bertone to be published next
week.

"He is serene and content, above all for regaining inner peace and is preparing
for the resumption of his full sacred ministry," said Bertone, who took part in
talks with Milingo that led him to leave his wife.

Milingo was married a year ago in a group ceremony in New York led by the Rev.
Sun Myung Moon, head of the South Korea-based Family Federation for World Peace
and Unification movement.

Threatened with excommunication, Milingo announced in late August that he was
heeding Pope John Paul II's appeal to abide by the vow of celibacy required by
the Roman Catholic Church of its priests.

The archbishop then disappeared from public view.

Associated PressTHE AMERICAS

MEXICO CITY -- An appeals court in western Mexico overturned the acquittal of
two men in the 1998 killing of a U.S. journalist and sentenced them to 13 years
in prison.

The unanimous ruling Thursday by the three-judge panel in the state of Jalisco
followed a long struggle by Philip True's widow and his employer, the San
Antonio Express-News, to bring his killers to justice -- and another campaign,
led by a U.S. expatriate, to win an acquittal for the two men.

"The defense lawyers had distorted True's image, and we are very happy to see
that he has been revindicated," said Jorge Ochoa, a lawyer for True's widow,
Martha.

True, 50, disappeared in early December 1998 during a hike through mountains in
the western Mexico territory of the Huichol Indians.

A search party found his body days later buried in a shallow grave at the bottom
of a deep ravine.

Juan Chivarra and Miguel Hernandez, two Huichol Indians, were detained after
authorities discovered they had the journalist's camera and backpack. They
initially said they had killed True but later retracted their remarks and said
soldiers had tortured them.

Defense lawyers had said True may have been drinking and perhaps fell to his
death. True's family and friends said he seldom drank.

Associated Press

BUENOS AIRES -- President Eduardo Duhalde signed a decree to phase out a
six-month law that has frozen billions of dollars in Argentines' savings in a
tottering banking system.

Duhalde withheld details. Officials may announce as early as today how the
government will end the financial constraints imposed in December.

The restrictions on withdrawals came soon after panicky depositors yanked
billions from the bank. But the freeze also helped accelerate Argentina's
financial meltdown, which was followed by street rioting that toppled the
government of President Fernando de la Rua.

The banking freeze has left an estimated $ 12.5 billion trapped in fixed
deposits and about $ 10 billion more in savings and checking accounts.

Associated PressTHE MIDDLE EAST

BAGHDAD, Iraq -- Iraq said three people were wounded when U.S. and British
planes struck targets in the southern portion of the country, while Washington
said it had launched a raid after Western jets were threatened.

U.S. officials said attack aircraft bombed a radar system in southern Iraq
Thursday in the latest incident involving warplanes patrolling a "no-fly" zone
over the country.

The attack followed a series of bombings against Iraqi air defenses in response
to what the U.S. military has said are attacks on the patrolling aircraft from
the ground.

It was the fourth such attack reported by the U.S. military since May 19.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              287 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 2, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Unearthing History, However Painful;
At Angel Island, Renewed Interest in Asia's Difficult Entryway to America

BYLINE: Deborah Kong, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1166 words

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND, Calif.


As their ships steamed through the Golden Gate in the early 20th century,
Chinese immigrants dreamed of opportunities awaiting them on Gold Mountain, as
they called America.

But instead of docking at San Francisco's fabled shores, they were shuttled onto
ferries and sent to Angel Island in the middle of the bay. At the immigration
station there, dreams of paradise quickly clashed with reality.

Many languished within a few miles of their destination for weeks, sometimes
carving melancholy poems into the walls of rough barracks while their fate hung
in limbo. In the station's earliest days, the Chinese had to use a segregated
entrance to the hospital.

Details of Angel Island's difficult past -- like the separate entrance and a new
trove of poems -- are being uncovered by researchers examining the site and
sifting through the National Archives and National Park Service records as part
of a restoration project.

Their discoveries are adding texture to survivors' stories of discrimination and
grim circumstances at the immigration station, which operated from 1910 to 1940.

"It's like an archaeological dig," said Katherine Toy, executive director of the
Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation. "The part that we're at now is, how
do you go about uncovering a hidden history to dig for a deeper story?"

Toy's group was founded by descendants of Chinese who were detained on the
island. It hopes to tell a more complete story by restoring the station to the
days when it was the Ellis Island of the West -- the main gateway into the
United States for immigrants journeying across the Pacific.

The foundation is at the beginning of an estimated $ 32 million, eight-year
project with the California State Parks and National Park Service. A team of
historians, architects and others is combing through archives and probing the
barracks, hospital and heating plant for clues to the past.

About 1 million immigrants were processed on Angel Island, far fewer than the 12
million who went through Ellis Island between 1892 and 1954.

But unlike Ellis, where immigrants usually waited three to five hours to be
processed, the average stay for Chinese immigrants on Angel Island was two to
three weeks.

Japanese, Korean, Filipino, Indian, Portuguese, Mexican and Russian immigrants
also went through Angel Island. But the Chinese were generally kept the longest
while officials determined if they were eligible to enter the United States.

Under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, Chinese laborers were not allowed to
enter the United States. Exceptions were made for wives and children of American
citizens, merchants, students, diplomats and tourists.

While relatively few who made it to Angel Island were turned away, the wait and
uncertainty could be agonizing.

"The kind of interrogation, the kind of treatment, is so abusive and so inhumane
that it's just no comparison" to the Ellis Island experience, said Ling-Chi
Wang, director of Asian American Studies at the University of California at
Berkeley.

Albert Wong was 11 when he made the 21-day journey from his southern China
village to join his father, a U.S. citizen and owner of the Oriental Cafe in San
Jose.

When Wong arrived in San Francisco in June 1934, he and about 30 other Chinese
were ferried to Angel Island and put in barracks. In a room of about 100 men,
Wong slept on the top mattress of a triple-decker bunk bed.

The doors were locked, armed guards patrolled the halls and chain-link fences
covered the windows. Detainees were allowed out only for meals, and to exercise
in a dirt area surrounded by a 12-foot fence topped with barbed wire.

"Time goes very slowly because everybody is just waiting for that
interrogation," said Wong, who was detained for about five weeks. "We were
treated very harsh, more like criminals than immigrants."

Wong, 80, remembers the Chinese were confined to separate dining halls and
sleeping quarters. Angel Island consultant Daniel Quan recently discovered
evidence of further segregation in the immigration station's early days, in a
letter from the station's architect.

"The entrance for the Chinese and Japanese to their quarters is entirely
separate and distinct from the Europeans' entrance to the Hospital and their
wards, practically making two distinct buildings," architect Walter Mathews
wrote in a 1906 letter to the immigration commissioner general, describing his
site plan.

After the hospital was remodeled sometime between 1911 and 1912, traces of the
segregated entrance were erased. A window replaced the Asian entrance; a wall
and an empty room occupy the area that was filled by the Asian staircase.

A 1907 San Francisco Chronicle article discussed plans for providing water to
the station, then under construction. Freshwater would be drawn from a spring
and brought in by barges. Saltwater pumped from the bay "will be used for
bathing purposes in the Asiatic quarters," the article said.

"I don't think it was lost on the immigrants that they were being treated
differently," Angel Island Park Superintendent Nick Franco. "Experiencing a
saltwater shower versus a freshwater shower, I'm sure, was pretty unexpected and
pretty demoralizing."

Immigration inspectors often asked detainees minute details about their lives in
China in an effort to weed out those trying to enter under false pretenses, then
compared their answers to those given by relatives. Wong recalls inspectors
asked him how many steps led from his hillside home to the orchard where he
played.

In the women's barracks, 18-year-old Lowshee Miu waited for 21 days before she
was allowed to join her husband on the mainland.

"You just stay in and sleep," said Miu, now 90. "A couple of ladies, they were
really sad. They were always crying."

As they waited to be interrogated by immigration inspectors, Chinese men carved
their sorrows on the barrack walls. One poem reads:

How was I to know I would become a prisoner suffering in the wooden building? .
. .

When my family's circumstances stir my emotions, a double stream of tears flow.

Saved from demolition in 1970 when a park ranger noticed the Chinese
calligraphy, the worn, wooden walls tell immigrants' feelings of anger, despair
and ambition.

While documenting the poems, researchers recently discovered there were dozens
more than the 135 that had been previously translated.

"Every one of those things is a separate voice," Quan said. "If we really take
the time to analyze all of those different things, there's going to be a lot
more history that comes out of there."

They also found more voices from the past in the hospital. After a researcher
found a 1910 letter complaining of immigrants writing on the hospital walls,
state park interpreter Darci Moore ran over to the decaying building with a
flashlight.

Beneath peeling plaster, amid the green algae and mold spreading across the
walls, she found pencil drawings of birds and a bit of Chinese graffiti.

Its message: "When can I get out of here?"

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              288 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 9, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Trapped Between 2 Languages;
Poor and Isolated, Many Immigrants' Children Lack English

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2916 words


William Martinez arrived in kindergarten nearly three years ago, knowing just
the few words of English -- such as "happy" and "hello" -- he had picked up from
TV and the playground. He was put in intensive English language classes that for
decades have helped newly arriving immigrants make the transition to America.

But William is not an immigrant. He was born in Gaithersburg. And he is part of
the largest and fastest-growing group of children who are learning to speak
English in school throughout the Washington region: U.S. citizens.

To local officials and national experts alike, the statistic is startling.
"These children are growing up in linguistically isolated households. And if
they're isolated, they're probably in poor families," said Michael Fix, an
immigration expert at the Urban Institute. "This is amazing. We're not talking
East L.A. We're talking Montgomery County, one of the richest counties in the
country."

Indeed, in Montgomery and Fairfax counties, about 35 percent of students in
English for Speakers of Other Languages, or ESOL, classes are U.S. citizens, a
dramatic increase from the mid-1990s. In the District, 37 percent are Americans;
and in Prince George's and Arlington counties, nearly half of the children in
the specialized classes are.

The statistics speak volumes: These are lives circumscribed by poverty,
isolation and inattention. Many of the children spend most of their time in
cramped apartments in front of TVs. Many of their parents have little or no
education and work hours at low-paying jobs. Many are simply not home when their
children are awake.

And most of the children do not have the extensive family networks of more
established immigrant communities that can fill in the blanks.

That puts the children at a double disadvantage: Not only have they not learned
English, they often don't learn their first language well.

The consequences are just beginning to hit school officials. In tests of
language dominance, "quite often, it comes up that they have very small
vocabulary in both languages," said Montgomery teacher Nina Klauder. Many have
greater difficulty learning to read and write than do recent immigrants, even
members of their own families.

The phenomenon calls into question the way schools teach English -- and whether
programs designed decades ago primarily for well-educated Cubans fleeing Fidel
Castro's regime need to change.

English language teachers say that many of their U.S.-born ESOL students
consistently perform poorly on standardized tests, which, in this age of
accountability, have become critical in rewarding or punishing teachers, schools
and entire districts.

Montgomery County School Superintendent Jerry D. Weast, who promised to close
the achievement gap and is instead battling flat and faltering test scores, will
present a report Tuesday detailing the shortcomings of the county's ESOL
program. "These are invisible kids," he said. "If we don't deal with them well,
it's going to affect the quality of education for everyone."

William, now 7, is in second grade at Gaithersburg Elementary School. He now
chatters in unaccented English about Britney Spears and how he loves doing the
cha-cha slide in P.E. class. But the words he uses are simple, and he often
pounds his forehead with his fist as he struggles to find them.

Most times, he mugs, making exaggerated faces in answer to questions.

"Another child, in another environment, would use words to express how they
feel," said MariaEstela Merrell, a bilingual social worker who has been working
with the boy and his family for a year. "But William just makes these funny
faces."

He may sound fluent -- most children can learn to speak a foreign language,
particularly "playground English," in one year. But he is struggling in school.
It takes five to seven years, research has found, before a child can perform
academically in a second language.

His report card shows that he is still far behind native English-speaking
classmates, even after being moved into a special classroom of only 13 children
who need extra help.

A recent language test of his ability to read and write shows why: It was as if
he had never seen English. He scored a zero in writing.

William and others like him present a conundrum for teachers: Children who sound
fluent when they talk are anything but when it comes to reading and writing. "I
was piloting a kindergarten curriculum I thought was too simple," said language
teacher Jennifer DeLorge. "But then it surprised me that these kids didn't know
basic words, like roof, or pants. It's tricky, because they sound quite fluent."

Much of that apparent fluency comes from watching television. And although
Spanish-language TV and American cartoons may help students learn to say words
or phrases, it in no way prepares them to read and write. Further, the
experience leaves them passive, teachers have found, and unable to carry
conversations very far in either language.

At New Hampshire Estates Elementary School in Silver Spring, 200 students are in
English language classes. Only 12 are immigrants. On a recent day, a group of
4-year-olds in Head Start preschool, all born here and all struggling with the
English language, dug for worms.

One boy yelled, "Ah! Ah! Ah!" His teacher, Kristina Degentesh, looked over. "You
found a beetle. Say, 'I found a beetle,' " she told him. A girl pouted and
pulled on her own pants. "Is too big." "What's too big?" Degentesh asked. The
girl pulled again, silently, at her pants. When another boy flung dirt on others
with his shovel, or when some wanted to put worms in a bucket, the children had
no words in any language. They filled the air with inarticulate grunts and cries
of "Heeeey."

Although there are always exceptions, teachers say they fear many of these
children will reject their first language, a typical pattern of assimilation in
the United States. And if their English is weak, these children risk becoming
"semiliterate."

"They may have some vocabulary in one language and some vocabulary in another
and use both when they speak," said Cristina Stern, a longtime ESOL teacher in
Montgomery County. "But it's as if they don't have a dominant language. They're
not bilingual. They're alingual."

The problem is well established in California and Texas. A 1993 survey found
that one-third of the 2.1 million students learning English in U.S. public
schools were born in America.

With some exceptions, these students speak their first language relatively well,
in part because the immigrant communities in those states are so large, with so
many extended family members, friends, churches and services in Spanish, experts
say.

But in the Washington region, where the immigrant communities are smaller and
dispersed, many immigrant families live not only in poverty, but also in
isolation.

For years, the immigrant communities here were highly educated and largely
well-heeled. The sons and daughters of bankers, diplomats and scientists entered
local public schools and learned English quickly. In a typical program, their
ESOL teachers took them out of class for a half-hour a few times a week and
concentrated on building words and grammar. Most performed well. Indeed, on some
math tests, many outperformed native English-speaking classmates.

But in the 1980s and '90s, more than a quarter-million immigrants came to the
Washington area legally, and countless others illegally. And recent studies have
found that the Latino immigrants, in particular, tended to be less educated and
to earn less than those in the more established Hispanic community. They
complained of being trapped in the circulo cerrado -- or closed circle -- of
low-wage jobs because they didn't speak English.

Now their children are arriving in public schools. Many of those children, like
William, did not go to preschool. A survey last summer found that 30 percent of
Latino children in Montgomery County do not. Many, like William, have been left
with babysitters in front of television sets while their parents worked,
cleaning houses and offices, working construction or mopping up at Wendy's.

The largest group -- 77 percent -- speaks Spanish at home. The rest, Montgomery
County records show, speak just about every language on earth.

"They're catching up their entire careers," said Francisco Millet, who directs
ESOL programs in Fairfax County. "And many never do."

In truth, no one really knows just how limited these U.S.-born children are
because no one has ever asked the question. Harvard University researchers are
just beginning an ambitious, four-year study, in Montgomery County and
elsewhere, to pinpoint what exactly appears to put these students at greater
disadvantage than not just other American children, but newly arriving
immigrants as well.

Synthia Woodcock Dang has taught children from the same immigrant family, some
who arrived with their parents and others who were born here. The difference was
staggering.

"Even if they come from poverty in their home country, they had grandparents
tell them stories and talk back and forth. They went to the market. They had
rich experiences," she said. "The siblings born here don't have that. They've
been left in day care with no stimulation. No one talks to them."

Isolation -- from the mainstream culture, from extended family -- is one clear
cause of children's lack of English skills. And poverty is key. Indeed, in
Montgomery County, 70 percent of U.S.-born children who don't speak English are
poor, while only about half of foreign-born children are.

If poverty and isolation make the primary language skills weak, learning a
second is not a matter of simply translating. It means learning new concepts in
a strange tongue.

"What we see are children who have difficulty putting sentences together in
either language," said Mathilda Arcineagas, who for 20 years has taught
nonnative English speakers. "They're really between two languages."

A hammock, made of bright red, yellow and blue strands, hangs the length of the
living room in William Martinez's Gaithersburg apartment. Red crayon scribbles
mark the walls. Damp laundry hangs on a line across the back bedroom he shares
with his pregnant mother, his father and his younger brother, Antonio, 4. An
older man and his teenage son rent the other bedroom.

It is not difficult to understand how William spent the first five years of his
life in a bubble of Spanish. His mother, Petrona Chavez, 34, has learned no
English since coming from El Salvador in 1990. "It never occurred to me that I
would learn it," she said through a translator.

Throughout the day, the TV is tuned, loudly, to a Spanish channel. The blond
brick apartment complex off Diamond Avenue is known as "Little El Salvador"
because everyone there speaks Spanish. And on weekends, if William goes out at
all, it is to large family gatherings in Frederick, where no English is spoken
and children are seen but not heard.

To shop, Petrona can go around the corner to Metro Market, where a
Spanish-speaking staff can help her find flour tortillas, annatto seeds, cans of
tender cactus, chipotle and 20-pound bags of rice. She goes to Mass on Sunday at
St. Martin of Tours Catholic church, where in the last decade the number of
Spanish-language Masses has increased from two a day to five a day.

If she needs to send money to her mother, which she has done religiously for 12
years, there are three Western Unions on Summit Avenue that advertise in
Spanish.

William's father, William Sr., speaks a little English but has never studied it,
figuring he can get by. He works heavy construction, operating an excavator. "I
don't need much English, because I do the same job every day, and I know what to
do," he said in halting English. But there are times he wishes he knew more:
"When I go out to a mall or restaurant, I don't know how to order something. So
I always have to eat the same thing at the same place. I go to McDonald's every
day."

To understand why 7-year-old William's Spanish is limited is complicated.

His mother spent five years in first grade in a small village outside San
Miguel, El Salvador.

She quit school to sell candy on the street with her mother. She learned to read
a little, but she never learned to write. And she can't add. At 16, she had her
first baby, followed by another. She left her husband, who gambled, and when she
wasn't scrubbing the wash with a stone, she worked selling meat and picking
cotton.

At that time, a brutal civil war was raging. When Petrona was 22, her father
sold a cow to smuggle her and her younger brother north to safety in America.
She left her children, 5 and 2, behind.

She made her way to Gaithersburg, where her older brothers had found work, and
began cleaning houses during the day and office buildings at night. In 1993, she
married William Sr., and they began their family. Petrona had to keep working to
support the children she left behind. Almost everything she earned, $ 300 a
month, went to El Salvador.

She was rarely home with William. And after she had Antonio, she was
hospitalized with severe postpartum depression. For a year, the boys stayed with
a babysitter Petrona knows only as "Senora Mexicana."

After she returned home, little changed. She worked at a Wendy's, often until 10
p.m. She worked weekends. William Sr., who has a sixth-grade education, was not
much involved. Antonio did not start to speak until he was 2 1/2. At 3, he could
barely put three words together in Spanish. Petrona rarely spoke to the boys
except to correct them. The boys watched hours of television.

Language, any language, develops through interaction, experts say, in expressing
meaningful experiences to important people. William and Antonio never had the
chance.

They are not the only ones. Maria Malagon, Montgomery's director of English
language programs, asked the mother of a silent child if the girl talked at
home. "You'd have to ask her sister," the mother said. She is never home when
the child is awake.

VyVy Pham was born in Silver Spring. At 9, she is now a soft-spoken
fourth-grader at Christa McAuliffe Elementary in Germantown. And she is in her
fifth year of English language classes. Most children take just two or three.

VyVy's English is limited because the only time she hears it is at school. And
her Vietnamese is as limited as her mother's life was constrained by poverty.

Chi Pham, 34, an Amerasian who speaks not a word of English, has worked as a
babysitter, has been on welfare and now cleans up at a nearby Roy Roger's.

VyVy's recent report card showed she is trying hard in school but often doesn't
do her homework. "Please read at home!" her teacher, Jim Fritzinger, wrote. But
there are no books in the spare three-bedroom townhouse the Phams share with
another family. And Chi Pham can't read.

William's first-grade teacher, Greg Shinsky, is troubled that more and more
children have such a small window on the world. They don't know words such as
whisker or flower girl.

"When we read books," he said, "it's just painfully clear that they haven't had
any experiences."

Margaret Van Buskirk, who has taught ESOL for years, describes them this way:
"They're not children of the Third World," she said. "They're children of the
Fourth."

In a makeshift classroom in a trailer behind William's school, Petrona Chavez
sat hunched over a piece of oversize paper with wide lines, the kind that
kindergartners use to write their first alphabet. And that was what Petrona was
doing. In Spanish.

For the past year, Petrona has been trying to change. She has been coming to
Gaithersburg Elementary's Parent Resource Center to learn how to read and write
in Spanish. Teachers say that is the only way she will ever begin to learn
English.

Social workers with Even Start, the federal family literacy project, have been
working with her at home, encouraging her to turn the TV off, to talk to her
boys, to take them to the park.

Now home because of a difficult pregnancy, she has been carefully pronouncing
Spanish words for Antonio and has registered him for Head Start. She no longer
pulls William out of school to be her translator. He goes to homework club. And
on Fridays, she has been learning how to get down on the floor and play with
Antonio.

It has not been easy.

"This is not like how it was when I grew up, where kids just crawled around on
the dirt floor, and if they put something dirty in their mouths, it was okay,"
she said through a translator. "I'm realizing kids don't just raise themselves."

The realization came hard, last year, when William was acting up in school,
using bad words on the playground and disrupting class. She had come to America
for a better life, to find hope away from sadness, if not for herself, then for
her children. If her luck was to change, she would have to.

"I don't want them to have the hard life that I have had," she said.

She has come far. But there is still a long way to go.

Back in their cramped apartment, Petrona began cooking rice and beans for
dinner. Antonio took crayons and began to draw.

When asked which was his favorite color, Antonio quickly grabbed the red crayon.

"West!" he said emphatically.

"His favorite TV show is 'Power Rangers,' " William explained. "The red one's
name is West."

Antonio raced around the room with the red crayon, proudly calling, "West!
West!"

Tomorrow: A team of researchers recommends that Montgomery County overhaul its
ESOL programs.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              289 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 12, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Agents to Target Yemenis' Luggage

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 270 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has told agents to inspect baggage
belonging to Yemeni citizens for large sums of money, thermos bottles and
night-vision goggles, a government official said yesterday.

Agents were instructed to thoroughly search all baggage belonging to Yemenis
entering and leaving the United States, the official said, speaking on condition
of anonymity.

A recent raid on an apartment where a number of Yemenis lived in the Northeast
found thermos bottles outfitted with wires and batteries, the official said.

An INS spokesman declined to say whether Yemenis were being subjected to more
thorough searches, though he confirmed such searches do take place.

"We do at times conduct these heightened levels of inspection activities when
provided intelligence or investigative information either that we've developed
ourselves or that has been provided to us," said Russ Bergeron, the spokesman.

Ramzi Binalshibh, a Yemeni who was the roommate of suspected hijacking
ringleader Mohamed Atta, couldn't join the Sept. 11 attacks because his requests
for a visa to enter the United States were rejected four times.

In February, the FBI distributed photos of 16 people the bureau suspected of
planning a terrorist attack. Fawaz Yahya Al-Rabeei, 22, a citizen of Yemen, was
thought to be the leader; most of the others were from Saudi Arabia and Yemen.

It was in a Yemen port in 2000 that two suicide bombers in a dinghy rammed the
USS Cole, killing 17 sailors.

Yemenis carrying diplomatic passports were exempt from the searches, according
to CBS, which first reported the baggage searches.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              290 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 13, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Home Away From Home For Africans;
Immigrant Population Expanding in Area

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ALEXANDRIA - ARLINGTON EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 1061 words


They come in the late afternoon, usually, to sip exotic coffee, smoke cigarettes
and talk about the motherland.

It could be a corner in Mogadishu, it seems, with the men batting around
conversation in Arabic, talking about the fix that the East African nation of
Somalia is in, shouting, laughing, slapping one another on the back. But the two
dozen or so men are gathered at a Starbucks just across the Alexandria-Fairfax
County line on Leesburg Pike, drinking lattes at what has become the local
hangout for the area's Somalian immigrants.

"Everyone knows that if you need to find some Somalians, you go to Alexandria,
or maybe Fairfax," said Siyad Waismad, 22, who came to the United States three
years ago as a refugee from the war-torn country. "This is what we do at home
after work. . . . This is what we do here," he added with a chuckle.

The men are part of a growing number of East Africans who are making Alexandria
and Arlington their home. According to recently released census figures,
Alexandria's foreign-born population grew by 81 percent during the 1990s, and
Arlington's increased by 44 percent. But the increase in the area's African-born
population was even more profound. In Alexandria, the number of Africans more
than tripled, from 1,959 to 7,665, during the last decade. In Arlington, the
population more than doubled, from 2,428 to 5,014, during the same time period.

"The numbers are quite interesting," said Ralph Rosenbaum, an Alexandria city
demographer. "I wouldn't have expected those kind of numbers, particularly
concentrated in one area."

Many of the residents have settled in the city's West End in a neighborhood near
Landmark Mall, which has become the city's most polyglot and affordable area.
There, women from the Sudan walk along Pickett Street in head scarves and
dresses flowing to their ankles. Like their Somalian counterparts, recent
immigrants from Ethiopia, just off from work, sit at the Starbucks on Beauregard
Street and catch up. They go there because the general manager, Danny Fisseha,
is from Ethiopia himself, and they want to support his business, several said.

In Arlington, along Columbia Pike, a Somalian restaurant beckons patrons from
the homeland with a spiced stew from the north part of the country, the only
place in the county where you can find such a delicacy.

"It's been astounding, really, how many people have come here and helped form
this community," said Abdul Malik Al Masry, an immigrant from Ethiopia.

Al Masry opened a store six years ago and has seen his business expand mainly
because of the increasing numbers of African immigrants. The all-purpose store,
Queen of Sheba, serves as a butcher shop, record store, food emporium, clothier
and jeweler. "I started with a simple store and have been able to expand."

Like the Vietnamese and Salvadoran immigrants who came to the Virginia suburbs
in the 1970s and 1980s, many of the Africans who came during the 1990s arrived
as political refugees, seeking asylum. Washington and the Virginia suburbs often
serve as a stopover for immigrants headed to other parts of the country -- for
Somalians, that might be Minneapolis; for Ethiopians, perhaps Oakland, Calif.
But many others decide to stay because they have family here -- those who were
part of the first wave of migration from East Africa in the early 1980s.

"I think you'll find that many Africans are coming to major metropolitan cities
in general for two main reasons: the changing political climate in many East
African countries and because they are following where many immigrants feel
comfortable, in the urban areas," said Joseph Takougang, a professor of African
history at the University of Cincinnati who has studied African immigration to
the United States.

"The key issue lately, however, has been political situations in these countries
that are causing many people to flee," Takougang said.

According to census data and interviews, the largest population of African
immigrants appears to be from Ethiopia, which has long had a substantial
community in the Washington region. A sizable number are also arriving from
Eritrea and Sudan. Most said that because there was already a smattering of
people from their country here -- having come on student visas or looking for
work -- they simply followed the transatlantic bridge that had brought previous
generations.

"I was able to come here because I had cousins who had been here for some time,"
said Sabir Farah, 40, a native of Dongla, Sudan, who now lives in Alexandria. "I
was able to get a visa and I knew he was here, so I came," said Farah, who has
been here nearly four years.

While both Somalians and Ethiopians hang out at their respective Starbucks, they
shop for groceries -- and anything to remind them of home -- at the Skyline
strip mall on George Mason Drive just north of Beauregard Street in Baileys
Crossroads. There, along with Al Masry's store, a small African bazaar has
slowly developed, with butchers from Eritrea, all-purpose stores from Sudan and
restaurants dishing up Ethiopian food -- all over the past 10 years.

"Now I have competition," said Elizabeth Taye, 39, an Eritrean immigrant who
opened a store nearly two years ago. "When I first came here, you wouldn't have
found that."

Her store, like many of those in the cluster, is a mishmash of exotic goods and
American staples. A refrigerator full of American sodas rests next to shelves
filled with Eritrean delicacies: from alsi, a special grain from her home
country, to entati, a spice. People wander in and out all day to talk with her
in their native language Tigrinya, similar to the Ethiopian Amharic language.

"People get so happy when they see that we have what they want," she said. "Most
are surprised."

Yet even those who have been in the region for a while and have watched the
communities develop concede that African immigrants still lack many of the
facilities and much of the infrastructure that other immigrant populations have
had for years.

There are few community organizations that cater directly to the Ethiopian and
Somalian populations, for example, and many of the new immigrants still rely on
family for support.

"We still have a long way to go," said Said Sirag, 45, an Eritrean immigrant who
owns a store in the Skyline mall.

"We still have a lot of work to do to make this place home."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              291 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

English Immersion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 302 words


The June 9 front-page article "Trapped Between 2 Languages" was classic
commentary on the intellectual bankruptcy of the education establishment on the
subjects of cultural assimilation and bilingual education. The most effective
means of foreign language mastery is immersion -- forsaking one language in
favor of another and using the primary language only as a means of instruction
in the secondary.

Yet the cultural left and education "professionals" have deluded immigrants into
believing that they can cling to every aspect of their native culture, including
language, and still receive all the benefits of the American experience.

To lay the blame for this linguistic abyss on poverty is also disingenuous.
Millions of immigrants came to these shores in poverty yet understood that they
would have to abandon portions of their native culture to make the transition to
becoming Americans.

The solutions to the problems cited in the article are easy to identify, but
politically impossible to implement. When a child enters a U.S. public school,
is identified as using English as a second language and cannot pass a grade- or
age-appropriate assessment of English language skills, he or she should be
disenrolled from all other instruction and entered into an English language
immersion program.

Of course, the political left and immigrant advocacy organizations would howl
that this amounts to cultural genocide. And to a certain extent that may be
true. My great grandfather came from Sweden, but I don't speak Swedish or
practice any Swedish traditions. Do I wish that some aspect of that ancestral
culture had been retained? At times. Would I be willing to sacrifice the social
and economic gains my family made by abandoning that culture? Not on your life.

GARY CHRISTENOT

Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              292 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 22, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Judge Rejects Challenge By Detained Immigrant

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 252 words


A West African pilot, who has been in federal custody since the week of Sept.
11, lost a legal challenge to the most recent basis for his incarceration
yesterday when a federal judge rejected his claim that a conversation he had
with investigators should not be allowed in court.

Tony Oulai was held initially on immigration violations and then as a material
witness in the terrorism probe before being charged criminally last winter with
making false statements to agents for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The statements involved whether he was living in the United States legally last
Sept. 14, the day he was detained at a Florida airport.

Oulai, currently housed in a Jacksonville, Fla., jail, asked a federal judge
last month to exclude those statements from his impending trial, because the
agents had questioned him in a locked room at the airport even though he had
refused to surrender his Miranda rights and tried to reach an attorney. U.S.
Magistrate Judge Thomas E. Morris denied the request, finding that Oulai was not
coerced and that he "was aware of his rights and the potential consequences of
talking."

Last winter, Oulai became the first material witness to talk from custody about
his experiences as a detainee in the terrorism investigation. Now, he is one of
an unknown number of immigrants who have been ruled out by investigators as
possible terrorists but remain in U.S. jails. His attorney, Wade M. Rolle, said
he plans to appeal the judge's ruling.

-- Amy Goldstein

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              293 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 26, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Links Man to 2 Sept. 11 Hijackers

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 318 words


Federal authorities yesterday arrested a Jordanian man who is believed to have
lived with two of the Sept. 11 hijackers last summer at an apartment in Northern
Virginia, officials said.

Rasmi al Shannaq, 27, was apprehended by agents from the FBI, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the State Department at a house in Baltimore and
charged with overstaying his visa, authorities said. Al Shannaq was required to
leave the United States by January 2001, officials said.

Federal authorities stressed yesterday that they have no direct evidence linking
al Shannaq with the Sept. 11 plot. "He appears to be one of these unwitting
accomplice types," one law enforcement official said.

But two officials said they are concerned about al Shannaq's connection to
hijackers Nawaf Alhazmi and Hani Hanjour, with whom he shared an apartment for
about two months last summer. Alhazmi and Hanjour were part of the terrorist
team that slammed American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon, authorities
have said.

Officials said that, at the very least, al Shannaq could provide important
details about the activities of Alhazmi and Hanjour before the Sept. 11 terror
attacks.

"He may not be entirely on the up-and-up, but we don't have any solid answers
yet," one U.S. official said.

The arrest of al Shannaq, first reported yesterday by ABC News, came a month
after the deportation of another Jordanian immigrant, Eyad Alrababah, with
connections to the same two hijackers.

Alrababah went to the FBI last September after recognizing Alhazmi's photograph,
saying he had helped steer Alhazmi and Hanjour to an apartment in Northern
Virginia and accompanied them in May 2001 on a trip to Connecticut.

Alrababah was first held as a material witness and questioned repeatedly. He
later admitted to helping at least 17 immigrants fraudulently obtain Virginia
driver's licenses and was ordered deported in May.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              294 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 26, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Links Jordanian To Sept. 11 Hijackers;
Agents Arrest Man, 27, in Baltimore

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 318 words


Federal authorities yesterday arrested a Jordanian man who is believed to have
lived with two of the Sept. 11 hijackers last summer at an apartment in Northern
Virginia, officials said.

Rasmi al Shannaq, 27, was apprehended by agents from the FBI, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the State Department at a house in Baltimore and
charged with overstaying his visa, authorities said. Al Shannaq was required to
leave the United States by January 2001, officials said.

Federal authorities stressed yesterday that they have no direct evidence linking
al Shannaq with the Sept. 11 plot. "He appears to be one of these unwitting
accomplice types," one law enforcement official said.

But two officials said they are concerned about al Shannaq's connection to
hijackers Nawaf Alhazmi and Hani Hanjour, with whom he shared an apartment for
about two months last summer.

Alhazmi and Hanjour were part of the terrorist team that slammed American
Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon, authorities have said.

Officials said that, at the very least, al Shannaq could provide important
details about the activities of Alhazmi and Hanjour before the Sept. 11 terror
attacks.

"He may not be entirely on the up-and-up, but we don't have any solid answers
yet," one U.S. official said.

The arrest of al Shannaq, first reported yesterday by ABC News, came a month
after the deportation of another Jordanian immigrant, Eyad Alrababah, with
connections to the same two hijackers.

Alrababah went to the FBI last September after recognizing Alhazmi's photograph,
saying he had helped steer Alhazmi and Hanjour to an apartment in Northern
Virginia and accompanied them in May 2001 on a trip to Connecticut.

Alrababah was first held as a material witness and questioned repeatedly. He
later admitted to helping at least 17 immigrants fraudulently obtain Virginia
driver's licenses and was ordered deported in May.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              295 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Many Hondurans May Miss INS Deadline;
Terror Crackdown Caused Alarm Among Immigrants, Advocates Say

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 683 words


Julio Gagnon was ready for the crowds. His office at Unidad Honduren a in
Arlington had always filled with anxious immigrants after the U.S. government
announced programs to help them gain legal status.

But yesterday, just hours before the deadline for more than 100,000 Hondurans to
reapply for such a program, Gagnon was as lonely as a Maytag repairman.

"We haven't even had anybody come in today," Gagnon said at midafternoon. He is
the president of the Honduran community group on Wilson Boulevard.

"Hondurans have a reputation of waiting until the last minute," he added.
"However, I'm getting kind of worried now."

In a trend that has puzzled and concerned immigration authorities, many
Hondurans have failed to re-register for a program that would have granted them
another year of legal status in the United States. Some activists said that many
immigrants were so spooked by recent anti-terrorism measures that they were
afraid to apply -- fearing somehow that the program could be used against them.

"People are afraid, after Sept. 11, that they are going to be deported if they
apply for a permit," said Denia Castellanos of Unidos por Honduras, who was
helping immigrants sign up for the program yesterday at the Honduran Consulate
at 15th and K streets NW.

The program, known as Temporary Protected Status, was initially opened to
Honduran and Nicaraguan immigrants after Hurricane Mitch ravaged their countries
in 1998. It allows them to live and work temporarily in the United States while
their country recovers. A similar program was established last year for
Salvadoran immigrants after two devastating earthquakes in that country.

About 105,000 Hondurans and 6,000 Nicaraguans, many of whom came to the United
States as illegal immigrants, have benefited from Temporary Protected Status,
reapplying as the program was extended each year. But only about 28,000 of them
had signed up by June 24, according to the latest figures from the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

An INS spokeswoman said the figure probably jumped sharply in the past week as
immigrants hurried to submit last-minute applications. But it appeared that many
would miss the deadline and risk being deported when their work permits expire
in December.

Officials and activists said many factors could explain the Hondurans' failure
to sign up. Some, they said, did not know about the deadline. Some may have
returned home. But others appeared to mistakenly believe that they could get in
trouble if they sent their information to authorities.

"The immigration things have gotten tougher" since Sept. 11, said Oscar Romero,
24, of Hyattsville, one of about a dozen Hondurans at the consulate trying to
renew a permit yesterday morning. "We immigrants are a bit afraid."

The Honduran consul in Washington, Leonardo Irias, agreed that fear could be a
factor.

"Rumors fly around that now they [U.S. authorities] want to deport them," he
said.

Irias said about 40,000 Hondurans live in the Washington area, about half of
them with Temporary Protected Status. Some community leaders said they thought
the figure was lower. The largest Honduran communities are in New York, Miami
and New Orleans.

Although Hondurans make up a tiny percentage of U.S. immigrants, the $ 600
million they send home each year is crucial to their impoverished homeland.

The Honduran government was so eager to preserve the immigrants' legal status
that it urged families in Honduras to call their relatives in the United States
and remind them to sign up. The consulate has been staying open into the night
to help Hondurans fill out their applications.

Gagnon, the activist in Arlington, said he thought that many Hondurans did not
reapply for the program because of bureaucratic bungling, not fear. The
processing of applications, he said, was extremely slow last year.

"There are people who have not received their work permits yet who had applied a
year ago," he said. "It could be that a lot of people did lose confidence in the
program."

The INS spokeswoman said she had no information on such problems.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              296 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME &;
JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 688 words


THE REGION

A Jordanian man who is believed to have lived in Northern Virginia last summer
with two of the Sept. 11 hijackers has been indicted on a visa fraud charge, the
Justice Department said yesterday.

Rasmi Subhi Saleh Al Shannaq, 27, of Baltimore, was indicted by a federal grand
jury there on a charge of getting a non-immigrant visa from the U.S. Embassy in
Qatar, knowing it was "unlawfully obtained," according to the U.S. attorney's
office for Maryland.

Al Shannaq was arrested June 24 and is in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the prosecutor's office said.

Federal authorities have said that they have no direct evidence linking Al
Shannaq to the Sept. 11 plot. But two officials have expressed concern about his
links to hijackers Nawaf Alhazmi and Hani Hanjour, with whom he was believed to
have shared an apartment for about two months. Alhazmi and Hanjour were among
the terrorists who crashed American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon.

THE DISTRICT

Two men were shot to death in separate incidents early yesterday, D.C. police
said.

About 1:45 a.m., police found the body of Ricardo Keys, 22, in the 900 block of
Division Avenue NE. Keys, of the 3500 block of Pearl Drive in Suitland, had been
shot multiple times.

A few minutes later, police found Tamar Madison, 21, with a gunshot wound to the
body at 13th Street and Alabama Avenue SE. Madison, of the 3200 block of 13th
Street SE, died later at Howard University Hospital.

MARYLAND

An Anne Arundel County Circuit Court grand jury decided yesterday not to indict
an FBI agent in the March 1 shooting of an unarmed Pasadena man whom the agent
mistook for a bank robber, State's Attorney Frank R. Weathersbee announced.

Weathersbee said the grand jury investigation answered "several important
questions" about the case, including why Special Agent Christopher Braga, 35,
shot and wounded Joseph Charles Schultz, 20. But Weathersbee refused to disclose
what prompted the shooting, saying only, "There clearly were mistakes."

The FBI agents "seemed pretty sure this was the armed bank robber they were
seeking," Weathersbee said. Schultz had nothing to do with the bank robbery.

Schultz's attorney, Arnold M. Weiner, said he was pleased that the investigation
is over. "That allows us to move forward with filing a civil case against Mr.
Braga," Weiner said.

Rosemary Vicini, spokeswoman for the FBI's Baltimore bureau, said the FBI and
Justice Department are still investigating the incident as an administrative
matter. Vicini said that Braga, who previously was involved in the fatal
shooting of a fugitive murder suspect in February 2000, remains on duty.

Police are investigating the fatal shooting of a man outside a used-car lot in
Prince George's County yesterday afternoon, police said.

Multiple shots were fired about 4 p.m. at 4514 St. Barnabas Rd. in Suitland,
said Cpl. Robert Clark, a Prince George's County police spokesman.

The man, who was hit in the upper torso, died at the scene. Detectives were
trying to determine a motive last night, but there was evidence indicating it
was not a random crime, Clark said. The name of the victim was not released,
pending the notification of relatives.

VIRGINIA

A Duke University student was sentenced to 41 months in federal prison yesterday
for his role in what authorities are calling one of the oldest and largest
software piracy rings on the Internet.

Sabuj Pattanayek, 21, of Nashville, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to violate
criminal copyright laws, and was sentenced by U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III
in federal court in Alexandria. Prosecutors said Pattanayek was part of the
piracy group called "DrinkOrDie," which specialized in cracking the copyright
protection codes of new software from manufacturers such as Microsoft and
Norton, then releasing the software over the Internet.

Forty people worldwide have been arrested in the U.S. Customs Service's 14-month
investigation of software piracy.

Compiled from reports by staff writers Martin Weil, Nelson Hernandez, Petula
Dvorak, Melody N. Holmes, David A. Fahrenthold and Tom Jackman.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              297 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 4, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 456 words


President Bush is offering a Fourth of July gift to 15,000 immigrants serving
active duty in the U.S. military: immediate eligibility for citizenship.

The president was to announce his executive order, which he signed yesterday,
during an Independence Day celebration honoring veterans in Ripley, W.Va.

"Our fine service men and women are fighting and winning the war on terror. They
deserve the gratitude of all people who cherish freedom," Bush said in a formal
holiday statement.

A White House paper outlining the change to immigration policy described it as a
way to reward noncitizen personnel serving in active duty during the post-Sept.
11 war on terrorism. Citizenship, in turn, will improve the retention of
military personnel by allowing them to advance their military careers, the White
House said.

While legal permanent residency is all that is required to enlist in the U.S.
military, only citizens can be promoted to commissioned or warrant officers, or
serve in special warfare programs such as the Navy SEALs.

It will take 10 years and at least $ 2.4 billion to sort out more than a
century's worth of transactions from a mismanaged trust fund system handling
royalties from Indian-owned land, Interior Department officials said.

The cost is six times more than what Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton told
Congress in February it would be. The new figure is likely to get a cool
reception from a cash-strapped Congress.

The department's plan offers "a full accounting, a robust
transaction-by-transaction analysis . . . and we fully anticipate there will be
some commentary or other direction by Congress," Interior spokesman Eric Ruff
said.

The expense reflects the enormous task of accounting for every cent of an
estimated $ 13 billion that has passed through as many as 500,000 individual
trust accounts between 1887 and 2000, agency officials said.

The process includes reviewing 25 million electronic transactions and 500
million paper records, many deteriorating and damaged by time.

An advertising agency punished for overcharging the government for its work on
an anti-drug campaign won a contract worth nearly $ 152 million to run the ad
program for at least another year.

New York-based Ogilvy & Mather won the contract over four other bidders,
according to a statement from the Navy, which handles contracting functions for
the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy.

Ogilvy & Mather agreed to pay a $ 1.8 million penalty earlier this year to
settle charges it overcharged the drug policy office.  Congressional
investigators found last year that Ogilvy & Mather billed the government for
mil- lions of dollars of work it didn't perform.

-- Compiled from reports by

the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              298 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 4, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Alexandria Arlington Calendar;
Community Events

SECTION: ALEXANDRIA - ARLINGTON EXTRA; Pg. T19

LENGTH: 1356 words


NATURALIZATION CEREMONY, holiday ceremony involving about 50 immigrants who will
become citizens, event features representatives of the State Department, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Freedom Forum, 9:30 a.m., Freedom
Park, next to 1101 Wilson Blvd., Arlington. Free. 703-284-3544.

ROSSLYN CARILLON CONCERTS, Edward Nassor, bring a blanket or lawn chair and a
picnic supper, 2-4 p.m. today; Hans Hielscher, 6-8 p.m. Saturday, Netherlands
Carillon, Route 50 and George Washington Memorial Parkway, Rosslyn. Free.
703-289-2552.

DANNY KAYE MUSICAL, "Danny and Sylvia," about the performer and his wife, Sylvia
Fine, who wrote material for him, 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays, 2 and 7 p.m.
Sundays, through July 28, MetroStage, 1201 N. Royal St., Alexandria. $ 30;
reservations required. 703-548-9044.

SENIORS PATRIOTIC CELEBRATION, for 55 and older, dress in red, white and blue,
noon, Aurora Hills Senior Center, 735 S. 18th St., Arlington. $ 5;
preregistration required. 703-228-5722.

HISTORIC TAVERN TOURS, 30-minute tours of candlelit rooms with a costumed guide,
7-9:15 p.m. Fridays, Gadsby's Tavern Museum, 134 N. Royal St., Alexandria. $ 5;
ages 11-17, $ 2; reservations requested. 703-838-4242.

AMERICAN CENTURY THEATER COMEDY, "Laughter at Ten O'Clock: Memories of 'The
Carol Burnett Show,' " a fictional episode of the 1970s TV variety show,
starring Nancy Dolliver, 8 p.m. Wednesdays-Saturdays and 2:30 p.m. Saturdays (no
performance July 4), through July 20, Theater on the Run, 3700 S. Four Mile Run,
Arlington. Fridays and Saturdays, $ 19 and $ 24; Wednesdays and Thursdays, $ 17
and $ 22. 703-642-8502 or www.americancentury.org.

SURREALISTIC PAINTINGS, by Thomas Hart Teague, 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Fridays, 1-3 p.m. Saturdays, 1-4 p.m. Sundays, through Aug. 4, the
Athenaeum, 201 Prince St., Alexandria. Free. 703-548-0035.

ARLINGTON STORY TIME, for ages 3-6, 10 a.m., Central Library, 1015 N. Quincy
St., Arlington. Free; preregistration required. 703-228-5990.

ALEXANDRIA CITIZENS BAND CONCERT, concert, sponsored by the Alexandria
Department of Recreation, Parks and Cultural Activities, 7:30-8:30 p.m., Market
Square, 301 King St. Free. 703-883-4686.

CLASSIKA THEATRE, "Antigone," an original adaptation of Jean Anouilh's play,
7:30 p.m. Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 4 p.m. Sundays, through July 13,
Village at Shirlington, 4041 S. 28th St., Arlington. Fridays and Saturdays, $
20; in advance, $ 17; Thursdays and Sundays, $ 17; in advance, $ 15.
703-824-0660.

SIGNATURE THEATRE, "The Diaries," by playwright John Strand, about a German
officer's diary, written while he was stationed in occupied Paris during World
War II, 8 p.m. Tuesdays-Saturdays, 2 and 7 p.m. Sundays, through July 14 (no
performance July 4), 3806 S. Four Mile Run Dr., Arlington. $ 24 and $ 30.
703-218-6500.

ALEXANDRIA BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION, commemorating the city's 253rd birthday with
performances by the Alexandria Symphony Orchestra, Spirit of America marching
band, the Alexandria Recreation Youth Choir and fireworks, bring a lawn chair or
blanket, rain date is Sunday, with fireworks only, 6-10 p.m., Oronoco Bay Park,
701 N. Lee St. Free. 703-838-4343.

JANE FRANKLIN DANCE, performance of "Scape Vietnam," 8:30 p.m., Lubber Run
Amphitheater, North Second and North Columbus streets, Arlington. Free.
703-228-1850.

ARLINGTON BLUEGRASS CONCERT, the New Old-Time String Band and other performers,
sponsored by the Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority, 7 p.m., Potomac
Overlook Regional Park, 2845 N. Marcey Rd., Arlington. Requested donations, $
5-7. 703-528-5406.

ARGENTINA NATIONAL DAY FESTIVAL, music and dance performances, regional food and
more, co-sponsored by the Arlington County Cultural Affairs Division, 7-11 p.m.,
Washington Lee High School, auditorium, 1300 Quincy St., Arlington. $ 12.
703-228-1848.

ALEXANDRIA CHAMBER CONCERT, bassoonist Arnold Irchai, 3 p.m., the Lyceum, 201 S.
Washington St., Alexandria. Free. 703-838-4994.

INDIAN ARCHAEOLOGY TOUR, learn about the ancient Indians who inhabited the
Arlington area, examine tools and artifacts and visit an archaeological site,
sponsored by the Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority, 2 p.m., Potomac
Overlook Regional Park, 2845 N. Marcey Rd., Arlington. Free; reservations
required. 703-528-5406.

ALEXANDRIA PAINTING EXHIBIT, "Serenity," still-life oil paintings by Barbara
Januszkiewicz, opening reception, 2-4 p.m. Sunday; exhibit hours, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Monday through Saturdays, noon-5 p.m. Sundays, through Aug. 5, Torpedo Factory
Art Center, Art League Gallery, 105 N. Union St., Alexandria. Free.
703-683-1780.

ALEXANDRIA FIBER ART EXHIBIT, "Ceremonial Textiles," by gallery artists, 10
a.m.-4 p.m. weekdays, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays, through July 14,
Torpedo Factory Art Center, Potomac Craftsmen Fiber Gallery, Studio 18, 105 N.
Union St., Alexandria. Free. 703-548-0935.

ARLINGTON BOOK DISCUSSION GROUPS, "The Black Prince," by Iris Murdoch, 7:30
p.m., Cherrydale Library, 2190 N. Military Rd., 703-228-6330, and "Prodigal
Summer," by Barbara Kingsolver, 7 p.m., Westover Library, 1800 N. Lexington St.
Both sessions, free. 703-228-5260.

SHIRLINGTON STORY TIME, for children 2-3 with an adult, 10:30 a.m., Shirlington
Library, the Village at Shirlington, 2786 S. Arlington Mill Dr., Arlington.
703-228-6545. Free; preregistration required.

SOUTH AMERICAN FOLK CONCERT, Mystic Warriors perform New Age-Andean music,
sponsored by the Alexandria Department of Recreation, Parks and Cultural
Activities, 7 p.m., Strand Street, between King and Prince streets, Alexandria.
Free. 703-883-4686.

ARLINGTON ART-AWARENESS CLASS, for 55 and older, discussion of ancient Greek,
Etruscan and Roman art; different topics each session, first and second Mondays
of each month, 1-3 p.m., Aurora Hills Senior Action Center, 735 S. 18th St.,
Arlington. Free. 703-228-5722.

ACOUSTIC BLUES CONCERT, singer-songwriter Michael Mulvaney accompanies himself
on guitar and harmonica, sponsored by the Alexandria Department of Recreation,
Parks and Cultural Activities, 12:15 p.m., King Street Gardens Park, 1806 King
St., Alexandria. Free. 703-883-4686.

ARLINGTON SENIORS BOOK CLUB, "The Flamingo Rising," by Larry Baker, 1:30 p.m.,
Culpepper Garden Senior Center, 4435 N. Pershing Dr., Arlington. Free;
preregistration required. 703-228-4403.

SENIORS TAX SEMINAR, a representative from the Area Agency on Aging discusses
eligibility for a property tax-relief program, 10:30 a.m., Culpepper Garden
Senior Center, 4435 N. Pershing Dr., Arlington. Free; preregistration required.
703-228-4403.

CRYSTAL CITY COUNTRY CONCERT, Ruthie and the Wranglers, 11:30 a.m.-1:15 p.m.,
Crystal City Waterpark, South 18th Street and Crystal Drive, Arlington. Free.
703-228-1850.

ARLINGTON NATURE CLASS, for ages 9-13, visit ponds and streams to learn about
local dragonflies and damselflies, bring a snack and a water bottle, 1:30-4:30
p.m., Gulf Branch Nature Center, 3608 N. Military Rd., Arlington. Free;
reservations required. 703-228-3403.

ALEXANDRIA SUNSET SAIL, weather permitting, on a dory boat on the Potomac River,
includes discussion of Alexandria history, 6-7:30 p.m., Waterfront Park, between
Prince and King streets. $ 8; reservations required. 703-549-7078.

ARLINGTON STORY TIME, for 2-year-olds with an adult, 10 a.m., Central Library,
1015 N. Quincy St., Arlington. Free; preregistration required. 703-228-5947.

ALEXANDRIA STORYTELLING, by Frank D'Aquila, sponsored by the Alexandria
Department of Recreation, Parks and Cultural Activities, 7 p.m., Ben Brenman
Park, 5000 Duke St. Free. 703-883-4686.

ARLINGTON JAZZ CONCERT, by Robert Jospe, 6:30-8 p.m., Courthouse Plaza, 2100
Clarendon Blvd., Arlington. Free. 703-228-1850.

-- Compiled by Sarah Lane

Items are accepted on a space available basis from public and nonprofit
organizations only and must be received at least 14 days before the Thursday
publication date. Submit information to: Community Events, The Washington Post,
526 King St., Suite 515, Alexandria, Va., 22314. Include event name, dates,
times, exact address, prices and a publishable contact phone number.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              299 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 5, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Saddam Hussein's Stepson Arrested in Miami;
Air New Zealand Engineer, in U.S. as Tourist, Didn't Disclose Plans to Attend
Fla. Flight School

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: MIAMI July 4


A stepson of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein has been arrested on immigration
charges after enrolling in a flight school that was used by one of the Sept. 11
hijackers, federal authorities said.

Mohammed Nour Bin Saffi, a citizen of New Zealand who has worked in commercial
aviation, planned to attend classes at Aeroservice Aviation Center, said James
D. Goldman of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

FBI spokeswoman Judy Orihuela said a Sept. 11 hijacker had trained at the flight
school. The South Florida Sun-Sentinel identified him as Ziad Samir Jarrah, who
is believed to have commandeered the plane that crashed in Pennsylvania.

Hussein's stepson was traveling as a tourist and had not applied for a student
visa that would have allowed him to take courses, according to the INS.

There was no evidence that Saffi was connected to any terrorist group.

Goldman said Saffi was seeking recertification training. The FBI said he is
employed by an airline in New Zealand.

Saffi, 36, failed to tell customs agents of his intent to take courses when he
arrived Tuesday in Los Angeles on a flight from New Zealand, Goldman said.

Phone calls to the flight school seeking comment were not answered.

Orihuela said Saffi was tracked Wednesday as he flew from Los Angeles to Miami
International Airport. He was taken into custody at a motel shortly after he
arrived.

Saffi was being held at the Krome detention center in Miami-Dade County and was
being processed for deportation to New Zealand, Goldman said.

The Weekend Herald newspaper in New Zealand reported in December that Saffi was
employed by Air New Zealand as an engineer and had lived there six years.

They said officials in New Zealand had investigated Saffi after Sept. 11 when
they learned he was Hussein's stepson. No action was taken, the paper said.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              300 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 6, 2002 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

L.A. Shooting Was Planned, FBI Says;
Officials Still Believe Airport Gunman, An Egyptian Immigrant, Acted Alone

BYLINE: William Booth and Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1043 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES July 5


FBI investigators said today that the gunman who went on a rampage inside Los
Angeles International Airport on Thursday was an Egyptian immigrant living in
Southern California who had no criminal history or known ties to terrorist
groups but apparently planned the attack in advance.

The FBI identified the gunman as Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, 41, who ran a limousine
service from his home in the middle-class suburb of Irvine, Calif., which is
about 45 miles from the airport. Hadayet fatally shot two people near a ticket
counter for El Al Israel Airlines and wounded three others before he was shot
dead by a security guard for the airline. The exchange of gunfire sent scores of
travelers ducking for cover and forced thousands more to evacuate.

Israeli officials are calling Hadayet's attack an act of terrorism, but the FBI
again refused to do so today -- even though bureau investigators said they have
not ruled out that possibility. The diverging points of view are partly a
semantic difference.

The FBI said that it generally defines terrorism less broadly than Israeli
officials and does not use the term to describe every violent act an individual
commits against a state entity or racial group.

"There is no evidence, no indication at this time, that this is terrorists,"
White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said.

Richard Garcia, the FBI official leading the investigation, said details of
Hadayet's life and his motive for the attack are still sketchy but investigators
believe he acted alone, shot his victims randomly and came to the airport "with
the intention of killing people." Investigators said Hadayet carried no
identification and was armed with two handguns and a six-inch hunting knife.

Hadayet's name has not been on any law enforcement "watch lists" for terrorist
activity in the United States or abroad, and investigators have found no
evidence to suggest he was part of an organized conspiracy, Garcia said.

"So far we have no indication of any type of prejudice against any particular
organization or nationality," Garcia said.

But a former employee of Hadayet's, Abdul Zahev, told reporters today that his
boss often expressed hatred for Israel and felt the United States was biased
against Arabs. "He kept all his anger inside," said Zahev, who said he worked as
a driver for Hadayet for a few weeks. "He couldn't hold it anymore."

On Thursday, some witnesses suggested that Hadayet opened fire after a dispute
with an airline employee or someone in the ticket line. But today authorities
said it appears he began shooting without provocation. "There was nothing
exchanged as far as we know," Garcia said.

Killed in the attack were ticket agent Victoria Hen, 25, and Yaakov Aminov, 46,
a jeweler and father of eight who was dropping off a friend.

As service at Los Angeles International returned to normal today under heavier
security, police searched Hadayet's suburban residence, carted off a computer
and other records and seized the vehicle that he apparently drove to the
airport.

Investigators said they are also examining whether Hadayet may have been
despondent because of family troubles. Police in Irvine said today that in
recent years officers have been summoned three times to Hadayet's home, once for
an allegation of domestic abuse.

Hadayet lived with his wife and two sons in a middle-class suburb of townhouses
and apartments. Investigators said his family returned to Egypt last week.

Neighbors describe Hadayet as a quiet person who often sat in a plastic lawn
chair on the porch of his ground-floor apartment, smoking cigarettes.

"It's a cliche[acute], but it's true. He kept pretty much to himself," said Noah
Thurman, who lives across the street from Hadayet's apartment.

On the small cement porch of the apartment, surrounded by a wooden fence, were a
child's basketball hoop, a bicycle, garden hoses and a satellite dish -- all the
trappings of an ordinary suburban life.

His neighbors, a portrait of polyglot Southern California, include Asians,
Spanish-speaking Mexicans and a family from Israel. Many knew he was a Muslim.
His wife covered her hair with a scarf and hats, but she did not wear the
traditional veil. The two boys "dressed just like American kids, in surfer
clothes," Thurman said.

Hadayet displayed a bumper sticker on his front door that urged: "Read Koran."

After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Hadayet's upstairs neighbors hung from
their balcony -- and directly above the Hadayets' front door -- large American
and Marine Corps flags.

One neighbor said the flags angered Hadayet, who felt they were a personal
affront, a challenge to him as a Muslim and an immigrant.

Emma LaMer, another neighbor, said Hadayet removed the Koran sticker after Sept.
11. When she asked him about it, she said, he replied that his wife was worried
that some "crazy people" might see it and do the family harm.

Another neighbor, Scott Carstens, told reporters that the Koran sticker suddenly
reappeared on the day of the airport shootings.

Hadayet operated his own limousine service, shuttling executives to business
meetings and airports and taking tourists to Disneyland.

Hadayet entered the United States through Los Angeles as a visitor in December
1992, and he was granted a green card in March 1993. He gained permanent
residency in August 1997 after the same status was given to his wife, said Russ
Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington.

"It was derivative," Bergeron said of Hadayet's status. "He was married to an
individual who had gained permanent residence."

INS paperwork and one of Hadayet's California driver's licenses list his
birthday as July 4, 1961. Bergeron declined to provide information on the
immigration history of Hadayet's wife, citing privacy constraints.

In Cairo, Egyptian police interviewed Hadayet's father at his apartment in
Abbasiya, a middle-income area of the city. Hassan Mostafa Mahfouz, an uncle by
marriage, told the Associated Press that Hadayet's wife and sister were taken
away for questioning by Egyptian investigators.

Mahfouz, a retired general, said Hadayet worked as a bank accountant before he
went to the United States.

Staff writer Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 09, 2002



CORRECTION: A July 6 article on the Independence Day shootings at Los Angeles
International Airport incorrectly described the immigration history of suspect
Hesham Mohamed Hadayet. He was granted work authorization in 1993 before being
granted permanent residency in 1997.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              301 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 7, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Airport Gunman Faced Deportation Action in 1996

BYLINE: From news services and staff reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES July 6


The government had started deportation proceedings in 1996 against the Egyptian
immigrant who gunned down two people at Los Angeles International Airport. But
the following year, the man gained U.S. residency because his wife received a
valid visa, officials said today.

It was not clear what caused the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
reject Hesham Mohamed Hadayet's first petition for residency and begin the
deportation process, INS spokesman Francisco Arcaute said.

A year later, in 1997, Hadayet was granted permanent resident status because his
wife, Hala, had become a permanent resident, Arcaute said. The INS allows
foreign nationals to work and live in the United States if they have a relative
who is a U.S. citizen or permanent resident.

Hadayet's uncle, Hassan Mostaffa Mahfouz, told the Associated Press in Egypt
that Hadayet was happy in the United States and had only about a year remaining
before he qualified for U.S. citizenship.

"I don't believe what happened," Mahfouz said.

On the Fourth of July, Hadayet was the fourth person in line at the ticket
counter for El Al, Israel's national airline, when he began firing, killing two
people and wounding three others, authorities said. He fired 10 or 11 bullets
before he was shot dead by an El Al security guard.

In response to the shooting, the Transportation Security Administration said it
plans to place undercover criminal investigators at airports to prevent events
like the Los Angeles airport shooting.

In a statement released yesterday, the agency created after the Sept. 11 terror
attacks to take charge of airport security said that although it does not have
direct responsibility for security at the ticket counter areas, it "fully
deployed" federal air marshals after learning of the shooting and put its
security directors on alert.

"Had this event occurred at another airline counter without armed security
guards, the situation unfortunately would have been worse," the agency said.

FBI agent Richard Garcia said today it still was not known why Hadayet targeted
the El Al ticket area. A former employee of Hadayet's has said Hadayet harbored
anti-Israel feelings.

Authorities also had not ruled out terrorism as a motive, and they were also
considering the possibility that Hadayet was despondent over his personal or
business affairs.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              302 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 7, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

L.A. Airport Shooting Was Planned, Investigators Say;
Officials Believe Egyptian Immigrant Acted Alone

BYLINE: William Booth and Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


FBI investigators said Friday that the gunman who went on a rampage inside Los
Angeles International Airport on July 4 was an Egyptian immigrant living in
Southern California who had no criminal history or known ties to terrorist
groups but apparently planned the attack in advance.

The FBI identified the gunman as Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, 41, who ran a limousine
service from his home in the middle-class suburb of Irvine, Calif. Hadayet
fatally shot two people near a ticket counter for El Al Israel Airlines and
wounded three others before he was shot dead by a security guard for the
airline. The exchange of gunfire sent scores of travelers ducking for cover and
forced thousands more to evacuate.

Israeli officials are calling Hadayet's attack an act of terrorism, but the FBI
again refused to do so Friday -- even though bureau investigators said they have
not ruled out that possibility.

Richard Garcia, the FBI official leading the investigation, said details of
Hadayet's life and his motive for the attack are still sketchy but investigators
believe he acted alone, shot his victims randomly and came to the airport "with
the intention of killing people." Investigators said Hadayet carried no
identification and was armed with two handguns and a six-inch hunting knife.

Hadayet's name has not been on any law enforcement "watch lists" for terrorist
activity in the United States or abroad, and investigators have found no
evidence to suggest he was part of an organized conspiracy, Garcia said.

"So far we have no indication of any type of prejudice against any particular
organization or nationality," Garcia said.

But a former employee of Hadayet's, Abdul Zahev, told reporters Friday that his
boss often expressed hatred for Israel and felt the United States was biased
against Arabs. "He kept all his anger inside," said Zahev, who said he worked as
a driver for Hadayet for a few weeks. "He couldn't hold it anymore."

Killed in the attack were ticket agent Victoria Hen, 25, and Yaakov Aminov, 46,
a jeweler and father of eight who was dropping off a friend.

Investigators said they are also examining whether Hadayet may have been
despondent because of family troubles. Police in Irvine said that in recent
years officers have been summoned three times to Hadayet's home, once for an
allegation of domestic abuse.

Hadayet lived with his wife and two sons. Investigators said his family returned
to Egypt the week before the shooting.

Neighbors describe Hadayet as a quiet person who often sat in a plastic lawn
chair on the porch of his ground-floor apartment, smoking cigarettes.

"It's a cliche[acute], but it's true. He kept pretty much to himself," said Noah
Thurman, who lives across the street from Hadayet's apartment.

Hadayet displayed a bumper sticker on his front door that urged: "Read Koran."
After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Hadayet's upstairs neighbors hung from
their balcony large American and Marine Corps flags.

One neighbor said the flags angered Hadayet, who felt they were a personal
affront, a challenge to him as a Muslim and an immigrant.

Hadayet entered the United States through Los Angeles as a visitor in December
1992, and he was granted a green card in March 1993. He gained permanent
residency in August 1997 after the same status was given to his wife, said Russ
Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

INS paperwork and one of Hadayet's California driver's licenses list his
birthday as July 4, 1961.

Staff writer Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              303 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 9, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Jewelry Stores Raided in Al Qaeda-Related Probe

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 818 words


The FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization Service have raided 75 jewelry
stores and kiosks in U.S. shopping malls as part of an investigation into
suspected money laundering by the al Qaeda terrorist network, officials said
yesterday.

About a dozen men, mostly Pakistanis, remain in custody on immigration charges
as a result of the sweeps, which also netted documents, computer records and
other evidence being examined by anti-terrorism investigators, officials said.

Law enforcement officials said the sweeps, carried out in late June, represented
the early phase of a probe centering on a chain of stores, most of them called
Intrigue Jewelers, that is owned by a Florida company under suspicion of funding
terrorist activities and laundering terrorist money.

"There were some indirect linkages with al Qaeda that certainly warranted some
type of review and action," the official said. "It was brought to us as an al
Qaeda operation. . . . At the end of the day, we believe this may be very
important."

Another law enforcement official said "it's too early in the process" to know if
the businesses are connected to al Qaeda or other terrorist groups.

Most of the kiosks involved in the case are licensed by an Orlando company
called Gold Concept Inc., which is owned by a naturalized U.S. citizen named
Arif Rajan, of Ocoee, Fla.

Rajan's attorney, Philip K. Calandrino of Orlando, said yesterday his client
cooperated fully with FBI requests on June 26 to look through his computers and
paper records. Calandrino said Rajan had not since heard from investigators.

Rajan has no connection with al Qaeda or other terrorist groups, Calandrino
said. He said Rajan's business has been losing money since Sept. 11 and has had
to cover rent payments for many operators as the economy slowed.

"He has no connection to terrorist groups and he's not sending any money
overseas," Calandrino said. "He's concerned about what this might mean for the
future of his business and for the operators who are just trying to make their
way."

U.S. officials said the kiosk raids are part of efforts to disrupt and track
suspected terrorist financing since the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and the
Pentagon, which investigators believe were bankrolled with about $ 500,000 from
Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda organization.

One U.S. official familiar with the investigation said that al Qaeda has long
been known to use gold as a parallel currency to hide and move financial assets.

"What we are finding is that there are anomalies in a lot of the movement of
gold into and out of the United States in the months after September 11," the
official said. "One of the main ways to move money and disguise it seems to be
through gold companies and jewelry stores, and that is what we are trying to get
a handle on."

Gold has long been a favorite way for organized crime and drug traffickers to
launder money, because it is almost universally accepted but escapes the
reporting requirements of cash. It can be deposited in banks and converted to
cash easily and retains its value. It is also the preferred medium of exchange
across Pakistan, India and much of the Arab world.

The roots of the kiosk case stretch back to the weeks after Sept. 11, when
officials investigated the operators of an Intrigue Jewelers location in the
Allentown, Pa., area, according to Calandrino and U.S. officials. The men came
under suspicion after developing photographs of the World Trade Center; one fled
the country while another was charged with immigration violations, according to
press reports at the time.

On June 26, FBI agents and INS officers, coordinated through regional Joint
Terrorism Task Forces, visited jewelry stores and kiosks linked to Rajan's
company in eight states, officials and attorneys said.

The Philadelphia Inquirer, which reported on the operation in yesterday's
editions, quoted one target of a Philadelphia area sweep as saying investigators
searched his apartment and seized a computer, photos and documents.

Tariq Hussain, a former U.S. Army mechanic, told the newspaper that FBI agents
quizzed him about bin Laden and al Qaeda. Hussain said the agents were alarmed
by notes on nuclear, chemical and biological warfare he said he took as part of
an Army training class.

One official said that a "limited number" of criminal warrants were served, but
that the searches were not necessarily related to terrorism.

"Clearly there's an interest in the movement of money related to these
organizations and whether or not these organizations may be a front for
laundering money," one official said.

Calandrino said Rajan does not provide his franchisees with the jewelry they
sell, but merely negotiates with shopping malls for space and leases. His
company earns about $ 1,000 to $ 2,000 per month from about 40 franchise
operators, Calandrino said.

Staff writer Douglas Farah contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              304 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 11, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Signs of a Boom In African Influx;
Surge's Impact Seen Throughout County

BYLINE: David Snyder, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 1641 words


Along a busy stretch of New Hampshire Avenue in Takoma Park, tucked among the
predictable signposts of suburban American life -- McDonald's, Best Buy, Taco
Bell -- is a subtle but powerful statement about change in the Washington
region: 700 pounds of goat meat.

That's how much a small, strip-mall grocery store here, Red Apple Farmers
Market, sells every week to recent immigrants from Kenya, Somalia, Sierra Leone,
Ghana and other African countries where the meat is an essential ingredient in
many meals.

Ten years ago, Red Apple sold about half the amount it does now. But during the
1990s, the number of African immigrants in Montgomery County increased by 150
percent, according to data from the 2000 Census released last month -- the
greatest rate of increase, by far, of immigrants to the county from any
continent.

The increase has led to a blossoming of new social service groups devoted to the
recent African immigrants, many of whom are refugees fleeing civil war and
political persecution. Church services catering to Africans have ballooned. And
African cuisine is increasingly in demand.

"I've seen so many new faces," said Woo Chung, store manager at Red Apple, which
is near a hub of immigrant commercial activity in Langley Park. The store is
known among Africans around the region as the source for yellow yams, puna yams,
cassava and goat meat. "Africans will come from out of state to find the foods
they want," Chung said.

Kenyans, Sierra Leoneans, Liberians, Ghanaians and Nigerians have concentrated
in Silver Spring, in the White Oak area and farther north in Gaithersburg. But
while immigrant groups historically tend to concentrate in specific
neighborhoods, Montgomery's African population -- often better educated and
wealthier than immigrants from other continents -- is more scattered.

"There's not a particular neighborhood where you can go to and find a high
concentration of Africans," said Bishop Darlingston Johnson, a Liberian who runs
Bethel World Outreach Ministries International, a nondenominational church in
Silver Spring. "Even Silver Spring, where there are a lot of Africans, is so
spread out, it's hard to tell where they all are."

But the signs of an African boom are clear at Johnson's church on Sundays. The
11:45 morning service usually attracts about 500 people, hailing from virtually
every African country, Johnson said. The congregation has grown 10 percent to 20
percent each year, he said. When it started in 1990, a handful of Liberians made
up the entire congregation. In 12 years, it has grown to some 2,000 people from
46 different nations.

Montgomery College, which has students from more than 160 nations, has felt the
county's surge in African immigrants, particularly at its Takoma Park campus.
More students at that campus come from Ethiopia than from any other nation
outside the United States, according to the most recent available data, said
Montgomery College spokesman Steve Simon.

At all three of Montgomery College's campuses, African nations account for three
of the top 10 foreign home countries. Ethiopia ranks fifth, behind El Salvador,
Vietnam, South Korea and Indonesia, according to fall 2001 enrollment numbers.

Social service providers and immigration experts said that in the span of a
decade, African immigrants have become, numerically, a force to reckon with in
Montgomery County, where nearly one-third of residents in 2000 were foreign-born
-- the highest percentage of foreign-born residents in any county in Maryland.

But they remain in many ways an invisible population, said Tsehaye Teferra,
president of the Ethiopian Community Development Council, a nonprofit social
service agency catering to African immigrants in the Washington region.

"When mainstream service providers think of immigrants, they think of the
Hispanic community or they think in terms of Asians," Teferra said.

Latin American and Asian immigrants still vastly outnumber African immigrants in
Montgomery -- the 2000 Census showed 89,128 immigrants of Asian origin, 81,911
of Latin American origin and 25,776 of African origin -- but the rate of
increase in African immigrants far outpaced other groups.

New arrivals from Latin America increased in Montgomery by 89 percent between
1990 and 2000, while the African population grew by 150 percent. In 2000,
Montgomery had the single largest population of African immigrants of any
jurisdiction in the state, followed by Prince George's County. Montgomery,
according to 2000 Census numbers, is now about 35 percent minority.

Regionwide, the greatest increase in African immigrants came in Alexandria,
where the number of new arrivals from Africa increased by almost 300 percent.

By comparison, New York City -- another hub of African immigration -- had, in
2000, 92,435 African-born immigrants -- about 1 percent of the city's total
population. Montgomery's 25,776 African-born immigrants account for 3 percent of
the county's total population.

African immigration nationally has surged, in part, because many more African
immigrants have been offered visas than in past years. In the past decade, the
U.S. government has opened up "diversity visas" -- given out on a lottery system
to citizens of a broad range of countries -- to a broader spectrum of
nationalities than in previous years.

The Washington region, and Montgomery in particular, has become a magnet for
political refugees and asylum-seekers from African nations split by war and
famine.

"Up to the early '90s, refugees were predominantly from the Soviet Union and
Vietnam," said Martin Ford, assistant director of the Maryland Office for New
Americans. "Then the flow started to diversify, and last year the two largest
groups in Maryland . . . were Sierra Leoneans and Liberians."

Another reason Washington has become a hub for Africans is family ties -- many
Ethiopians, for example, have families that put down roots in Washington years
ago. In addition, jobs are generally plentiful, and Washington is recognized as
the seat of American power, says Wanjiru Kamau, executive director of African
Immigrants and Refugees Foundation, a recently formed nonprofit in Silver
Spring.

"We come from communities all over Africa that are very hierarchical," said
Kamau, who emigrated from Kenya in 1969. "We respect the elders, we respect
where the power is. And in this country, Washington is where the power is."

Many African immigrants are the economic or intellectual elite of their
countries, social service and immigration experts said. As such, the challenges
they face are distinct from immigrants from Latin America, for example, who tend
to be poorer and who tend to have received less formal education.

Many are doctors, lawyers or college professors and find upon arrival that their
skills may not translate; it may take years to reestablish themselves as
professionals. Meanwhile, people accustomed to leading their peers at home must
take lower-scale jobs to survive.

"The educated Africans are more difficult to please," said Jeredine Williams, a
former diplomat from Sierra Leone who is now executive director of Migrant and
Refugee Cultural Support, another nonprofit in Silver Spring. "America is known
as a place of great wealth, but when they get here and they find how you have to
get that money, they get very frustrated."

But as the African community has grown, groups offering transition assistance
also have developed. Sometimes, as in Agnes Kariuki's case, the community helps
itself from within.

Kariuki, 33, had nearly finished her master's degree in history at the
University of Nairobi when Kenya's economy and political stability collapsed in
the mid-1990s. She and her husband fled from Kenya to Montgomery County, where
Kariuki's sister lives.

"I grew up in a peaceful country," Kariuki said. "But you can't even imagine how
bad it is now. . . . We were tired and we were scared -- we were thinking the
country might tip over, so we came here."

Now, Kariuki works in a day-care center at a YMCA. Keen to the difficulties of
recent immigrants, she started a homework club for children of immigrants in a
converted apartment in the Silver Spring apartment complex where she lived until
this summer, when she and her husband moved to Germantown. Kariuki recently was
the recipient of a community leadership award for her contributions.

The number of Kenyans coming to the area has surged in the past three years,
immigration experts said. Sierra Leoneans also have come in large numbers. The
greatest number of African immigrants to the Washington area between 1990 and
1998 came from Ethiopia, according to "The World in a Zip Code," a 2001 study by
the Brookings Institution.

In fact, the study found that Ethiopians were the seventh-largest immigrant
group in the Washington region, behind El Salvador, Vietnam, India and others.
Of African nations, Nigeria is close behind Ethiopia, followed by Ghana, Sierra
Leone and Somalia.

African immigrants accounted for 16.2 percent of recent arrivals in the
Washington area, the study found, while nationally they are a much smaller
portion of immigrants -- only 3.6 percent of all new arrivals.

"We really feel the impact," said Williams, the former Sierra Leonean diplomat.
"Planeloads will come -- 300 people will arrive in one day -- and they're all
coming to Washington."

At the Red Apple, that has meant a surge in demand for green coconuts, guava,
papaya and salted bluefish.

A weekday morning recently found Stella Kilonzo, 30, a Kenyan student at Howard
University who lives in the White Oak area, searching for ingredients for stew.
In her red plastic shopping basket, she carried two large plastic bags of goat
ribs and goat meat, meat-tenderizing powder and Jamaican curry.

"It's not like home," she said. "But this is the only place I know to get it."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              305 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 14, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Next Act

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 162 words


One House committee votes to keep the Coast Guard out of the proposed Department
of Homeland Security. Another votes to put it back.

A third House panel wants to split the Immigration and Naturalization Service
into two, part in and part out of the DHS. Attorney General John Ashcroft cries
foul.

Secretary of State Colin Powell says it's "absolutely imperative" that the State
Department's consular service maintain responsibility for entry visas to the
United States. A House panel disagrees.

There's something about a bureaucracy that loves to debate bureaucracy. And
President Bush's proposal crosses so many jurisdictional lines that there are
endless opportunities for debate.

Once Congress finishes with the president's plan, both the House and the Senate
will have reorganizations of their own to contemplate: creating committees or
subcommittees to watch over the new department. Call it the Homeland Security
Congressional Job Creation Act.

-- the Outlook staff

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              306 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 18, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Crossover Cuisine;
For Immigrant Entrepreneurs, Borders Blur When It Comes to Serving Up Dishes Not
Native to Their Own Ethnic Tastes

BYLINE: Abhi Raghunathan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA EXTRA; Pg. T04

LENGTH: 981 words


Office workers in Old Town Alexandria who crave a quick lunch of pasta can
stroll down to the waterfront food court and order traditional dishes such as
spaghetti carbonara and fettuccine Alfredo at Radio Free Italy. The service is
quick and the cuisine faithful to recipes honed over decades.

Not many who eat at the restaurant would guess based on those impressions that
it is owned by an Iranian immigrant, Massoud Nadjmabadi, who came to the United
States 34 years ago intending to study computers and programming -- not pizza
and penne. He traded computers for cooking utensils, he said, because "it was
exciting to go into your own business."

Nadjmabadi, 61, worked in several Italian restaurants before starting his own
and has run his own businesses, mostly Italian restaurants, for about 30 years.
He considers himself an entrepreneur in the American sense rather than a career
chef devoted to the cooking of his native country.

"To me, you don't have to be native to a country to run a business," he said. "I
know what pasta is; I know what all the sauces are. . . . I've seen it every
day, how it comes out."

As more immigrants move to the Washington area, a number of them pick the food
business as their meal ticket. Many of them, like Nadjmabadi, come from
countries whose cooking is not well known here. So they choose cuisines that are
already popular with Americans, sometimes seasoning them with touches of their
own cultures.

"The extent of this kind of ethnic crossover is very much reflective of
increasing diversity," said Marilyn Halter, a professor of history at Boston
University who studies the economic culture of immigrant and ethnic communities.

"Immigrants are historically entrepreneurial and so they're in tune to what
works, to what are the consumer constituencies, the fastest-growing populations.
. . . If it makes more [economic] sense to open a Mexican restaurant or a
Japanese restaurant in a neighborhood, they're going to do it."

The phenomenon is evident throughout the Old Town food court. Tired of pasta?
Then go to California Wraps, a "gourmet" burrito stand run by Hamid Ahmadzai,
51, an Afghan who came to the United States in 1980 to work with electronics. He
entered the restaurant business a few years ago after he was laid off from his
job with a technology company.

His decision to sell Mexican-style wraps instead of Afghan food was based on
economics and convenience.

"Afghani food is a lot of work, a lot of time," he said. "You have to have a big
location. . . . It's a lot of work to make sure the quality of the food is
stable."

Ahmadzai modeled his shop after a small chain of burrito stands that his sister
and brother-in-law run in the San Francisco Bay area. Although the food Ahmadzai
sells is based on Mexican cooking, it also has an international flair. His menu,
for example, offers burritos with traditional fillings such as rice, beans and
guacamole, as well as "world wraps" -- burritos filled with Thai chicken, Indian
curry chicken, or lamb and peppers.

Local office workers line up around his stand during lunch to order the wraps;
many of them are searching for healthy food with a kick.

Ahmadzai hopes to turn his restaurant into a chain. He is considering opening
stores at the Union Station and Bethesda Metro stops.

"Wraps are getting very popular these days," he said with a smile.

A walk through the streets of Old Town Alexandria shows how restaurants often
function as launching pads for immigrants hoping to start their own businesses
in the area, as well as melting pots for different cultures.

An Italian flag hangs over the entrance to Il Porto Ristorante on King Street
along with the American flag and the Virginia flag. But those three do not do
justice to the diversity of the staff. The waiters come from Italy, the Middle
East, South America. One of the restaurant's managers, Manfredy Lopez, is from
El Salvador.

Lopez sometimes ponders opening up his own place -- a Spanish restaurant -- but
because he has worked at Il Porto for so long, he now thinks about opening up an
Italian restaurant. "I have the experience," he said.

If he follows through on his dream, he would not be the first Il Porto employee
to do so. Just across the street, Mohammed Alam, 33, runs a combination Mamma
Ilardo's pizza shop and Subway sandwich franchise.

Alam used to work at Il Porto and, before that, at a string of chain restaurants
such as Shoney's and the Olive Garden. Born in Bangladesh, he has been in the
United States for 12 years but has never worked in an Indian or Bangladeshi
restaurant -- or any Asian one, for that matter.

"I came to this country for a change, not to deal with the same people," he
said. "If I wanted to do the same, why should I live here? I should go home."

Drive over to Arlington and you'll meet someone with a different approach to
blending food and heritage. Joe Corey, co-owner of the Faccia Luna chain as well
as one of the owners of the Boulevard Woodgrill, sees no way to separate his
Lebanese heritage from the Italian and American cuisine featured in his
restaurants.

"Growing up as an immigrant, it gives you a little bit more appreciation for
different things," he said. "It permeates how you order, how you eat."

A childhood of eating stuffed grape leaves, yogurt, hummus and kabobs influences
the food served at his restaurants. He cites the times he oversaw the making of
a black bean hummus and adding some new seasonings to spice up drab-tasting
quesadillas at the Boulevard Woodgrill. Corey wanted to make the quesadillas
more Mexican, so he drew on his familiarity with spices.

"If I taste something, I taste it in different terms," he said.

There are many other such examples, Corey said, but he can no longer name them
because they are so much a part of the way he does things that they no longer
stand out. They have assimilated.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              307 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

The Northeast's Shifting Labor Supply;
In '90s, Foreign-Born Population Surged While Young, Educated Workers Left,
Study Finds

BYLINE: Christine Haughney, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


In the 1990s, the Northeast region lost the equivalent of the population of
Connecticut and relied heavily on new immigrants to support its labor force,
according to a Northeastern University study.

The Northeast's share of the country's population growth has declined since the
1930s, but the '90s marked the first time that the region would have had
negative population growth if immigrants had not moved in.

That translated into more than 2.7 million residents leaving the six New England
states plus New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Many of those residents were
young, educated workers heading to the South and West.

Meanwhile, 3.1 million foreign-born immigrants moved into the Northeast, the
largest surge of immigrants since the first decade of the 20th century. More
immigrants moved to the South and West, but the Northeast depended most heavily
on immigrants for population and workforce growth.

"We had been finding more and more firms and industries where immigrant workers
were the new labor supply," said Andrew Sum, the study's author and director of
the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston.
"Without new immigrants, the Northeast would never have grown at all."

During the 1990s, more than three-quarters of the residents who left the
Northeast were between ages 18 and 34, and nearly half of these young people had
a bachelor's degree or higher, Sum said. More people left when the economy was
at its worst, in the early 1990s. When the economy picked up, younger skilled
workers stayed. But Census data from April 2000 through July 2001 shows that
during the recent economic downturn, the Northeast again began losing educated
young workers to other regions.

"Employers will have a hard time attracting young, well-educated workers when
the economy turns," said Sum, whose study was released earlier this month.
"We'll be very dependent on immigration for our labor supply."

Some Northeastern states were hit harder than others: Maine, New Hampshire and
Vermont gained residents, but the region's six other states lost residents. If
not for immigrants, New York State would have lost one-tenth of its population.

High death rates among aging populations and declining fertility rates didn't
help the population figures. The Northeast also had the lowest birth rate in the
country, with 1.44 births for every 100 residents. The West had the highest, at
1.84, and the national average was 1.6.

The population decline has led to the loss of five congressional seats and is
trickling into the labor force. While educated workers are leaving the region,
immigrant service agencies are scrambling for resources.

In Massachusetts, well-trained doctors with a few years' experience often head
to Southern states for better pay and affordable living standards, said Charles
A. Welch, a psychiatrist and the president of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

"These are the people who should be the future of medicine in New England," he
said.

The state also loses about 53 percent of its medical residents and 65 percent of
its fellows when they finish training, according to a Massachusetts Medical
Society survey. More than 90 percent of these trained physicians called the cost
of living "unfavorable."

"They simply can't make the math work. They can't start a practice, buy a house,
start a family and pay off their debt," Welch said. "They have to move out of
New England."

At the same time, immigrant service agencies in Massachusetts are struggling to
keep up with demand. There are 14,608 Massachusetts residents enrolled in
publicly funded courses in English as a second language -- and 15,467 others on
waiting lists, according to the state Department of Education. The International
Institute of Boston, the region's largest provider of immigrant services, added
seven more English as a second language classes in the past two years, and
they're already full.

"We are busting at the seams in terms of our capacity and location," said
Executive Director Westy Egmont.

New York State faces similar problems. As national firms have visited the State
University of New York at Buffalo to recruit talent, the state has held local
job fairs and worked with human resources departments to keep graduating
students from leaving the area, said Daniel Ryan, the university's career
planning director. Among skilled trade workers, electricians, carpenters and
welders are difficult to find, because so many have left and because those who
have remained have encouraged their children to go to college and seek
white-collar work.

In the late 1990s, graduates of the Syracuse University School of Management
headed to Silicon Valley, Chicago and other cities for high-tech jobs. "When the
tech sector was strong and all of these dot-com companies were exploding . . .
they were much more likely to go out west," said the school's career director,
Nicholas P. Wegman. Of the 158 MBA graduates of the Class of 2001, he said, only
three remained in Syracuse.

"The wages here in central New York are depressed," he said. "The opportunities
for jobs are reduced. Once you're in a firm, the opportunities to grow in a more
responsible, higher position are low."

Downstate, in New York City, immigrant service agencies can't keep up with
demand for education programs. The number of adult education students who speak
English as a second language has jumped by 70 percent statewide in the past five
years, said Tom Dunn, a spokesman for the state Department of Education, and
three-quarters of those programs are in the city. More than a million students
need classes in English as a second language; the state has spots for 5 percent
of them.

"People give up," said Chung-Wha Hong, advocacy director for the New York
Immigration Coalition. "You don't keep registering every semester when you don't
get it."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              308 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 29, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 385 words


HAPPY CAMP, Calif. -- Three firefighters were killed and two injured when their
fire engine tumbled 800 feet off a steep, dirt road into a ravine in the Klamath
National Forest yesterday, officials said.

The two who survived the plunge were airlifted to a hospital in Redding, said
Brian Harris, a U.S. Forest Service spokesman. Their conditions were not known.

The five firefighters were returning from a 620-acre fire near the northern
California town of Happy Camp about 2 a.m. when the truck rolled off the ravine,
he said. The deaths brought to 12 the number of firefighters killed while
fighting blazes in the West this summer.

In west-central Oregon, firefighters ordered the evacuation of 4,000 to 5,000
people after stiff wind fanned a 3,300-acre fire near a subdivision just west of
Sisters.

A wildfire near the Columbia River port town of The Dalles had grown to 12,000
acres and burned to within inches of some rural buildings. Crews had the fire
about 55 percent contained, but gusty wind periodically kicked up the flames.

DALLAS -- Two illegal Mexican immigrants died in a tractor-trailer rig smuggling
immigrants across the border, and their two truck drivers were charged with
murder, officials said yesterday.

Troy Dock and Jason Sprague were being held in jail on $ 1 million bond each.

More than 40 immigrants are believed to have been riding in the truck Saturday,
but only 27 have been accounted for, said Lynn Ligon, spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

After a 12-hour journey, the immigrants, exhausted and dehydrated, poured out of
the 53-foot trailer at a truck stop.

The truck left the scene before authorities arrived. It was discovered about 40
miles north of Dallas in Anna, where two bodies were found in the parked rig.
Another man who stumbled from the back of the truck was hospitalized.

The high temperature was 96 degrees in Dallas on Saturday. One of the victims
said they had futilely torn a small hole in the truck's roof for air.

Fourteen passengers remained hospitalized and three were jailed for entering the
country illegally. Three women and five children were released to Dallas area
family members, Ligon said. They will be given the choice of voluntary return to
Mexico or appearing at an immigration hearing.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              309 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 30, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Congress, a Tug of War Over INS's Role in New Department

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 976 words


When President Bush unveiled his plans last month to create a Department of
Homeland Security to defend against terrorist threats, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was at the top of the list of affected agencies.

The initial plan was to move the INS's 34,442 employees -- and its $ 5.5 billion
budget -- from Justice Department oversight to the newly established Homeland
Security Department, which would be responsible for enforcing all immigration
and nationality laws -- including visa issuance -- and border security. The
department would have four divisions and would be headed by a Cabinet official.

Since the announcement, lawmakers and immigration advocates have been feverishly
carving out plans for what portion of the INS should be turned over to a new
department and what should be done with what remains.

Some want to keep a portion of the agency within the Justice Department. Others
argue that turning it all over to a new department and appointing an
undersecretary to oversee it will give the service and enforcement functions
equal footing. Some believe that the INS won't be effective unless it is
restructured first.

"No matter where you put the agency, it's going to have to be examined and
reorganized," said Kevin Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy for
the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.

The House voted last week to keep immigration services, such as adjudication and
naturalization, within the Justice Department. That amendment to the Department
of Homeland Security bill was initiated last month by the House Judiciary
Committee.

The committee's chairman, Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), who
co-sponsored the amendment, believes that immigration services will get the
attention they deserve if they are separated from enforcement and left within
the Justice Department. Bush opposes divorcing them.

"With the Department of Homeland Security amalgamating INS, the Border Patrol,
Customs Service and the Coast Guard, I am fearful that the services end will be
shorted," Sensenbrenner said in an interview.

The Senate is expected to consider its own legislation creating a Department of
Homeland Security after the August recess.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who is working with Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman
(D-Conn.) on legislation to create a fifth division for INS enforcement and
services, said turning over the INS to a new department won't work without
reforming the agency.

"Simply moving immigration functions into a new, larger department without
instituting essential reforms will not solve the agency's problems or enhance
our security," Kennedy said. "The administration's plan fails to reorganize INS
and instead buries immigration."

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and Homeland
Security Director Tom Ridge all declined to comment on the turnover, saying
through spokesmen that it was "premature" to discuss the matter.

An INS official said turnover of the agency to the new department would be a
relief to many employees who were "confused" about what would happen to the INS
after the House overwhelmingly approved a bill in April to dismantle it.

"This is at least a solid direction," the official said. "We knew our future
held change, and this proposal gives some definition to that change.

"We're an integral part of homeland security already," the official said. "This
will just formalize it."

The INS for years has been criticized for backlogs and delays in processing
immigrants' applications for residency or citizenship, mistreating customers and
being unable to keep track of foreign visitors well enough to know which ones
are violating their visas. Five million applications are pending, and an
estimated 314,000 aliens whom the courts have ordered deported remain in the
country.

The criticism has mounted over the past several months after a series of
missteps involving student visa approval notices, the processing of thousands of
immigration applications in New York and the disappearance of four Pakistani
crew members who jumped ship in Norfolk after a mistake by an INS inspector.

The INS announced policy changes, which would have included tightening rules for
visitors, clamping down on student visas and strengthening the borders. But it
wasn't enough. Bush said he wanted one department "dedicated to securing the
homeland."

Bill Ong Hing, a professor of law and Asian American studies at the University
of California at Davis, predicted that turning over the INS to the Department of
Homeland Security would be problematic. The move could worsen a culture already
harmful to those seeking legal entry to the United States, he said.

"Everyone's going to be overreacting to the typical applicant who comes in,"
said Hing, an immigration policy expert. "They're going to be screened for
terrorism, which is very, very unfair."

Appleby agreed with Hing and said that turning over all of the INS to the
Department of Homeland Security will "distract from its mission of national
security."

"They'll have to be concerned with doing immigrant petitions," Appleby said. "It
will overburden the agency."

But Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, a
Washington-based immigrant rights group, said that turning over service and
enforcement functions is the only solution.

"If [service is] left at Justice, it won't have a seat at the table when
discussions are happening about laws, policies, regulations and general
direction," Kelley said. "If you divorce them, it's a recipe for disaster."

But Sensenbrenner said it was crucial to revamp the agency before turning any
part of it over to the Department of Homeland Security.

"The administration suggests that Homeland Security take INS as it is, and
that's not acceptable," Sensenbrenner said. "INS needs to be reorganized."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              310 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 3, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS Under Pile of Backlogged Paper;
Agency Reveals It Shuffled 2 Million Documents to Warehouse in the Midwest

BYLINE: Christopher Newton, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 589 words


More than 2 million documents filed by foreigners, from change-of-address forms
to requests for benefits, have been piling up for years and only now are being
reviewed by the government, senior U.S. officials said yesterday.

Immigrant advocates said that means some foreigners deported secretly after
Sept. 11 might have been in compliance with laws they were expelled for
breaking.

The government has not revealed previously the extent to which it has fallen
behind in processing such records. Congressional investigators began an inquiry
into the question after the terror attacks.

The documents have been collected by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from field offices around the country and sent to a warehouse complex outside
Kansas City, Mo. They include 200,000 change-of-address notices, INS spokesman
Bill Strassberger said.

Failure to file a change-of-address form is a deportable offense, and the
Justice Department recently said it would step up enforcement.

Strassberger said the 2 million documents also include applications for
benefits. Another U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said
more than 300,000 were applications for citizenship.

"The field offices weren't sure what to do with all of the documents they had
not been able to look through, and they were a bit overwhelmed by the
unprecedented growth" in immigration, Strassberger said.

"The reality is, we were a backwater agency 10 years ago. Throughout the 1990s,
immigration became a very political issue and has become even more sensitive
since September 11th. The records represent the way the agency used to be run."

The INS expects to have processed most of the documents by December.

Immigration experts and civil rights groups said the situation is embarrassing
to the government and an affront to foreigners who have tried to play by the
rules.

"It exposes one of the INS's dirty secrets," said Lucas Guttentag, director of
the American Civil Liberties Union's immigration rights project. "The agency's
own record-keeping and information systems are completely inadequate, yet it so
often turns around and punishes law-abiding immigrants when the agency's own
shoddy record-keeping is at fault."

The INS has been under intense criticism since Sept. 11, when huge gaps in its
tracking of foreign visitors and immigrants were revealed. Several embarrassing
incidents have added to a chorus of critics in Congress.

Notice of previously approved visa extensions for two of the 19 Sept. 11
hijackers killed during the crimes was mailed months after the attacks; a
government aviation newsletter still was being mailed to another hijacker long
after his death. Although all 19 came on valid visas, several were in the
country illegally at the time of the attacks.

The immigration service has been criticized for years because of huge backlogs
of applications for benefits such as naturalization or permanent residency.

The House overwhelmingly agreed to abolish the embattled agency and create two
new agencies, one to handle enforcement and one to handle immigration services.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and the White House have endorsed an INS
breakup bill by the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Rep. F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.).

The House passed a bill last week to put border control under a new Department
of Homeland Security and the processing of immigration forms under the Justice
Department.

A Senate bill would keep the INS intact and put it under the Homeland Security
Department.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              311 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 6, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Records Checks Displace Workers;
Social Security Letters Cost Immigrants Jobs

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1430 words


Thousands of immigrants have been forced to leave their jobs in the last few
months, the result of a little-publicized operation by the U.S. government to
clean up Social Security records, immigration experts say.

Since early this year, the Social Security Administration has sent letters to
more than 800,000 businesses -- about one in eight U.S. employers -- asking them
to clear up cases in which their workers' names or Social Security numbers do
not match the agency's files. The letters cover about 7 million employees.

Agency officials say that they are simply trying to tackle a bookkeeping problem
and that the action is not related to the new get-tough approach on immigration
stemming from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But the result could be the most
dramatic blow in years to undocumented workers on company payrolls.

"The impact is enormous," said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza,
which represents Hispanics. "We're hearing about it from all over the country."

Social Security officials note that there may be innocent reasons for some of
the discrepancies, such as the misspelling of a worker's name, which can easily
be corrected.

But the crackdown has highlighted an open secret: A huge number of illegal
immigrants work "on the books," providing stolen or made-up Social Security
numbers to employers and having U.S. taxes deducted from their paychecks. Now,
with those employers being confronted by Social Security, many in turn are
confronting their workers, insisting that they clear up the problem.

Workers who can't do so are often being fired or are quietly leaving. Josh
Bernstein of the Washington-based National Immigration Law Center, which is
attempting to track the impact of the letters, said as many as 100,000 may have
lost their jobs. He worries that legal as well as illegal immigrants have been
affected.

"It's devastating," said Laura Reiff, an immigration lawyer in Tysons Corner.
One of her clients, a New York bakery, recently lost 200 employees, nearly half
its staff, after getting a letter about their Social Security numbers. "You've
got people fleeing. You've got people who have to be terminated," Reiff said.

While immigrant advocates and some businesses are concerned, others say it's
about time authorities cracked down on abuse of the Social Security system. The
issue of identity fraud has taken on new urgency since the attacks carried out
by terrorists who acquired U.S. driver's licenses and other identification.

"If someone's not authorized to work in the U.S., they're not authorized. You
can't sugarcoat that," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

In the Washington area, the Social Security letters have arrived at businesses
ranging from restaurants to janitorial companies to manufacturers.

At Centex Construction Co. in Fairfax, the notice resulted in five or six of the
firm's 230 employees leaving, said Doug Turner, the company's vice president of
human relations. Centex now works with the government to verify the Social
Security numbers of job applicants before they are hired.

"It was good to know. We work at the airport, large construction sites," Turner
said.

Washington has not been as seriously affected by the Social Security letters as
have some other areas of the country, according to lawyers, employers and
immigrant-service groups. They speculate that may be because some large
immigrant groups here, such as Salvadorans, have benefited from special
work-permit programs.

Still, workers from many countries have been affected, a reflection of
Washington's immigration rainbow. Immigration lawyer Dawn Lurie said she knew of
cases involving employees from Latin America, Egypt, Morocco and Mongolia -- and
even an Australian maitre d'.

Among those who lost jobs was a Venezuelan from the Maryland suburbs. The
30-year-old worker, who asked not to be identified because he lacks legal
papers, said his boss at a glass factory approached him in March with the
letter.

"He said, 'Look, this came from Social Security,' " the Venezuelan said. The
boss told him that "if I didn't have a [proper] Social Security [number], I
couldn't continue working there."

The worker, who said he had invented a number, left the company. He now does odd
jobs for cash, cutting grass or cleaning buildings, earning half the $ 12 an
hour he received at the factory.

"It's depressing," said the man, who is married and has two children. He said he
and his family left a middle-class life in their homeland because of the
economic and political turmoil there and came to the United States on tourist
visas, staying on after they expired.

"We're not all criminals," he said. "We add to the economy of this country, too.
We pay taxes, too."

The Social Security Administration has emphasized that its crackdown is not
aimed at immigrants. In fact, the agency refuses to share its information with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service because of privacy considerations.

"We were not out targeting anybody, any group. It was strictly to improve wage
reporting," said Carolyn Cheezum, a Social Security spokeswoman.

In recent years, the agency has received a growing pile of money from taxpayers
whose names or Social Security numbers don't match its files. Such contributions
from workers and employers totaled $ 4.9 billion in 1999, the most recent year
for which data were available.

In response, agency officials said, they decided to ramp up their program of
contacting the employers of those workers. In the past, Social Security sent out
about 100,000 "no-match" letters a year, focusing on companies with the biggest
problems.

This year, it has sent out eight times as many letters, contacting every company
with an employee whose name or Social Security number did not correspond to
agency records.

Intentionally or not, the crackdown is having a powerful impact on illegal
immigrants and some of the companies that rely on them.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has had so many complaints from members receiving
the letters that it has formed a task force. "It's a big enough issue that we're
throwing significant resources at it, to figure a way out," said Randy Johnson,
the chamber's vice president of labor policy.

Lyndsay Lowell, an immigration expert at the Pew Hispanic Center, estimated in a
recent report that unauthorized workers account for less than 4 percent of the
U.S. labor force but are concentrated in a few industries, including
construction, hospitality, textiles, meatpacking and agriculture.

Employers in such industries, as well as immigrant advocates, argue that the
government should find ways to give legal status to workers needed by U.S.
firms.

But proponents of lower immigration argue that such amnesties would reward
people who have broken the law, lead to more illegal immigration and ultimately
harm U.S. workers.

David Ray, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates lower levels of immigration, said the U.S. government had to crack
down on fake Social Security numbers as part of its anti-terrorism campaign. He
said the government couldn't announce measures to tighten the border and
increase tracking of visiting foreigners while ignoring the key U.S. identity
number.

"Either we want to stop it or we don't want to stop it," he said of illegal
immigration.

Unlike the INS, the Social Security Administration has no enforcement powers.
Knowing that, some businesses that have received no-match letters have ignored
them. Still, they could eventually be penalized by the Internal Revenue Service
for providing incorrect information on wage forms.

Many immigrant advocates said they are concerned that the no-match letters are
harming legal as well as illegal workers.

Some employers are panicking and firing immigrants without determining whether
they are eligible to work, such advocates said. They noted that unusual foreign
names may frequently be misspelled in companies' records, prompting a no-match
letter.

The Social Security letters, written in English and Spanish, state that they are
not, in themselves, grounds to fire an employee and do not reflect a worker's
immigration status.

Illegal immigrants who are forced out of jobs often move on to other positions,
immigrant advocates said. But, like the Venezuelan, they may join the
underground economy, where they don't need a Social Security number and may face
more difficult conditions.

"They've got to work. They find something else," said Reiff, the immigration
lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              312 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 7, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. to Move Consulate Out of East Jerusalem

BYLINE: Walter Pincus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 593 words


The United States plans to move its consular office, which handles immigrant and
non-immigrant visas as well as services to American citizens, out of Arab East
Jerusalem "to a more secure spot," State Department deputy spokesman Philip T.
Reeker announced yesterday.

Anticipating that the move could be interpreted by Palestinians as giving
increased support to Israel, Reeker told reporters the decision "is solely
intended to address significant security concerns, which we've been looking at
for some time" and has come up now because "the security of our people overseas
has to be a top priority."

The announcement came as Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld sharply criticized
the Palestinian leadership, saying, "There is no question but that . . . [it
was] involved with terrorist activities." Palestinian Authority cabinet
ministers are to meet in Washington on Thursday and Friday with Secretary of
State Colin L. Powell and national security adviser Condoleezza Rice.

Powell and Rice will meet with Saeb Erekat, a senior adviser to Palestinian
leader Yasser Arafat; Maher Masri, the economy and trade minister; and Abdel
Razak Yehiyeh, the interior minister. The agenda is said to include civil reform
and security cooperation.

While Rumsfeld was criticizing the Palestinian leadership, Reeker was telling
reporters that the U.S. "focus is on working with Palestinians with whom we
think we can have constructive discussions about the way to move forward, in
line with the president's strategy."

Rumsfeld made his statements yesterday at a forum for Pentagon employees. He had
begun his remarks about the Palestinians in answer to a question about Israeli
settlements on the West Bank, saying that was a matter for the State Department
and the president. But he quickly went on to discuss the Palestinians and
described the settlements as being in "so-called" occupied territories, a
description that both Powell and President Bush have dropped.

Rumsfeld also seemed to question whether a Palestinian state would ever be
achieved. He said he suspected that in his lifetime, "there will be some sort of
an entity that will be established," but he implied that "it will take some
Palestinian expatriates coming back into the region" to provide responsible
government.

The status of Jerusalem has been the subject of negotiations but remains
unresolved. East Jerusalem was captured by Israel in the 1967 war and annexed.
The Palestinians have claimed part of the city as a possible future capital,
while Israel has said the city is its eternal, undivided capital.

Yesterday in Jerusalem, Jessica Davies, a spokeswoman for the U.S. consulate
there, said the facility's location near the roadway makes it insecure.

The East Jerusalem facility provides passports, birth registrations, federal
benefits and other services for U.S. citizens. It also serves as the visa office
for Palestinians living not only in the city, but also in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip.

Because these functions involve public access, Reeker said, "I think that's
fairly obvious, in terms of why those may need to have a different type of
setting."

The office of the U.S. consul general, where diplomatic, political, economic and
foreign aid functions are carried out, will remain in a section of West
Jerusalem that the Israelis have controlled since their independence in 1948.

Although Reeker said the matter had been under study "for years," he indicated
that the department was still looking at "a variety of locations" and that there
was no timetable for any move.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              313 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 13, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Some Visitors Face New Checks on Entry

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 198 words


The Justice Department has chosen Sept. 11 as the starting date for a new
program that will require tens of thousands of foreign visitors to be
fingerprinted and photographed at the border, officials announced yesterday.

The security program, developed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
will begin at several unnamed ports of entry and will mostly affect those from
Muslim and Middle Eastern countries.

All nationals of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria will be subject to the
program.

After a 20-day testing period, all remaining ports of entry will implement the
new system on Oct. 1.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft said the program will correct some of the
problems that led to the Sept. 11 attacks.

"The vulnerabilities of our immigration system became starkly clear on September
11th," Ashcroft said. "This system will expand substantially America's scrutiny
of those foreign visitors who may present an elevated national security risk.
And it will provide a vital line of defense in the war against terrorism."

Congress required the Justice Department to develop a stricter entry-exit system
in anti-terrorism legislation signed by President Bush late last year.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              314 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 15, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Area Literacy Programs Struggling to Meet Need;
Increase in Immigrants Stretches Resources

BYLINE: Eugene L. Meyer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T06

LENGTH: 1221 words


Attempting to cope with a surge in immigrants that is changing the face of the
metropolitan area, adult literacy programs across the Maryland suburbs are
experiencing long waiting lists and a shortage of tutors.

In Montgomery County in recent months, as many as 250 people were lingering on
waiting lists for as long as nine months before being tutored. In Prince
George's County, there were waits of at least three months, with 123 on the
list.

In most of the suburban counties, there also has been a major change in who is
being served, with a shift from a largely native-born population lacking reading
skills to foreign-born adults unable to read and write English and, sometimes,
illiterate also in their own tongues.

"When we started this program 15 years ago, 18 percent were foreign-born," said
Janet Carsetti, director of Howard County's Project Literacy. "Now, my
population of clients is 95 percent foreign-born." In Montgomery, the percentage
is even higher -- 98 percent -- according to Pam Saussy, Literacy Council
director.

Officials say the demand for volunteer tutors to teach reading to foreign-born
residents has far outstripped the resources of their nonprofit programs. The
programs generally are free or charge only a nominal fee.

"Every program I know of is oversubscribed," Saussy said, "so we're all trying
to work together to figure out how to increase capacity and coordinate our
services. There are just not enough places to teach them."

By far the largest group seeking to learn English in area counties is Hispanic,
reflecting the 82 percent increase in Maryland's Latino population during the
1990s, to 228,000. The largest concentrations are in Montgomery, Prince George's
and Anne Arundel counties. Very few students are Europeans.

Students in Howard's program -- predominantly Latin American, followed by
Chinese and Haitian -- come from 38 countries. In Montgomery, 42 percent are
Latino, 31 percent are Asian, and the rest are African. They come from 88
countries and speak 60 languages, said Saussy, whose program had 578 tutors last
year working with 1,100 students.

"It's climbed quite a bit," she said, citing a 26 percent increase in students
in her program in 2001 over the year before. "Our waiting list gets longer and
longer. They're desperate to learn."

Saussy's center is in the Wheaton Regional Library, although tutors also meet
students elsewhere in the county. Recently, tutor Katharine Stull worked at the
library with Karen Tse, 42, a Hong Kong native who lives in Olney and works at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture library in Beltsville.

As she read English passages, Stull helped her with pronunciation. Her native
Mandarin dialect, she said, "for me is easy." Her biggest challenge in English
is pronouncing some letter sounds, such as the long "u," and plural words such
as "businesses" and "cures."

The Prince George's Literacy Council has just moved from predominantly African
American Palmer Park to Hyattsville, where the population is heavily Latino.
Director Janna Lusk said she expects her program to serve more Hispanics in its
new location, in the Hyattsville library.

"We see people who just have difficulties reading and writing and are fearful of
losing their jobs," Lusk said. "We had someone who almost lost a job at one of
the airports because he was fearful of taking a test about new security
measures, because he couldn't read or write."

Founded in 1962, the Prince George's council has 300 students a year and 160 to
200 tutors at any one time, Lusk said. Until now, most of its students have been
U.S.-born, "but we're getting increasing requests from people from other
countries," she said.

Lusk said she does not have a breakdown by ethnicity or country of origin, but
she said her students come from at least 38 countries.

In the outer suburban ring, programs are smaller, waiting lists are shorter, and
more students are native-born.

Frederick's literacy program began decades ago when there were many foreign
migrant workers in the county, but as subdivisions have replaced farms, their
number has dropped, said Tracey Beidleman, president of the Frederick Literacy
Council.

In Charles County, the majority served is still American-born. The Anne Arundel
Literacy Council, currently "in a rebuilding phase," said to President Ivy L.
Kleinbart, is seeking to serve more foreign-born students as the population
shifts. The nonprofit recently held a workshop to train tutors in teaching
English as a second language.

Most of the adult literacy programs use a method developed by the late Frank C.
Laubach, who began teaching reading as a missionary in the Philippines during
the 1920s. The phonics-based method is very structured and uses "visual puns" to
associate letters with objects.

Some centers use other teaching techniques.

Howard's Carsetti tests each person and designs an individualized program. "They
all have different materials and learn from different methods," she said. "We
have a lot for whom phonics doesn't work."

Carsetti's clients include people "who haven't learned how to read or write in
any language and who have very little formal education."

Margaret Sunday, 19, from Nigeria, fits into that category. She works at a fast
food restaurant in Columbia Mall and can't read but wants to "get my GED and go
to college," she said.

"These people want to learn so badly. They come faithfully and try so hard,"
said her tutor, Myra Kramer, a retired public school reading specialist who has
tutored 15 students in 14 years.

Kramer and Sunday were working in a cubicle at the Howard County Central
Library, where Project Literacy is headquartered, but there are separate classes
for Spanish-speakers conducted in a portable classroom adjoining Running Brook
Elementary School, in Columbia.

One afternoon, 14 students -- mostly Salvadoran and ranging in age from 19 to 42
-- came to class. On one side of a divider, four students worked with Mark
Enriquez, while 10 others, more advanced, worked with Luz Enriquez, supervisor
of bilingual programs for Project Literacy and Mark's wife.

The students live in nearby apartments and, for the most part, are restaurant
and domestic workers with a desire to learn English and get ahead.

The more advanced students worked through a parable about "the butterfly and the
man," reading out loud in English and translating the words into Spanish. The
story of the butterfly breaking out of the cocoon could have been a metaphor for
their lives.

"I asked for strength . . . and I received difficulties to make me strong," the
story read.

Among the English words the students learned were "strength" and "prosperity."
"Que dice 'strength'?" Enriquez asked. "Fuerte," the students said. "Que es
'prosperity'?" Luz Enriquez asked. "Prosperidad," the students replied.

"Yes!" Luz exulted, in English.

Those seeking services or wanting to become tutors may call:

* Anne Arundel Literacy Council, 410-553-0809

* Calvert County Literacy Council, 410-535-3233

* Charles County Literacy Council, 301-934-9494

* Literacy Council of Frederick County, 301-694-2066

* Howard County Project Literacy, 410-313-7900

* Literacy Council of Montgomery, 301-942-9292

* Literacy Council of Prince George's, 301-699-9770

* St. Mary's County Literacy Council, 301-475-9865

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              315 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 15, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 444 words


The number of Middle Eastern immigrants to the United States has risen more than
seven-fold since 1970 and is likely to continue growing fast despite the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks, according to a report issued yesterday.

The study by the Center for Immigration Studies, which generally favors imposing
more limits on immigration to the United States, said the number has grown from
fewer than 200,000 in 1970 to nearly 1.5 million.

An additional 570,000 U.S.-born children had at least one parent born in the
Middle East. The overall immigrant population tripled during the same period.

Analyzing data from the U.S. Census Bureau and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the report projected that an additional 1.1 million
Middle Eastern immigrants will arrive in the United States by 2010.

This figure includes newcomers from non-Arab countries such as Iran, Pakistan,
Bangladesh, Turkey and Afghanistan as well as from Israel.

In 1970, only 15 percent of the immigrants from the region were Muslim, with
most of the rest being Christian, but by 2000 around 73 percent of all Middle
Eastern immigrants were Muslim.

Persistent and worsening drought has spread to nearly half the contiguous United
States, the government reported.

The National Climatic Data Center said that as of the end of July, 49 percent of
the 48 contiguous states were affected by moderate to extreme drought.

Areas of extreme drought stretched from the Southwest to Montana and Nebraska
and from Georgia to Virginia, the center said.

The greatest area of drought coverage to date occurred in July 1934, when
moderate to extreme drought covered 80 percent of the contiguous United States.

Biotechnology companies have failed to take proper precautions to prevent
genetically modified corn from contaminating other crops growing nearby, federal
regulators alleged for the first time.

The allegations, lodged against two companies with experimental plots in Hawaii,
came amid growing criticism of the way genetically modified crops are grown and
regulated in the United States.

The Environmental Protection Agency accused Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc.
of planting genetically modified corn too close to other crops and at an
unapproved location.

Another firm, the Mycogen Seeds unit of Dow AgroSciences LLC, is accused of
failing to plant trees around its experimental plot to create a windbreak to
inhibit the spread of pollen.

Both companies are experimenting with corn altered using a bacterium's genetic
material. The modification allows the corn to produce its own pesticide against
the rootworm pest, reducing reliance on chemical sprays.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              316 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 16, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Changing Va. Retains Taste For Fair Play;
Influx of Immigrants, Loss Of Farms Alter 'Americana'

BYLINE: Paul Glader, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 976 words


One fair a year was not enough for Eddie and Emily Kao. The immigrants from
Taiwan went to the livestock-free one in Fairfax County in June and brought
their two children to the Prince William County Fair last Friday.

They wanted a more authentic American experience, including the roar of a
tractor pull, the smells of the livestock barn and the thrills of a colorful
midway.

"In Taiwan, we didn't have this kind of tractor race," said Eddie Kao, a
39-year-old computer specialist who lives in Fairfax County. "It's all so very
impressive."

As immigrant populations grow, some counties make their fairs more like the
community, bringing in ethnic foods and high-tech exhibits, while eliminating
such county fair staples as livestock. Others stay the same and hope that
immigrants -- wherever they are from -- appreciate the old-time American flair.

"Going to the fair is a great way to see a slice of Americana," said Jim Tucker,
president and chief executive of the International Association of Fairs and
Exhibitions, based in Springfield, Mo.

Fairfax no longer has a traditional county fair. Linda Bestimt, president and
chief executive of Celebrate Fairfax, said the new name for what used to be the
fair has to do with a changing community.

"Our goal is to try to mirror what the county is becoming," she said. "Let's
face it, our cows are now computers. Part of our mission is to reflect what the
county showcases. While Fairfax may not be very agricultural anymore, we do have
technology."

Fairfax's fair went bankrupt after World War II. By the time it was revived in
1982, the county had changed dramatically. "We were once a leader in dairy
farms, but that's not what Fairfax is anymore," she said.

So, in recent years, they changed the name, discontinued livestock exhibitions,
offered ethnic foods from Thai to tacos and brought in high-tech exhibits.

While some immigrants appreciate this change targeted partly to their growing
populations, other culturally curious families venture out to Montgomery,
Fauquier and Prince William counties for a more down-home American flavor.

These families embrace the spectacles of demolition derbies, skunk races and
cow-milking contests.

At the Prince William fair, the Kao family strolled down the midway aisles as
U.S. teenagers rode a mechanical bull, tried to win prizes in a shooting gallery
and bopped each other with inflatable hammers. Eddie Kao made his own family
proud by winning a stuffed frog for his 4-year-old daughter, Victoria, at a
precision water gun game.

Steve and Grace Lee, Korean immigrants who live in Manassas, took their two
children to the Fairfax and Prince William County fairs as well as to Disneyland
and Paramount Kings Dominion this summer. Steve Lee had to accompany 3-year-old
Miriam on most of the kiddie rides.

"I like this [fair] the best," said Lee, who works at the Pentagon. "It's more
folksy."

When it comes to food options, fairgoers are limited to funnel cakes and other
fried American fare in Prince William, except perhaps for a little diversity at
the Little Richard's Family Cafe trailer, which offered Polish sausage, Italian
sausage and Philly cheesesteak sandwiches.

The Kaos, who have lived in the United States for eight years, settled on jumbo
turkey legs and said they like to explore the nation's agricultural past.

"This is a little bit more like a country fair," Eddie Kao said, comparing
Prince William with Fairfax. It's also a far cry from the theme parks in Taiwan
and the night fish markets of Taipei, where they could see live snakes and buy
squid-on-a-stick instead of corn dogs.

Raja Kilaru, a 24-year-old software programmer, came with four friends to the
Prince William fair Saturday. He said it reminded him of the 40-day summer
festivals in his hometown of Vijayawada, India. They had also attended the
Fauquier County fair and appreciated the bigger range of rides at Prince
William.

"We are looking forward to the giant wheel," he said excitedly, referring to the
Ferris wheel. "That's what we call it back home."

Randy Fox, general manager of the Prince William County Fair, said he advertised
on local affiliates of Hispanic broadcast giants Telemundo and Univision.

"Your marketing efforts have to be able to touch that population," he said. But
Fox said other events, such as Spanish rodeos, cater to the Latino population
year-round at the fairgrounds and that the nine-day annual County Fair, which
will draw about 90,000 people by the time it ends on Saturday, should celebrate
livestock and the agricultural past.

"That's fun stuff," he said. "We don't want to get away from it."

Zhong Yan, 26, had a big smile on her face as she watched children bounce on a
bungee-cord ride at the Prince William fair. The resident of Jian Su, China, who
will begin a doctoral engineering program at Virginia Tech this fall, had lived
in the United States less then a week when her host took her to see a tractor
pull at the fair.

The fried funnel cake was a little too sweet for her. She was also baffled by
the purpose of the tractor pull, where pickup trucks with names like "Family
Tradition" and "Thunder" revved their engines to ear-throttling levels, while
trying to pull weighted sleds down a muddy track.

"This is crazy. Why do they do this?" she asked her host, Ann Slebodnik. "Is
this a race?"

Prince William residents also found some exposure to other cultures, including a
crafts booth featuring jewelry and bowls from Peru. A troupe of five Kenyan
acrobats also performed to African music during the week-long event.

Kilaru had a clear opinion about whether the place should become more diverse,
arguing that it's not an international fair to begin with.

"This is an American fair," he said. "There are a lot of immigrants who come
here. But this is for American farmers, and it's a good time."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              317 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 16, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Playing Fair in a Changing Va.;
Loss of Farmland, Immigrant Influx Alter 'Americana'

BYLINE: Paul Glader, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 948 words


One fair a year was not enough for Eddie and Emily Kao. The immigrants from
Taiwan went to the livestock-free one in Fairfax County in June and brought
their two children to the Prince William County Fair last Friday.

They wanted a more authentic American experience, including the roar of a
tractor pull, the smells of the livestock barn and the thrills of a colorful
midway.

"In Taiwan, we didn't have this kind of tractor race," said Eddie Kao, a
39-year-old computer specialist who lives in Fairfax County. "It's all so very
impressive."

As immigrant populations grow, some counties make their fairs more like the
community, bringing in ethnic foods and high-tech exhibits, while eliminating
such county fair staples as livestock. Others stay the same and hope that
immigrants -- wherever they are from -- appreciate the old-time American flair.

"Going to the fair is a great way to see a slice of Americana," said Jim Tucker,
president and chief executive of the International Association of Fairs and
Exhibitions, based in Springfield, Mo.

Fairfax no longer has a traditional county fair. Linda Bestimt, president and
chief executive of Celebrate Fairfax, said the new name for what used to be the
fair has to do with a changing community.

"Our goal is to try to mirror what the county is becoming," she said. "Let's
face it, our cows are now computers. Part of our mission is to reflect what the
county showcases. While Fairfax may not be very agricultural anymore, we do have
technology."

Fairfax's fair went bankrupt after World War II. By the time it was revived in
1982, the county had changed dramatically. "We were once a leader in dairy
farms, but that's not what Fairfax is anymore," she said.

So, in recent years, they changed the name, discontinued livestock exhibitions,
offered ethnic foods from Thai to tacos and brought in high-tech exhibits.

While some immigrants appreciate this change targeted partly to their growing
populations, other culturally curious families venture out to Montgomery,
Fauquier and Prince William counties for a more down-home American flavor.

These families embrace the spectacles of demolition derbies, skunk races and
cow-milking contests.

At the Prince William fair, the Kao family strolled down the midway aisles as
U.S. teenagers rode a mechanical bull, tried to win prizes in a shooting gallery
and bopped each other with inflatable hammers. Eddie Kao made his own family
proud by winning a stuffed frog for his 4-year-old daughter, Victoria, at a
precision water gun game.

Steve and Grace Lee, Korean immigrants who live in Manassas, took their two
children to the Fairfax and Prince William County fairs as well as to Disneyland
and Paramount Kings Dominion this summer. Steve Lee had to accompany 3-year-old
Miriam on most of the kiddie rides.

"I like this [fair] the best," said Lee, who works at the Pentagon. "It's more
folksy."

When it comes to food options, fairgoers are limited to funnel cakes and other
fried American fare in Prince William, except perhaps for a little diversity at
the Little Richard's Family Cafe trailer, which offered Polish sausage, Italian
sausage and Philly cheesesteak sandwiches.

The Kaos, who have lived in the United States for eight years, settled on jumbo
turkey legs and said they like to explore the nation's agricultural past.

"This is a little bit more like a country fair," Eddie Kao said, comparing
Prince William with Fairfax.

Raja Kilaru, a 24-year-old software programmer, came with four friends to the
Prince William fair Saturday. He said it reminded him of the 40-day summer
festivals in his hometown of Vijayawada, India. They had also attended the
Fauquier County fair and appreciated the bigger range of rides at Prince
William.

"We are looking forward to the giant wheel," he said excitedly, referring to the
Ferris wheel. "That's what we call it back home."

Randy Fox, general manager of the Prince William County Fair, said he advertised
on local affiliates of Hispanic broadcast giants Telemundo and Univision.

"Your marketing efforts have to be able to touch that population," he said. But
Fox said other events, such as Spanish rodeos, cater to the Latino population
year-round at the fairgrounds and that the nine-day annual County Fair, which
will draw about 90,000 people by the time it ends on Saturday, should celebrate
livestock and the agricultural past.

"That's fun stuff," he said. "We don't want to get away from it."

Zhong Yan, 26, had a big smile on her face as she watched children bounce on a
bungee-cord ride at the Prince William fair. The resident of Jian Su, China, who
will begin a doctoral engineering program at Virginia Tech this fall, had lived
in the United States less then a week when her host took her to see a tractor
pull at the fair.

The fried funnel cake was a little too sweet for her. She was also baffled by
the purpose of the tractor pull, where pickup trucks with names like "Family
Tradition" and "Thunder" revved their engines to ear-throttling levels, while
trying to pull weighted sleds down a muddy track.

"This is crazy. Why do they do this?" she asked her host, Ann Slebodnik. "Is
this a race?"

Prince William residents also found some exposure to other cultures, including a
crafts booth featuring jewelry and bowls from Peru. A troupe of five Kenyan
acrobats also performed to African music during the week-long event.

Kilaru had a clear opinion about whether the place should become more diverse,
arguing that it's not an international fair to begin with.

"This is an American fair," he said. "There are a lot of immigrants who come
here. But this is for American farmers, and it's a good time."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              318 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 25, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants From Mexico Take Steps Toward Hope;
Poverty Persists, but Life Has Improved for Texas Colonias

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1711 words

DATELINE: CAMERON PARK, Tex.


When she tosses in bed at night, Martha Guereca dreams of moving her late
husband's body from the treeless pauper's cemetery where he lies to a proper
grave, someplace she can bring flowers.

Florentino Olivares, who has worked as a migrant laborer most of his life,
dreams that the computer repair course he just finished will translate into a
job that will spare him another season in the blazing hot fields.

The dreams in Cameron Park are like that -- as modest and immediate and not
quite reachable as the ramshackle roofs over people's heads. This is, according
to the Census Bureau, the poorest place in the United States.

Home to about 6,000 of the poorest Mexican immigrants, it is one of the biggest
and oldest of about 1,800 colonias, shabby, unplanned, scantily regulated
conglomerations of shacks, trailers and tumbledown houses that dot the
U.S.-Mexico border, most of them in Texas. But in the last half-decade or so, a
new feature has gained a tentative toehold in Cameron Park and some other
colonias amid the familiar terrain of decrepit housing, rusted-out cars,
inadequate sewers and terrible roads.

The feature is hope.

Buoyed by waves of state and federal cash and a crazy quilt of public and
private aid programs, places like Cameron Park are starting, slowly, to look
less like Dante's Inferno and more like neighborhoods that are simply very poor.

The streets, now paved, no longer disintegrate into impassable mud pits after it
rains. Nearly all houses have been connected to running water and electricity,
and many have stoves and refrigerators, indoor plumbing and toilets. In a part
of the world where temperatures reach 100 degrees and stay there for weeks, some
people have managed to buy air conditioners to cool their bedrooms.

Many families in Cameron Park, perhaps half, still scratch out a living as
migrant laborers, but the sons and daughters of others have steady jobs in the
armed forces, schools, stores or government offices.

"It's not an idyllic little place," said Antonio Zavaleta, an anthropologist and
vice president at the University of Texas at Brownsville who, as a boy, helped
his father carve out streets of what became Cameron Park. "But it's not the
Cameron Park it was 15 years ago."

Last November, Texas voters endorsed Proposition 2, which will channel $ 175
million toward improving streets and drains and toward building sidewalks in
colonias. There is talk of installing street lights. And in Cameron Park, whose
size and notoriety have resulted in attention and largesse, a bank of computers
has been installed at the community center.

Many of the houses remain leaky and roach-ridden, but gradually others are being
repaired, or razed and replaced. Scores have been improved or constructed with
grants and low-interest loans from the nonprofit Community Development Corp. of
Brownsville, funded by the federal and state governments. Still others are the
initiatives of their owners.

On a sweltering Sunday afternoon this month, Incarnacion Hernandez, 27, sweated
in a sleeveless muscle shirt as he hammered nails into the frame of what will be
his new house. Straight and spare, the pine frame stands at the front of the
lot, obscuring the dilapidated plywood shack to the rear where Hernandez and his
wife, Veronica, have lived for 10 years.

Over salsa music blaring from a radio, Veronica Hernandez, 30, shouted happily
in Spanish: "In the new house, the kitchen alone will be twice the size of this
old house!"

"I feel free here," said Incarnacion Hernandez, soft-spoken and doe-eyed, a
carpenter with a ninth-grade education and a monthly income of $ 1,100. He
dismissed the idea of quitting Cameron Park and renting a place in Brownsville,
a few miles away. Better, he said, to own his lot and home, no matter how
modest. "We don't want to owe anything to anybody."

Martha Guereca, who wants a proper burial for her husband, lives in a plywood
shack swarming with cockroaches. One day, her son Jose, who is 8, took a book
from the house into school, only to find it was teeming with roaches when he
opened it in class. The other kids laughed at him, Guereca said.

Guereca is 44, tiny and shy. She supports three children and two grandchildren
on a monthly income of $ 850 in Social Security payments, plus $ 449 in food
stamps. "The good thing is that we live here, that we have someplace to live,"
she said. "The bad thing is that it's infested with roaches."

Not only roaches. In the crawl space beneath her house, rats, mice and opossums
scurry in the dark. One of her two toilets is broken. Spider webs fuzz a statue
of Christ outside her bedroom.

Yet, for Guereca, some relief seems on the way. The Community Development Corp.
says it will start building a modest, low-interest house for her family at the
end of the month.

It would be a wild distortion to portray Cameron Park as on the cusp of the
American Dream. Despite signs of progress, colonias remain wretched places.

According to the Census Bureau, nine of the 10 poorest U.S. communities of 1,000
households or more are colonias and other immigrant settlements near the Mexican
border. Cameron Park has the lowest per capita income, $ 4,103 a year. Barely
one person in five has a high school diploma.

In recent years, the North American Free Trade Agreement has triggered a
population boom and job opportunities along the border. But the population has
outpaced the supply of affordable housing. And in the view of critics, many of
the new jobs pay wages so low that they reinforce poverty. There are fears that
NAFTA will swell colonias with thousands more illegal immigrants.

"It's creating a huge need for low-income housing," said Lee Maril, sociology
department chairman at the University of Texas-Pan American, who has written
about poverty and the border. "Where are these people going to live, especially
the ones from Mexico?"

According to local officials and scholars, colonias were condemned to poverty at
birth. Starting in the 1950s, developers snapped up low-lying, agriculturally
worthless land along the border. They divided it into plots and sold it to the
growing population of migrant workers allowed into the United States during and
after World War II.

Prices were low and conditions mean. Lots were sold without access to water,
sewers or electricity. Immigrant purchasers could buy land cheaply, but they did
not receive title until it had been paid off. If they missed a payment, the
developer could repossess the land, evict the buyer and sell it anew.

For years the colonias grew, unfettered by state laws or local ordinances. They
were filthy, frequently flooded and forgotten. Some were on the edge of cities,
but the cities wanted no part of them, seeing them as a potential financial
drain. Rather than annex Cameron Park, for instance, the city of Brownsville
simply grew around it.

That left Texas colonias in the hands of county governments, which, lacking the
power to enact ordinances, were outgunned by Texas developers and real estate
agents.

Spurred by local media reports and the rising clout of Hispanic voters, Texas
politicians woke up to the misery. Starting in the late 1980s and accelerating
in the 1990s, the state allocated money to the colonias to hook up electricity,
then water. Developers were barred from selling small plots without water and
sewer hookups.

As governor of Texas in the late 1990s, George W. Bush never visited a colonia,
but he pushed and signed a dozen bills designed to help them.

"All together, we've pumped in tens of millions of dollars at the state and
federal level," said state Sen. Eddie Lucio Jr., a Democrat whose border
district includes about 100 colonias. "It would've been cheaper to relocate
these people to good areas and good homes than it's been to try to fix the
problem."

Today at least 400,000 people live in Texas colonias, most of them in the
state's southern tip. Yet these communities remain largely out of sight. Because
they are unincorporated, even the biggest ones, such as Cameron Park, appear on
no map. Few street signs point the way to them.

"Even to the people downtown [in Brownsville], we're like outsiders," said
Christina Olivares, 27, whose husband, Florentino, recently completed a computer
course and is hoping for a better job. "When they hear 'Cameron Park,' they
think, 'Trouble.' "

Health conditions are poor, and residents suffer from sky-high rates of
diabetes, cancer, asthma, hypertension and cardiovascular diseases. Most
colonias residents have no medical insurance, which means no private hospital
will treat them except in an emergency. The nearest public hospital to Cameron
Park and the other 100 colonias in Cameron County is in Galveston, Tex., about a
480-mile drive north.

Father Michael Seifert, the priest at Cameron Park's San Felipe de Jesus
Catholic Church, recalled the plight of one illegal immigrant, the mother of
five, who developed breast cancer a few years ago. Lacking health insurance or
cash to pay a doctor, she turned to the church, which raised $ 400 for a coyote,
or people smuggler, who spirited her past federal Border Patrol checkpoints on
the highway north. Only by breaking the law, said Seifert, could the church help
her get treatment at a public hospital in Houston.

"It doesn't go along with our idea of the American dream and apple pie, and
that's the hard thing for most of us to swallow," said Paula Gomez, executive
director of the Brownsville Community Health Center. "But when I first started,
we had babies dying of dehydration and diarrhea because of lack of access to
potable water. That's not the common thing anymore."

Some scholars see the improvements as helpful but limited, fearing that colonias
have been lifted to a surface-level subsistence but not much higher. "The bottom
line has been raised," said Maril, the sociologist. "What I don't see happening
is them getting much beyond that."

Others think hopes and dreams can go a long way in Cameron Park and similar
communities.

"Colonias are bad, bad things," said Nick Mitchell-Bennett, manager of housing
programs for Community Development Corp. of Brownsville. "The way they were
developed is the problem, the shame. But these people have hope and a dream for
the future."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              319 of 319 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 27, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Aren't the Problem

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 433 words


WHEN JAMES W. ZIGLAR came on board last year as commissioner of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, he had a mandate to restructure the struggling
agency in a political climate that was largely welcoming to immigrants and
appreciative of their role in the U.S. economy. Labor unions were ready to
embrace amnesty for illegal workers already in the country, businesses were
demanding visas to bring in high-tech employees from overseas, and President
Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox were talking about ways to "regularize"
the status of migrants from south of the border. A month into Mr. Ziglar's
tenure came Sept. 11 and a new universe. Long-acknowledged weaknesses in border
control and enforcement of visa requirements were seen in a terrible new light:
Security became the paramount concern. For the next nine months Mr. Ziglar
tried, as he described it, to "continue making progress toward the goals of
restructuring the agency and reducing backlogs while responding to the call to
arms in the war on terrorism." It was a bumpy ride, including a storm of outrage
when, six months after the hijackings, an INS contractor sent to a Florida
flight school routine confirmation that the student visas of some hijackers had
earlier been approved. In July, Mr. Ziglar began talking to White House and
Justice Department aides about returning to private life, and recently he made
it official: He will leave by the end of the year. His decision comes with the
agency at a crossroads, in both organization and mission.

Mr. Ziglar drew praise from immigration advocates for recognizing, as Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy put it, that "immigration is not the problem, terrorism is,"
and for remaining mindful of civil liberties even as enforcement toughened.
Those are vital distinctions that must be maintained, and the job isn't likely
to get any easier as time goes on. The administration faces an immediate
challenge to fashion a Department of Homeland Security that encompasses and
supports all the functions of the immigration agency. House-passed legislation
would split the INS between the new department and the Justice Department, a bad
formula that not only separates activities that should be related, but also
could make it even harder to get the attention and funding needed to improve the
agency's service operations. That must be corrected before any bill becomes law.
Then Mr. Bush must make sure the leadership of the new department can manage
reforms and enhance border protection without losing sight of the core
commitment to civil liberties and to fair immigration policies.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post
